GLO COMPENSATION SCHEME: DBT REGISTRATION FORM

The information collected in this form is to collect basic information for registration only. Your

BEIS0001049
BEIS0001049

answers will be non-binding and will not by any means prejudice your full claim which will submitted

via a separate Main Application Form that will be issued in due course

DBT continues to urge postmasters to engage legal advisors who can assist you with completing this
Registration Form. DBT has agreed to meet the reasonable legal costs of members of the GLO and

has set out the tariff by which those costs will be calculated here.

Section 1: Personal Details

Personal details

Full name of claimant (and
“known as”)

Previous name if any

Date of Birth

National Insurance Number

Postal Address

Email Address(es)

Telephone Number

Legal Representative

Legal Representative Postal
Address

Section 2: Branch Details

Please complete details of the branch or branches your claim relates to.

BEIS0001049
BEIS0001049

Branch 1

Branch 2 (if applicable)

Branch 3 (if applicable)

Branch 4 (if applicable)

Branch Name

Branch Address

Dates of POL tenure
- _ First Day of Service
- Last Day of Service

Company Name (if
applicable)

Desirable information (i.e. if known by the claimant)

FAD Code

Payroll / Customer
Number

Current or former
postmaster?

Do you intend to claim for
any shortfalls from this
branch?

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

Y/N

BEIS0001049

BEIS0001049

Search of POL Records

To the best of your knowledge, please indicate
dates in relation to which a search of POL
records should be undertaken.

HMRC Disclosure

Do you intend to request disclosure from HMRC? Y/N

GLO Participant

Please confirm here that you were a claimant in the High Court “GLO” case Y/N
(Bates v Post Office Limited) proceedings and have not been convicted of a
criminal offence related to the Horizon scandal?

Signed (claimant or
authorised
representative)

Name

Date

Consent

By signing this document, I confirm that: I consent to DBT sharing details of my application with
Post Office Ltd. for the purpose of identifying Personal Data, Special Category Personal Data and
Criminal Offence Data relevant to my claim and for that information to be shared with DBT and its
appointed representatives in relation to the GLO Compensation Scheme.

To see how DBT intends to use your data please see here:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-scheme-for-group-litigation-order-
case-postmasters/compensation-scheme-for-group-litigation-order-case-postmasters-privacy-notice

