BEIS0001134
BEIS0001134

From: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=7CB8C3AB641 14851885044C387
C6A20A-TOLHURST, M]

Sent: Thur 14/02/2019 6:04:05 PM (UTC)
To: Clark, Mpst (BEIS):

Ce: Clark Spad, Mpst (BEIS);

Subject: FAO BEX: POL interim CEO

Attachment: 20190207 POL Interim CEO and pay.docx
Bex,

Putting Kelly’s comments in an email for you:

* She has reservations about Al Cameron taking over as CEO at this time and was unimpressed
when she met with him about the litigation case a few months ago.

* She is disappointed that we don’t yet have a clear path for recruitment of the new CEO.

* She’d like a meeting with Tom Cooper and has some further concerns which you and I agreed
to pick up offline with Jacqui.

* She commented that the package is fine but there are big questions when there is a lot of risk
around POL activity.

You’ve told UKGI that the announcement won’t happen any sooner than w/c 25" Feb. We'll get a
meeting/call with Kelly and SoS in ASAP and use industry on 26" as a fall back if not.

Thanks,
sam
a . Samantha Rice
, Senior Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP.
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
Business, Energy Strategy

1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

& Industrial Strategy

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI
Sent: 08 February 2019 12:53

__§ Cooper, Tom - UKGI
vanced Manufacturing and Services)
Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)
BEIS0001134

BEIS0001134

Subject: POL interim CEO

Jess

We spoke. I’ve attached the submission on the appointment of POL’s interim CEO.

This is now urgent. POL really need to be able to name the interim CEO as soon as possible,
at the same time as announcing Paula's departure. Further delays would be unhelpful for the

business and will undermine our credibility with the company.

We can’t formally ask the minister to approve the proposed pay until it has been through the
official-level approval process (the ‘SCS review panel’). It will also require approval of CST.

So we propose that spads and ministers approve the appointment of the CFO as interim
CEO, with his financial package to be approved subsequently. We have been clear to POL
that approval of the terms are not and cannot be guaranteed prior to ministerial approval - and
that they and Al will need to take this risk.

HMT have indicated to us that they are content with the proposal in principle, and with the
CFO being announced without the package being finalised.

We'd be really grateful if you can get this through the system.

Tom

Tom Aldred I Executive Director
Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s)
to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email
in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our
email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our
systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and
viruses.
