BE!IS0000872

BEIS0000872

Note of call between Secretary of State for Business and Trade (SoS) and
Henry Staunton.

The below note is of a meeting between the SoS for Business and Trade the Rt Hon
Kemi Badenoch MP and Henry Staunton that took place on 27 January 2024. The
meeting note has been redacted to remove information subject to Fol exemptions.

Readout: Call between SoS and Henry Staunton (27/01/24
Attendees: SoS, Henry Staunton, Annie Leigh (listening PS)

SoS informed Henry Staunton (HS) that the government, as sole shareholder, was
exercising its power, under the company’s Articles to remove him as Chair of the
Post Office Board.
SoS apologised that the call was coming at short notice due to desire to speak
ahead of the media breaking the story. SoS committed to sending HS a more
formal record of the decision in slower time.
HS noted that he was called by a reporter this morning to comment on the story.
He reflected his dismay under the circumstances.
HS described some of the events over the last four weeks, reflecting that the Post
Office as an organisation is operating in an extremely challenging context.
SoS asked HS what next steps he would recommend the government take. HS
recommended the following key actions:
Commence a discussion with the CEO asking them to stay through the
inquiry and in return exploring the possibility of good leaver status.
Extensive work to ensure that the culture at the Post Office is overhauled.
HS noted he strongly disagrees with disparaging views of postmasters and
called for a more postmaster-centric approach. In particular, HS suggested
an oversight committee chaired by two Postmaster Directors, and explore
appointing a third in the future.
Greater support from UKGI, a view that HS said was shared by other board
members; and
An internal person appointed as SID, recommending Andrew Darfoor as a
candidate.
SoS noted that she had received a briefing on the governance issues at the Post
Office and that the complaints against HS are so serious that the government need
to intervene.
SoS and HS discussed the comms for his departure and agreed to work together
ona simple form of words.
SoS and HS agreed he would not attend the board meeting on Monday or
Tuesday.
SoS concluded the call by thanking HS for his service; expressing her displeasure
that the media had broken the story ahead of a lengthier conversation; and noting
HS' recommendations for the Post Office going forward.

-Ends-
