BEIS0001118
BEIS0001118

From: Thompson, Laura - UKGIf-
Sent: Fri 16/02/2018 9:14:16 AM (UTC)

To: Clark MPS: rmanent
Secretary} GRO ]
Ce: Permanent Secretary} ) Griffiths
MPS Clark
MPS Cooper, Tom -
UKGI[, an
UKGIf

Callard, i H ermott Bill (Comms,
Partnerships & Governance}
Subject: RE: NED appointments for POL
Attachment: 2018 01 25 Annex A2 CST pro forma for NED replacement.docx
Attachment: 2018 01 25 Annex A1 SoS Letter to CST on NED Replacement.docx
Hi Rob

The guidance for approval of senior pay requires the CST to approval all remuneration packages at
£150k or above, and this is pro rated for part time staff. There is a de minimis threshold of £30k. As
the role in question is £35k for less than one day a week, this above the de minimis threshold and pro
rates to >£175k.

The same guidance provides a pro forma for applications for CST approval. BEIS have their own
version of the pro forma as their SCS recruitment panel consider all pay above £100k (or pro rated
equivalent). All applications to the CST must include the pro forma. We can certainly amend the pro
forma to be a separate document to the letter — see attached.

The guidance is here - very happy to chat through, and I have also copied in Bill in the BEIS pay team
for info.
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director
UK Government Investments
1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

Ih

se note that with it

! will still receive emails sent to my old address until 30 April 2018. Thereafter you will only be

able to contact me on my new address and emails sent to my ukgi.gov.uk address will not be
forwarded.

diate effect, my email address has changed to

! would be grateful if you could note this and change my contact details accordingly.
BEIS0001118
BEIS0001118

From: Clark MPST [mailto:
Sent: 16 February 2018 0!
To: Permanent Secretary ¢
Cc: Permanent Secretary <
f GRO 5; SpAd Clark PST
< Russell, Mark - UKGi

'>; Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Parker, Nick - UKGI

Richard - UKGI
Subject: RE: NED appointments for POL

Hi all,

A couple of questions on this one. Why exactly do we have to ask CST about the remuneration for this
role — my understanding is that this is only required above certain threshold’s?

Secondly, I haven’t seen this proforma attached to any letter we’ve sent to CST on appointments
before. Could we please organise for this to be provided separately to a letter? The remuneration
profoma also states that it is fore salaries at or above £100,00 per annum whereas this post attracts
£35k, is this because full-time it would attract more than 100k?

Thanks,

Rob

From: Permanent Secretary [mailtod GRO. }

Sent: 12 February 2018 10:47

To: Clark MPST

Cc: Permanent Secretary; Griffiths MPST; SpAd Clark MPST; Cooper, Tom - UKGI; Russell, Mark -
(UKGT; Parker, Nick - UKGI; Thompson, Laura - UKGI; Callard, Richard - UKGI

“Subject NED appointments for POL
Dear Rob,

Please find attached a submission for the attention of Secretary of State, kindly provided by UKGI,
concerning new NED appointments at Post Office Ltd.

Alex asked me to forward this on his behalf; as following consideration and clearance, he expressed
that he was keen for proposals to be supported with the attached memo, for the attention of
Secretary of State. Could you please provide this as cover for the submission when it goes to SoS?

Minister Griffiths, Glenn Hall and AC have reviewed, and are content with the submission.

Happy to discuss.
BEIS0001118
BEIS0001118

Best wishes,
Henry

Henry Carruthers
Private Secretary
Alex Chisholm, Permanent Secretary, BEIS

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s)
to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email
in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our
email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our
systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and
viruses.
