BEIS0001087
BEIS0001087

From: Mitchell, Katie (BEIS)[/O=-EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=11341BBD8BD74DFBA01E7A9646244B85-

DEF9B3BE-E2]
Sent: Wed 08/02/2023 9:26:35 AM (UTC)
(Business Sectors - Services Directorate); Cooper,
lackie, Robert -
_} Heath,
jara (Business

To: Creswell, Carl
Tom - UKGIE

tleisi Liam (Business Sectors - Services
1. Fallowfield, Harry (Business Sectors - Services

Subject: RE: Monthly Monitoring Meeting Packs

Morning,
With apologies for the delay, please see below a brief minute from the OHC section of the MMM last week. Please
feel free to suggest any changes. The HSS notes will follow shortly.
* SR provided an update on the delivery of OHC compensation, as follows:
© Progress continues to be made on non-pecuniary claims, including those from claimants with non-
Hudgell solicitors.
© Pecuniary principles are in development.
© The current challenge is settling four of the pilot pecuniary cases at pace.
© Hudgell has served a Notice to Admit. Alan Watts will make it clear to Hudgell that pecuniary offers are
on their way. It is likely this will be raised at the next Inquiry hearing.
© Three new case assessors started last week.
© Two ‘public interest’ cases have settled. One claimant is seeking a second legal opinion from Paul
Marshall. He has until 31 March to respond to the offer.
* NM said a lot of ground has been covered on the pilot pecuniary cases and was pleased that Post Office, BEIS
and UKGI are taking a ‘no surprises’ approach to their work. CC and BW reiterated the effectiveness of how

teams have worked together on these cases.

PFA Triage
* SR said Peters and Peters are undertaking a triage exercise on behalf of Post Office to identify which

convictions are Horizon-related. The exercise is due to be completed by the end of March. So far, 12% of
convictions have been identified as Horizon-related.

* KK said Post Office needs to decide how to take cases forward depending on what category they fall under.
There is a potential challenge associated with communicating the findings of the triage exercise, as Post Office
could be accused of ‘marking their own homework’.

© SR suggested attending the next meeting with Parliamentarians to ask them to encourage postmasters to

come forward to have their conviction overturned.

Delivery Model
© SR said NM is working on implementing the adjustments to the delivery model.
* CC thanked Post Office for working with BEIS to help resolve queries from Minister on the adjustments to the

delivery model.

Claims Processing
* NM highlighted two challenges to delivery, as follows:
© Initial offer letters for the pecuniary test cases need to land well with Hudgell to encourage him to

engage with the process.
© Post Office might need to take the Paul Marshall non-pecuniary claims to Lord Dyson to review.

BEIS0001087
BEIS0001087

© SR said financial modelling will be updated as principles are developed.

« JG asked whether Post Office has been checking with claimants’ solicitors whether any hardship cases are
being identified and prioritised. NM said he would ask Alan Watts to make that point to Hudgell.

¢ JG asked what a realistic target would be for the amount of time a claim should take to be processed. He said
the Minister will want frequent reporting and assurance that claims are not becoming ‘stuck’. NM said this is
being considered and noted the need to make a distinction between time with Post Office and time with the
claimant. He said MI will be updated to ensure it is clear where cases are ‘stuck’.

Many thanks,

Katie

From: Mitchell, Katie (BEIS)

Sent: 02 February 2023 09:28

To: Creswell, Carl (Business Sectors - Services Directorate)
; Brooks-White (Jobshare) ¢_ ; Rob Mackie

s, Eleri (BEIS) ¢ Heath, Daniel (Corporate Services -
Lawrence, Ciara (Business Sectors - Services Directorate)

i 1S) ¢ I}, Butlets<! Liam (Business Sectors -
>; Fallowfield, Harry (Business Sectors - Services Directorate)

}; Chiara Eldridge

; Laura Dunseath

; Tom Cooper

Services Directorate)

Subject: RE: Monthly Monitoring Meeting Packs
Morning,
Please see below a suggested agenda for the MMM this afternoon.
HSS (13:00 — 13:45)
* Delivery Plan
© Update on remaining CAPs including a) update on Malicious Prosecution CAP, b) please confirm
Caution and PNC cases are covered under MP CAP, c) please confirm wrongful death is covered under
Personal Injury CAP.
© Further detailed analysis on cases, both in terms of numbers of cases and value, that are likely to go
over March 23 deadline to facilitate funding discussions.
¢ DRP
© Update with focus on a) if legal representation is likely lead to increase in offer, b) length of time that a
case would take to go through each state of the DRP, and potential bottleneck in the process.

© Late Applications
© Options to encourage more PMs to come forward and apply.
¢ Financial Modelling

OHC (13:45 — 14:30)
© PFA Triage
oO What are your suggested next steps following the completion of the triage exercise?
* Delivery Model
© What are your key priorities for ensuring delivery of the model to current timelines?

* Claims Processing

oO What are the key risks and issues associated with claims processing, and what steps are you taking to
overcome them?
* Financial Modelling
BEIS0001087
BEIS0001087

Many thanks,
Katie
From: Mitchell, Katie (BEIS)
Sent: 01 February 2023 09:58
swell, Carl (Busi Sectors - Services Directorat

; Tom Cooper
; Rob Mackie
; Heath, Daniel (Corporate Services -

}; Chiara Eldridge
; Laura Dunseath

Subject: Monthly Monitoring Meeting Packs
Hello,

Please find attached the MMM packs ahead of the session tomorrow. I will circulate an agenda shortly, once Post
Office colleagues have confirmed they are content.

Many thanks,

Katie

eB Katie Mitchell

Department for 4m Floor, 1 Victoria Street London SW1H OET
Business, Energy www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

& Industrial Strategy

