@ To:

1. Mr Seabrook, DTI Newsroom ci: PS/Secretary of State

2. Mr Johnson/PS Sir Michael Scholar
Mr Brebner, CGBPS1
Mr Sibbick, CGBPS1
Mr Faull, CGBPS1
Ms Anderson, CGBPS1
Mr Whitehead, CGBPS1

Fm: Ms Madson Mr Henderson FRM
DTI Newsroom Mr Tee, DTI Newsroom
1 Victoria Street Ms Mason, DTI Newsroom
London Mr Robinson, DTI Newsroom
SpAds
20 September 1999
MEDIA STRATEGY

The Trade and Industry Committee Report (21 September)

Mr Johnson’s Speech at the Institute of Public Policy Research (22 September)

Issue

le To maximise opportunities to refocus the media on the Government’s
commitment to the reform and future of the Post Office, while limiting
damage caused by any potential criticism from the Trade and Industry
Committee. This is also an opportunity to counter criticisms made by the
CWU at last week’s Conference.

Timing

2. Urgent. We need to agree a strategy today (20 September) to maximise

opportunities and prepare to answer criticism.

Recommendation

5.

That you agree the following strategy.

Background - Trade and Industry Committee (TIC)

4.

The Trade and Industry Committee’s report on the reform programme
(following publication of the White Paper on 8 July and evidence session on
14 July) will be published tomorrow (21 September).

The Committee Chairman will hold a press conference at 1lam. Advance
copies of the Report will be available at 10am. No copies will be available
before publication day.

The Report on the Horizon Project will be published at the same time and will

BEIS0000479
BEIS0000479

ive
14.

feature in the Committee Chairman’s press conference.

All issues mentioned in the Committee’s previous Report have been dealt
with. We do not have any details about the contents of tomorrow’s Report, but
indications from DTI officials are that the following main issues will be
covered.

The ownership of the Post Office, including conversion to a ple and
Government commitment not to sell shares without further legislation. The
Committee is likely to seek clarification on these points.

The reduction of the monopoly threshold. This will take account of the
concerns of the CWU and the Post Office.

A request for a sight of the draft primary legislation (if it is not introduced in
the 1999/2000 session).

The Department would normally be required to respond to the Committee’s
Report within two months (i.e. by 21 November). But if the Queen’s Speech
on 17 November indicated that Post Office legislation was planned, it is likely
that the Committee may be content with a short delay, if this means the
response could be more complete by the publication of a bill.

Indications from the Committee Clerk have been that the tone of the
Committee’s Report on the Horizon Project is likely to be “more of sorrow
than anger” at the problems and delays.

Indications have also been that neither the DTI nor the Post Office should be
unduly worried by the contents of the Horizon Project Report. Many of the
arguments concerning the Horizon Project have been between the DSS/BA
and ICL (the Project contractor). Both parties have blamed each other when
giving evidence before the Committee.

Therefore, it may be that any criticism from the Committee concerning the
Horizon Project may be levelled at DSS, BA, ICL or all of these. However,we
will need to ensure we show willingness and enthusiasm to work together
with all parties, including other Government Departments, to solve any
present and/or future problems.

Background - Institute of Public Policy Research (IPPR)

15.

At llam on 22 September, the day following the publication of the
Committee’s Report, you have agreed to give a key note speech at the launch
of the Institute of Public Policy Research’s publication “The Future of the Post
Office”.

DTI officials have obtained a draft copy of the Institute’s study which
proposes a new type of public corporation with a Charter and internal

BEIS0000479
BEIS0000479
17.

18.

19.

regulation for the Post Office, rather than the Government’s proposals for a plc
with an independent Regulator.

According to DTI policy officials, there are very strong reasons why the
Institute’s proposals would not be logical, or legally possible. Briefing
addressing these issues is being prepared by officials.

Mr Hodgson’s attitude towards you personally and the Government’s
proposals for the reform of the Post Office in general is extremely negative
and potentially disruptive.

Mr Hodgson has cancelled his attendance at the planned Horizon Working
Group meeting which was due to take place on 22 September after your
speech at the Institute. Because of the possibility of Mr Hodgson using the
meeting as an opportunity to attack the Government further, resulting in
further negative publicity for the Government on a sensitive issue just prior to
the Labour Party Conference, it has been decided to postpone the working
group meeting.

Action - Trade and Industry Committee Report

20.

21.

22.

23.

24,

25.

Because of the timing of events, it is likely that the TIC Report will attract
more media attention than the IPPR Study and your speech. Therefore, while it
is important to maximise positive publicity for Government Reforms of the
Post Office on both occasions, we need to be prepared to respond as positively
and as quickly as possible following the publication of the Report in order not
to miss a media opportunity.

It is likely that the Committee Chairman will give an interview to the Today
Programme on 21 September, not detailing the Report, but setting the tone.

If you are content, I will contact the Today Programme and offer an interview
with you. Although, you would not be able to address the contents of the
Report, it may be an opportunity to refocus the media on the
Government’s message and allow you to indirectly rebut recent criticisms
from the CWU.

The Committee will hold a press conference at 1lam on 21 September.
Someone from Press Office will attend the press conference. Policy officials
will also be there and prepared to amend the draft Q&A and draft rebuttal lines
as necessary.

Officials are drafting a concise Q & A which can be amended quickly when
we first see the Report at 10am on 21 September. A few strong bullet points
on the key messages the Department wants to get across will forward this.
This will have been cleared with DSS and Treasury to ensure we are singing
from the same hymn sheet.

I will prepare a draft statement. This will focus on you welcoming the Report

BEIS0000479
BEIS0000479
26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

as an opportunity to take the Post Office Reforms and the Horizon Project
forward. It will also provide an opportunity to reiterate the Government’s
commitment to the best balanced package of reforms for the future of the Post
Office and refocus the Government’s message. It may not be possible, or wise,
to respond immediately to the Committee’s findings, but we can acknowledge
them, say we will consider them and respond in due course, which is the usual
Government response.

In the Notes to Editors section of the press notice, we could also mention your
speech the following day, and release part of it to selected media for trailing.

The Committee’s press conference is unlikely to last more than 20 — 30
minutes. You may wish to offer interviews to journalists after the press
conference. This would be timely for lunchtime broadcast news programmes,
evening publications and could be also be used by the national dailies.

Interviews for the TV media could be offered outside New Scotland Yard,
using the Post Office opposite as a backdrop. This Post Office is usually fairly
busy, which would show consumers using a service with potential to improve
under Government reforms. If this is not practical, or you are not content with
this, I could accompany you to Millbank for interviews.

Interviews could be offered to BBC Radio and IRN which could be fed out to
regional stations.

Most regional press will pick up the press conference from the newswire. If
you are content, I will arrange for the Department’s press notice to be issued
regionally.

If you are not content to give interviews at this stage, but want to talk to the
media, I will arrange a press briefing in the DTI Conference Centre at a time
convenient to you.

Action - IPPR Speech

32.

33)

34.

To publicise your speech at IPPR on 22 September, I would suggest issuing a
press notice under embargo late the day before. I would also suggest that
embargoed copies of your speech should be available that morning from 9am.

Press Office has not invited media to the launch. In light of Derek Hodgson’s
withdrawal from the launch and the Horizon Working Group Meeting, it may
look antagonistic if we invite the media. But we have spoken to IPPR publicity
unit and they are doing a ring round of industrial correspondents. I will keep
you updated on likely media attendance. But you need to be aware that
journalists may be present during the scheduled Q & A session, although they
will not be participating. You will need to be prepared for potentially rigorous
questioning about the Post Office ple issue and sale of shares.

Your speech will provide an opportunity to address some of the comments
made by Mr Hodgson last week.

BEIS0000479
BEIS0000479
35.

36.

31.

38.

If you are content, I will arrange a press briefing immediately after your
speech and audience Q & A session.

However, I think we need to be careful to avoid the Post Office Reforms being
depicted in the media as a personal feud between yourself and Mr Hodgson. If
you are content, I think the best way of doing this would be to rebut Mr
Hodgson’s accusations but concentrate on reaffirm the Government’s
commitment to working with ALL parties (including consumers) and
highlight the support the Government has already received from various
parties.

If Mr Hodgson goes public about his withdrawal from the Working Group
meeting, it may be best to express sadness at his decision but reiterate that the
Government is committed to listening and working together to solve any
issues of concern but has a duty to ALL connected parties.

In the longer term, we could also consider a campaign to show how Post
Office Reforms will benefit not only the Post Office management and staff,
but also consumers, getting across the message that this is a balanced package
for the benefit of ALL.

Are you content?

Bron Madson, DTI Newsroom,

: GRO I

BEIS0000479
BEIS0000479
