BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

ai: GOV.UK

Bog oa

ie
Department for Department for
Business, Energy Business & Trade

& Industrial Strate

Guidance

The GLO Compensation
Scheme: questions and
answers

Updated 7 June 2024

Contents

Background

General

Eligibility

Scope of the scheme
Documentation and evidence
Assessment of claims

Fixed Sum Offer

The Fixed Sum £75,000 Award questions and answers
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

OGL

© Crown copyright 2024

This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where
otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-
licence/version/3 or.write to.the Informatian.Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9
ADU, or email: psi¢

Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission
from the copyright holders concerned.

This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-
scheme-for-group-litigation-order-case-postmasters/the-glo-compensation-scheme-questions-and-
answers
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

Background

The High Court Group Litigation Order (GLO) case against the Post Office
brought by 555 postmasters exposed the Horizon IT scandal.

The government has long considered unfair the unequal treatment received by
members of the GLO and their non-GLO peers. In March 2022, the
Government announced it would make additional funding available to give
those in the GLO group compensation similar to that which is available to their
non-GLO peers in similar circumstances.

General
Q. What is the Group Litigation Order (GLO) Scheme?

A. The GLO Scheme is an ex gratia claims-based scheme for postmasters who
were part of the action Alan Bates and Others v Post Office Ltd pursued under
a Group Litigation Order, and who do not have a Horizon-related conviction.
The scheme will be delivered by the Department of Business and Trade (DBT,
formerly BEIS).

Q. Why has the scheme been set up?

A. Post Office Ltd and the GLO group agreed a settlement in December 2019
that brought the group litigation in the High Court to a conclusion. The
settlement required the Post Office to set up the Historical Shortfall Scheme
(HSS), but postmasters in the GLO were excluded from applying for
compensation from that scheme.

Much of the agreed GLO settlement monies went to the firm which funded the
litigation, leaving those postmasters worse off than their peers who qualified for
the HSS. The government has long considered unfair the unequal treatment
received by members of the GLO, which is why on 22 March 2022, the
Chancellor announced that the Government would make funding available to
ensure that they received similar compensation to that given to their non-GLO
peers in similar circumstances.

Q. How do I join the scheme?

A. Your legal advisor should fill out the GLO Scheme Registration Form
(https://assets. publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachmen
t_data/file/1135819/DBT_GLO Registration Form_vF_07.02.23.docx) and return it to
DBT. Only if you choose to represent yourself should you fill in your own
registration form.

BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

Q. Can I have help with applying? Will DBT provide financial assistance to
help me with my claim?

A. We strongly recommend that you seek legal advice to help you with your
application.

DBT will cover the reasonable costs of obtaining legal advice at each stage of
the process. A tariff setting legal fee rates
(https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachmen
t_data/file/1135822/glo-tariff-reasonable-costs.pdf) to be adopted by legal
representative acting for postmasters has been published and legal costs
incurred in line with this tariff will be paid directly to your legal representative
following the submission of an invoice.

Three firms of lawyers — Freeths, Howe & Co and Hudgells Solicitors — have
agreed not to make any charges to claimants for work on this scheme: they will
be paid by government at rates which we have agreed with them. Other firms
can also access the same rates.

You should not engage any firm which asks you for money now or later, or
which offers a “no-win, no-fee”, conditional fee or litigation funding agreement.

You can find a solicitor on the Law Society website
(https://solicitors.lawsociety.org.uk/).

You are not obliged to have legal representation in order to enter the scheme.
Q. What information do I need to provide as part of my application?

A. When submitting your application, you should submit relevant supporting
material that will enable the application to be properly considered. This should
include any relevant accounting or financial information. Doing this at the same
time as you submit your application will allow your application to be considered
more quickly and efficiently.

You will be able to upload further supporting material after the submission of
your application should you deem it necessary.

Please note that you may be required to provide additional information to help
progress your application and you will be contacted if this is the case.

Q. When is the deadline for applications to the scheme?
A. We encourage all claimants to submit their claims as soon as possible.
Q. Where should I send my application?

A. Your lawyer will be granted access to the Dentons Direct platform in order to
upload your application form. You will be granted access if you choose not to be
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

legally represented.

If you are legally unrepresented and do not have access to the internet, you can
send your application form by post to:

Horizon GLO Compensation Scheme
C/O Dentons UK and Middle East LLP
1 Fleet Place

London EC4M 7WS

If you send your application via courier, the following address should be used:

Horizon GLO Compensation Scheme
C/O Dentons UK and Middle East LLP
1 Fleet Place

London EC4M 7RA

Please include reference DSB/RZF/TS079928.00001 in all postal submissions.

Please read the document containing the scheme quidance and principles
(https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-scheme-for-group-litigation-
order-case-postmasters) before applying.

Q. Will I have to pay anything to join the scheme?
A. There is no cost to join the scheme.
Q. Can I leave the scheme if I wish to?

A. Yes, you may withdraw your application at any time by emailing
Glocompensatio ‘or by writing to:

Horizon GLO Compensation Scheme
C/O Dentons UK and Middle East LLP
1 Fleet Place

London

EC4M 7WS

Q. Will the scheme be independent?

A. The scheme will be run by DBT. An Independent Advisory Board whose
members, include Lord Arbuthnot and Kevan Jones MP who have long
championed the cause of postmasters, will advise DBT Ministers on how best
to manage delivery of the Scheme. The Board is chaired by Professor Chris
Hodges, an expert in alternative dispute resolution and includes Professor
Richard Moorhead. The Board will not have a role in considering individual
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

cases. A communique is published following each Board meeting
(https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/horizon-compensation-advisory-board).

You may agree a compensation sum with DBT. If you do not, your application
will be reviewed and assessed by an independent Panel. If there is a ‘manifest
error, procedural irregularity or substantive error of principle’ in the process, a
senior independent expert, Sir Ross Cranston, will conduct a further review and
finalise the offer made to you.

Q. Does joining the scheme affect my legal rights?

A. The scheme provides further compensation payments to eligible postmasters
who settled their claims for compensation with the Post Office as part of the
High Court case and consequently extinguished the right to pursue further legal
action against the company.

DBT which was not a party to those proceedings is making compensation
payments on an ex-gratia basis irrespective of no legal entitlement arising.

Q. I haven’t yet claimed an interim payment. Can I still do so?

A. Yes, please contact glocompensationi” Hf you would
like to claim an interim payment ahead of putting in an application to the full
scheme.

Eligibility
Q. Who is the scheme open to?
A. The scheme is open to claimants who were part of the Group Litigation

Order “Alan Bates and Others v Post Office Ltd” and who have not been
convicted of a Horizon-related criminal offence.

Postmasters who have had their convictions overturned are eligible to apply for
compensation from Post Office (https://corporate. postoffice.co.uk/en/historical-
matters/historical-matters-progress/assisting-people-with-convictions/).

Q. Can I make a claim on behalf of a deceased postmaster?

A. Yes, if the person is eligible and you prove that you fulfil certain legal criteria,
i.e. you are an executor, personal representative, attorney or deputy of the
person on whose behalf you are making the application.

Please note that you must provide proof of this legal relationship. If you are still
in the process of obtaining the relevant legal documents, e.g. probate
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

documents, you can still submit a registration form and application form. The
documents must be in place before any award is paid.

Q. Can I make a claim for a former postmaster who is ill/unable to do so
for themselves?

A. Yes, if the person is eligible and you fulfil certain legal criteria and can
provide proof of this, i.e. you are a personal representative, attorney or deputy
of the person on whose behalf you are making the application.

Please note that you must provide proof of this legal relationship. If you are still
in the process of obtaining the relevant legal documents, e.g. a guardianship
order, you can still submit a registration form and application form. The
documents must be in place before any award is paid.

Q. I was the director of a company which was part of the GLO. Can I apply
to the scheme?

A. Yes.
Q. The company is now in liquidation/administration — can I still apply?

A. Yes. If the company or a partnership has ceased to exist, it will not be
necessary to restore it except in a limited number of circumstances, for
example, when the company is set up as a community interest company. If
appropriate, an offer of an ex-gratia payment will be made to you and any other
shareholders and directors of the company or partners of the partnership, which
may have a legitimate interest in that payment. It is your responsibility to seek
an agreement with them as to who will be the recipient of the payment and how
it should be split between yourselves.

Q. I was issued with a caution, can I still apply to the scheme?

A. Yes - a caution is not a criminal conviction and will not affect eligibility for the
scheme.

Q. If my application is rejected as ineligible, can I appeal this?

A. Eligibility will be determined by reference to the criteria in the Scheme
Guidance and Principles (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-
scheme-for-group-litigation-order-case-postmasters). If you believe a mistake has
been made regarding the eligibility assess {e) pp n
raise this with DBT at glocompensation _ _land ask that
the application is reconsidered. If you cannot agree with DBT's decision, your
case will be referred to the Panel.

BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

Scope of the scheme

Q. I believe the current version of Horizon has caused a loss at my
branch. Can I include this in my claim?

A. The scheme is to address shortfalls related to previous versions of Horizon
(sometimes referred to as Legacy Horizon, Horizon Online or HNG-X) on the
basis that the High Court has held that the current version is relatively robust. If
you have experienced a more recent discrepancy and have concerns or queries
about the way in which it was or is being resolved, please contact Post Office
directly at casereviewteamé¢ GRO I. If you experience an operational
issue when using the current version of Horizon, please report it to the Post
Office Branch Support Centre.

Q. Can I claim for losses that were linked to the shortfalls I had to repay?

A. Yes — any consequential losses you have experienced should be included in
your application. Please provide as much information and evidence as you can
about any shortfall-related losses. Guidance of what consequential losses you
may want to consider can be found in the Scheme Guidance and Principles
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-scheme-for-group-litigation-

order-case-postmasters).

Q. Can I claim for consequential losses such as distress and ill-health as
well as my financial loss?

A. Yes. Eligible claims will be assessed by reference to recognised legal
principles so please provide as much information and evidence as you can
about any losses.

Documentation and evidence

Q. I have no documentation — can I still make a claim?

A. If you believe you meet the eligibility criteria you can apply, providing as
much information as you can using the guidance on the website, together with
any evidence or information you do have to support a claim and help with the
assessment of your case. DBT will obtain relevant records that Post Office
holds and will assess your claim on all the information available.

We recognise that, due to the absence of records and the amount of time that
has passed since losses were incurred, you may face challenges in evidencing
your claim. This Scheme has therefore been designed so that a lack of
supporting information will not be a barrier to entry and claims will not be
rejected on the sole basis of a lack of information.
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

Q. Do I need to get expert evidence to support my claim?

A. If your claim is complex, you may wish to seek expert evidence to support
your claim. DBT will cover the costs of obtaining expert evidence where this will
help support your claim and has been approved by DBT in advance.

Q. I have a large number of hard copy documents and no means to scan
them in — can I provide hard copies?

A. If you are unable to scan documents, we will accept photographs of
documents as long as they are good enough quality to be able to read the detail
in the document and be certain that it is genuine and, if submitting more than
one image, the link between the images is clear.

If you do not have any access to the internet, your legal representative will be
able to upload the documents on your behalf.

If you do not have legal representation, we will accept hard copies of the
documents sent via post.

Assessment of claims
Q. How will my claim be assessed?

A. DBT will assess all claims in the first instance. Claims facilitators will be
appointed to resolve any disagreements between you and DBT. Should both
parties not agree on any element of the claim, it may be referred for review by
an Independent Panel.

Your claim will be assessed using the information available, with considerations
of fairness and applying the relevant legal principles outlined in the Scheme
Guidance and Principles (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-
scheme-for-group-litigation-order-case-postmasters).

The assessment will very much depend on the individual circumstances of each
application, and the information and evidence supporting it.

Q. Who makes the decision on whether my claim is successful?

A. Your application to the scheme will first be assessed for eligibility by DBT.
DBT will assess each claim and make offers to the claimant.

Where there are disagreements between the parties, the claim may be
assessed by an independent panel.
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

If you believe that there has been a manifest error, procedural irregularity or
substantive error of principle in the Independent Panel's final assessment of the
claim, or that the Panel's final assessment is substantially inconsistent with the
Guidance and Principles, your case can be reviewed by Sir Ross Cranston, the
Independent Reviewer, for a final determination.

The full process is set out in the Scheme Guidance and Principles
(https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-scheme-for-group-litigation-

order-case-postmasters).

Q. Who is on the independent panel to assess cases?

A. The independent Panel will comprise of three individuals of a legal specialist,
forensic accounting specialist, medical expert and retail specialist, depending
on the details of the claim. The full list of independent Panel members is as
follows:

e Jonathan Acton Davis KC (legal expert)

e lan Rogers KC (legal expert)

e Charlie Cory-Wright KC (legal expert)

e Matthias Kelly KC (legal expert)

e Mike Pilgrem (forensic accountancy expert)
¢ Steve Harris (forensic accountancy expert)
e Professor Tony Elliott (medical expert)

e Dr Carolyn Tyson (medical expert)

e Muntazir Dipoti (retail expert)

e Clare Bailey (retail expert)

Q. What are the possible outcomes of the assessment?

A. The assessment will very much depend on the individual circumstances of
each application, and the information that is provided in support of it.

Account will also be taken of any payments that have been received under the
Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme, the 2019 Settlement or under
the Scheme (for example, interim payments).

Q. Why will payments I’ve already received be deducted from my final
payment?

A. The scheme aims to put postmasters back into the position they would have
been in had it not been for Horizon. DBT will therefore be assessing your full
losses and will deduct payments already received from the final amount you are
offered, for example from the Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme,
2019 Settlement and in interim payments.

Q. How long will the claim process take?
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

A. The time taken to investigate and assess each claim will be heavily
dependent on the facts of that claim and the volume of documentation involved.
We will progress all claims as quickly and efficiently as possible. DBT aims to
issue an initial offer in 90% of cases within 40 working days of submission of a
complete claim.

You will receive regular updates regarding your claim via the claims facilitators.

Fixed Sum Offer

All eligible GLO claimants are offered the option to settle their claims on a full
and final basis for a total fixed sum of £75,000 inclusive of interest, instead of
making a claim for their individual losses.

This means that your claim would not be assessed by the department against
the process set out in the guidance and principles
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-scheme-for-group-litigation-

order-case-postmasters).

Any payments received from the department to date or from the GLO
settlement will be deducted from the £75,000 before payment is made.

The department acknowledges that this option may not be a suitable option for
all claimants, particularly those who anticipate their claim value will exceed
£75,000. Those who do not wish to accept the offers that will be made will
remain able to advance their claims under the existing process where offers will
continue to be made on the merits of each individual claim in accordance with
the guidance and principles. DBT remains committed to making payment under
those processes as quickly as possible.

If you have not submitted a claim yet and wish to request the Fixed Sum Offer,
complete the Fixed Sum Offer form on this page
(https ://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-scheme-for-group-litigation-

order-case-postmasters).

The Fixed Sum £75,000 Award questions
and answers

What are the key conditions of the Fixed Sum Award?

In summary, £75,000 is the optional total sum, inclusive of interest, offered to
eligible claimants in the Scheme in full and final settlement of their claims.
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

How much will I receive and what if I’ve already reached partial
settlement?

The £75,000 will be paid net of any compensation sums already paid to you. If
you have already received some settlement sums via the GLO settlement,
interim payments or a partial settlement, these will be deducted from the
£75,000 and the balance paid to you.

Why £75,000?
The Fixed Sum Award will allow you to settle your claims swiftly if you want to.

If you believe that you are entitled to a higher amount you are still entitled to
choose to have your claim assessed individually.

The Government will pay your legal representatives’ reasonable costs of
independent legal advice to help you decide whether you should accept the
Fixed Sum Awardor follow the usual claims process.

How has £75,000 been built up?

Since the Scheme was launched the Government has been collecting indicative
claim and actual claim data that has informed this level of Fixed Sum Award An
amount for compensatory interest is built into the award.

Why don’t you just pay £75,000 upfront as an interim payment?

The aim is to offer you an optional and straightforward route to reach full and
final settlement swiftly.

Is this a one-time offer? Will it time out?

The Fixed Sum Award does not have an expiration date. This option remains
available for those who decide they want to settle their claim on a full and final
basis without an individual assessment.

What if I do not want to accept the Fixed Sum Award

Accepting the Fixed Sum Award is completely optional. We will meet your
reasonable costs of seeking independent legal advice on this decision.

If you do not wish to accept the Fixed Sum Award, you should progress your
claim through the usual process as set out in the scheme’s guidance and
principles (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensation-scheme-for-
group-litigation-order-case-postmasters).

How can one single sum be justified for all when the circumstances within
this cohort are so different?
BEIS0001056
BEISO001056

We recognise that the Fixed Sum Award will not suit all claimants , especially
those with higher claim values. The Fixed Sum Award is completely optional.
The government is funding your reasonable costs of seeking independent legal
advice on the Fixed Sum Award.

What about those who have already settled?

If you have already settled for less than £75,000, the government will pay the
difference.

What about the Horizon Shortfall Scheme (“HSS”) and Overturned
Convictions (“OC”)?

The government has already announced that it will support the Post Office to
make an upfront offer of £600,000 in full and final settlement to claimants
whose Horizon-related convictions have been overturned.

Claimants who were wrongfully convicted have suffered some of the most
severe circumstances, including an overwhelming impact on their life as well as
significant financial losses.

There is not a similar intervention on the HSS. The government is committed to

helping these claimants to access fair and swift compensation through the
existing processes.

Tax and benefits
How will this impact individuals’ tax bill or benefits receipt?

Compensation paid in the GLO is exempt from tax. No tax will be due upon
receipt of the £75,000 nor if the claimant goes through the usual process.

Compensation paid in the Scheme is disregarded for the purposes of benefits.
It will not impact eligibility for benefits.

OGL

All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
