BEIS0000946
BEIS0000946

Minister THOMAS (DBT).
Sent: Thur 05/09/2024 1:50:56 PM (UTC)
To: J; Brooks-
; Lilley-Poulden Jobshare
Minister THOMAS

Ce: 3; CoraSWEET
Asha BALACHANDRAN»
David BICKERTON
Ministerial
Submissions,
Subject: READOUT - Dave Ward, Communication Workers Union - 04/09/2024

Hi Beth/Elenor,

Please see below a quick readout and accompanying actions from Minister Thomas’ recent
meeting with Dave Ward from the Communication Workers Union re the Post Office.

Happy to discuss anything if needed.

Best,
Jamie
ay Jamie Cunningham I Private Secretary to the Minister for Services, Small Business
he Department for Business and Trade I Private Office Group
Department for Old Admiralty. Building I London I SW1A 2DY

Business & Trade Phone:

Attendees
+ Minister Thomas (MT)
+ Dave Ward, General Secretary, Communication Workers Union (DW)
+ Chole Koffman, Political lead, Communication Workers Union
+ Andy Furey, Deputy General Secretary, Communication Workers Union (AF)

----STARTS----
+ DW opened the meeting by outlining the asks he had for MT including:
1. Recognising representation of Postmasters on the issue of Horizon.

2. Feeding into Nigel Railton’s Strategic Review, especially on potential issues such as Crown
Closures and opportunities for growth. DW felt there had been a lack of engagement so far.

+ MT agreed he would take these away. ACTION ‘Brooks-White Jobshare please could you let
me know your thoughts on these asks, and how best to communicate them to Nigel. The
Minister is conscious to balance the relationship with Neigel and the CWU.

+ MT also agreed to a regular meeting with the CWU on the Post office. ACTION 4croMinister
THOMAS (DBT) Josh, please could you reach out to Dave’s office to set up after conference
recess, maybe once a moth would work well?
BEIS0000946
BEIS0000946

Future of POL
+ DW recognised the future challenges associated with POL, given the reality that most of its
products have reduced drastically, especially given Royal Mails privatisation. DW did note the CWUs

aim for both Royal Mail and POL to come back together but understood the challenges in
renationalisation.

+ DW was keen to emphasise the current governance issues with POL, noting that its structure
needed to radically change, with workers shaping its future as part of any Strategic Review.

+ AF also noted support for the future of banking hubs, but was interested to see how it would fit into
Nigel Railton’s SR and how that would reflect on Postmasters pay. AF welcomed wider discussion

with Nigel on this issue but was concerned that any potential cost cutting measures could fall on the
shoulders of Postmasters.

+ There was agreement that DW would follow up with detail on the following issues:
o A proposal for Post offices to provide Voter ID services.

o Details around a meeting at Labour Party conference with MT.
© Ideas around POL governance.

----ENDS--—-
