Seenegheven snsteuetrane SI CS OR cos so oscci cl.

rlhajaie AR soos moa '
cleo AOR so iss rot '
jet ertmene cle c jak s oss cc) ¢
‘eve rmneraton Coes © iA R 3 siefe e Ie

I Policy development and te isues

cee erme er ve cl ¢ 1
racemes a I a I coe s senor
Otay ane hoAS ee sose ris
Aatighemveemmsin I I SLT coe s see c 4
ipoonstcomy gg Tle s Islelv lv]
svtepapton sels ee s ose 4
vere non cot Ak soos hott
Stitng an Advising Minster and UXGY/EIS Comme
sarmnmarcremennsed Tn Tc I s I 1 m4 s is jc ec] cor
Aeouahinatsonioomns yg I gy ela s IsI lelel « Ie

ERE reponitie-those who do the work complet the task Tere iat east one ole wth apartpton typeof eponbl, athough others canbe delgado ast inthe wrk regi
HERE secoursse- the ore utiatey answerable forthe cotect nd thorough completion the deliverable rah the ene who ensure thepeveqube ofthe tsk ce met nd wh delegates the work thse espnsibe
HERE spree nesources alloted toresponiie Ute cnzlte wh may prove puto th ak spport help complet the tsk

HEB conte rhore whose opinions ae aught typical subject matter experts and wth whom theres two-way commenitin

Charing techn fr res where rete proces engine tint open ough ss fe
{cron hint mee fe tae cena raps ne naan mateo set ns

BEIS0001168
BEIS0001168
48 Uertex4e

RACI MATRIX TEMPLATE by Vertex42.com

https://www.vertex42.com/ExcelTemplates/raci-matrix.html
© 2018 Vertex42 LLC

About This Template

Use this template within your project team to help clarify and communicate roles and responsibilities
for each task or deliverable. Start by inserting rows to define the tasks and deliverables and insert
columns as needed to define the roles of sponsors, leaders, consultants, and project team members.
Customize the abbreviations below the chart based on the method you are using (RACI, DRASCI,
CAIRO, etc.).

Terms of Use / Copyright

This template is a copyrighted work. Do not submit copies or modifications of this template to any
website or online template gallery. Click on the link below to learn how you may or may not use this
template.

License: Private Use Only

More Project Management Templates

Visit Vertex42.com to download other project management templates, including different types of
project schedules, Gantt charts, tasks lists, etc.

Project Management Templates

About Vertex42

Vertex42.com provides over 300 professionally designed spreadsheet templates for business, home,
and education - most of which are free to download. Their collection includes a variety of calendars,
planners, and schedules as well as personal finance spreadsheets for budgeting, debt reduction, and
loan amortization.

Businesses will find invoices, time sheets, inventory trackers, financial statements, and project
planning templates. Teachers and students will find resources such as class schedules, grade books,
and attendance sheets. Organize your family life with meal planners, checklists, and exercise logs.
Each template is thoroughly researched, refined, and improved over time through feedback from
thousands of users.

BEISO001168
BEISO001168
