BRIEFING FOR WELSH OFFICE MEETING WITH DEREK HODGSON
(CWU) ABOUT THE POST OFFICE REVIEW

Lines to Take

¢ The Post Office part of our history and culture; and business and individuals rely
on it for a wide range of services. It is particularly important to those who live in
remote areas. Critical that it continues to serve the community.

© Government proceeding with its review of public sector options for granting the
Post Office greater commercial freedom. This will implement our manifesto
pledge to enable the Post Office to meet the challenges of changing domestic and
international markets. 7

e Work very much still in progress. Still hope to announce decisions in the Autumn.
Understand that completed work of the Review will not be available for some
weeks yet. Not appropriate for me to anticipate the outcome of the Review.

e Government has an open mind about options. Concern is to find the best public
sector option for meeting the needs of the Post Office for greater commercial
freedom to meet the challenges of the future.

e Recognise that this is an important issue for the unions. Understand you have been
given opportunity to put your views forward at all levels within the review process.

© Vital that the process is not derailed. Speculative public debate now would be
counter productive.

¢ [if pressed on alleged “privatisation”] The terms of reference are unequivocal: the
Post Office will remain in the public sector and will continue to provide a universal
postal service at a uniform tariff and a nation-wide network of post offices.

BEIS0000136
BEIS0000136
BEIS0000136
BEIS0000136

© [if pressed on future of individual post offices or on size of network] Neither the
Government or the Post Office can guarantee the future of individual post offices,
the vast majority of which are privately owned. But the Government is fully
committed to the maintenance of a nation-wide network of post offices. Part of the
strength of the Post Office lies in its ability to reach customers in all corners of the
UK. Review considering ways in which the Government can help the Post Office

to sustain a nation-wide network.

¢ [if pressed on Crown conversions] Crown conversion being considered in the

context of the Review.

¢ [if devolution raised] The Post Office serves the UK. Postal services have been
reserved and will not be devolved to the Welsh Assembly.
