BEIS0000948
BEIS0000948

Sent:
To:

Subject:

Hi all,

Minister THOMAS (DBT).
Wed 24/07/2024 5:00:13 PM (UTC)

Ciara LAWRENCE (DBT)f “} Carl CRESWELL

es LOVE
Sam GRIFFITHS2a

DBT. Ministerial.

READOUT - Minister Thomas meeting with Jo Hamilton - Weds 24 July

Thanks again for all your help facilitating today’s meeting — Please see below a quick readout of
Minister Thomas’ meeting with Jo Hamilton.

Happy to discuss anything if needed.

Best,
Jamie

ae
vs

Department for

Business & Trade Phone:

Attendees

Jamie Cunningham I Private Secretary to the Minister for Services, Small Business
Department for Business and Trade I Private Office Group

Old Admiralty Building I London I SW1A 2DY

_] Email:

* Minister Thomas (MT)

+ Jo Hamilton, Former Subpostmistress (JH)

+ Rachel Di Climente , legal representative (RC)

* Carl Creswell, Director for Postal Affairs, DBT (CC)

* Ciara Lawrence, Senior Policy Advisor - Overturned Convictions Scheme, DBT

----STARTS----

+ MT opened the meeting thanking JH for taking the time to meet and was keen to emphasis his
priority to improve confident about the future of POL and to meet with other Postmasters to discuss
what more HMG can do to speed up overturning convictions.

+ JH noted her representation of those who are part of the overturned conviction scheme but was
keen to highlight the need to unblock the current log jam associated with quashing convictions and
the process of compensation.
BEIS0000948
BEIS0000948

+ MT agreed noting the need to prioritise simplicity and speed.

+ JH noted the complex issues behind claiming compensation and the high costs associated with the
process of mediation, emphasising that recipients are still suffering, and most are not in the best
health.

* MT outlined Labours commitment to the 8" July deadline for the compensation scheme while they
were in opposition and committed to following through on that. SoS has to be the one to announce
the details of DBTs new scheme, with a focus on getting compensation to recipients quickly. ACTION -
MT invited JH for her thoughts once this announcement was made and to have further
discussions where appropriate. @Ciara LAWRENCE (DBT) to be aware.

* CC noted DBT is being prudent when determining the list of convictions to ensure letters are sent
out properly, emphasising the need to manage expectations as letters will be sent in phased batches.

* RC highlighted the importance of comms to manage those expectations if DBT was to take that
approach and was happy to discuss with CC offline. ACTION - @Carl CRESWELL (DBT) to follow
up.

* CC agreed, with JH noting that applications have been difficult for some postmasters, but letters
would be a lot more helpful to instruct lawyers.

----ENDS----
