BEIS0000607
BEIS0000607

ws
Department for
i Sarah Munb:
Business, Energy Permanent Under-Secretary of State
& Industrial Strategy 1 Victoria Street
London
SWIHOET

Henry Staunton t
Chair "
Finsbury Dial Our ref: AC/[PO to complete]
20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 9AQ

Dear Henry,

Congratulations on your appointment as Chair of Post Office Limited (POL). It is a unique
opportunity to make a nationally significant contribution and you take up your role at an important
juncture in the company’s transformation journey.

Each year, I write to the Chair to set out the key strategic priorities that BEIS, as sole Shareholder,
would like POL to focus on over the coming twelve months. Earlier this year, I wrote to Tim Parker,
the outgoing Chair, setting out the strategic priorities for 2022/23.

I have attached my letter to Tim for your reference. I am aware that POL, under Tim’s stewardship,
has already made considerable efforts in addressing these priorities and I would be grateful for this
momentum to continue under your leadership.

In particular, I would be grateful if you could focus your attention on the following:

1. Effective financial management and performance, including effective management of
legal costs, to ensure medium term viability;

2. Maintaining and improving POL’s capacity, capability, and resilience at all levels of the
organisation;

3. Engaging positively with the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry and implementing change,

including resolving historical litigation issues, successfully delivering the Strategic
Platform Modernisation Programme (SPMP), and reaching settlements with claimants.

I would be pleased to talk you through these priorities and the importance that we place on them as
the Shareholder.

Finally, Tim Parker wrote to me on POL’s work to transform the cultural and process aspects in
response to the Inquiry shortly before his departure. I will write to you on this matter separately.

I look forward to forging a close working relationship with you.

Yours sincerely,

Sarah Munby

Classification if appropriate
