BEIS0000913

BEIS0000913

1AL-
aMfnent for
Business & Trade

Horizon Convictions Redress Scheme:
Preliminary payment application form

You must answer every question on this form to the best of your knowledge and belief. We
cannot progress your redress payments without the information requested here.

You will need to complete this form and have your identity verified to receive payment. We
will explain to you or your solicitor what is required to verify your identity.

Once completed, please send the form to.
horizonconvictionsredres:

Applicant details

Applicant full name

The applicant is the person who was
previously convicted.

Scheme Unique Reference Number
(URN)

Your URN is on the letter informing you
that your conviction has quashed. If
you have not received a letter, you will
need to register for the scheme to
receive your URN.

Bank details Name on account:

Please provide the details for where
you want the preliminary payment to be
sent.

Please note, it is scheme policy to pay
redress payments directly to the person I Account number:
entitled to redress and therefore we will
not pay this money into a solicitor’s
client account.

Sort code:

Linked applications

Have you submitted an application
already to another Post Office related
scheme, for example:
¢ — Horizon Shortfall Scheme
¢ — Overturned Convictions
process
e Group Litigation Order scheme
« — Suspension Remuneration
Review

If yes, please confirm which scheme.

Page 1 of 2
BEIS0000913

BEIS0000913

(ofFRHCIAL-

BESBEMFnent for
Business & Trade

Linked applications with another

Are you related to somebody who has
made an application to in any of the
Horizon Redress Schemes, i.e.:
e the Horizon Convictions
Redress Scheme
¢ the Horizon Shortfall Scheme
e the Overturned Convictions
process
e — the Group Litigation Order
Scheme

This might be a family member, spouse
(even if separated) or business partner,
etc.

If yes, please provide their full name
and which scheme they have applied to
(if known).

Bankruptcy details

Were you declared bankrupt or subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA)?
* Yes * No

If YES, please provide the details requested below:

This is so that we can contact your trustee in bankruptcy to confirm that they will not claim
any part of your redress payment to pay creditors, so long as your bankruptcy was
discharged before the date of your conviction was overturned. If you entered an IVA, we
will contact the supervisor.

Fill for bankruptcies

Your trustee in
bankruptcy — the name
and contact details

The date you were
declared bankrupt

Has your bankruptcy
been discharged? Please
provide the date

Fill for Individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVAs)

Your IVA supervisor — the
name and contact details

The date you entered

Page 2 of 2
BEIS0000913

BEIS0000913

FRICIAL-
PE NEMFnent for

Business & Trade
into an IVA

Has the IVA completed?
Please provide the date

Declaration regarding your application

Background

The Post Office (Horizon System) Offences Act 2024 and the Post Office (Horizon
System) Offences (Scotland) Act 2024 were passed in light of fundamental problems in
the Post Office investigation and prosecution process. That process included relying on
flawed computer evidence, inappropriate interviews, failure to disclose and investigate
Horizon issues and unfair pressure to admit dishonesty offences, such as false
accounting.

Declaration
By signing this document, I confirm that:

I am applying for financial redress because of damage suffered (financial and/or
personal) by either:
* — me, the wrongly convicted person (applying for myself) or
e the wrongly convicted person whom I am representing (applying for someone
else) for whom I have lawful authority to act; or
¢ — the estate of a wrongfully convicted person in respect of which I have authority to
act
due to Horizon shortfalls [and/or] the prosecution [and/or] the investigation [and/or]
conduct by the Post Office.

I understand that if I give false or misleading information in support of my application or
make a fraudulent application I may:

* — be subject to court proceedings

e have to re-pay any money I was not entitled to

This section needs to be signed by the person whose conviction has been quashed (the
applicant).

If the applicant is dead, the person with legal authority to administer their estate can sign on
behalf of the estate.

If the applicant is incapacitated, the person with the legal authority to act on their behalf can
sign on their behalf.

A solicitor supporting with the application cannot sign this declaration on the applicant's
behalf.

Signed

Print name

Page 3 of 2
BEIS0000913
BEIS0000913

TAL-

PERBEM nent for

Business & Trade

Date

Once completed, please sen
horizonconvictionsredress_

Page 4 of 2
