B82

A TIMING AND LINE TO TAKE

In the 6 April announcement of the review, and subsequently, Parliament
has been told that the Government hopes to announce its proposals in the
Autumn.

The Prime Minister has requested that the review report be submitted and
circulated to Ministerial colleagues for consideration after the Labour
Party Conference. The issue has been flagged up for potential Cabinet
committee discussion in October.

Timing for decision taking is therefore very tight. A decision in the
Autumn will not only fulfil parliamentary expectations but allow a bid in
November for primary legislation in 1999/2000. It might also allow us
to take advantage of legislation under the ECA 72 which is required to
implement a Postal Services Directive early next year. This for instance
could enable us to provide swiftly for independent regulation of the Post
Office, without the discipline of which it would be difficult to justify
commercial freedoms.

Line to Take

Over the Recess Ministers may be lobbied or pressed for their views on
what the future structure of the Post Office should be. In particular, if
decisions on Horizon, which has important implications for the future of
the Post Office network, become public this may focus attention on the
review.

Media coverage to date has been sporadic with contrasting views
variously (and not wholly consistently) attributed to Ministerial key
players. To avoid unnecessary and potentially damaging speculation
over the summer a clear and agreed Government line is therefore
advisable.

Current main lines to take together with more detailed Q & A material
is at Annex 1. However, you may also be pressed on whether you have

BEIS0000133
BEIS0000133
BEIS0000133
BEIS0000133

received the review and considered its content. I suggest the response
here should be:

‘The interdepartmental review team is continuing to work to its
terms of reference to provide Ministers with a comprehensive
report. I and my colleagues look forward to receiving and
considering it with a view to putting proposals to Parliament in the
autumn.’

If pressed:

‘Cannot reach conclusions before seeing the report. This is not a
matter of dogma. We need to consider all the options carefully so
as to establish the best possible future for an innovative,
competitive and successful Post Office in the public sector, to the
benefit of its customers and the UK.’

If accused of delay

‘No delay. The interdepartmental review team continues to work
hard towards its report. It is working closely with Post Office
senior management and has consulted the unions, POUNC and is
taking into account the views of other interested parties.’
