BEIS0000992
BEIS0000992

From: Secretary Of State (Kwasi Kwarteng)[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=7B811168695846498CA8997D65
FO9BCE-SH_BEIS_SEC]

Sent: Tue 06/07/2021 9:43:18 AM (UTC)
i

To: Scully, Minister, (F i
(Private Office);

Callanan, Minister
Holmes, Euan

Creswell, Carl (Services

I SpAds Office (Private

Ce: Keoghan, Michael
I Kilgarriff, Patrick
; Taylor, Tom
Heath, Daniel
3; Wones, Eleri
utting, Nicola
Mckay, Jessica
(Communicationsi_~
Subject: RE: OFF SEN: Post Office: Ownership of Criminal Convictions Compensation
Hi all,

For completeness following the meeting last month, SoS agreed we should not take ownership of the
compensation scheme at this time, but that the team should continue to work closely on delivery and
ensure appropriate governance structures in place with POL.

If not done so already, suggest sighting the Implementation Unit in BEIS should we be required to
step in at a later date to help deliver the scheme.

Many thanks,

Elena
. Elena Michael
we Private Secretary to the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial
Strategy
Department for 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET
Business, Energy

I & Industrial Strategy

From: Scully, Minister (Private Office)
Sent: 21 June 2021 14:23 ;
To: Callanan, Minister (Private Office) {

SpAds Office (Private Office) i
Cc: Permanent Secretary!

Tom (Finance¥” Heath, Daniel (Finance)

BEIS0000992
BEIS0000992

Wones, Eleri (BEIS)! ; Cutting, Nicola (Communications)
Mckay, Jessica (Communications) !

FF SEN: Post Office: Ownership of Criminal Convictions Compensation

Subject:
Hi Hannah,

Yes I think that would helpful, thanks. I'll send across the meeting scheduler now.

Best wishes,
Enifome
ae Enifome Ekregbesi
Locum Private Secretary to the Minister for
Department for Small Business, Consumers & Labour Markets,
A and Minister for London
Business, Energy Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
& Industrial Strategy Strategy

1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

From: Callanan, Minister (Private Office)!
Sent: 21 June 2021 12:41
To: Holmes, Euan (Communications ly, Minister (Private Offi

‘utting, Nicola (communications)
CC GRO Mckay, Jessica (Communications) {
“Subject: RE: OFF SEN: Post Office: Ownership of Criminal Convictions Compensation

Hi all,

Lord Callanan reviewed this sub over the weekend and is of the opinion that we should leave
ownership with the Post Office for the time-being.

Appreciate that M Scully is policy minister for this, but wondering if you think it would be helpful for
LC to join the proposed meeting, and iron out advice / steers before SoS reviews this?

Many thanks,
Hannah
BEIS0000992
BEIS0000992

de Hannah Cowie
Z Private Secretary to Lord Callanan

Minister for Business, Energy and Corporate Responsibility

Department for

Business, Energy Bepariment for Business, d industrial Strat
. epartment for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
& Industrial Strategy www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Holmes, Euan (Communication:
Sent: 18 June 2021 09:55
To: Scully, Minister (Private Office)

Just looping in Nicola, who might wish to attend if feasible.

Best wishes,
Euan

From: Scully, Minister (Private Office)

Sent: 18 June 2021 09:32

To: Creswell Carl (Services Directorate) Secretary Of State (Kwasi
Callanan, Minister (Private Office)

Carl,

Many thanks for this submission — the Minister was very grateful for the detailed, clear analysis. He
commented that taking control of the compensation scheme makes a lot of sense if the Government
is ultimately going to have to provide the funds, but also thought the concerns you raise about the
risks are very valid. He would therefore appreciate the opportunity to discuss this with you and the
team further. I would be grateful if Alex @Scully, Minister (Private Office) could set up a time. I think
it would be sensible for Celia to attend too @SpAds Office (Private Office) as while not wanting to
BEIS0000992
BEISO000992

speak for her, I imagine she will appreciate talking this through.

All the best,
Francesca
a Francesca Clough (she/her)
Senior Private Secretary to Paul Scully MP
Department for Minister for Small Business, Consumers & Labour Markets, and Mini
Business, Energy for London
& Industrial Strategy

From: Creswell, Carl (Services Directorate)
Sent: 10 June 2021 14:01

Scully, Minister (Private

a Heath, Daniel (Finance) <

“} Holmes, Euan (Communications)

Subject: OFF SEN: Post Office: Ownership of Criminal Convictions Compensation

Hi Eleanor, Francesca and Elena,

I attach advice about ownership of the compensation process that will be necessary in
relation to the Post Office’ Horizon case.

This follows a recent conversation between the SoS and the Permanent Secretary (who has
cleared this advice).

Many thanks,
Carl.

eB Carl Creswell
Di i

Department for

pushes, Energy Orchard 2, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET
ndustrial r egy www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

