BEIS0001002
BEIS0001002

Kevin Hollinrake MP
Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State

Department for Business, Energy & Industrial
Strategy

1 Victoria Street

London

SW1H OET

Guy Opperman MP, Minister for Employment,
Department for Work and Pensions

Our ref: [[OUR_REF]]
Your ref: [YOUR_REF]] delete if none given

November 2022

Dear Guy,
BENEFITS DISREGARD FOR POST OFFICE COMPENSATION SCHEMES

I am writing to seek your support for granting a benefits disregard for postmasters who are
recipients of Post Office and Horizon-related compensation, in line with the disregards which
are already in place for the Windrush Scheme and Infected Blood Scheme.

I understand that you are due to receive advice on this matter from your officials and would
encourage you to grant this disregard in full.

As I am sure you are aware, it is impossible to ignore the negative impact that the Horizon
scandal and the related court proceedings have had on affected postmasters' lives: on their
livelihoods, their financial situations, their reputations and, for some, their physical and mental
health. To date, 83 postmasters have already had their Horizon-related convictions overturned.
Post Office has also been making progress at pace on the Historical Shortfall Scheme, with
2,125 claimants (90% of eligible claims) under the scheme having now received offers.
Government also announced additional compensation this year for postmasters who brought
the High Court litigation against the Post Office, which was settled in 2019 after many years of
legal proceedings, given these postmasters were left financially worse off than their peers.

The impact that the Horizon scandal has had on the lives of affected postmasters and their
families cannot be overstated. The affected postmasters are extremely vulnerable and have
suffered what is described as the “biggest miscarriage of justice” in British legal history,
resulting in significant financial hardship, including bankruptcy for some. A benefits disregard
would ensure compassionate and fair treatment of postmasters and provide additional comfort
to those who are struggling with financial hardship.

Compensation cannot take away the suffering that affected postmasters have

experienced. But we are determined to ensure that each eligible person gets what is due to
them. We must now ensure that outstanding issues around benefits do not prolong the impacts
of the Horizon dispute on these postmasters by affecting their eligibility to apply for benefits as
needed. If we do not act, many postmasters may end up losing benefits as a result of receiving
compensation. This is why I would be grateful if you could consider deploying any tools at your
disposal to expedite the passing of the necessary legislation, which will allow postmasters to
access benefits and pension credits, as needed, as soon as possible.
BEIS0001002
BEIS0001002

I hope that you agree this approach to be appropriate and in our shared interest. I look forward
to working with you on this important matter.

Yours sincerely,

Kevin Hollinrake MP,
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
