BEIS0001180
BEIS0001180

From: Mandelson MPST[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MANDEL]
Sent: Mon 18/05/2009 4:54:01 PM (UTC)
To: Shanmugalingam

Norris Geoffrey (MPST
Loughran Patrick (MPST

Glass Jerome
; Robling Stephen
reedman Maya

Subject: PROTECT: Note of Secretary of State's meeting with the National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters 06.05.09

PROTECT

Note of Secretary of State's meeting with the National Federation of Sub-
Postmasters
Wednesday 06 May 2009 17.00-17.45

In attendance: Pat McFadden, George Thomson (General Secretary), Marilyn Stoddart
(Assistant General Secretary), Mervyn Jones, Keith Richards, lan Park, Andrew
Gilhooly, David Milner (all NFSP), Jo Shanmugalingam and Mike Whitehead.

e GT thanked the SoS for his role is ensuring that Post Office Limited retained the
POCA contract. The SoS commented that it would be important for other areas of
Government to also use the service.

e The SoS explained that it was important for POL to embrace its role as a provider of
financial services, adding that POL had the capability and was a trusted brand. The
SoS noted that the relationship between POL and Royal Mail would be preserved in
legislation, the social network would be funded until 2011 and further closure
programme would not be announced.

e The SoS commented that it was important for the Bill to reach Royal Assent in order
for structural and regulatory changes to be made and for the pension fund to be
dealt with. The SoS stressed the importance of a strong relationship between POL
and HMG.

e GT explained that the NFSP supported the proposals for the pension fund deficit,
regulation and partnership / capital. GT added that the “real issue" was the
BEIS0001180

BEISO001180

interbusiness agreement between Royal Mail Group and POL, which should be for
ten years. GT acknowledges that this may be less attractive than a five year
agreement for a possible external partner, however the NFSP would value the
stability of a ten year agreement. JS explained that the agreement was currently
one year and that the five year option was on the table. The SoS commented that
he did not want a fragmented Royal Mail and stressed the importance of having a
stabilised, transformed organisation.

GT asked the SoS how the work of the Business and Enterprise Select Committee
and the MISC 33 Committee on Postal Services fed into work being done to ensure
a sustainable post office network. PMc commented that the ID cards working group
was one example of how HMG was "battling" for the Post Office network as was the
work being done with DVLA.

MY asked how the interbusiness agreement between Royal Mail Group and POL
could be extended beyond five years. JS explained that the situation would currently
revert back to the original one year contract as Royal Mail Group could not agree to
something beyond five years which takes account of POL without Royal Mail
Holdings.

GT commented that there was a need to bring National Savings and Investments
(NS&l) into POL to address the balance between savings and consumption. GT
noted that the state aid requirements may be complicated but this should not rule out
the development. GT asked the SoS how easy / costly it would be for POL to obtain
a banking licence. JS explained that it would require an injection of several billion
pounds for POL to meet FSA requirements and obtain a banking licence. The SoS
added that there was a possibility of HMT asking for funding of this sort to be offset
against funding for the social network, as there may not be enough for both. GT
added that the social payment may not be needed if POL had a strong network and
clear banking role as it would be preferable to have the banking work than any
subsidy. The SoS commented that HMG would need to be satisfied that POL could
be sustained without any subsidy.

The SoS and GT discussed the Joint Venture between POL and the Bank of Ireland,
with GT commenting that it may cost around £1 billion to end the contract. The SoS
commented that the two key issues were (1) obtaining a possible banking licence
and (2) the contract with the Bank of Ireland. JS commented that Alan Cook of POL
would like to see more transactions put through Post Office branches, including
current accounts. The SoS commented that another issue was the investment
required to create a banking platform.

GT commented that there was a "once in a lifetime" opportunity to create a
Postbank. The SoS explained that an announcement of current accounts may be
part of a way forward, however debate over the robustness of the Bank of Ireland
may affect the Post Office brand.
BEIS0001180
BEIS0001180

e GT suggested that a fund targeted at the refurbishment of Post Office branches
would be helpful. The SoS explained that this was something which could possibly
be negotiated towards the end of the year. GT commented that he thought there
was "some role" for the smaller branches known as Post Office Essentials.

e GT commented that the relationship between POL and the NFSP was not working
due to a lack of commitment from POL, and added that money was made at the
expense of the network. GT stressed that the network should be protected, and ring-
fenced funds should be available to help sub-postmasters

Paul McCaffrey
_Private Secretary to Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform

Check box times at: http://mandrin/mpst/index.html
All emails and attachments containing comments from the Secretary of State should be filed in Matrix by

the policy team.

From: Shanmugalingam Joanna (ShE)

Sent: 05 May 2009 13:26

To: Mandelson MPST

Cc: Whitehead Mike (ShE); McFadden MPST; SPAD MPST; Norris Geoffrey (MPST MIN); Loughran
Patrick (MPST MIN); Upton Joe (COMMS); Lovegrove Stephen (ShE); Hannant Ruth (ShE); Booth
Jonathan (BR2); Jones Craig (BR2); Gibson Will (ShE); Glass Jerome (ShE); Robling Stephen (ShE);
Freedman Maya (ShE)

Subject: RE: BRIEFING REQUEST: Meeting with the National Federation of Sub-Postmaster

Jackie

Please find attached briefing from Mike Whitehead for tomorrow's meeting with the NFSP. Mike is
back in the office tomorrow - please let me know if you have any queries in the meantime.

Jo

Jo Shanmugalingam
Director, Shareholder Executive

From: Mandelson MPST

Sent: 27 April 2009 10:00

To: Whitehead Mike (ShE)

Cc: SPAD MPST; Norris Geoffrey (MPST MIN); Loughran Patrick (MPST MIN); McFadden
MPST; Power Peter (New Accounts); Boughen Aileen (COMMS); McCaffrey Paul (MPST MIN)
BEIS0001180
BEIS0001180

Subject: BRIEFING REQUEST: Meeting with the National Federation of Sub-Postmaster

Mike

the Secretary of State has agreed to meet George Thomson on Wednesday 6 May between
17.00 and 17.45 in SOS's office i Please see the below emailing confirming
names.

The private secretaries are always happy to discuss SoS's briefing requirements and/or comment
on draft briefing if this would be helpful. The Secretary of State would like concise briefing containing:

1. Agenda and attendees

The agenda should be agreed with external organisations and cleared with special advisors
and junior Ministers where appropriate.

List of all attendees and their job titles
2. Purpose of meeting

Explain why we are having the meeting and what we want the outcome to be (it may help to
think what would happen if the meeting didn't go ahead, or if a junior Minister took it on instead)

Set out any handling advice for SoS - are there any particular sensitivities he should
avoid/recent developments he should address?

3. Lines to take
One side maximum of lines to take in bullet point form.
These must be short, clear and easy to use verbatim. Try reading them aloud to your
colleagues. If they sound strange, or you have to draw breath mid-sentence, they need redrafting. Avoid

acronyms that won't be understood by SoS or those at the meeting.

Prioritise and put the most important messages first, in case the meeting gets curtailed by a
fire alarm/voting in the House

Remember to add defensive lines as well as proactive ones, if necessary. Is there anything
SoS should avoid saying?

4. Context and analysis

SoS only needs brief, factual background for most items. He will only need the very latest
information for any subject areas with which he is already familiar, and has taken meetings on before.

In addition to background, he also needs a short analysis of BERR's actions, stakeholder
reactions and any criticisms by OGDs, stakeholders and media.

Please consider whether the Special Advisors, the junior Minister's office, the Permanent
Secretary, FRM or Press Office need to be consulted on the draft of your briefing. Always ensure that the
Special Advisers, Permanent Secretary's office, junior Minister's office and Press Office are copied in
when submitting the electronic briefing.

The briefing should be in Arial 14 font. Please could you email the briefing to Mandelson MPST
by 2pm on Tuesday 5 May unless you have agreed an alternative deadline with the private secretary. If
BEIS0001180
BEIS0001180

the briefing is more than 5 sides long, I'd be grateful if you would provide 2 flagged hard copies.
Attendees
As a rule, no more than 2 officials should attend - please let me know if you would like to discuss
this or change those attending. Please confirm which external attendees are coming - I need to ensure
they have passes at reception.

Happy to discuss further. Many thanks.

Jackie Cameron

Diary Manager to the Secretary of State

Check Box times at http://mandrin/mpst/index.htmI <http://mandrin/mpst/index.htmI> .
Submissions received after the Box closes will not be processed that day.

All emails and attachments containing comments from the Secretary of State should be filed in
Matrix by the policy team.

mervyn jones; Marilyn Stoddart

Further to our conversation today and the meeting with Lord Mandelson arranged for 5pm on
Wednesday, 6 May at 1 Victoria Street, I can confirm that the attendees will be as follows:

George Thomson, General Secretary
Marilyn Stoddart, Assistant General Secretary
Mervyn Jones, National President, Chairman of Negotiating Committee, and
subpostmaster at Sandbed Post Office, Hawick

* Keith Richards, member of Negotiating Committee, and subpostmaster at
Glynneath Post Office, Neath

* lan Park, member of Negotiating Committee, and subpostmaster at Maridon Hill
BEIS0001180
BEIS0001180

Post Office, Paignton
* Andrew Gilhooly, member of Negotiating Committee, and subpostmaster at

Haydrive Post Office, Edinburgh
* David Milner, member of Negotiating Committee, and subpostmaster at

Grimethorpe Post Office, Barnsley

Regards

PA to General Secretary

National Federation of Subpostmasters
Evelyn House

22 Windlesham Gardens

Shoreham by Sea

West Sussex

BN43 5AZ

From: Mandelson MPST
Sent: 22 April 2009 17:5:

Subject: Meeting

Been a while since we have been in contact. Grateful if you would give me a call tomorrow to
arrange a meeting between the Secretary of State and George Thomson. I am looking for a suitable slot
between Tuesday 5 May and Thursday 7 May.

Look forward to speaking to you very soon.

Kind regards.

The Rt Hon Lord Mandelson Secretary of State
Department for Business, Enterprise & Regulatory Reform

1 Victoria Street

London
SW1H OET
T:

The original of this email was scanned for viruses by the Government Secure Intranet virus
scanning service supplied by Cable&Wireless in partnership with MessageLabs. (CCTM Certificate
Number 2007/11/0032.) On leaving the GSi this email was certified virus free.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.

This email was received from the INTERNET and scanned by the Government Secure Intranet
anti-virus service supplied by Cable&Wireless in partnership with MessageLabs. (CCTM Certificate
Number 2007/11/0032.) In case of problems, please call your organisation's IT Helpdesk.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.

BEIS0001180
BEIS0001180
