BEIS0001051

BEISO001051

GLO Scheme Fixed Sum Award Request Form January 2024

Full Name of Claimant:

Unique DBT GLO Scheme Reference Number: [To be issued by DBT following Registration Form]

1. Please provide details of any amounts received as a result of the settlement of the High Court
“GLO” case (Alan Bates and Others v Post Office Limited).

2. Please provide details of any interim payments and/or partial settiement amounts received
from DBT in respect of your daim in the ex gratia GLO Compensation Scheme

Fixed Sum Award

All eligible ex gratia GLO Compensation Scheme (the “Scheme”) claimants are offered the option to
settle their claims in the Scheme on the full and final basis for the total sum of £75,000 inclusive of
interest (the “Fixed Sum Award”).

If you choose to accept the Fixed Sum Award, this will conclude your participation in the Scheme. This
means that your claim will not be assessed by DBT in accordance with the process set out in the
Scheme’s Guidance and Principles (revised 29 November 2023) and you will be precluded from
bringing any further claim within the Scheme. If youhave already received some settlement sums via
the GLO settlement, interim payments or a partial settlement, these will be deducted from the
£75,000 and the balance paid to you.

DBT acknowledges that the option of accepting the Fixed Sum Award may not be suitable for all
claimants in the Scheme, particularly those claimants who anticipate their claim value will exceed
£75,000. Those claimants, who decide not to accept the Fixed Sum Award, will remain able to advance
their claims in accordance with the existing process where offers will continue to be made on the
merits of each individual claim in accordance with the Guidance and Principles. DBT remains
committed to making payment under those processes as quickly as possible.

I wish to accept the Fixed Sum Award and confirm that the details in this form are correct 0

Signed:

Name:

Date:
BEIS0001051
BEISO001051

GLO Scheme Fixed Sum Award Request Form January 2024

Submission of claim

Your lawyer will be granted access to the Dentons Direct platform in order to upload claims. You will
be granted access if you choose not to be legally represented.

If you are legally unrepresented and do not have access to the internet, you can send your
application form by post to:

Horizon GLO Compensation Scheme
C/O Dentons UK and Middle East LLP
1 Fleet Place
London EC4M 7WS
If you send your application via courier, the following address should be used:
Horizon GLO Compensation Scheme
C/O Dentons UK and Middle East LLP
1 Fleet Place
London EC4M 7RA.
Please include reference "DSB/RZF/TSO79928.00001" in all postal submissions.
