From:
Sent:
To:

Ce:

Subject:

Attachment:
Attachment:
Attachment:
Attachment:
Attachment:
Attachment:
Attachment:

Jess

Aldred, Tom - UKGIf_
Fri 15/03/2019 3:01:36 PM (UTC)
Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) ——~=~=~SGRO.—s

lark Spad, Mpst

Cooper, Tom - UKG tson, Craig (Advanced
Manufacturing and Services)} GRO 3 Permanent

SecretaryI ‘ecilia (Advanced
Manufacturing and Services)f ~
(Advanced Manufacturing and Services}
Annabelle (Communications & Partnerships}
Clarke, Stephen - UKGIF

munications &
otim, Florence (Communications &
‘ole, Alex -

Partnerships}
Partnerships);

Submission: remuneration for POL CEO

Russell Reynolds letter.DOCX

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE Russell Reynolds candidate biographies.DOCX
Updated benchmarking doc PWC. pdf

20190315 SCS Panel - Proforma A - New POL CEO.docx

20190315 Pay for permanent POL CEO-Final for Tolhurst.docx
20190315 SCS Panel - Proforma A - New POL CEO.docx

Please find attached submission for Kelly Tolhurst on proposed remuneration for the POL
CEO, which she requested in the context of writing to POL on the appointment of an interim
CEO. You asked that this be copied to Spads in parallel.

There are five separate annexes which I have included as separate attachments due to

formatting:

A. Proforma to accompany letter for the CST

B. Biography of prospective interim CFO
C. Letter from Russell Reynolds (headhunters)
D

. Information on prospective candidates from Russell Reynolds (Contains confidential
personal information OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE)

E. PWC benchmarking analysis

Tom

Tom Aldred I Executive Director
Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments

t I London I SW1H OET

BEIS0001122
BEIS0001122
This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s)
to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email
in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our
email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our

systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and
viruses.

BEIS0001122
BEIS0001122
