BEIS0001119

BEISO001119

Clarke, Stephen - UKGIi__ ~
Sent: Fri 07/12/2018 10:48:31 AM (UTC)
To: Tolhurst, ‘

Ce: GRO... ds UKGI POL
White, Sam (Advanced Manufacturing and

Services} _ ir lorence (Communications &
Partnerships, Q

Subject: Urgent Submission: POL NED Reappointments

Attachment: 20181207 Submission on NED reappointments - Stent and McCall.docx

Attachment: Annex A - Pay Proforma for Carla Stent.docx

Attachment: Annex B - Pay Proforma for Ken McCall.docx

Attachment: Annex C - Appraisals for Carla Stent and Ken McCall.docx

Attachment: Annex D - Board Composition and Diversity.docx

Hi Sam,

I attach a submission (including 4 annexes) on the reappointment of two Non-Executive Directors to
POL’s board. This has been approved by the BEIS SCS Recruitment Panel and now needs BEIS.
ministerial approval for POL to proceed with their reappointment. CST approval is not required
because the CST has approved these two posts in the past 5 years.

Given the proximity of their term ends (20 January 2018), a decision before the parliamentary recess
on 20 December is highly desirable. So I would be very grateful if this could be submitted to the
Minister at the earliest opportunity for her consideration.

lam also sending to the SpAd’s office and Perm Sec’s office to note/comment as needed.

Please let me know if you have any queries.

Regards,

Stephen

Stephen Clarke I Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments
Corporate finance and governance in government.

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s)
to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email
BEIS0001119
BEIS0001119

in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our
email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our
systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and
viruses.
