BEISO000596
BEISO000596

Archived: 08 February 2024 15:50:57
From: David BICKERTON (DBT)
Sent: Wed, 4 Oct 2023 07:59:31

ect: RE: Letter attached for your attention
Sensitivity: Normal

Dear Charles,

Many thanks for your letter of 19 September and for UKGI’s ongoing support on a range of Post Office issues. We are grateful for the additional assistance that your team has provided on
compensation issues over recent years.

I recognise the budgetary pressures on UKGI and am content to accept your proposed changes to your support in this area. It will, of course, place more pressure on some of my team, but I
recognise that we have increased our capacity and capability over the last year. I am grateful for your offer for UKGI staff to continue to sit on the various boards as observers.

‘We will also benefit from UKGI's continued assistance on the financial forecasting aspects of the compensation projects and the scrutiny of management information and targets. It will be
important that UKGI remains close to our policy thinking, in order to continue to fulfil your role representing the shareholder within the various Post Office governance fora, including the

ion Committee. We will of course also expect UKGI to be ready to give account of their role in relation to the compensation schemes when, as expected, the Horizon IT Inquiry
examines that area in early 2024.

I agree that Carl and Lorna should discuss and agree the specific timings for transition. I would also appreciate a quick call with you this week and am copying my EA Louise to please find a
time for the two of us,

I trust that this is satisfactory and would like to record my thanks to you and your team,

ind regards

David Bickerton I Director General, Business Group
Department for Business and Trade I Victoria Stet, London, SW1H OET
Tel Large

Department for
Business & Trade

}Donald, Charles - UKGI

Sent: Tuesday, September 19, 2023 1:43 PM
To: David BICKERTON (DBT) <;
Subject: Letter attached for your attention

Dear David,
‘On behalf of Charles please find a letter attached for your attention.

With kind regards
Claire
Claire Roberts I Personal Assistant to Charles Donald, Chief Executive I Mark Russell, Senior Advisor

UK Government Investments

treet, London, SW1A 28Q

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed, If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error,
please notify the sender and delete the email, This footnote also confirms that our emall communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other
lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses,

