BEIS0000886

BEIS0000886

From: Secretary of State DBT (DBT)[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE

ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=73D1B78651B9426CB175E1B86

FB7588D-1724E4D2-17]

Sent: Tue 23/07/2024 11:45:42 AM (UTC)

To: Charlotte
avid BICKERTON

Ce: Spad SOS (DBT; GRO

Subject: RE: [Readout] Meeting between SoS and the Rt Hon Kevan Jones

Thanks Carl — adjusted on our side!

Warmest,
Jason

From: Carl CRESWELL (DBT) ¢_
Sent: Tuesday, July 23, 2024 11:26 AM

To: Secretary of State DBT (DBT 5 Charlotte HEYES (DBT)

* rooks-White Jobshare !
; Asha BALACHANDRAN:

Subject: RE: [Readout] Meeting between SoS and the Rt Hon Kevan Jones

Hi Jason (smaller copy-list),

Thanks very much for this.

A couple of small tweaks, for the record, below.

On the meeting with postmasters, I know the team will provide some advice. My view
is that we should try to have one meeting (next week) and that — in line with Kevan’s

advice — this could be broader than just HCRS postmasters.

Asha - unless there are any other comments, could you ensure that this version goes
onto Sharepoint, pls?

Carl.

BEIS0000886
BEIS0000886

Carl Creswell I Director, Post Office and Business Engagement
Department for Business and Trade I Old Admiralty Building,
Westmi SW1A 2AY

Department for
Business & Trade

From: Secretary of State DBT (DBT) {
Sent: Tuesday, July 23, 2024 8:52 Al
To: Charlotte HEYES (DBT)

—_ GRO
Rob BRIGHTWELL (DBT)

_I Amanda MCMENAMIN (DBT)
; Brooks-White Jobshare {7

Good morning all,

Please see below my e-sig for a readout of the meeting between SoS and the Rt Hon
Kevan Jones from last week. There is 1 action bolded, conscious that timings are very
tight on this — if helpful, can have a conversation over the feasibility of this.

Warmest,
Jason

Jason Cheung I Private Secretary to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade
Department for Business and Trade I Old Admiralty Building I London SW1A 2DY

Attendees:

+ Secretary of State (SoS)

* The Rt Hon Kevan Jones (KJ)

+ Gareth Davies, Permanent Secretary

« David Bickerton, Director General-for Business Group

* Carl Creswell, Director for Post Office and Business Engagement
+ Jack Glynn, Special Advisor

Readout
+ After a brief welcoming and exchange on KJ's health, SoS asked whether KJ
would be keen to remain on the Horizon Compensation Advisory Board, noting
his contributions and having been a driving force in general on the work in the
area. KJ responded that he was keen to continue.
BEIS0000886
BEIS0000886

* SoS also asked for KJ's advice on the composition of the Board. KJ's view was
that the Board's composition should remain the same, on the basis of
consistency, and that the team dynamics have been working well.

+ KJ also complimented the post office team in DBT. KJ reflected that “you have
a good set of officials working on [postal affairs]... they are serious people and
they are professionals".

+ KJ raised a couple of points: (1) Speeding compensation up is a priority; (2)
That a compensation scheme might be required for Capture depending on the
findings from the report, and KJ suggested that we should aim for a prompt
response in September. SoS confirmed that the Kroll investigation is ongoing
and that DBT Ministers will talk to HMT if a new scheme is needed following that
report.

+ KJ also mentioned that the lump sum payment for the OC scheme was a good
idea, as it can help HMG cut costs on legal fees. HMT were not keen, but it
helped speed things up and it was important not to be too cautious.

+ SoS suggested making a public statement on reappointment of the Advisory
Board. KJ did not offer an opinion on this.

+ SoS mentioned that he is getting advice ahead of recess on the new Horizon
Convictions Redress Scheme and that the Government is committed to the
delivery timetable that was announced by the previous Government.

* KJ suggested for SoS to meet Alan Bates and some other
subpostmasters/campaigners and that can be done over the summer. SoS
reflected he is keen to do so as well and confirmed that he would be talking to
Alan Bates later that morning. Action: SoS is very keen to meet with affected
subpostmasters in line with the announcement - can we set something up
this week? His vision is to invite a small group of affected subpostmasters
to the Churchill Room and have a 1/2 hr roundtable.
