BEIS0000991
BEIS0000991

From: Callanan, Minister (Private Office)[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE
GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=C3607D3820A442EFA84987DC7 164B08C-
MINISTER.CA]

Sent:

To: ; Scully, Minister (Private
Secretary Of State (Kwasi
} SpAds Office (Private
Cc:
leath, De
(Finance){” Wones, Eleri (BEIS). RC Cutting,
Nicola (Cot Mckay, Jessica
(Communications) f”
Subject: RE: OFF SEN: Post Office: Ownership of Criminal Convictions Compensation
Hi all,

Lord Callanan reviewed this sub over the weekend and is of the opinion that we should leave ownership with the Post
Office for the time-being.

Appreciate that M Scully is policy minister for this, but wondering if you think it would be helpful for LC to join the
proposed meeting, and iron out advice / steers before SoS reviews this?

Many thanks,
MB Priva le Secretary to Lord Callanan ;
Department for , Energy > Responsibility
Business, Energy
. p y
& Industrial Strategy www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Holmes, Euan (Communications;
Sent: 18 June 2021 09:55
To: Scully, Minister (Private Office

‘wasi Kwarteng) I GR Minister
SpAds Office (Private Office):

Keoghan, Mich

“(Private Office)

; Taylor, Tom (Finance)
Wones, Eleri (BEIS)
Mckay, Jessica

ilgarriff, Patrick (Legal)!
} Heath, Daniel (Finance
i i munication:

(Communication H
Subject: RE: OFF SEN:

wnership of Criminal Convictions Compensation
Just looping in Nicola, who might wish to attend if feasible.

Best wishes,
Euan
BEIS0000991
BEIS0000991

From: Scully, Minister (Private Office)
Sent: 18 June 2021 09:32

; Secretary Of State (Kwasi Kwarteng)
} SpAds Office

} Heath, Daniel (Finance
Holmes, Euan (Commu

Carl,

Many thanks for this submission — the Minister was very grateful for the detailed, clear analysis. He commented that
taking control of the compensation scheme makes a lot of sense if the Government is ultimately going to have to
provide the funds, but also thought the concerns you raise about the risks are very valid. He would therefore
appreciate the opportunity to discuss this with you and the team further. I would be grateful if Alex @Scully, Minister
(Private Office) could set up a time. I think it would be sensible for Celia to attend too @SpAds Office (Private Office)
as while not wanting to speak for her, I imagine she will appreciate talking this through.

All the best,

(she/her)
Senior Private Secretary to Paul Scully MP
Department for Minister for Small Business, Consumers & Labour Markets, and
Business, Energy Minister for London

& Industrial Strategy

From: Creswell, Carl (Services Directorate)!
Sent: 10 June 2021 14:01 -

; Heath, Daniel (Finance
Holmes, Euan (Communications)

Hi Eleanor, and Elena,

I attach advice about ownership of the compensation process that will be necessary in relation to the Post
Office’ Horizon case.

This follows a recent conversation between the SoS and the Permanent Secretary (who has cleared this
advice).
BEIS0000991
BEIS0000991

Many thanks,
Carl.
awe Carl Creswell
Director, Services

Department for
Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

Orchard 2, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET
www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

