BEIS0001202
BEIS0001202

Message
— — —
From: Simon Recaldi GRO ]
Sent: 10/11/2022 20:02:01
To: Scott, Joshua-UKGIf oo GRO
Subject: RE: [OFF:SEN] Note of OHC / HSS Quarterly Review 3 November 2022
Josh

Thanks for this — one suggested amend in red.
Regards

Simon

Simon Recaldin

Historical Matters Director
Post Office Ltd I Finsbury Dials I 20 Finsbury Street I London I EC2Y 9AQ

; Mackie, Robert - UKGI ¢

brooks-whited_GRO__IWones, Eleri (BEIS) §
Fallowfield, Harry (BEIS) <
+ Lawrence, Ciara (BEIS) ¢

ie
Pavandeep
Evelyn Hocking

; Nigel Machin
Zhang, Sisi - UKGI
ddington

Tan, Li - UKGI

>; Elvin, Dominic - UKGI
Dunseath, Laura - UKGI
jeil McDaid

IM Governance ¢
Subject: [OFF:SEN] Note of OHC / HSS Quarterly Review 3 November 2022

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening
attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Hi all,

Please see below a note of the OHC / HSS Quarterly Review from 3 November 2022.
Let me know if any amendments are required.

Cheers,

Josh
BEIS0001202
BEIS0001202

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE - Confidential & Subject to Legal Pri
OHC / HSS Quarterly Review
Thursday 3 November 2022

- CC welcomed attendees to the meeting. He noted that officials had a positive meeting the new Minister (Minister
Hollinrake) who was keen to continue the good progress made in this area.

OHC 13:00 — 13:45
Quarterly Key Achievements

- SR highlighted the good progress made on NP claims following ENE, noting some ‘teething issues’ which should
be worked through over the coming weeks. SR explained that 9 further NP claims should be submitted to POHC.
shortly.

- SR highlighted a recently overturned appeal and a personal story the postmistresses' partner told SR at the
hearing. SR held a one-to-one meeting with Hudgells who was present at the hearing in which Hudgells
challenged POL / HMG to increase offer speed. SR also discussed engagement with other law firms in which
Hudgells indicated that he has already reached out and was keen to support POL in wider engagements. SR has
instructed HSF to set up a roundtable.

- SR flagged the recent improvements made to MI and that HSF have been very collaborative in moving MI in-
house.

- CC thanked SR for the update. He noted the good progress made via ENE and that POHC are eager to review
and approve cases as soon as they are ready. CC agreed the MI was now in a good place and noted that he was
pleased with the work in progress with regard to engaging other law firms. IS agreed.

- EW highlighted a positive discussion BEIS, POL and UKGI lawyers with regard to handling workflow. POL will
shortly share a tracker which should assist with this.

- RM explained that it is important POL are clear with HMG with regard to when issues are coming through
approvals. At present, we are focused on specific detailed queries but alongside this horizon scanning and
overarching policy issues need to be progressed.

- CC noted that BEIS and POL have agreed the goals for delivery by the 8 Dec inquiry hearing. Regular meetings
are now in place between POL Exec and BEIS SCS to progress.

Remediation Model Update and Approval Plan
SR explained that a paper is set to go to HRC on 10/11. He explained the options under consideration (in-house
vs. HSF support), and that POL are currently pricing these up. He noted that Hudgells remains supportive of the
move to the remediation model and is keen to progress four pilot cases. CC thanked SR for keeping officials
closely engaged and sighted on developments.

- BW queried the NP counter-offers issued by Hudgells, and where POL would go in this scenario in the
remediation model. SR explained that claimants’ legal representatives will be closely involved up front and have
the opportunity to provide views to the independent panel in advance of its recommendations. Should be a “no
surprises” approach in which this risk is mitigated but should there be any disputes the Panel would be the right
forum to resolve.

Key Risks / Issues and POL’s Mitigation Plans

- CC agreed with the key risks highlighted by POL. He noted that he was particularly interested in the progress of
pecuniary claims and POL's PFA Triage work.

- SR provided an update on the PFA Triage. He noted that there are now 83 overturned appeals but optics remain
challenging despite POL and CCRC contacting over 98% of PFAs. P&P have reviewed 120 cases so far and, of
this, 15 may be Horizon-related. He requested that officials consider discussing the context with regard to the low
number of overturned appeals with Ministers in the coming months.

- SR highlighted that the PFA Triage work also needs to be considered in light of HMU's recent cost challenge. SR
estimated that it may cost an additional £720k to finish the PFA Triage.

- CC noted the update and also explained that BEIS has shared some information about the number of claimants
that have not yet sought appeals with the Parly Group, which had its first meeting in October.

- CC requested an update on PNCs / Cautions. SR explained that most known applicants are in HSS, and that a
paper is planned to go to HRC with regard to CAP development for 21/11.

- SR provided a brief update on Citizen Advice. He explained that they are now live and offering support to
postmasters.

HSS 1345 — 14:30
Quarterly Key Achievements
BEIS0001202
BEIS0001202

- CC congratulated POL on reach the 90% end-October target. SR thanked the team and in particular HSF for their
hard work. He noted that HSF are set to submit a plan for the remaining cases, dissolved companies and late
applications w/c 7/11. He noted governance requirements for insolvency and malicious prosecutions cases.

- SR provided an update on late applications. The vast majority of applications coming in are not fully complete;
however, there are 41 cases with enough information to progress. Out of the 41, 14 of them are DM (34%). CC
noted the update and queried how representative these cases could be. GH explained the various dynamics at
play and that, given the small population, these are unlikely to be representative.

- CC highlighted that BEIS SteerCo remains on hand to support POL with case delivery. He offered BEIS' support
with other stakeholders e.g. the Insolvency Service if it would be helpful.

- SR highlighted the data in the recent MI: average offer value is now £30k and the total amount offered increased
by £12m from Sept to Oct. SR expects these to continue to increase over the coming months. Despite the
increasing trend SR agreed that it would be worth revisiting the provision to see if it still appropriately reflected the
offers made. PV explained that HRC had requested an update on the provision and that this work is in progress.

Key Risks / Issues and POL’s Mitigation Plans

- DS explained that the biggest single risk to delivery targets is the receipt of information from 3" parties e.g.
outstanding RFls, the OR. He also noted the two outstanding principles that need to be developed through panel:
losses from insolvency / bankruptcy and malicious prosecution.

- SR explained POL's preparations for handling outstanding RFls. Cases are being prepared for panel as far as
possible so that when the RFI lands they can be progressed quickly. POL is also considering whether some
issues can be picked up post-offer.

- SR highlighted that POL is also preparing a paper on pre- and post-offer non hardship payments. This will
progress through governance shortly.

- HF thanked DS for the update on risk. He queried whether Panel had or had access to sufficient insolvency
expertise. DS explained that insolvency experts within HSF were preparing a note for Panel. Panel may request a
consulting expert (in a similar manner to personal injury claims) should they feel the need. DS also noted the
previous offer for the Insolvency Service to discuss issues directly with the Panel but advised against this on the
grounds of consistency and fairness. DS explained that the most important activity the Insolvency Service could
progress is to respond to outstanding data requests.

- SZ reiterated the importance of seeing the breakdown of cases in each category in the plan. DS and CCon
confirmed that this will be provided early w/c 7 Nov.

- HF queried how the processing of late applications will fit with the current cohort. SR explained that the remaining
10% of the current cohort is the priority, but that POL is looking to dovetail work to utilise spare Panel capacity.

AOB & Close
- No AOB. CC reiterated the good progress that has been made this year and closed the meeting.

END

Joshua Scott I Manager
UK Government Investments

1V

ondon, SW1H 0ET

www.ukgi.org.uk

Follow on

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also
confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other
lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

FE RR ICR RR ICR RF CARR ICR RF CARR I OR CES A I OR ESR RR CSD GRR CSG GR ICCD

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
BEIS0001202
BEIS0001202

recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FER 2 FR RF FR 2 FARR I 2 FARR FO 2 FR FOF 2 COR OR FCC RO COG GR CEG

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on
our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy
