Os

18:50

RESTRICTED - POLICY
YVreasury Chambers, Partiament Street, SWIP 4ac

bit

1 Victoria Street
London

SWI ORT

Yor Cendarh

AUTOMATING THE POST OFFICE AND DSS BENEFIT PAYMENTS

T have seen Hariet Harman's fetter to you of 2 27 February J an increasingly
concerned about this project and I agree that we need an urgent review, taking

account of the wider issues involved, We can then form an agreed view on the way
forward

2

A meeting will be aseful, as Harriet supgests. But before we can reach any

Conclusions I think we will ced to ask our officials fo prepare an agreed analysts
of the Option

including an assessment of:

. whether the project is technically viable, aud if'so, how quickly it can be

“ompleted and at what cost to goverment,

CBO00000017
B000000017
RESTRICTED - POLICY

4 the direct and midirect costs of cancelfation aid of any altemative avail
. aos aval
to deliver the proyect’s objectives ‘te
‘ Yo take this forward 1 suggest we set up x small working group with
y

SX I fepresentation from the DSS, BA, DTI, Post Office and HMT to report within tg

“to three weeks. The ‘Treasury ts in quite a good position to see both sides Of the cage

and bring in project expertise from the Taskforce, and would be happy to take the

Jead in setting this up. The group would need to appoint consultants te address thy

first question above in liaison with parties t0 the contract (including ICL who have

indicated that they are hiappy i principle to cooperate). An obvions candidaie would

be PA Consultants, whe carried out a review Jor BA, POCL and ICL, ast

September. However, I am open to suggestions on that.

4. Wyou and Harriet can agree this approach, ! suggest the best time for us to

Meet would he when we have the report front this working group, bat I would be
happy to meet earlier to discuss the handling if you think that would be usefid,

3 {should be grateful for your argent comments
© Em copying this to the Prime Minister, Gordon Brown. Harriet Hannan and
8

a ALASTAIR DARLING
[aed by tel kuxinry
tad tgnad Wun doers!

CBO00000017
B000000017

B05 955
