COPF0000212
COPF0000212

Sohn, Rachael

— —_ — _

MacNeill, Lindsay
14 May 2013 17:10
5 Irvine, Laura
Subject: FW: Post Office Ltd - Voicemail

U'll draft something up and send it your way.

Lindsay MacNeill
Solicitor

bto solicitors
48 St Vincent Street Glasgow G2 SHS

From: Black, Paula [mailto: __ GRO Hl
Sent: 14 May 2013 17:02

‘o: MacNeill, Lindsay
ubject: RE: Post Office Ltd - Voicemail

Hi Lindsay

As discussed, I think my colleague Paul Miele would be best placed to assist you as he has the SRA portfolio. If you
are looking to speak to someone about the specific cases that you have had difficulty with then we can also arrange
for you to have the contact details of the relevant leads in the PF offices. You can email Paul at the email address
below and he can also give you more information about the forthcoming SRA training day.

Great to speak to you!

Paula

Policy Division

Ger: MacNeill, Lindsay [maiito: GRO
nt: 14 May 2013 15:34

To: Black, Paula

Subject: Post Office Ltd - Voicemail

Hi Paula,

I just left a voicemail on your answer phone, and I’m quite sure I never said my name! Just to let you know who it was
leaving the message about Post Office Ltd.

Thanks,

Lindsay MacNeill
Solicitor

bto solicitors

COPF0000212
COPF0000212

This email (including any attachments) is confidential. Its. cantents are protected by copyright and may be privileged. If received in error please

No contract may be concluded by bto by email unless the sender is a partner or associate of bto and the email expressly states that it is intended to
create a contract. Views expressed in this email are the views of the sender and may not reflect the views of bto. A list of the partners of bto is,
available for inspection during office hours at 48 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, G2 SHS.

This email was received from the INTERNET and scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus
service supplied by Vodafone in partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In
case of problems, please call your organisation’s IT Helpdesk.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

This e-mail (and any files or other attachments transmitted with it) is intended solely for the attention of the
addressee(s). Unauthorised use, disclosure, storage, copying or distribution of any part of this e-mail is not permitted.
If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy the e-mail, remove any copies from your system and inform the

sender immediately by return.

Correspondents should note that all communications to or from the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service may
be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for lawful purposes. Unless expressly indicated, the views or
opinions contained within this e-mail do not necessarily reflect those of the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal
Service.

This message has been checked for the presence of computer viruses. Visit www.crownoffice.gov.uk for details of the
work of the Department.

The original of this email was scanned for viruses by the Government Secure Intranet virus scanning service
supplied by Vodafone in partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) On
leaving the GSi this email was certified virus free.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
