RULE 1

RULE 2

RULE 3

RULE 4

RULE 5

RULE 6

RULE 7

RULE 8

RULE 9

RULE 10

RULE 11

RULE 12

RULE 13

RULE 14

RULE 15

RULE 16

CONTENTS

Name

Objectives
Membership
Membership Entitlements and Obligations
Structure

Branches

Regional Structure
National Organisation
Officers

Conferences

Finance

Political Fund
Industrial Action
Discipline

Alteration of Rules

Amalgamation

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 1 Name

1. The name of the Union shall be the Communication Workers Union (CWU).

2. The name Communication Workers Union or the initials, or logo of the Union shall not
be used in the title or description of any other organisation or publication without the
authority of the National Executive Council (NEC).
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 2 Objectives

1. The objectives of the Union shall be:

1. To unite and organise all those entitled to be members. To protect and promote
members’ interests and maintain and improve their working lives;

2. Toregulate the relations between members and their employers, and between
members;

3. Tosecure the greatest possible measure of effective participation by the Union
and its members in all decisions affecting their working lives as determined by
these Rules;

4. To actively oppose all forms of discrimination based on race, creed, religion,
age, political affiliation, disability, marital status, sex or sexual or gender
orientation in industry, the Union and society in general. To this end the CWU
shall actively oppose any organisation, political or otherwise, whose aims are
racist or fascist;

5. To promote and encourage proportionality and fair representation of all
members, in industry, the Union and society in general;

6. To actively identify any cause or barrier that prevents the Union being fully
representative of its members. This shall include positive action in favour of
women and ethnic minorities until such time as the Union is satisfied that its
structure reflects and supports the gender and racial balance of the members it
represents;

7. To promote, organise and facilitate access to adult education to enable members
to advance their skills for life.

8. To further these objects by political means, including, where appropriate, by use
of its Political Fund;

9. To affiliate to and participate in such organisations as Annual Conference or the
NEC decide are in the interests of the members. NEC decisions shall be subject
to ratification by the subsequent Annual Conference.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 3 Membership

1.__Membership

1, Union membership shall include:

a) Allrelevant persons in the wider communications, financial services,
information technology and related industries and in all businesses where
the Union has recognition:

b) Retired Members

c) Officers of the Union and groups or persons as the NEC may, from time to
time, determine.

2.__Admission

1. Each applicant for membership shall complete an application form, which shall
then be forwarded, normally by the Branch, to the Head Office of the Union.

2. Each completed application form shall contain a declaration signed by the
applicant that they accept the conditions of membership.

3. The acceptance of an application for membership by the NEC shall confer upon
each member all the rights and privileges of the Union. However, no member
Shall be entitled to retrospective benefits or services.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 4 Members Entitlements
and Obligations

1. Members of the Union are entitled to:
1. be treated with respect and courtesy by Union staff, officials and members;

2. seek local assistance and advice from their Branch on any work related problem
and, where appropriate, to be represented by the Union before their employer
and in agreed circumstances before external bodies;

3. have appropriate matters raised with the Union dealt with promptly and
efficiently;

4. attend and take an active part in the Branch Annual General Meeting and all
other appropriate membership meetings pertaining to their place of work;

5. — stand for Union office in accordance with the Rules and Branch Constitution;

6. vote in all national and local elections in accordance with the Rules and Branch
Constitution;

7. receive appropriate benefits and as negotiated by the Union either nationally or
locally and appropriate legal services at the discretion of the NEC in accordance
with published procedures;

8. apply for assistance from the National Welfare Fund and/or, where such exists,
local Welfare Fund;

9. receive a copy of the Union journal;

10. receive a national certificate of recognition upon completion of twenty-five years
continuous membership in accordance with published procedures.

11. Benefits for members of the Postal and Operator and Ancillary
Constituencies

The payment to the spouse, next of kin, or other legal assignee, a
death grant of the sum of £350 should the member die whilst in
membership of the Union, and this to be increased each year on 1
October commencing in 1992 based on the average Retail Prices Index
and Average Earnings Index, the averaged out increase to be applied,
and it shall be the responsibility of the National Executive Council that
these provisions are implemented. (See Death Benefit Nomination
Form and Guidance Notes Below.)
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

COMMUNICATION WORKERS UNION
(Trade Union Nominations Regulations 1977 No 789)
Death Benefit Nomination Form

In the event of my death

hereby nominate

(Address of Nominee)

to receive such benefit arising under the Union's National Rules that
may be due at my death.

2. Ihereby cancel all previous nominations

Membership Number

Would you please read the notes below
Guidance Notes
1. A nomination is invalid unless it is registered at Headquarters.

2. Once registered a nomination can only be revoked by a written notice
sent to Headquarters.

3. A nomination is not revoked by the presence of a Will but it is revoked
by the marriage of a member of which the Union has notice and by the
death of the nominee.

4. If there is no nominee, the Death Benefit will be disposed of by the
Union in accordance with the law.

5. A nomination may not be made in favour of an Officer or employee of
the Union unless such nominee is a close relation.

Branch Secretaries should record the necessary information locally and
the form should then be sent to: Organising Secretary, Sick Benefit
Section, 150 The Broadway, Wimbledon SW19 1RX

12.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Benefits for Members of the Clerical, Engineering and Postal Technical
Services Constituencies

a) A Death Benefit of £500.

Members are obliged to:

1.

2.

treat Union staff, officials and members with respect and courtesy;

support and promote the Union's objectives;

promote the CWU’s role in the workplace;

take an active part in the Union’s decision making processes;

respect the Union’s democratic processes and decisions;

inform the Union of changes to their membership details;

ensure their Union subscriptions are kept up to date.

Union Awards

1.

Branch Honorary Membership

a)

b)

c)

This may be conferred upon ex-Branch members no longer eligible for full
membership who have rendered distinguished service to the Branch.

It may also be conferred upon a National Officer of the Union provided such
an Officer has been a member of, and rendered distinguished service to, the
Branch.

To secure election as a Branch Honorary Member, the nominee must
receive a majority of two-thirds of those voting at a Branch meeting.

Regional Honorary Membership

a)

b)

This may be conferred upon ex-members no longer eligible for full
membership who have rendered distinguished service within the Region.

It may also be conferred upon a National Officer of the Union provided such
an Officer has been a member of, and rendered distinguished service to, the
Regional Committee.

To secure election as a Regional Honorary Member, the nominee must
receive a majority of two-thirds of those voting at a Regional Committee
meeting.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

National Honorary Membership

a) This may be conferred upon ex-members no longer eligible for full
membership or others who have not been eligible for full membership who
have rendered distinguished service to the trade union movement at
national level over a period of years.

b) Nominations may be made by a Branch or the NEC not later than 31*
December. Nominations must be approved by a two thirds majority of the
NEC members present.

c) The names of approved nominees shall be submitted to the subsequent
Annual General Conference for endorsement.

Union Gold Badge

a) ABranch may apply to the NEC for this award to a Branch member,
enclosing the service record and supporting case.

b) The NEC at its absolute discretion may make an award in recognition of
exceptional, long and/or meritorious service to the Union.

c) The NEC shall have the authority to award this to members of Head Office
staff and honoured guests of the Union considered to have made a
meritorious contribution to the well being of the trade union and labour
movement either nationally or internationally.

These awards shall be governed by regulations issued by the NEC.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 5 Structure

1. The Union shall consist of:
1. Members;
2. Branches;
3. Regional Committees;
4. Industrial co-ordinating structures;
5. National Executive Council;
6. Industrial Executives;
7. Constituencies;

8. Officers and their staff.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 6 Branches

1. General
1. The Union shall be divided into Branches constituted under the authority of the
NEC and subject to the Branch Model Constitution. In exercising this authority
the NEC shall have regard to local circumstances, members’ wishes and the
requirement for an efficient, financially viable organisation.
2. The objectives of each Branch shall be to:
a) comply with the Branch Model Constitution and authorised variations;

b) locally organise, recruit and maximise membership levels;

c) protect and promote the interests of members in accordance with the
Objectives and Rules;

d) keep members informed on local and national matters;
e) effectively consult members on local issues affecting their work;

f) implement the policies and directives of the NEC and its Industrial
Executives.

3. Where a Branch fails to fulfil its obligations in respect of organising and recruiting
in any area, business or business division, the NEC may, either directly or via the
Industrial Executives, consider allocating organising and recruiting rights,
together with any existing members, to an alternative Branch.

2. Branch Members

1. Each member shall belong to a Branch. In the event of any dispute the NEC
shall determine the appropriate Branch.

2. Each member is entitled to representation. Where a conflict of interests arises,
the Branch shall inform the NEC and seek representation to resolve the conflict.

3. Branch Constitution

1. All Branches shall operate according to the Branch Model Constitution that shall
set minimum standards for every Branch. The NEC shall be responsible for
publishing the Branch Model Constitution and ensuring its adherence. The
Branch Model Constitution shall be mandatory.

2. The Branch Constitution may be varied subject to agreement by the Branch and
approval of the NEC.

3. The Branch Model Constitution shall be subject to amendment by motion to

General Conference. Any such motion shall require a two-thirds majority to be
carried.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Branch Organisation

1.

Each Branch shall hold an Annual General Meeting by no later than 31% March
of each year.

Each Branch shall elect not less than: five Branch Officers: Chair; Secretary;
Treasurer; Equality Officer; Political Officer; and six other Committee members.
The Committee shall perform those tasks defined in the Branch Model
Constitution.

Between AGM'’s each Branch shall hold regular Branch Committee or
membership meetings for the effective governance of the Branch.

A Branch shall not instruct or permit any Branch Officer to act in a manner
contrary to the Rules and Objectives or prevent them from acting in accordance
with the Rules and Objectives of the Union.

Each Branch shall maintain accurate and up-to-date membership records.

Each Branch may affiliate to and participate in the appropriate local Trade Union
Councils, Labour Parties and other organisations to which the Union is affiliated
nationally. However, a Branch shall not support or participate in any other
organisation without prior consent of the NEC.

Branches may communicate directly with other Branches of the Union, but shall
not directly communicate with lay members of another Branch.

Branches shall, when applicable, establish retired members’ sections which

would be entitled to elect a Section Committee to deal with retired members’
problems. The Branch should appoint an Officer or Committee member of the
Branch to service the retired members’ section.

Equality

1.

Each Branch within its area shall ensure fair representation of all members, in
terms of race, creed, religion, age, political affiliation, disability, marital status,
sex or sexual or gender orientation.

Each Branch shall strive to ensure proportionality in Branch organisation and
leadership.

Constituency Sections

1.

Where a Branch has members in more than one Constituency, as defined in the
Rules, it shall establish Constituency Sections.

A Constituency Section shall have autonomy to deal with matters specific to the
members of the Section.

A Constituency Section shall be officered by a Secretary and Chair elected by
and taken from its members. The Secretary of a Constituency shall, as a
minimum, be an Assistant Secretary of the Branch.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

A Branch must ensure that each Constituency Section is granted a fair share of
Branch resources and, where applicable, facilities. All Constituency Sections
have the right to be represented at Annual Conference.

At every session of the Union’s Conference, upon the determination of
occupational and constitutional issues, a Branch with Constituency Sections
may, where a common Branch policy cannot be agreed, divide its votes,
including card votes, on a Constituency basis.

Single Constituency Branches and Constituencies within a Branch shall have
authority to form such business and divisional sections as are required to meet
occupational needs.

7. Branch Mergers

1.

The procedure to be followed when Branches wish to merge shall be as follows:

a) Branches shall notify each of their respective members of the intention to
consider the matter at a specially convened meeting of the Branch;

b) Branches shall notify the General Secretary in writing of their intention;

c) The GS shall bring the matter to the attention of the NEC, which shall at its
discretion authorise the following merger procedure to commence:

i) I Branches shall hold, in each Branch wishing to merge, an individual
membership ballot on the question. All members of the Branches
concerned shall be notified of the ballot, and timetable governing it,
and shall be given the opportunity to vote;

ii) IThe merger shall proceed if a majority of those participating in each
Branch ballot vote in favour.

8. Branch Finance

1.

The Branch financial year shall be from 1 January to 31 December. Each Branch
shall prepare annual balances, including a bank statement certifying the balance
in hand of every account held by the Branch, which shall be submitted to CWU
HQ Finance Dept by no later than 28 February each year, unless CWU HQ gives
notice of an alternative date. All financial vouchers shall be retained for at least
two years from the date of the year-end concerned. Statements of account, bank
statements and balance sheets shall be retained for at least seven years.

Every year each Branch shall produce a financial plan for the following year,
which shall:

a) be agreed by the Branch Committee, published to members and lodged as a
record at CWU HQ Finance Dept.;

b) show expected income based on membership figures at the time the plan is
agreed by the Branch;

c) include detailed planned expenditure, following the principle that such
expenditure shall not exceed income;
10.

11.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

d) identify the purpose of any annual surplus and the intention to use it on
behalf of the members;

e) be reported on, against performance to date, to each Branch Committee
meeting.

Separate and distinct accounts shall be kept for each scheme or fund for which
the Branch is responsible e.g. General Account, Savings Account, Welfare Fund,
Political Fund, etc.

Each Branch shall keep proper accounting records compatible with CWU HQ
Finance Dept systems.

Each Branch shall maintain a register of property and equipment showing cost
and date of purchase, and retain all receipts for such until disposal of the
property or equipment. All property purchased through the use of membership
subscriptions shall remain the property of the CWU.

At least two signatures shall be required for withdrawals from any account held in
the Branch name.

A current statement of Branch accounts, including all relevant books and
supporting vouchers, shall be presented for inspection and approval at each
Branch Committee meeting and shall then be signed by the Branch Chair and
Secretary.

Branch Auditors

a) The Branch AGM shall elect two Branch Auditors who shall not be Branch
Officers or Branch Committee members. Their names shall be circulated to
members and notified to CWU HQ Finance Dept upon their election.

b) The Auditors shall examine and audit all Branch Accounts to ensure
accuracy and shall have the right to examine and question the Branch
Finances, financial policy, income and expenditure on behalf of the lay
membership. All vouchers, receipts, bank statements, documents, accounts
books, remittance forms and ledgers shall be examined to verify accuracy or
otherwise. Auditors shall also verify all cash at the Bank and shall satisfy
themselves that all Branch income and expenditure is accounted for.

c) The Branch Auditors shall produce a signed statement to Branch members
and copy it to CWU HQ Finance Dept declaring they have executed their
responsibilities.

CWU HQ Finance Dept, on the advice of the CWU national chartered
accountants, shall be responsible for and fund the annual auditing of as many
Branch accounts as is deemed necessary.

Branches shall not use chartered accountants unless authorised in writing by the
SDGS; such accountants shall be appointed by CWU HQ Finance Dept.

The SDGS or appointed representative shall have the right to examine, on
demand, all records of accounts and bank statements and attend Branch
meetings to take part in any debate or discussion on the Branch Accounts.
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

To ensure reimbursement Branch claims due to be met by CWU HQ must be
forwarded within 3 months of the activity. CWU HQ shall notify all Branches of
the year-end cut-off date for such claims.

Each Branch may allocate up to 5% of rebate income for the remuneration of
their officials. The individual amounts to be paid shall be determined by the AGM.
The responsibility for reporting payments made, to the appropriate Inspector of
Taxes, rests with the Branch.

Each Branch may establish a Welfare Fund by the transfer of not more than 5%
of rebate income in each year. The Fund shall be used for giving financial and/or
other assistance to members in appropriate circumstances. A Welfare Fund shall
be administered by Trustees elected at the AGM in accordance with Regulations
approved by the NEC.

When a Branch is closed all funds and financial documents shall be forwarded to
the SDGS. All assets shall become the property of CWU HQ administered by the
SDGS and no party shall have any claim on them unless determined by the NEC.

Each Branch shall make provision in it’s constitution to ensure compliance with
these Rules.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 7 Regional Structure

1. Regional Committees

1. General

1. There shall be 10 Regional Committees established. Regional
Committee areas, and the allocation of Branches to them, shall be
determined by Annual Conference. (Where the National Executive
Council and the Branches concerned agree, changes may be made
without reference to Annual Conference. Where agreement cannot
be reached a report shall be made to Annual Conference).

2. Regional Committee Constitutions

1. Regional Committees shall adopt and operate the Model
Constitution approved by the National Executive Council.

2. The Constitution of Regional Committees shall be subject to
review and approval by the National Executive Council from time
to time as may be requisite and no Regional Committee shall
amend or alter any terms of its Constitution without the approval
of the National Executive Council. No Regional Committee may
adopt any by-law or standing order at variance with the
Constitution approved by the National Executive Council or at
variance with these Rules.

3. Authority and Functions

1. The authority and functions of Regional Committees shall be
incorporated within the Constitution of the Regional Committees.

2. Regional Committees may only exercise such powers, perform
such functions and discharge such duties as may from time to time
be delegated to them or each of them by the National Executive
Council or Annual Conference.

3. Regional Committees shall not instruct, authorise or permit an
Officer of the Regional Committee to do any act which is contrary
to these Rules, or to refrain from doing any act which he/she is
required under the Rules to perform.

4. No Regional Committee shall have read to it any unauthorised
circular or address relating to the conduct of the Union or its
business or to the conduct of its Officers or members.

5. A Regional Committee shall on receipt of an unauthorised circular
or address send both the envelope and the circular to the General
Secretary immediately.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

6. Regional Committees will have an entitlement to submit items for
General and Rules Revision Conferences but this will be subject to
a review after the first year by the NEC and anytime after that as
required by the NEC.

Regional Committee Officers

1. The Officers of the Regional Committee shall be the Regional
Chair, the Regional Secretary and Assistant Secretary.

2. The duties and responsibilities of the Regional Committee Officers
shall be detailed within the Regional Committee Constitution.
Regional Committee Officers shall be elected annually, using the
election procedures detailed in the Regional Committee
Constitution.

3. To be elected for any Officer position, a candidate must receive
more votes than any other candidate and receive more votes in
their own Constituency than any other candidate. This will be
subject to a review after the first year by the NEC and anytime
after that as required by the NEC.

Meetings

1. The Regional Committee shall meet four times in each year.
Additional meetings shall be held if authorised by the National
Executive Council in response to a written request from a Regional
Committee to meet special circumstances or emergency
developments.

2. Decisions of the meeting will be by consensus of those Branches in
attendance. This will be subject to a review after the first year by
the NEC and anytime thereafter as required by the NEC.

Composition

1. The Regional Committee shall be composed of Regional Chair,
Regional Secretary, Assistant Secretary and delegates from
Branches (the delegation strength of each Branch shall be detailed
in each Regional Committee Constitution).

Annual Conference

1. Regional Secretaries when they are not Branch delegates shall
attend Conference in an ex-officio capacity having the right to
speech but no voting powers. They may participate in the
discussion at Conference on the specific request of their Regional
Committee or of a Branch within that Committee.

Financial Arrangements
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

When attending meetings of the Regional Committee or engaged
on other authorised Union business, Regional Chairs and Regional
Secretaries and Assistant Secretaries shall be paid travel and
subsistence entitlements.

Regional Chairs, Secretaries and Assistant Secretaries shall be
paid an honorarium, the amount to be determined by the
NEC/Annual Conference minus income tax per annum.

Any member of the Union holding more than one position for
which an honorarium is paid from national funds shall only be paid
one honorarium. The largest honorarium appropriate to the
position held shall be the one paid.

2. Regional Women’s Committees

1.

2.

There shall be a cross Constituency Women’s Committee in each
Region.

Regional Women’s Committees shall adopt and operate the Model
Constitution approved by the National Executive Council.

The purpose of Regional Women’s Committees shall be:

a)

b)

c)

to encourage and promote the participation of women within the
Union.

to report to the Regional Committee on matters raised at the
Regional Women’s Committees.

to work with the Regional Officers to promote and protect the
interests of women within the Regions.

3.___ Retired Members

There shall be Retired Members’ Regional Councils based on the existing CWU.

Regional Committee Structure.

Delegates to the Retired Members’ Regional Council shall be retired members of

their branch.

Each branch shall be entitled to send one delegate to the Retired Members’

Regional Council.

The Retired Members’ Regional Council will appoint a convenor as required.

The Retired Members’ Regional Council shall meet at least twice a year.

The Retired Members’ Regional Council shall be funded from the General Fund.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

7.__The Retired Members’ Regional Council shall send one delegate to the CWU
Regional Committee.

4. Regional Organisation (Postal and Operator & Ancillary
Constituencies)

1. Scottish Council

1. The Scottish Council is a voluntary association of Branches of the
Union in Scotland working under a Constitution approved by the
National Executive Council.

2. The cost of not more than four meetings of the Committee of the
Scottish Council in any one year shall be payable from the general
funds of the Union. Delegates’ expenses of the Council shall be
borne by the affiliated Branches. The Secretary of the Scottish
Council, when not a Branch delegate, may attend the Annual
Conference of the Union in an ex-officio capacity, having the right
of speech but without voting powers; expenses shall be borne by
the General Fund. He/She may participate in the discussion at
Conference on the specific request of his/her Council or of a
Branch within that Council.

3. I The Scottish Council shall not be empowered to submit motions
for the Conference Agenda, nor to submit nominations for
representative positions which are subject to the vote of
Conference.

Rule 8 National Organisation
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

1. National Executive Council (NEC)
1. There shall be a NEC responsible for:

a) implementing the decisions of General Annual/General Special
Conferences;

b) the general management and control of the Union between Annual/Special
Conferences during which periods it shall have supreme authority on all
issues except those which are within the remit of the Industrial Executives;

c) the allocation of each member to one of the Constituencies, which shall be
defined by both industry and grade, but where common grading systems
exist, duties and industry shall be the criteria for allocation;

d) varying the composition of the Constituencies. Any such change requiring
the support of two-thirds of the NEC including a simple majority within each
of the Constituencies.

2. The NEC shall comprise 29 voting members:

a) President and Vice President, but their inclusion shall not increase the
numbers from their originating Constituencies;

b) 16 lay members elected annually by and taken from the Postal/O&A
Constituency, of whom 1 shall be the Chair of the O&A Constituency;

c) 8 lay members elected annually by and taken from the Engineering/PTS
Constituency, of whom 1 shall be from the PTS Constituency;

d) 5 lay members elected annually by and taken from the Clerical
Constituency, of whom 1 shall be the Chair of the Constituency.

3. Annually elected members of the NEC shall begin their term of office on the day
after the close of Annual Conference.

4. The lay members of the NEC shall automatically be members of the respective
Industrial Executives.

5. In order to assure equitable distribution of resources to the various
Constituencies within the Union, the annual budget shall require a two-thirds
majority of the lay NEC members present.

6. The NEC shall be responsible for allocating resources to sustain industrial action
authorised in accordance with the Rules.

2. President and Vice President

1. The Union shall have a national President and Vice-President. These offices
shall rotate annually between the Chairs of each Industrial Executive.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

The President shall Chair the NEC and preside at General/Special Conference.
The Vice-President shall deputise for the President.

The President is the principle lay-official of the Union and shall be responsible for
ensuring the Union acts in accordance with its Rules.

The President may intervene and rule on the inclusion of any motion before
General/Special conference deemed to be outwith the Rules.

Where any ambiguity arises regarding the interpretation of the Union's rules, the
President shall make a ruling. Subject to relevant standing orders, the
President’s ruling on any such matter shall be regarded as final.

The President shall be kept informed of any national discussions impinging upon
the CWU’s status as defined by the Rules.

Sub Committees

1.

General

The NEC shall set up such committees as it considers necessary for the efficient
governance of the Union. The structure and procedures of sub-committees shall
be contained in regulations agreed by a two-thirds majority of NEC members
present and shall be published to Branches. However, there shall be the
following sub-committees: Finance; Discipline; Equal Opportunities; Health,
Safety and Environment.

Equal Opportunities Sub-Committee

The Committee shall comprise eight members of the NEC, each of whom shall be

a member of one Equal Opportunities Advisory Committee; together with the

Chairs of the Advisory Committees attending in an advisory capacity. The

Committee shall:

a) be the national focus for progressing equality issues within the NEC remit;

b) ensure the Union’s policies on equal opportunities issues are implemented;

c) make recommendations to the NEC on relevant equal opportunities issues;

d) promote and campaign on equal opportunities issues with the Equal
Opportunities Advisory Committees in accordance with the decisions of
Annual Conference and the NEC;

e) receive reports and consider recommendations from the Equal
Opportunities Advisory Committees and co-ordinate their activities in areas
of common interest.

The Health, Safety and Environment Sub-Committee shall:

a) be the national focus for progressing those health, safety and environment
issues impacting across more than one industry;
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

b) ensure the Union’s policies on health, safety and environment issues are
implemented;

c) make recommendations to the NEC and Industrial Executives on relevant
health, safety and environment issues;

d) promote and campaign on health, safety and environment issues;

e) carry out the decisions of Annual Conference and the NEC on health, safety
and environment issues.

Co-ordinating Organisation

The NEC shall be responsible for funding industry related co-ordinating
machinery and for maintaining a coherent organisational structure subject to the
full involvement of the Industrial Executives in determining and endorsing the
operational arrangements.

Industrial Executives

1.

2.

There shall be: a Postal Executive; a Telecoms & Financial Services Executive.
Each Industrial Executive shall be responsible for:
a) implementing Industrial Conference decisions;

b) dealing with and implementing decisions on all occupational and conditions
of service issues exclusively within its remit between Annual Industrial
Conferences;

c) ensuring appropriate organisation exists below national level to co-ordinate
industrial activity.

d) ensuring the appointment/election of such Trustees to employee pension
funds as required and shall seek endorsement by the appropriate Industrial
Conference.

Minutes of Industrial Executives shall be submitted to the NEC for information.
The Industrial Executives shall convene policy forums as appropriate.

The Industrial Executives shall be obliged to consult the membership affected by
any major agreement. If a proposed major agreement concerning the terms and
conditions of employment, including hours and pay, has not previously been
approved by an Industry Conference, before such a proposed agreement is
signed the Industrial Executive must consult the Branches or members
concerned by either Branch or individual ballot, as appropriate, the result of
which shall be binding on the Industrial Executive.

In the event of Branches or members deciding that a proposed agreement be
rejected, the Industrial Executive shall, if it desires, place the matter before a
Special Conference.
6.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Industrial Executives may authorise industrial action in line with the Rules.

5. Postal Executive (PE)

1.

The PE shall be responsible for occupational and conditions of service issues for
all Postal and related employers where the Union is recognised and shall ensure
appropriate business co-ordinating committees exist below national level in all
Royal Mail and other postal businesses. Such organisation shall only be altered
by decision of a Conference or ballot of the relevant membership

Members of the PE shall deputise for the Assistant Secretaries Postal in their
absence/unavailability in dealing with the employer within their remit.

The PE shall consist of the following members:

a) 15 lay members of the NEC elected annually by and taken from the Postal
Constituency of whom 2 shall be the Chair and Vice Chair;

b) 2 members elected annually by and taken from the PTS Constituency;

c) The DGS(P) and the 5 Assistant Secretaries who deal with postal issues,
but they shall have no voting powers.

The Chair and Vice Chair of the PE shall be elected annually by and taken from
members of the Postal and PTS Constituencies by a simple majority of those
members entitled to vote.

Members of the Postal and PTS Constituencies shall be eligible for nomination
for both the Chair and Vice Chair positions and shall also be eligible for
nomination to other PE seats in their respective Constituency.

The positions of Chair and Vice Chair shall not increase the number of annually
elected members. Consequently, the Constituency from which the successful
candidate for Chair is taken shall have its total entitlement reduced by one, and
the Constituency from which the successful candidate for Vice Chair is taken
shall have its total entitlement reduced by one.

Officerial Arrangements

a) There shall be no sub-committees for any groups or grades within the PE,
but the Officer(s) concerned shall be available to meet with PTS
representatives at any time and shall ensure regular discussion of PTS
issues.

b) Typists and Secretarial grades shall be allocated an Officer who shall
ensure regular contact with their representatives.

6. Telecoms and Financial Services Executive (T&FSE)

1.

The T&FSE shall be responsible for:
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

a) occupational and conditions of service issues for all telecommunications,
information technology and related employers where the Union is
recognised;

b) all matters relating to the Girobank/Alliance & Leicester and its subsidiaries
or successors.

The T&FSE shall consist of the following members, who shall be elected on an
annual basis by a simple majority of those entitled to vote:

a) Chair, Vice Chair and 13 representatives elected by and taken from
members of the Engineering Constituency;

b) Chair, Vice Chair and 5 representatives elected by and taken from members
of the Clerical Constituency;

c) Chair, Vice Chair and 1 member elected by and taken from members of the
Operator and Ancillary Constituency.

Candidates for Constituency Chairs and Vice Chairs shall also be eligible for
nomination to the other seats within their respective Constituencies.

A T&FSE Chair shall be elected on an annual basis by and taken from all the
members of the Engineering, Clerical and O& A Constituencies by a simple
majority of those members entitled to vote.

Candidates for T&FSE Chair shall be eligible for nomination to other T&FSE
seats in their respective Constituency.

The position of T&FSE Chair shall not increase the number of annually elected
members. Consequently, the Constituency from which the successful candidate
for Chair is elected shall have its total entitlement reduced by one.

The position of Vice Chair of the T&FSE shall be rotated on an annual basis
between the three Constituency Chairs.

If a Constituency Chair is elected Chair of the T&FSE in the same year as they
would be expected to take up the Vice Chair of the T&FSE, then the Vice Chair
position shall pass to the next Constituency Chair in the rotation pattern.

The Chair of the T&FSE shall Chair meetings of the Industrial Executive and

preside at the main annual session of the Industrial Conference and/or any
Special Conference. The Vice Chair shall deputise for the Chair when necessary.

There shall be a Financial Services Sub-Committee of the T&FSE:

a) The Sub-Committee shall have autonomy on all issues exclusively within the
decision-making authority of Girobank/Alliance & Leicester or its successors
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

and subsidiaries except for those issues that conflict with, or embrace, a
policy matter appropriate to the NEC;

b) Minutes of the Sub-Committee shall be submitted to the T&FSE only for
ratification, except where an issue is referred to the T&FSE for resolution;

c) Decisions of the Sub-Committee do not need to await ratification for
implementation;

d) Any two members of the Sub-Committee shall have the authority to record
their disagreement with a decision of that Sub-Committee and have the
issue referred to the T&FSE for resolution;

e) The composition of the Sub-Committee shall be decided by the T&FSE.
7. Clerical Organisational and Occupational Committee (COOC)

1. The COOC shall have the following role and authority:

a) Subject to the authority of the NEC, to ensure, through the most effective
organisation, the maintenance of the maximum possible Union membership
in the Clerical Constituency;

b) Subject to the authority of the Telecoms and Financial Services Executive,
to determine and implement occupational policies solely relevant to the
Constituency.

2. The Committee shall be serviced by the four annually elected Assistant
Secretaries from the Clerical Constituency under the direction of the General
Secretary.

3. The Committee shall consist of 12 people, and shall be elected by and taken
from the Clerical Constituency and shall be a composite Committee consisting of
those members of the NEC elected by the Clerical Constituency and additional
members to comprise a total of 12 members. The additional members shall be
elected on a national basis at the same time as the NEC elections.

4. Clerical candidates for the NEC including Constituency Chair and Vice Chair,
shall also be eligible for nomination to the COOC and/or as an annually elected
Clerical Assistant Secretary.

5. The Committee shall normally meet six times a year.

6. There shall be a financial budget determined by the NEC.

8. Operator and Ancillary Organisational and Occupational Committee
(OAOOC)

1. The OAOOC shall have the following role and authority:
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

a) Subject to the authority of the NEC, to ensure, through the most effective
organisation, the maintenance of the maximum possible Union membership
in the O&A Constituency;

b) Subject to the authority of the T&FSE, to determine and implement
occupational policies which are solely relevant to the Constituency.

2. The Committee shall be led by the Assistant Secretary from the O&A
Constituency under the direction of the General Secretary.

3. The Committee shall consist of 7 people, and shall be elected by and taken from
the O&A Constituency and shall be a composite Committee of those Executive
members elected by the Constituency and additional members to a total of 7.

4. O&A candidates for the NEC including Constituency Chair and Vice Chair, shall
also be eligible for nomination to the OAOOC.

5. The Committee shall normally meet six times a year.

6. There shall be a financial budget determined by the NEC.

Other Sub-Committees

1. In addition to the Financial Services Sub-Committee, the COOC and the
OAOOC, the T&FSE shall be empowered to establish sub-committees as it

considers necessary for the efficient conduct of its business.

2. The structure and the procedural rules of these other sub-committees shall be
contained in regulations which shall be published to Branches.

3. The content of those regulations shall only be varied by a majority vote of the
members of the T&FSE, including a majority from each Constituency.

. Election Procedures for Annually Contested Seats

1. All elections shall be by secret ballot of those members entitled to vote. Retired
Members shall not vote for Executive positions. The candidate receiving the
highest number of votes shall be declared elected.

2. Only members of the Union, except Retired Members, shall be entitled to stand.

3. The NEC shall determine and publish to Branches, procedures and regulations.

4. The method of recommending support for candidates to its own Branch members
shall be a matter for each Branch.

5. The ballot paper shall list candidates in alphabetical order and shall indicate
forenames, or the name by which they are commonly known, and surnames.

6. Asterisks or any other mark indicating existing Executive status shall not be
included on the ballot paper.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

7. Candidates may submit a personal statement of not more than 300 words to be
circulated with their biographical details. The grade of the candidate shall be
shown in the biographical details. The personal statement and biographical
details of all candidates for annually contested Constituency seats shall be
circulated to all Branches of the CWU. Candidates who wish may also submit a
personal photograph for publication with their biographical details and statement.

8. Candidates from the Postal and O&A Constituency seats on the NEC must have
the nomination of their own Branch. A properly constituted Branch meeting must
have approved such nominations.

9. Candidates from the Clerical, Engineering and PTS Constituency must be
nominated by a Branch, or Branches, having members in the candidates’
Constituency. Branches shall be entitled to nominate as many candidates as
there are vacant seats in any Constituency where they have members. Such
nominations must have been approved by a properly constituted Branch meeting.
Details of Branch nominations shall be published to Branches and included with
the candidates’ election statements.

10. Nomination arrangements for candidates for the Chair of the T&FSE and the
Chair and Vice Chair of the PE shall be in accordance with the Rules which
relate to the Constituency of which the candidate is a member.

11. Vacancies

1. Ifa NEC vacancy arises during the NEC year the GS shall report the fact to the
NEC with a recommendation whether to hold an election, taking account of the
date and financial implications.

2. If an Industrial Executive vacancy arises during the NEC year the NEC in
conjunction with the relevant Industrial Executive shall determine whether the
position should be filled, taking account of the date and financial implications.

12. Minutes

Minutes taken at the NEC, T&FSE and PE, including recorded votes, shall be circulated to
Branches on application.

13. Delegations

The NEC shall publish regulations annually to deal with the size and election of delegations
to TUC’s, Labour Party etc.

14. Equal Opportunities Advisory Committees

1. There shall be four Equal Opportunities Advisory Committees:
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

a) Women’s;

b) Race;

c) Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender;
d) Disabilities and Special Needs.

The Advisory Committees shall advise the NEC’s Equal Opportunities Sub-
Committee on any issue relevant to the section of the membership they represent
and within the remit of the NEC.

The Advisory Committees shall, in co-ordination with the Equal Opportunities
Sub-Committee, be able to advise the Industrial Executives (or their Sub-
Committees) on any issue relevant to the section of the membership they
represent and within the remit of the Industrial Executives (or their Sub-
Committees).

The Advisory Committees shall have an integral campaigning role on equal
opportunities issues in partnership with the NEC’s Equal Opportunities Sub-
Committee.

Each of the four Equal Opportunities Advisory Committees shall comprise a
number of lay members including at least one member from each Constituency,
and three members of the NEC. Wherever possible, the Advisory Committees
shall include and reflect the gender and ethnic origin of the relevant group of the
Union.

The lay members of the Women’s; Ethnic Minorities; Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and
Transgender; and Disability and Special Needs Advisory Committees shall be
elected annually based on Branch voting strengths.

The four Equal Opportunities Advisory Committees shall elect a Chair from
amongst their lay members. The Chairs shall be entitled to attend the NEC’s
Equal Opportunities Sub-Committee in order to contribute to the debate, make
recommendations and report on behalf of their Committee in a non-voting
capacity.

15. Retired Members Advisory Committee

1

There shall be a Retired Members Advisory Committee which shall consist of four
members of the NEC, including the Vice President, and twelve Retired Members
elected annually from nominations which may be received from any Branch of the
Union on the following basis; two from Wales, two from Northern Ireland, two
from Scotland and six from England.

The Committee shall meet at least twice per year and shall normally be chaired
by the Vice President.

The Committee shall aim to protect the interests of pensioners and shall:
a) advise the NEC on any matters pertinent to Retired Members of the Union;

b) select motions and delegates to National Pensioners Committees and
Conferences.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

4. Reports of the business of the Advisory Committee shall be submitted to Annual
Conference and the NEC.

16. Youth Advisory Committee
1. The Youth Advisory Committee shall consist of four members of the NEC and
twelve lay members elected annually from nominations on the following basis;
two from Wales, two from Northern Ireland, two from Scotland and six from
England. All candidates shall be under age 30 at the time of election.

2. Atits first meeting the Committee shall elect a Chair who shall attend full NEC
and relevant Sub-Committee meetings in an ex-officio capacity.

3. The Committee shall meet at least four times a year.
4. The Committee shall aim to protect and promote the interests of youth and shall:
a) advise the NEC on any matter pertinent to young people

b) select delegates and motions to affiliated youth bodies including the TUC.
Youth, Young Labour and International forums.

c) nominate candidates for national committees of affiliated youth bodies
including the TUC Youth, Young Labour and International forums.

5. Reports of the Youth Advisory Committee shall be submitted to the NEC and the
Regional Committees and other appropriate bodies for information.
Cwuo00000120

Cwuo00000120

Rule 9 Officers

1. General

1.

The terms of the appointment for each Officer shall be embodied in a written
agreement with the Union and shall comply with appropriate trade union and
employment legislation.

An Officer shall not serve as a Member of Parliament or in any other legislature
and shall not undertake any ministerial or similar duties.

No permanent Officer shall submit their name to any political party for selection
as a candidate for any parliamentary position without prior advice to the NEC.

Absence coverage for Officers shall be arranged as follows:

a) When an Officer is substituting the General Secretary (GS), Senior Deputy
General Secretary (SDGS), Deputy General Secretary (Postal) DGS(P) or
Deputy General Secretary (T&FS) DGS(T&FS) for a period of one week or
more, they shall receive in those periods the rate of the General Officer
concerned.

b) When a lay member of the NEC substitutes a General Officer for a period of
one week or more, they shall receive in those periods the rate of pay of the
General Officer concerned. They shall not, during such periods, be entitled
to receive normal employment pay in addition to Officerial pay, nor shall
they receive remuneration as a NEC member.

Whether permanent Officers are elected or appointed, they shall have the same
role serving the whole Union, which dependent on the precise allocation of
responsibilities to individuals according to the Rules, or by the GS shall include
the following:

a) The right to correspond and negotiate directly with all tiers of management
and to make representations to all external bodies as directed by the
appropriate NEC or Industrial Executive Committee.

b) The right to attend the NEC, the relevant Industrial Executive, and other
relevant committees to deal with matters within the Officer’s responsibility.

c) The right to attend and speak at Union Conferences, participate in Union
schools, and visit all Union structures below national level and to contribute
articles to the Union's or other publications as appropriate.

d) The right to correspond with and speak to Branches in order to deal with
matters within the Officer's responsibility.

e) The right to represent the Union when appropriate at national fora such as
the Labour Party and the TUC, at international fora such as meetings
convened by Union Network International and the European Commission,
and on Union delegations abroad.
Cwuo00000120

Cwuo00000120

Officers responsible for negotiating and corresponding with management on

behalf of the Industrial Executives shall keep Branches and other relevant Union

bodies below national level informed about the progress of negotiations and

shall, where appropriate, seek advice from these bodies on issues on which they

have relevant specialist knowledge.

2. General Secretary

1

2.

Every five years the GS shall be subject to election by the entire membership.

The duties of the GS shall include:
a) chief negotiator and principal spokesperson of the Union;

b) responsibility to the NEC for the supervision and control of the
administration of the Union and of the Officers and Staff. However, any
proposal for the creation of a new Officer post shall be subject to NEC
endorsement;

c) convening and attending all Conferences of the Union and meetings of the

NEC and its committees;

d) assigning duties and directing the work of all other Officers of the Union
including directing the work of Business Co-ordinating Committees and
Officers that do not call for Conference decisions. However, where this

involves a reallocation of responsibilities affecting an Assistant Secretary it

shall require the endorsement of the Industrial Executive or NEC as
appropriate;

e) engaging such staff as may be necessary to conduct the work of the Union;

f) preparing and presenting to Annual Conference an Annual Report of the
Union, also bringing before the NEC the decisions of Annual Conference

and giving direction on these and other matters;

g) keeping the membership informed on all general matters and decisions

including parliamentary, legal, political, industrial and official questions and

keeping a record of such decisions;

h) keeping the records of the Union and collating statistical and general

information for the purposes of the Union, also keeping the Union in touch

with developments in the trade union movement;

i) supplying Conference Standing Orders Committee information as to what
motions or amendments submitted for the Conference Agenda are already

covered by Union policy and which are being actively pursued.

The GS shall ensure that the Union has a published employment practice. The
employment practice shall be designed to avoid any possibility of discrimination
or unfair treatment in the recruitment and selection process for employees and

potential employees of the Union. The Union’s employment practice shall be
submitted initially, and periodically thereafter, to the Commission for Racial
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Equality, the Equal Opportunities Commission and the Fair Employment
Commission for endorsement and/or approval.

4. The GS or the SDGS shall be the Union’s principal representative on the TUC
General Council.

5. When the GS is absent, or at other times when the duties need to be covered

they shall be covered by the SDGS. In the absence of the SDGS they shall be
covered either by the DGS(P) or the DGS(T&FS).

Senior Deputy General Secretary
1. Every five years the SDGS shall be subject to election by the entire membership.
2. The duties of the SDGS shall include:

a) deputising for the GS as and when required;

b) assisting the GS in financial, administrative and strategic organisational
matters.

Deputy General Secretary - Postal

1. Every five years the DGS(P) shall be subject to election by the members of the
Postal and PTS Constituencies.

2. The DGS(P) shall be the principal Officer responsible for all issues solely within
the remit of the PE.

Deputy General Secretary - Telecoms and Financial Services

1. Every five years the DGS(T&FS) shall be subject to election by the members of
the Clerical, Engineering and O&A Constituencies.

2. The DGS(T&FS) shall be the principal Officer responsible for all issues solely
within the remit of the TFSE.

Assistant Secretaries and other Officers

1. All Assistant Secretaries shall have equal status in the Union.

2. The responsibilities of all Assistant Secretaries shall be to carry out and
discharge under the direction of the GS such Union duties as they may be

required to perform.

3. The following Assistant Secretaries shall be subject to election every five years
by all members:

a) ANational Organising Secretary;

b) An Assistant Secretary Legal Services;
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

c) AnAssistant Secretary Health, Safety and Environment. Suitable
professional qualifications shall not be a requirement of candidature, but the
successful candidate shall be expected to attain such qualifications upon
appointment;

d) AnAssistant Secretary Equal Opportunities.

4. In addition there shall be the following Industrial Officers:

a) Four Assistant Secretaries elected every 5 years by the Postal and PTS
Constituencies;

b) AnAssistant Secretary elected very 5 years by the O&A Constituency;

c) The Assistant Secretaries to the T&FS Industry.
Nomination and Election Procedures

1. Allelections shall be by secret ballot of those members entitled to vote. Retired
Members shall only vote for non-occupational positions. The candidate receiving
the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.

2. Only members of the Union, except Retired Members, shall be entitled to stand.
3. The NEC shall determine and publish to Branches, procedures and regulations.

4. The method of recommending support for candidates to its own members shall be
a matter for each Branch.

5. The ballot paper shall list candidates in alphabetical order and shall indicate
forenames or the name by which they are commonly known and surnames.

6. Asterisks or any other mark indicating existing Officer status shall not be included
on the ballot paper.

7. Candidates may submit a personal statement to be circulated with their
biographical details. The length of such a statement shall be determined by the
NEC and reported to Branches. Candidates may also submit a personal recent
photograph for publication with their biographical details and statement.

Annually Elected Clerical Assistant Secretaries

1. There shall be four Assistant Secretary posts elected annually by and taken from
the Clerical Constituency using the same procedure as for the Clerical
Constituency Executive members.

2. Candidates for the four Assistant Secretary posts shall be eligible for nomination
also in the election for the Clerical Constituency Executive members including
the posts of Chair and Vice Chair.

3. Successful candidates in the Assistant Secretary election shall be eliminated
from other concurrent ballots.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

The four elected Assistant Secretary posts shall have no voting rights on the
NEC, T&FSE or sub-committees.

The four elected Assistant Secretaries shall carry out and discharge, under the
direction of the GS and DGS(TFS), such duties as they may be required to
perform in connection with Clerical Constituency matters.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 10 Conferences
1. General
1. There shall be an Annual Conference of the Union in or about May/June

3.

of each year to debate and determine matters of policy and to elect
such national representatives as are appropriate to be elected at the
Annual Conference.

The normal length of the Annual Conference shall be six days. Two
days shall be reserved for the General Conference and four days shall
be reserved for the Postal and the Telecoms and Financial Services
Conferences. The Business/Grades/ Sections/ Constituency
Conferences will be conducted within this allocation.

The Annual Conference is the supreme authority in the Union on
matters of common policy whilst it is in session. The main role of the
National Executive Council is to carry out the instructions of Annual
Conference. To this end the supreme authority is vested in the National
Executive Council between Conferences. Decisions taken and policies
determined on behalf of the Union by the National Executive Council
are ultimately subject to ratification by Annual Conference.

The procedures for promoting policy in the TUC, and the wider labour
movement, and associated delegations will be the subject of the
Report outlined in Rule 5.7.

Business of the General Conference

1.

The business of the General Conference shall be to consider motions
submitted by the National Executive Council, Branches and Regional
Committees and to receive a report from the Officers and the National
Executive Council. The audited statement of accounts of the Union
funds will be contained within the report. The decisions of the General
Conference shall be binding upon the National Executive Council and all
members.

General Conference Delegation

1.

The maximum Branch representation to the General Conference of the
Union shall be as per tables 1 and 2.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Table 1 - Engineering, Clerical and Postal Technical Services

Membership Delegation
Up to 75 1
76 - 400 2
401 - 1000 3
1001 - 1500 4

with one additional delegate for each 500 thereafter.

Table 2 - Postal, Operator and Ancillary

Membership Delegation

1-250 1
251 - 500 2
501 - 750 3
751 - 1000 4
1001 - 1500 5
1501 - 2001 6
2001 - 3000 8
3001 - 4000 10
4001 - 6000 12
6001 and over 14

2. In addition to the formula for Branches at Table 2, Branch Secretaries
shall be entitled to attend the General Conference by virtue of office.
They shall attend in an ex-officio capacity with the right of speech but
no voting powers.

3. All Regional Secretaries and Business Based Field Officials shall attend in an ex-
officio capacity. They may participate in discussion at the specific request of
their respective parent Committee or of a Branch within that Committee, but shall
not vote.

4. At all Conferences of the Union Branches may vary their delegates as
they wish within the total delegation entitlement applicable to their
Branch at the Conference.

Motions

1. Branches and Regional Committees will be entitled to submit up to
three motions. The National Executive Council shall also be entitled to
submit motions as appropriate.

2. Regional Safety Forums will be entitled to submit up to three motions
to General Conference against the health and safety section of the
Annual Report. In addition Regional Safety Forums will also be entitled
to submit up to three motions to Rules Revision Conference.
5.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Voting Procedures
1. Voting at the General Conference shall normally be by a show of hands.

2. To reflect the difference in the membership levels between the
Engineering, Clerical and Postal Technical Services Branches and the
Postal, Operator and Ancillary Branches, the hand count will be
weighted in favour of the Postal, Operator & Ancillary Branches who
shall have 60% of the General Conference vote. The National Executive
Council shall draw up regulations for the hand voting procedure.

A card vote may be called for either by the Chairperson of the General
Conference or when thirty delegates are on their feet calling for such a
vote.

When a card vote is taken it shall be based on the paid up membership of
each Branch at 31 December in the preceding year.

A proposition shall be treated as carried if it obtains a simple majority of
the votes cast.

Standing Orders Committee (General Conference)

1. There shall be a Standing Orders Committee which shall be responsible
for arranging the timetable and order of each session of the General
Conference. The Committee shall prepare the standing orders for the
General Conference which shall be published to Branches and adopted
at the General Conference.

2. The Standing Orders Committee shall consist of 8 members; 4
members elected annually immediately following Annual Conference by
and from the Postal Standing Orders Committee and 4 members
elected annually immediately following Annual Conference by and from
the TFS Standing Orders Committee. The General Conference SOC shall
appoint is Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson for a 12 month period on
a rotating basis between a member from the Postal SOC and a member
of the TFS SOC.

3. The General Conference SOC shall be responsible for:

i) Drawing up preparatory procedures and timetable in respect of
the publication of the Annual Report, submission of Motions and
Emergency Motions.

ii) I The timetabling at General Conference of any ballots that the NEC
determines shall be conducted during the course of Annual
Conference. The counting of such ballots shall be conducted by
the Administration.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

iii) The admission, compositing, placement and _ publication of
Motions and Emergency Motions. Additionally the Standing
Orders Committee will give priority to motions in the following
order:

a) Category A - Those motions which in the view of the SOC require
a decision by Conference;

b) Category B - Motions whose general point is to reverse policy
decided at the previous year’s Conference;

c) Category C - Those motions which in the view of the SOC seek
only to confirm existing policy;

d) Category D - Those motions which in the opinion of the SOC could
be dealt with in correspondence;

e) Category X - Those motions which in the opinion of the SOC are
out of order. These shall be printed but shall not be admitted to
the agenda.

iv) In consultation with the Chairperson of the Conference, deciding
and publishing the consequences of motions being carried upon
later motions on the agenda. In determining such consequentials,
the Standing Orders Committee shall attempt to ensure that once
Conference has established a policy on an issue, that issue shall
not be debated again at the same Conference.

The Standing Orders for the General Conference shall include provision
that:

i) the NEC shall indicate in an SOC document (published prior to
Conference) the motions which they are prepared to accept. If
this is agreed by the Conference when the SOC document is
adopted, those motions will not be debated and will be deemed to
be carried. Branches will have the facility to register opposition to
the acceptance and thus have a debate;

ii) procedures for the calling of and conduct of card votes in
accordance with Rule 6.6;

iii) the NEC, Branches and Regional Committees shall be able to
challenge the terms of the SOC report and General Conference
Agenda, subject to having given prior notification to the General
Conference SOC under procedures to be determined by the SOC
and published within the Standing Orders for the General
Conference.
Cwuo00000120

Cwuo00000120

9. Special General Conference

1.

2.

The National Executive Council shall have the authority to convene a
Special Conference at any time that it is deemed to be necessary.

A Special General Conference may also be convened if called for by not
less than 50% of the Branches of the whole Union. Such requests from
Branches shall come from properly constituted Branch membership
meetings.

The Branch delegations to a Special Conference shall normally be those
which attend the Annual General Conference.

A Special Conference shall only deal with the business for which the
Conference has been called.

The Standing Orders and procedures adopted for a Special Conference
shall, as far as it is possible, be in accord with those used for the
Annual General Conference.

10. Telecoms and Financial Services Conference

1.

The Telecoms and Financial Services (T&FS) Conference shall be divided into
sessions as follows:

a) Joint Industry Based Conference for Telecoms and related industries,
including an appropriate time slot for BT Fleet motions;

b) Financial Services;

c) Constituency based industrial Conferences on matters appropriate solely to
the Constituencies.

Business of T&FS Conferences:

a) they shall consider motions submitted by the T&FS Executive and Branches;

b) they shall be the supreme authority on those occupational and conditions of
service issues relevant to each particular Conference and within the remit of
the T&FSE;

c) The T&FSE shall be responsible for allocating time to each session.

d) the T&FSE shall carry out all instructions arising out of motions affecting
pay and conditions carried at the T&FS Conference.
Cwuo00000120

Cwuo0000120
Branch representation at the T&FS Conference shall be:
Membership Delegates Membership Delegates
1-500 2 3001 — 4000 7
501 — 1000 3 4001 — 5000 8
1001 — 1500 4 5001 — 6000 9
1501 — 2000 5 6001 and above 10
2001 — 3000 6

Representation shall be based on the Branch membership, excluding Retired
Members, at 31%* December in the preceding year as completed by Head Office.

A Branch may vary its delegates within the total Branch delegation entitlement.
Each Branch shall strive to ensure proportionality in its delegation.
Motions:

a) Each Branch shall be entitled to submit up to four motions to each of the
Industry Based Conferences in which they have members. Each Branch with
BT Fleet members shall be entitled to submit an additional motion on a
matter pertaining to them.

b) The T&FSE shall be entitled to submit motions to each session.
Voting Procedures:
a) Voting shall normally be by a show of hands.

b) Acard vote may be called by the Chairperson or by a number of delegates,
as specified by the Standing Orders, on their feet calling for such. When a
card vote is taken it shall be based on membership, excluding Retired
Members, at 31* December in the preceding year as completed by Head
Office.

c) Once it is decided that a card vote shall take place a delegate may, ona
point of order, ask for a Constituency based card vote. The number of
delegates as specified in Standing Orders must support such a request
before a card vote can take place. In this case the votes of the Clerical,
Engineering and Operator and Ancillary Grades membership of Branches
shall be counted separately. A motion shall be treated as carried under this
procedure if it obtains a majority vote of the members in each of the
Constituencies.

d) At every session of the Union’s Conference, upon the determination of
occupational and constitutional issues, merged Engineering and Clerical
Branches may, where there is no common Branch policy, divide its votes,
including card votes, on a Constituency basis.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

9. The T&FSE shall prepare and circulate to all delegates attending Conference a
list of recommendations on each motion. This shall be available at the start of
each day and cover the motions to be debated during that day.

10. Special Conference (T&FS)

a) Subject to the endorsement of the NEC, the T&FSE shall have the authority
to convene a Special T&FS Conference.

b) The T&FS Conference shall have the authority to call a Special T&FS
Conference subject to ratification by General Conference.

c) A Special T&FS Conference may also be convened if called for at the
request of not less than 50% of Branches with T&FS members. Branch
requests shall come via a properly constituted Branch membership meeting.

d) A Special T&FS Conference shall only deal with the business for which the
Conference has been called.

e) The Standing Orders and procedures adopted for a Special T&FS
Conference shall normally be in accord with those used for the T&FS
Conference.

11. Standing Orders Committee (Telecoms and Financial Services)

1. There shall be a Standing Orders Committee which shall be responsible
for arranging the timetable and order of each session of the Telecoms
and Financial Services Conference. The Committee shall prepare the
Standing Orders for the Telecoms and Financial Services Conference
which shall be published to Branches and adopted at the Telecoms and
Financial Services Conference.

2. The Standing Orders prepared by the Standing Orders Committee shall
permit delegates to challenge the Standing Orders Committee's rulings
with regard to the order of business and those propositions ruled out
of order at the beginning of each session of the Telecoms and Financial
Services Conferences defined in Rule 6.10.

3. The Standing Orders Committee shall consist of ten members, six
elected by and from the Engineering Constituency, three elected by
and from the Clerical Constituency and one elected by and from the
Operator and Ancillary Constituency.

4. The ten members of the Standing Orders Committee shall be elected by
and from their respective Constituency using the Branch block vote
procedure at Annual Conference.

5. The period of office of each member of the Standing Orders Committee
shall be for three years. There shall be an annual election for three
members, two elected by the Engineering Constituency, one by the
Clerical Constituency.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

6. The Standing Orders Committee will give priority to motions in the
following order:-

a) Category A - Those motions which in the view of the SOC require a
decision by Conference;

b) Category B - Motions whose general point is to reverse policy
decided at the previous year’s conference;

c) Category C - Those motions which in the view of the SOC seek only
to confirm existing policy;

d) Category D - Those motions which in the opinion of the SOC could
be dealt with in correspondence;

e) Category X - Those motions which in the opinion of the SOC are
out of order. These shall be printed but shall not be admitted to
the agenda.

Postal Conference

12. Conference Arrangements

1. Within the Postal Conference, arrangements will be made to provide
for a Post Office Industry Conference, a Counters Section (including TV
Licensing and Corporate), a Letter Section and a Parcels Section
Conference and a Technical Services Section Conference.

13. Industry Conference and the Standing Orders Committee Report

1. The Postal Industry Conference shall deal with the Standing Orders
Committee Report including Supplementary Reports and Appeals
against Standing Orders Committee Report decisions as appropriate to
that Conference which shall be terminated no later than 1 hour after
the commencement of the Conference.

14. Chairs of the Industry Conference and Section Conferences

1. The Chair of the Postal Executive shall be the Chair of the Postal
Industrial Conference. The Chair shall briefly welcome delegates at the
opening of proceedings.

2. The Chair of the Industry Conference shall be responsible for the
preparation and circulation of rulings in relation to the Industry
Conference and Section Conferences.

3. The Chair’s decisions on the construction of the Standing Orders, and
on any question of order not provided for by the Standing Orders shall
be final and conclusive in so far as the Industry Conference is
concerned, unless it is challenged. The correct method of challenging
the ruling shall be to move: “I wish to challenge your ruling”. Such a
motion shall be carried by a simple majority.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

4. The Chair shall be responsible for the implementation of the
Programme of Business at the Industry Conference.

5. The Chair of the Industry Conference shall also be the Chair of the
appropriate Section Conference in which business the Chair is
employed. The Chair of the other Section Conferences shall be elected
by the Postal Industrial Executive concerned from amongst its
members.

6. The Chairs of the Section Conferences shall be responsible for the
implementation of the Programme of Business at the Section
Conference to which they have been appointed, and it shall be their
duty to ensure that its decisions are reported to the Industry
Conference for adoption.

15. Business of the Postal Conference

1. The business of the Postal Industry or Sectional Conferences shall be
to receive reports from the Officers and Postal Executive and the Postal
Standing Orders Committee, to deal with recommendations, Motions
and Amendments submitted by the Postal Executive, Branches and
Business Co-ordinating Committees as appropriate and set out in
National Rules.

2. The Postal Conferences shall be the supreme authority on those
occupational and conditions of service issues which are relevant to
each particular Conference and which are within the remit of the Postal
Executive. The Postal Conference shall not discuss items of common
policy which are proper to the General Conference.

16. Branches

1. Branch representation entitlements shall be based on the Branch
membership at 31 December, as completed by the Organising
Department.

2. Branches may vary their delegates as they wish within the total
delegations entitlement applicable to their Branch at the Conference.

17. Conference Delegations

1. The maximum Branch representation to Postal Industry Conference of
the Union shall be as per the table in Rule 6.25.2 with the entitlement
being based on the number of members of the grades appropriate to
the Group/Sectional Conference concerned.
18.

Cwuo00000120

Cwu00000120
2. Membership Delegation Membership Delegation
1 to 250 1 1501 to 2001 6
251 to 500 2 2001 to 3000 8
501 to 750 3 3001 to 4000 10
751 to 1000 4 4001 to 6000 12
1001 to 1500 5 6001 and over 14

Except that Postal Technical Services and Secretarial Grades will be
represented in accordance with the provisions of Rule 6.12 and 6.26.

3. In addition to the formula for Branches at 6.25.2 above, Branch
Secretaries shall be entitled to attend Postal Industrial and Sectional
Conferences by virtue of office, having the right to speak but no voting
rights.

4. Regional Secretaries and those Officers from each of the Businesses
designated to attend the Regional Committee, shall attend the Postal
Conference in an ex officio capacity, having the right of speech but no
voting powers. They may participate in the discussion at Conference on
the specific request of their respective parent committee or of a Branch
within that committee.

Representation of Postal Technical Services, and Typing and
Secretarial Grades

1. Branches containing Postal Technical Services or Postal Typing and
Secretarial grades with less than 400 members in total, but with more
than 30 members employed by the Post Office, shall be entitled to
select an extra delegate to attend the Postal Conference, which shall
be in addition to those provided for in Rule 6.12.

2. Branches that have insufficient members to represent their Postal
Technical Services or Postal Typing and Secretarial members at the
Postal Conferences, including Letters, Parcels and Counters, shall
receive their representation from the appropriate Postal Divisional
Council.

3. Branches containing 30 or less Postal Technical Services or Postal
Typing and Secretarial members shall, at meetings arranged by Postal
Divisional Councils, have the right to select delegates to attend the
Postal Conferences. The number of such delegates shall be determined
by aggregating the number of members from the relevant Branches
with 30 or less members employed in the Post Office, and applying the
following formula:

upto 75 members — one delegate
over 75-400 members —_ two delegates

over 400 members — three delegates
19.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

4. The Typing and Secretarial Postal Divisional Council delegates
attending the Postal Conferences shall be elected by the Typing and
Secretarial representatives attending the Postal Divisional Council. The
Postal Technical Services delegates attending the Postal Conferences
shall be elected by the Postal Technical Services representatives
attending the Postal Divisional Council.

5. In addition to the other provisions of Rule 6.26, the National Executive
Council shall, by regulation, enable representation for Branches or
Postal Divisional Councils at each session of the Postal Conference in
which they have a Postal Technical Services or Typing and Secretarial
membership interest.

Motions and Amendments to Motions

1. Branches and Business Co-ordination Committees, may submit motions
and amendments to motions for the consideration and resolution of the
Postal Conferences as set out in Rule 6.35.

2. No motion or amendment to motion shall be accepted for the
Conference Agenda unless it has been submitted to and approved by
the Branch, or Business Co-ordination Committee, as appropriate.

3. All amendments must be directed towards the composite motions, or
other motions appearing in the Agenda.

4. The Postal Executive shall also have the right to submit motions and
amendments to motions.

5. Motions must reach the Deputy General Secretary (Postal) not later
than a date to be determined.

Amendments to motions must reach the Deputy General Secretary
(Postal) by 5pm on the Monday immediately prior to the opening of
Conference.

6. Amendments to motions admitted for discussions shall be published at
Conference by the Standing Orders Committee.

7. Motions and amendments to motions must be submitted on standard
forms, supplied by the Deputy General Secretary (Postal). Supplies of
these forms shall be held by Branches and Business Co-ordination
Committees.

8. Any motion which has not been discussed shall be remitted to the
Postal Executive for consideration, and the sponsors of such motions
shall be invited to submit their case in writing.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

20. Emergency Motions

1. Emergency motions shall be permitted at the Postal Conferences,
subject to the priority category system as set out in these Rules and
provided that the Standing Orders Committee is satisfied that the
terms of any such motion constitute a significant and important matter
for the Union and its policies justifying admission to the Agenda.

2. Emergency motions must reach the Deputy General Secretary (Postal)
not less than 14 clear days before the opening of Conference,
whereupon, in accordance with the priority category system, the
Deputy General Secretary (Postal) shall notify the Standing Orders
Committee of the views of the Postal Executive, as to the appropriate
priority category of each motion and the Standing Orders Committee,
in consultation with the Deputy General Secretary (Postal), as
aforesaid, shall determine its validity and shall allocate to each motion
such category as is deemed proper.

3. Any emergency motion submitted after the above date will also be
subject to the priority category system as aforesaid, subject as here
and after set out. In such a case, the Deputy General Secretary (Postal)
shall notify the Standing Orders Committee, of the views of the Postal
Executive, as to its appropriate priority category and the Standing
Orders Committee in consultation with the Deputy General Secretary
(Postal) shall determine its validity and, if the motion is admitted, the
Standing Orders Committee shall allocate to it such category as is
deemed proper. Conference will then decide whether it shall be
submitted to the Agenda. Admission to the Agenda shall only be
granted if two-thirds of those voting grant permission.

4. The tabling of Emergency motions shall be permitted only in cases
where they deal with matters which could not have been the subject of
a motion or amendment within the time limits laid down in the rules
for the acceptance of motions and amendments.

5. Branches and Business Co-ordination Committees may submit
amendments to emergency motions for the consideration and
resolution of the Postal Conferences, as set out in Rule 6.35.

6. A decision taken by Conference shall not be open to the emergency
procedure at the same Conference.

21. Reports

1. The Annual Report to be discussed at the Postal Conferences shall be in
two parts.

Part 1 will be a record of the work of the Union undertaken in the
preceeding year and, as such, will be a standing work of reference. It
will be presented in sections dealing with issues in business that has
been completed by year end 31 December. Each paragraph shall have a
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

single recommendation from the Postal Executive “That this paragraph
is noted”. The recommendation will be open to amendment, by
Branches and Business Co-ordination Committees as set out in Rule
6.35 and each amendment submitted will receive a ‘C’ category.

Part 2 of the Annual Report shall consist of work of the Union that is
not completed or of reports from the Postal Executive on ongoing
matters including any policy reports. Part 2 will contain separate
subject paragraphs, set out in section arrangement and shall be
published and distributed by no later than 28 February.

In regard to Part 2 the Postal Executive may either propose continuing
action or a variation of policy or a new policy. Branches and Business
Co-ordination Committees may thereupon submit amendments to such
recommendations as set out in Rule 6.35. To be admitted to the
Agenda any such amendments must conform to Rule 6.35.
Recommendations which are not the subject of amendment as
aforesaid, shall not be discussed at Postal Conferences. The adoption of
each section shall be regarded as constituting an acceptance of all
recommendations within each section, except that any amendment to
the recommendation which has not been discussed shall be submitted
to the Postal Executive for consideration and the sponsors of such
amendments shall be invited to submit their case in writing.

+ a) Questions on the Annual Report shall be dealt with by

correspondence between the Branches, Business Co-ordination
Committees and the Deputy General Secretary (Postal). It is the
responsibility of the Branches and Business Co-ordination
Committees to ensure that any question of substance is dealt with
sufficiently early to allow the sponsors to submit amendments to such
recommendations as aforesaid.

b) Notices of amendments to recommendations contained in
Statutory Reports must reach the Deputy General Secretary
(Postal) by a date to be determined.

c) Amendments to recommendations must be submitted on standard
forms supplied by the Deputy General Secretary (Postal). Supplies
of these forms shall be held by Branches and Business Co-
ordination Committees.

d) Motions to refer back are not in order at Conference. This in no
way diminishes the right of Branches or Business Co-ordination
Committees in regards to their opportunities to amend specific
recommendations contained in the Annual Report, or amend or
reject specific recommendations contained in Special Reports.

e) The Postal Executive shall have authority to publish information
concerning major issues between 1 March and Annual Conference.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

4. a) Notwithstanding these arrangements the Postal Executive shall
have authority to place any matter before a Conference in the
form of a Special Emergency Report. Such emergency reports shall
be subject to not less than 28 days notice to Branches prior to the
opening of the Postal Conference.

b) Such emergency reports shall only be permitted if they deal with
priority matters which could not have been dealt with within
previous timescales.

c) A Conference may instruct the Postal Executive to present special
emergency reports to a subsequent Conference.

d) The provisions to amend a Special Report shall be as set out in
Rule 6.35.

5. The Postal Executive shall have the right to make an oral report to
supplement any paragraph of the Annual Report or any Special Report
standing in its name. Due notice of any such oral report shall be given
to the Conference as early as possible, together with any revised
recommendation. The presentation of such a report shall renew the
entitlements of Branches and Business Co-ordination Committees to
submit amendments.

6. The views of the Postal Executive will be heard on all items under
discussion at all Postal Industry and Sectional Conferences.

7. The Agenda of Conference shall be published on 21 April. It shall
contain the motions including the allocated priority categories and
amendments to recommendations admitted by the Standing Orders
Committee. All abbreviations used shall be indicated as an appendix for
the said Agenda.

8. All Conference material previously published shall be included in a
Conference Agenda Pad and copies shall be sent to Branches for
distribution to delegates at least four days before the opening date of
Conference.

9. The minutes of the previous year’s Postal Conference together with the
minutes of any Special Conferences which have taken place in the
interval between Postal Conferences shall be included in the Agenda
Pad and shall be put to the Conference for adoption by the Chair, in
accordance with the Standing Orders of Conference.

22. Priority Category System

1. Business at Postal Conferences shall proceed in accordance with the
priority category system as set out in Rule 6.41.
23.

24.

2.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Appeals and amendments to the priority category lists shall be
submitted to the Deputy General Secretary (Postal) by 5.00 pm on the
Monday immediately prior to the opening of Conference.

Voting

1.

Except where ballot papers are issued, the method of voting at the
Postal Industry Conferences shall be by a show of hands unless the
Chair shall decide to take a card vote. A card vote shall also be taken if
sufficient delegates rise in their places to indicate a demand for such a
vote. (See Rule 6.33.1)

The Chair shall only recognise the call for a vote if the caller is
standing.

Where a decision is required on an issue affecting more than one grade
and a card vote is demanded, the cards used shall be the voting cards
of the grades concerned in the issue.

The counting of votes shall be undertaken by the appointed Tellers. If
the counting of a vote is challenged, the Chair may order a recount. In
the event of any equal division of the votes recorded, the Chair shall
have the casting vote. The Chair shall announce the result of the vote,
which shall determine the issue.

The vote on a Composite Proposition will encompass all aspects of each
Proposition composited therein. This principle will apply to all Postal
Industry Conferences.

Postal Industry and Section Conferences

1.

At the Industry and Section Conferences the number of delegates
required to be standing in their places to seek a card vote shall be 30
at the Industry Conference, 20 at the Letters Section Conference, 10 at
the Counters, Parcels, Postal Technical Services Section Conferences,
and 5 at the Postal Typing and Secretarial Conference.

Voting cards shall be provided in respect of the number of members of
the Branch represented at the Postal Conference. The designation of
the cards to be used will be published prior to the appropriate
Conference.

Where the Postal Executive is aware that a matter is due to come
before Conference which calls for decision by a grade or part of a grade
for which a card is not provided, it shall issue a special voting card for
the purpose, but the special card shall not be used without the specific
agreement of the Postal Conferences.
25.

26.

27.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Tellers and Stewards

1. The number of Tellers and Stewards and their selection by the local
Branch shall be approved by the Postal Executive, and the names shall
be presented to Postal Industry Conference for endorsement.

Schedule of Entitlements - see table.

Special Conference (Postal)

1. Subject to the endorsement of the National Executive Council, the
Postal Industrial Executive shall have the power at any time they deem
it necessary to call a Special Postal Conference or Section/Group
Conference, and decide, if mecessary, upon any variation of
representation at such a Conference. Branch Secretaries shall be
entitled to attend a Postal/Section/Group Special Conference by virtue
of office.

2. The Postal Conference shall have the authority to call a Special
Postal/Section/Group Conference subject to ratification by General
Conference.

3. Postal Special Conference(s) shall only deal with the business for
which it is summoned.

4. Branches and Business Co-ordination Committees may submit
amendments to Postal Executive recommendations at their appropriate
Conference without restriction as to the number of such amendments.
To be admitted to the Agenda, any such amendment must offer an
alternative policy, direction, action or direct opposition, otherwise it
shall be out of order.

5. Recommendations which are not the subject of amendment as
aforesaid shall not be discussed at Special Conference.

6. Any amendment to a recommendation which has not been discussed
shall be submitted to the Postal Executive for consideration and the
sponsors of such amendment shall be invited to submit their case in
writing.

7. The Postal Executive shall have the right to make an oral report which
shall be given to the Conference as early as possible together with any
revised recommendation. The presentation of such a report shall renew
the entitlements of Branches and Business Co-ordination Committees
to submit amendments.

8. Except for the provisions of Rule 6.36, all other procedures, Standing
Orders, Priority Categorisations, etc. shall, as far as possible, be in
accord with those used for the appropriate Postal Annual
Conference(s).
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

28. Standing Orders Committee (Postal)

1. There shall be a Standing Orders Committee (Postal) which shall
consist of nine members, eight elected by and from the Postal
Constituency and one elected by and taken from the Postal Technical
Services Constituency by ballot during Annual Conference.

2. Attendance

Members of the Standing Orders Committee (Postal) shall attend all
Postal Delegate Conferences in an ex-officio capacity.

3. Officers

The Standing Orders Committee (Postal) shall elect from amongst its
members a Chair and a Secretary.

4. Duties and Remuneration

1. The Committee shall meet as necessary with the Deputy General
Secretary (Postal) and the Chair of the Postal Executive in
attendance (and, in addition, the appropriate Chair where a
Section Conference is concerned) in an advisory capacity to
examine motions and other matters submitted for consideration
by a Delegate Conference and to carry out such other functions as
are designated in these Rules.

2. The Committee shall prepare each Agenda to ensure discussions of
items of major importance. Each Agenda shall be in accordance
with the Standing Orders and shall meet the intentions of the
priority category system as set out in these Rules.

3. During Conferences, the Standing Orders Committee shall work in
consultation with the Deputy General Secretary (Postal) and the
Postal Executive Chair and shall be authorised to recommend
variations to the programme of business to ensure discussion of
items of major importance according to the circumstances. Such
variation shall be in order only with the agreement of Conference.
The provisions of Rule 6.42.7 shall apply.

4. The Chair of the Committee shall receive £788 minus income tax
per annum, the Secretary £601 minus income tax per annum and
the members of the Committee £398 minus income tax each per
annum.
29.

30.

31.

32.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Consideration of Motions

1. The Committee, when examining motions submitted to it, shall apply
the following Rules:

a) A motion which deals with more than one subject or which is
negative in character or which merely expresses an opinion or
which fails to give an instruction which is not clear in intention
shall be out of order.

b) Where the subject matter of a motion is contained in the Postal
Executive Report or in a Special Report to a Postal Conference,
then if it offers an alternative policy, direction or decision, it shall
be converted into an amendment of the appropriate
recommendation contained in such Report, but otherwise it shall
be out of order. The motion shall also be out of order if its
sponsors have submitted an amendment to that recommendation.

c) All motions dealing with the same subject shall, as far as possible,
be composited into a single motion, stating the broad principle
with the object of reducing to a minimum the number of separate
debates required.

2. The motions shall be divided where possible for consideration by the
Industry and Section Conferences.

Consideration of Amendments to Motions

1. The Committee, when examining amendments to motions submitted to
it, shall apply the following Rules: 6.38 1(a), 6.38 1(c).

2. An amendment which does not offer an alternative policy or direction
or decision shall be out of order.

Consideration of Amendments to Recommendations

1. The Committee, when examining amendments to recommendations in
the Annual Report and in Special Reports submitted to it shall apply the
following Rules: 6.38 1(a), 6.38 1(c), 6.39.2.

2. In the case of Special Reports, an amendment may propose direct
opposition.

Implementation of Priority Category System

1. Business at Conference shall proceed in accordance with the priority
category system as set out in these Rules.

2. Each motion and each amendment due to be considered by Conference
shall be allocated a priority category letter which shall be either A, B or
33.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

C. Category A shall designate a higher priority than B and category B
shall designate a higher priority than category C.

3. a) Each paragraph of part 1 of the Annual Report shall have a single
recommendation from the Postal Executive “That this paragraph is
noted” and each amendment submitted against
recommendations relating to part 1 of the Annual Report will
receive a “C” category.

b) Prior to 21 April the Deputy General Secretary (Postal) shall notify
the Standing Orders Committee (Postal) of the views of the Postal
Executive as to the appropriate priority category for each
amendment submitted against recommendations relating to Part 2
of the Annual Report as aforesaid. The Standing Orders Committee
(Postal) in consultation with the Deputy General Secretary
(Postal) shall then divide the amendments into priority categories
A, B and C. The priority categories thus determined shall be
published in the Agenda of Conference on 21 April in accordance
with these Rules.

c) Prior to 21 April the Deputy General Secretary (Postal) shall notify
the Standing Orders Committee of the views of the Postal
Executive as to the appropriate priority category for each motion
as aforesaid. The Standing Orders Committee in consultation with
the Deputy General Secretary (Postal) shall then divide the
motions into priority categories A, B and C. The priority categories
thus determined shall be published in the Agenda of Conference on
21 April.

4. Appeals against the priority categories allocated in Rule 6.41.3(b) and
(c), together with amendments shall be notified to the Deputy General
Secretary (Postal) by the Monday immediately prior to the opening of
the Postal Conference and shall be heard and determined when
Standing Orders Report No 1 is considered by Conference.

5. Emergency motions shall be allocated priority categories in accordance
with the provisions of Rule 6.29.2 and 3.

Agenda and Programme of Business

1. The Agenda shall include all reports, motions and amendments to
recommendations accepted for consideration by the appropriate
Conference.

2. In preparing the Agenda the Committee shall be guided by the
principle of “one subject one debate”.

3. The Committee shall compile, in consultation with the appropriate
Chair, the Programme for Conference Business to be circulated to
delegates.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

4. In the case of the Programme of Business for the Section Conferences
the appropriate Chair shall be consulted.

5. The Programme of Business shall conform to the following principles:

a) It should be based upon the order of business as defined in
Standing Orders.

b) It should be prepared to ensure that each subject in priority
category A shall receive an allocation of Conference time and that
the Statutory Reports are presented to and adopted by the
appropriate Conference.

6. The Agenda and the Programme of Business shall make provision for
the adoption of each section of the Annual Report at an appropriate
time.

7. a) The Committee shall present its recommended Programme of
Business for the Postal Conference at the opening of that
Conference. The Programme shall be published in Standing Orders
Committee Report No 1 which shall reach the Branches by not

later than 14 days prior to the opening of the Postal Conference.
Amendments to vary these Programmes shall be in order only
upon written notification to the Deputy General Secretary (Postal)
by not later than 5pm on the Wednesday immediately prior to the
opening of the Postal Conference. Proposals to delete items on the
Programme of Business shall not be in order.

b) Any further Programmes containing business not published in
Standing Orders Committee Report No 1 shall be open to
amendment by a time and date to be notified by the Standing
Orders Committee.

c) Amendments to subsequent variations of the Programme
recommended by the Committee in accordance with Rule 6.37.4.3,
shall be in order only at the time of its presentation.

d) The provisions contained in (a), (b) and (c) shall not preclude the
moving of “next business” or a motion duly given for the
suspension of Standing Orders.

e) The provisions of this Rule shall also apply to Special Conferences,
the final date and time for the submission of amendments to the
Programme of Business being stated in the SOC Report containing
the Programme.

8. Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 6.42.7 the Agenda and
Programme of business may be altered upon the direction of the
appropriate Conference Chair, whose decisions shall be final.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

34. SOC (Postal) Reports

1. The Committee shall intimate in the Standing Orders Committee
Reports:

a) Notices of appeal against the inclusion of motions in composite
motions or amendments included in composite amendments.

b) Notices of appeal against priority categories allocated to motions
and paragraphs in Reports.

c) Those motions and amendments which the Postal Executive is
willing to accept or take for examination and those amendments
to motions which Branches are willing to accept.

d) Notices of intentions to amend the Programme of Business.

e) The terms of any proposals which have been ruled out of order by
the Standing Orders Committee where the Branch or Business Co-
ordination Committee have intimated their intention to appeal.

2. Where the Report is accepted by the Conference the motions and
amendments referred to in (c) shall not be moved or discussed at
Conference except where a Branch or Business Co-ordination
Committee intimates to the Standing Orders Committee prior to the
moving of the appropriate Standing Orders Committee Report, that it
desires to express either opposition to the motion or amendment, or
opposition to the intention to take for examination, then the motion or
amendment shall be moved and seconded.

The sponsors of such opposition may subsequently be allowed to
withdraw it, with the agreement of Conference, whereupon the motion

or amendment shall be deemed to have been accepted or taken for
examination as the case may be, in accordance with Rule 6.43.1(c).

35. Appeals
1. Appeals against decisions of the Standing Orders Committee, as
detailed below, shall reach the Deputy General Secretary (Postal) not
later than 5pm on the Monday immediately prior to the opening of the
Postal Conference:
a) excision of motion or amendment

b) inclusion of motion or amendment in a composite

c) conversion of motion to amendment to a recommendation
contained in a Report

d) allocation of a priority category or amendment thereto
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

e) any other decision of the Standing Orders Committee, providing
that the terms of such appeals do not constitute a breach of the
Rules of the Union.

2. As regards a Special Postal Conference, appeals against decisions of
the Standing Orders Committee as detailed below shall reach the
Deputy General Secretary (Postal) not later than the time and date
stated in the Standing Orders Committee Report No 1:

a) excision of amendment to recommendation contained in a Report
b) inclusion of amendment in a composite

c) any other decision of the Standing Orders Committee, providing
that the terms of such appeals do not constitute a breach of the
Rules of the Union.

3. Failing agreement any appeals under this Rule shall come before the
appropriate Conference as an entitlement if the Branch or Business Co-
ordination Committee which submitted the proposal gives written
notice to that effect by the due date shown. The appeals machinery will
also be open to Branches or Business Co-ordination Committees when
each Standing Orders Committee Report is put to Conference for
adoption.

36. Voting Arrangements

1. The Standing Orders Committee shall issue voting cards to Branches
directly represented, representing one vote for every 10 members or
part thereof, according to the Branch membership at the most recent
membership count, as completed by the Organising Secretary.

2. The Committee shall prepare and issue concurrently with the voting
cards the ballot papers for representative positions. Ballot boxes shall
be closed at a time to be determined by the National Executive Council
in the week in which a Conference is held.

3. The Committee shall make arrangements for the conduct of the ballot
and for the counting of the votes by an impartial body. The result of
the ballot shall be reported to Conference as soon as possible.

4. The Committee shall not be empowered to issue duplicate voting cards
except on the specific authority of the Chair of the Postal Industry
Conference.

37. Equality Conferences
1. There shall be the following annual equality conferences:

a) a Women’s Conference which shall discuss issues and motions of
special interest to women.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

b) a Black Workers’ Conference which shall discuss issues and
motions of special interest to black workers.

2. The National Executive Council shall determine the date, venue,
duration and delegations to these conferences.

3. All Branches shall be entitled to submit one motion to each of the
equality conferences.

4. The General Conference Standing Orders Committee shall determine
the procedures to operate at the equality conferences.

5. The Women’s Advisory Committee and the Ethnic Minorities Advisory
Committee shall be consulted over, and be involved in, the
organisation of the equality conferences.

6. The Women’s Advisory Committee shall be responsible for pursuing the
policies adopted by the Women’s Conference.

7. The Ethnic Minorities Advisory Committee shall be responsible for
pursuing the policies adopted by the Black Workers’ Conference.

8. Each equality conference shall be entitled to select two motions to
submit to the General Conference. The selection shall be done on the
basis of a Branch preference ballot held during the equality conference.
The motions submitted to the General Conference shall be in the name
of the relevant equality conference.

Retired Members’ Conference

1. There shall be a Retired Members Annual Conference composed of a
maximum of four delegates from the following regions: Northern
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, North East England, North West England,
Midlands, London, Eastern England, South East England and South
West England. The boundaries of the regions to be determined by the
National Executive Council.

2. The Retired Members Annual Conference shall elect two delegates to
attend CWU Annual Conference, who will be entitled to speak on items
that do not concern pay and conditions of working members.

3. The Retired Members Annual Conference may submit two motions to
the CWU Annual Conference.

4. Funding shall be from the General Fund.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 11 Finance

1. Funds
1. The principal Funds of the Union shall be:
a) The General Fund;
b) The Defence Fund;
c) The National Welfare Fund;
d) A Political Fund administered separately;
e) Regional Funds;
f) I Branch Funds;

There are separate Pension Funds held in trust on behalf of employees of the Union.

2. Trustees

1. The Union shall have four elected NEC Trustees elected by Annual Conference.
Each Constituency shall be represented. The Trustees shall act under the
direction of the NEC. The written record of the resolution of appointment or
removal and discharge shall be treated as if it were the instrument in writing of
such appointment or removal and discharge.

2. Properties of the Union, including monies, securities and all other assets
whatsoever, shall be held corporately by the Trustees on behalf of the members.

3. The duties of the Trustees shall be to:

a) place in bank(s), in an appropriate account of the Union, all funds received
by them at Head Office of the Union;

b) subject to the above, to invest the funds of the Union, under the direction of
the NEC, in investments authorised or to be authorised by Act of Parliament
for the investment of trust funds;

c) examine all accounts submitted for payment;

d) sign cheques in payment of all proper accounts, and present same for
countersigning by an Officer nominated by the NEC for this purpose;

e) defray from the General Fund the expenditure incurred by the NEC, if not
provided for by the Rules, as it shall direct;
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

f) I make payments out of the General Fund of all or any premiums on any
guarantee taken by the NEC upon Officers at Head Office handling the funds
of the Union.

The Trustees shall have authority to sign documents on behalf of the Union and
to inspect any accounts or financial records of the Union at any time.

The Trustees, on the direction of the NEC, shall have power to borrow money on
security or otherwise and dispose of any asset of the Union.

Members’ Auditors

1.

There shall be two Members’ Auditors elected by Annual Conference to examine
the accounts and report to Annual Conference. A Members’ Auditor shall not hold
any other national position.

The Members’ Auditors shall be entitled to submit recommendations arising from
their examination of the accounts of the Union to the NEC. The NEC shall
consider such recommendations and report its conclusions to Annual
Conference.

Inspection of Accounts

Every member has the right to request access to the accounting records of the Union
subject to the provisions of the relevant legislation. On receipt of such a request the
General Secretary shall provide the member with a reasonable opportunity and time to
carry out the inspection.

Subscriptions

1.

The NEC shall determine membership subscription rates inclusive of the
contributions to the Political Fund. In setting such rates the NEC shall consider
and have due regard for the following membership status:

a) Full-time employees;

b) Part-time employees;

c) Young Workers;

d) Retired Members;

e) Non-recognised companies.

Once set, subscription rates shall increase on 1 January each year. The
percentage increase shall be the average percentage between the published
known RPI and the AEI at the time of the increase rounded to the nearest whole
penny. For Retired Members the rate shall increase on 1 January each year and
shall increase in line with the published known RPI at the time of the increase.

In exceptional circumstances the NEC may fix a contribution rate, apply a
temporary increase or defer an increase outside of the rates set by Rule

Any member whose contributions or payments of levy made under these Rules
are the equivalent of eight weeks in arrears, shall be advised that failure to pay
the arrears may result in the cessation of membership.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

5. Members on sick leave without full pay or maternity leave without full pay shall be
entitled to free membership for the period of leave.

6. Any member who resigns from the Union may only be re-admitted at the
discretion of the NEC. Applicants for re-admission may be required by the NEC
to repay any arrears of contributions or levies.

6. Rebates

1. Each Branch shall receive monthly 27% of its Branch membership income
received by CWU HQs General Fund excluding Retired Members. Each Branch
Shall be responsible for its own funds for meeting the following expenses:

a) All Conference expenses including subsistence, travel and loss of pay;

b) Regional and Industrial based Committee expenses including travel and
subsistence.

c) Travel and subsistence for all education courses;

d)__ Travel and subsistence for national briefings;

e) Visits to HQ requested by the Branch

2. Each Branch shall receive a rebate for its Retired Members Section of 27% of all
income received by CWU HQ from the contributions of the Branch Retired
Members. Such rebates shall only be paid to the Branch on formation of a
Retired Members Section.

3. Any Branch that has in excess of 12 months equivalent rebate in its bank
balance shall have future rebates held centrally in a separate national account
set up for that sole purpose. Such rebates shall be released to the Branch once
either the bank balance holds less than 12 months equivalent rebate or on
application to the SDGS and the NEC if required for exceptional expenditure.
The money in this account shall not be used for any other purpose by CWU HQ,
except that any interest accrued shall be additionally used to grow membership.

7.__ Financial Planning

Every year the NEC shall produce a financial plan for the following year, which shall:

a) be published to branches and lodged as a record at CWU HQ Finance
Dept;

b) show expected income based on membership figures at the time the plan
is agreed by the NEC;

c) include detailed planned expenditure, following the principle that such
expenditure shall not exceed income;

d) identify the purpose of any annual surplus and the intention to use it on
behalf of the members;

e) identify allocations to budget holders and to be reported on, against

performance to date, quarterly to branches.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 12 Political Fund

1. The Objectives of the CWU shall include the furtherance of the political objects to
which Section 72 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992
(the Act) applies, that is to say the expenditure of money:

a) onany contribution to the funds of, or on the payment of any expenses incurred
directly or indirectly, by a political party;

b) on the provision of any service or property for use by or on behalf of any political
party;

c) in connection with the registration of electors, the candidature of any person, the
selection of any candidate or the holding of any ballot by the Union in connection
with any election to a political office;

d) onthe maintenance of any holder of a political office;

e) on the holding of any conference or meeting by or on behalf of a political party or
of any other meeting the main purpose of which is the transaction of business in
connection with a political party;

f) onthe production, publication or distribution of any literature, document, film,
sound recording or advertisement the main purpose of which is to persuade
people to vote for a political party or candidate or to persuade them not to vote
for a political party or candidate.

Where a person attends a conference or meeting as a delegate or otherwise as a
participator in the proceedings, any expenditure incurred in connection with
his/her attendance as such shall, for the purposes of paragraph (e) above, be
taken to be expenditure incurred on the holding of the conference or meeting.

In determining, for the purposes of paragraphs (a) to (f) above, whether the trade
union has incurred expenditure of a kind mentioned in those paragraphs no
account shall be taken of the ordinary administrative expenses of the Union.

In these objects:

“candidate” means a candidate for election to a political office and includes a
prospective candidate;

“contribution”, in relation to the funds of a political party, includes any fee payable for
affiliation to, or membership of, the party and any loan made to the party;

“electors” means electors at any election to a political office;

‘film’ includes any record, however made, of a sequence of visual images, which is
capable of being used as a means of showing that sequence as a moving picture;

“local authority” means a local authority within the meaning of Section 270 of the Local
Government Act 1972 or Section 235 of the Local Government (Scotland) Act
1973; and
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

“political office” means the office of member of Parliament, member of the European
Parliament, member of the Scottish Parliament, member of the Welsh Assembly
or member of a local authority or any position within a political party.

1. Any payments in the furtherance of such political objects shall be made out of a
separate fund of the Union (hereinafter called the Political Fund).

2. The NEC shall appoint 4 Trustees of the Political Fund. Each Constituency shall
be represented. The Trustees shall act in accordance with the directions of the
NEC.

3. As soon as is practicable after the passing of a resolution approving the furtherance of
such political objects as an objectives of the Union the NEC shall ensure that a notice
in the following form is given to all members of the Union in accordance with this rule:

Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992

A resolution approving the furtherance of political objects within the meaning of the above
Act as an object of the Union has been adopted by a ballot under the Act. Any payments in
the furtherance of any of those objects shall be made out of a separate fund, the political
fund of the Union but every member of the Union has a right to be exempt from contributing
to that fund. A form of exemption notice can be obtained by or on behalf of any member
either by application at, or by post from, the head office or any branch office of the Union or
from the Certification Office for Trade Unions and Employers’ Associations, Brandon
House, 180 Borough High Street, London SE1 1LW.

This form, when filled in, or a written request in a form to the like effect, should be handed
or sent to the Secretary of the Branch to which the member belongs.

The notice shall be published to members by such methods as are customarily used
by the Union to publish notices of importance to members and shall include the
following minimum requirements. The notice shall be published in the Union’s main
journal which is circulated to members. A copy of the notice shall be posted up and
kept posted up for at least 12 months in a conspicuous place, accessible to members,
at the office or meeting place of each Branch of the Union. The Secretary of each
Branch shall also take steps to secure that every member of the Branch, so far as is
reasonably practicable, receives a copy of the notice, and shall supply a copy to any
member on request. The NEC shall provide the Secretary of each Branch with a
number of copies of the notice sufficient for these purposes.

4. Any member of the Union may at any time give notice on the form of exemption notice
specified in Rule 12.5, or by a written request in a form to the like effect that he/she
objects to contribute to the Political Fund. A form of exemption notice may be obtained
by, or on behalf of, any member, either by application at, or by post from, the General
Office or any Branch office of the Union, or from the Certification Office for Trade
Unions and Employers’ Associations, Brandon House, 180 Borough High Street,
London SE1 1LW.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

5. The form of exemption notice shall be as follows:

Communication Workers Union

Political Fund Exemption Notice

I hereby give notice that I object to contributing to the Political Fund of the Union and am
in consequence exempt, in the manner provided by Chapter VI of the Trade Union and
Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992, from contributing to that fund.

Signature: 00... .... cece cece eee cece eee cece eeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeeeeneeee
Membership no: ........00...2..2eceeee cece ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees
70 [0 I 11 a
Date: oo... eee cece rere eeenneeteeeeeeeeernneeee
CWU Branch: 000... 2... cece eeee eee eee eee eeeeeeernnneeeeeees

6. Any member may obtain exemption by sending such notice to the Secretary of the
Branch to which the member belongs and, on receiving it, the Secretary shall send an
acknowledgement of its receipt to the member at the address in the notice, and shall
inform the General Secretary of the name and address of that member.

1. On giving such notice a member shall be exempt, so long as his/her notice is not
withdrawn, from contributing to the Political Fund of the Union as from either:

a) the first day of January next after notice by the member is given, or,

b) in the case of a notice given within one month after the notice given to
members under Rule 12.3 or after the date on which a new member
admitted to the Union is supplied with a copy of these Rules under Rule
12.18, as from the date on which the member’s notice is given.

2. For the purpose of enabling each member of the Union to know as respects any
such periodical contributions what portion, if any, of the sum payable by him/her
is a contribution to the Political Fund of the Union, it is hereby provided that an
amount of 10p per week, be that contribution from 1st October 1996.

No levy shall come into force as respects a new member until the expiration of
one month from his/her being supplied with a copy of the rule under clause 13
hereof following admission to the Union. Any member who is exempt as aforesaid
shall be relieved from the payment of that sum and shall pay the remainder of
such contributions only.

3. The NEC shall have power to increase the amount of the levy having regard to
increases in the Retail Price and Average Earnings Indices and the level of
Union contributions generally. Any such increase shall be endorsed by Annual
Conference.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

The NEC shall give effect to the exemption of members to contribute to the Political
Fund of the Union by relieving any members who are exempt from the payment or part
of any periodical contributions required from the members of the Union towards the
expenses of the Union as provided and such relief shall be given as far as possible to
all members who are exempt on the occasion of the same periodical payment.

A member who is exempt from the obligation to contribute to the Political Fund of the
Union shall not be excluded from any benefits of the Union, or placed in any respect
either directly or indirectly under any disability or disadvantage as compared with
other members of the Union (except in relation to the control or management of the
Political Fund) by reason of his/her being so exempt.

Contribution to the Political Fund of the Union shall not be made a condition for
admission to the Union.

All members of the Union, in whatever category, shall have a right to pay contributions
to the Political Fund.

If any member alleges that he/she is aggrieved by a breach of any of these Rules for
the Political Fund, being a Rule or Rules made pursuant to Section 82 of the Act,
he/she may complain to the Certification Officer, and the Certification Officer, after
giving the complainant and any representative of the Union an opportunity of being
heard, may, if he/she considers that such a breach has been committed, make such
order for remedying the breach as he/she thinks just in the circumstances. Any such
order of the Certification Officer may, subject to the right of appeal provided by
Section 95 of the Act, be enforced in the manner provided for in Section 82(4) of the
Act.

Any member may withdraw his/her notice of exemption on notifying his/her desire to
that effect to the Secretary of his/her Branch, who shall on receiving it send the
member an acknowledgement of receipt of the notification, and inform the General
Secretary of the name and address of that member.

The NEC shall ensure that a copy of these Rules is available, free of charge, to any
member of the Union who requests a copy.

The NEC shall also send to the Secretary of each Branch sufficient copies of these
Rules for distribution to each member.

The Secretary of each Branch shall, so far as possible, secure that each member of
that Branch receives a copy of the Rules.

The Secretary of each Branch shall supply a copy of these Rules free of charge to
each member who requests a copy.

A copy of the Rules shall also be supplied by the Secretary of each Branch to every
new member on his/her admission to the Union.

Northern Ireland Members
1. In compliance with Article 58 of the Industrial Relations (Northern Ireland) Order

1992, members of Branches in Northern Ireland are not required to make any
contribution to the Political Fund unless they:
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

a) have given notice in writing of their willingness to contribute to the fund;
and
b) have not notified the Union in writing of withdrawal of such notice.

2. Northern Ireland members are exempt from contributing to the Political Fund
unless they give written notice that they wish to do so. A form of notice indicating
the wish to contribute to the Political Fund may be obtained from any Branch in
Northern Ireland.

20. Grants and Rebates

1. Branches shall be allowed grants from the Political Fund of a sum up to but not
exceeding that which is equal to one third of the annual contribution to the
Political Fund of the Union per member per year of the Branch political
membership. To protect the Political Fund of the Union such rebates shall only
be used to further the political objects of the Union and the expenditure of money
shall only be made by the Branch in accordance with Branch bye-laws as
determined by the NEC. As a condition of receiving such rebates, Branches shall
make such returns and reports as the NEC may determine, provide an annual
statement of Branch political accounts and affiliate to Constituency Labour
Parties.

2. Payments from the Political Fund to Branches must be in accordance with the
policy determined by Annual Conference or the NEC

3. 10% of Political Fund rebates available to Branches shall be paid directly to the

appropriate Regional Political Fund to allow these committees to campaign
regionally to promote Union policies.

21. Labour Party Conference

The NEC shall issue Regulations prescribing the procedures for the elections of
delegates to the Labour Party Conferences.

22. Labour Party NEC

The CWU nomination for the Labour Party NEC shall be voted on at an appropriate
Annual Conference under regulations issued by the NEC.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 13 Industrial Action

1. The NEC, Annual Conference, Special Conference or a properly convened Branch
Meeting may in furtherance of the Union’s objectives decide to authorise, endorse, call
or take industrial action, including strike action. All such action must be within the law
and in accordance with, and in compliance of, all statutory obligations, inclusive of
ballots etc. Where a Branch decides to take action to protect immediate local
interests, the General Secretary and NEC must be informed.

2. For the avoidance of doubt it is confirmed that nothing contained in these Rules
empowers a Branch or any other person, committee, group or body of persons to
authorise, endorse, call or take industrial action without there being a statutory ballot
and compliance in all other respects with the requirements of Part V of the Trade
Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 as amended or replaced from
time to time.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 14 Discipline

1. General

1.

2.

3.

Matters of a disciplinary nature arising from the Rules or Regulations of the
Union affecting Union members shall be dealt with in accordance with this Rule.

A member shall be liable to disciplinary action in respect of the following:
a) Acting in breach of the Rules of the Union;
b) Behaving in a manner contrary to the interests of the Union;

c) Failing to carry out lawful and reasonable instructions of a Branch, the NEC,
Annual or Special Conference;

d) Being a member of a union or association of employees, the interests of
which conflict with those of the Union, or speaking or circulating literature on
behalf of any such union or association.

National Discipline Committee (NDC)

All matters calling for disciplinary action shall be determined by the NDC, which
shall consist of three members appointed by the NEC. There shall be three
named substitutes to replace any or all of the members of the NDC if they are not
available.

The Committee shall be served by an Officer appointed by the General
Secretary.

National Discipline Committee Powers and Procedures

All matters requiring consideration under this Rule shall be referred by the
General Secretary to the NDC. Such matters may be referred by either a member
or a Branch.

The NEC has the power to require the production of written evidence and
attendance of witnesses who are members of the Union. In the event of non-
production of written evidence or non-attendance by either of the parties
involved, the Committee has the right to take a decision in their absence.

The NEC shall prescribe Regulations governing the procedure for the conduct of
all cases before the NDC and may amend such Regulations from time to time.
These amendments shall be subject to endorsement at the subsequent Annual
Conference.

A Union Representative accused of being involved in conduct that brings the
Union into disrepute may have their credentials or office suspended pending the
outcome of the discipline case.

This can be done in two ways:
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

a) On receipt of a charge a Branch may suspend the individual’s credentials
or office. This carries the right of appeal to the NDC; or

b) On receipt of a charge, the NDC can suspend the individual's credentials or
office.

In relevant circumstances if suspension is deemed appropriate it must be done
quickly and Branches are required to consider this option in the relevant
circumstances. Suspension of credentials or office can only be done as part of
the process involving National Discipline and at no other time.

5. The NDC shall consider each charge and conclude whether or not a prima facie
case exists. If a prima facie case exists it shall proceed to a full hearing of the
NDC.

6. Following the full hearing of a complaint the NDC may exercise any one or more
of the following powers:

(a) censure the member concerned;

(b) fine the member such sum as the NDC shall consider fair and reasonable,
having regard to the circumstances;

(c) suspend the member from membership or from all or any benefits of
membership for such time as may be determined;

(d) remove the member from any office ;

(e) disqualify the member from holding office for such period as the NDC may
determine;

(f) impose a suspended sentence for so long as the NDC shall consider just
and reasonable.

(g) expel the member from the Union.

7.  \f.a fine imposed by the NDC is not paid within twenty-one days of the date of a
demand in writing addressed by the General Secretary to the member at their last
known address, the member shall be automatically expelled from membership of
the Union.

4. Independent Review Body (IRB)

1. The NEC shall prescribe Regulations governing the procedure for the conduct of
all cases before the IRB and may amend such regulations from time to time.

2. There shall be the right of appeal against decisions of the NDC to an IRB. In all
cases of Appeal, the decision appealed against shall be suspended pending the
hearing of the Appeal. An appeal against a decision of the NDC can only be
brought by a charged member.

3. The IRB shall consist of three members and an Independent Chair.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

4. The IRB shall be served by an Officer appointed by the General Secretary.

5. The members of the IRB shall comprise one member elected by and taken from
the Postal, Operator and Ancillary Constituency; one member elected by and
taken from the Engineering and Postal Technical Services Constituency; and one
member elected by and taken from the Clerical Constituency. The elections shall
be by the card vote procedure at Annual Conference. The members of the IRB
shall be elected triennially.

6. The decision of the IRB shall be final and binding on the appellant and the Union.

5. Functions of the General Secretary and the Discipline Officer in
Relation to Disciplinary Matters

1. The Officer to the NDC shall be responsible for the documentation of matters
requiring consideration by the NDC and for recording the proceedings of the
Committee.

2. The Officer to the NDC shall notify the General Secretary, who shall notify a
member of their rights under the Rules of the Union and of the consequences of
failure to comply with any direction issued, or any penalty imposed by the NDC.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 15 Alteration of Rules

1.

Rules Revision Conference

1.

Every four years the Union shall hold a Conference for the purpose of reviewing

and revising its Rules.

2. Each Branch of the Union and Regional Committee shall have the opportunity to

submit three proposals relating to the Rules.

3. The NEC shall be entitled to submit proposals relating to the Rules.

4. Each proposal to amend the Rules receiving a majority in support including a

majority within each of the following:
a) the Postal and Operator & Ancillary Constituencies counted as a whole;
b) the Engineering and PTS Constituencies counted as a whole;

c) the Clerical Constituency;

shall then form part of the Rules of the Union.

2. Annual Conference

3.

1.

In addition there shall be provision at each Annual Conference of the Union for a
Rules Revision session.

At the Annual Rules Revision session each Branch and Regional Committee
shall have the opportunity to submit one proposal relating to the Rules.

At the Annual Rules Revision session the NEC shall be entitled to submit
proposals relating to the Rules.

At the Annual Rules Revision session each proposal to amend the Rules
receiving a two-thirds majority in support, including a two-thirds majority within
each of the following:

a) the Postal and Operator & Ancillary Constituencies taken as a whole;

b) the Engineering and PTS Constituencies taken as a whole;

c) the Clerical Constituency;

shall then form part of the Rules of the Union.

Role of the NEC
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

The NEC shall be empowered to amend the Rules to deal with any inaccuracy or
error or in order to comply with any Statute of the Realm or regulation made
thereunder. The NEC shall also be empowered to make any consequential
amendment to the Rules required as a result of amendments carried at any Rules
Revision session of Conference or at a Rules Revision Conference.

The NEC shall be empowered to interpret the Rules or to decide upon any issue
in respect of which the Rules are silent. The decision of the NEC on any such
matter shall be final.

It shall be the duty of the General Secretary, upon receiving notice of a proposal
on the amendment of these Rules, to take suitable advice and report to the
Standing Orders Committee, who shall ensure that such motions are placed
before the Rules Revision Conference or Annual Conference as the case may
be, in such a form that the language and content clearly express the purpose of
the motion and saving so far as the purpose of the motion otherwise requires, are
in conformity with the body of the Rules and the principles incorporated therein.

Any alterations to Rules carried at a Rules Revision Conference or Annual
Conference shall become operative immediately following the close of that
Conference.

Within six months of a quadrennial Rules Revision Conference a new updated
Rule Book shall be produced and distributed to every Branch and within six
months of an Annual Rules Revision session an Appendix to the Rule Book,
incorporating any changes made, shall be produced and distributed to every
Branch.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

Rule 16 Amalgamation

1. The Union may amalgamate with, or transfer engagements to or from, any trade union
as Annual/Special General Conference may determine, subject to the terms of the
relevant legislation.

2. The NEC shall have the power to submit the question of amalgamation and Transfer
of Engagements to an Annual/Special General Conference.
Cwu00000120
Cwuo00000120

GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AGM

Annual Conference
Annual General Meeting
AS

benefit

Branch Officer
Branch

card vote
Constituencies
cOoc

CWU HQ/Head Office
CWU

DGS(P)
DGS(T&FS)
DSNAC

eligible

EOAC

Fund

General Conference
Gold Badge

Gs

Honorary membership
Industrial Executive
IRB

LGBTAC

member
membership income
Model Constitution
National Officer
NDC.

NEC

O&A

OAOOC
Objectives

Officials

PE

Political Fund
Postal Conference
PTS

RAC

recognition

Region

Regional Committee
Regional Officer
regulations
representation
Retired Member
RMAC

Rules Revision
Rules

SDGS

SOc

staff

subscriptions

T&FS Conference
T&FS

T&FSE

Union journal

Union office

Union

WAC

YAC

Annual General Meeting
yearly delegate Conference of the CWU

yearly administrative meeting
Assistant Secretary
a conditional entitlement of membership
designated representative of a Branch
basic organisation of CWU as defined in Rule 6
taken on designated voting strengths
defined occupational sections of the CWU.
Clerical Organisational & Occupational Committee
registered head office of CWU and its departments
Communication Workers Union
Deputy General Secretary (Postal)
Deputy General Secretary (Telecoms & Financial Services)
Disability & Special Needs Advisory Committee
meeting requirements of membership
Equal Opportunities Advisory Committee
designated account of the Union
representing the whole CWU
recognition of exceptional service
General Secretary
recognition of distinguished service
industry specific Executive
Independent Review Body for appeals against NDC decisions
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Advisory Committee
accepted, subscribing individual
total received subscriptions
defined basic requirements of CWU organisation
representative of CWU as defined in Rule 9
National Discipline Committee
National Executive Council
Operator & Ancillary
O&A Organisational & Occupational Committee
as defined in Rule 2
designated representatives of the CWU
Postal Executive
as defined in Rule 12
representing the Postal membership
Postal Technical Services section
Race Advisory Committee
formal agreement between CWU and employer
CWU designated geographical area
as defined in Rule 7

designated representative of a Region
defined procedures for conducting ballots etc
member support to a third party

member, formally retired from work
Retired Members Advisory Committee
process for altering Rules of the CWU.
current rules of the CWU
Senior Deputy General Secretary
Standing Orders Committee
all employees of the CWU
membership contributions
representing the Telecoms & Financial Services membership
Telecoms & Financial Services
Telecoms & Financial Services Executive
CWU national publication
a designated position in the CWU
CWwuU
Women's Advisory Committee
Youth Advisory Committee
