Cwuo0000011
cwuo0000011

FSP

29 May 2015

Dear Members,
The Future of the National Federation of SubPostmasters

I am writing in advance of the Special Conference of the National Federation of SubPostmasters
(NFSP) on 18 and 19 June.

This follows a long period of uncertainty in relation to the future of the NFSP, following both the
reorganisation of the Post Office network under Network Transformation and the NFSP ceasing to be
a trade union, although it continues to act on your behalf.

I am very pleased to report that we have, after protracted negotiation, reached a prospective
agreement with Post Office Limited (POL), under which the NFSP will be provided with grant funding
for a period of 15 years. This will allow for a period of stability for the NFSP and enable it to continue
to represent and promote members’ interests. The detail of the prospective agreement will be
explained at the Conference.

We undertook to present options to the membership and there are also two prospective merger
prospects, which will also be explained at the Conference. However, the Council believes that the
prospective agreement with POL and the consequent continuation of an independent NFSP best
addresses the future needs of SubPostmasters.

An important condition in relation to the prospective agreement with POL is a requirement for the
NFSP to reconstitute as a company limited by guarantee. It is currently a residual unincorporated
association, following the loss of trade union status.

The reconstitution involves the establishment of a new company limited by guarantee and the transfer
of the whole undertaking of the unincorporated association into that company, as a going concern.

This reconstitution process means that technically the NFSP will become a new legal entity, but that,
in practical terms, it will be able to continue to operate with minimal disruption.

With this letter you will find the proposed new Articles of Association of the new NFSP. As far as
possible, these Articles replicate the provisions of the current NFSP Rules, placed within the
necessary corporate framework.

However, some of the technical requirements and the terminology have necessarily changed.

Most significantly, it is necessary to define, in technical terms, company members, while maintaining
the current direct relationships with Host/Core Offices, some of which are run as branch offices, rather
than independent businesses.

The Articles provide that every Host/Core Office will have an “Organisational Representative”, who will
exercise the rights of the formal company member owning the relevant Host/Core Office. Thus a sole
trader SubPostmaster, with a single Host/Core Office, may be his or her own Organisational
Representative, while a corporate SubPostmaster, operating a number of Host/Core Offices, may
appoint an Organisational Representative (for example the relevant manager) for each of its
Host/Core Offices. This allows for one membership vote per Host/Core Office.

‘ational Federation of SubPostmasters « Evelyn House + 22 Windlesham G
General Secretary George Thomson + email: (~

Shorehar-by-Sea « West Sussex « BN43 SAZ « Tet”
“} website: wiww.nfsp.org.uk + forum: www forum. nfsp org.uk

Cwuo0000011

cwuo0000011

There is also provision for non-voting Associate Representatives of each Host/Core Office, who may
also attend general meetings of the NFSP.

The Council will continue to be composed primarily of elected individuals. Using the new terminology
being an “Organisational Representative” will be an eligibility requirement for being elected to the
Council. The elected members on the Council will be supplemented through further appointments
made by the Council and by the former General Secretary, in the future be known as the NFSP's
Chief Executive.

Until the first AGM of the new NFSP in May 2016, the current Council will remain in office as
nominees of the current Regions. It is then intended that the two Regions which currently have two
appointed Council Members will reduce their representation to one Council Member.

The Articles of Association provide a full constitutional framework for the continued operation of the
Federation. The constitutional provisions may be explained further at the Special Conference, but we
would make a particular plea that the membership should approve the Articles and the transition
process as proposed, against an undertaking of the Council to review any issues arising from the
constitutional drafting at the first AGM.

This is essential to achieve the necessary changes within the timescale required by POL. The time
available for full prior consultation has, very unfortunately, been severely constrained by the time it is
taken to secure the proposed agreement.

We look forward to receiving the support of the membership at the Special Conference.

Yours sincerely,

George Thomson
General Secretary (and prospective Chief Executive)
