‘ewu90000090

COMMUNICATION WORKERS UNION

CIRCULATED TO THE 322/98 (PE) ‘B’ \
POSTAL EXECUTIVE !
ON 30 JUNE 1998 B.71217

FOR CONSIDERATION AT THE
POSTAL EXECUTIVE MEETING
ON TUESDAY 7 JULY 1998

HORIZON PROGRAMME : POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

The attached Newsbrief published by Post Office Counters Ltd in connection with the
Horizon Programme is provided for the information of the Postal Executive.

TONY KEARNS
ASSISTANT SECRETARY A

att.
S Newsbrief

ea
axes Urgent information for cascade
. Neanber 30/98

This Newsbricf is being sent to all senior salaried staff. Please give it as wide a
circulation as possible amongst your team.

Automation Organisation

Newsbrief 5/98, which announced the Business Strategy review, also advised that the
Automation Transformation Management Team, which had been due to move to the then
newly established Horizon Directorate, would for the time being remain in the Development
Directorate, to allow the former's focus to be fixed on the Horizon Programme. The expectation
was , however, that the integration and deployment planning of Post Office Counters’ suite of
automation progranunes would al some stage pass to Horizon.

Some six months on, the Counters Executive Committee has reviewed that decision in the light
both of experience of the working model and the state of play with Horizon, and has decided
that the existing arrangement is the most appropriate for naw. As a consequence, the
Transformation Management Team will remain as a whole where it is within Develuopaent.

The Counters Executive Committee also formalised the role which Dave Smith, Head of
Automation Transfunmation, has been undertaking via the Automation Process Group to
identify and integrate the Business’ end to end operating process and make it fit for purpose for
automation, by designating him as its overall owner. His authority to undertake the integration
role will be derived from a Process Steering Group, chaired hy Rob Durrant, Communications
Director. That group will also determine the methodology and standards under which process
design will take place and will be responsible for owning their deployment.

The Counters Exectitive Committee also confirmed that the Automation Development Team,
which had been parented temporarily on Dave Smith, Head of Automation Transformation
since early in the year, should remain there. It’s role is one of converting products, whether
individual client ones or generic ones such as means of payment, into standard requirements
specifications and assuring their delivery on behalf of the Business. As such, it is an integral link
between practical delivery of commercial strategy and an automated operating process, and
within the current structure, Automation Transformation is its most logical home. In uther
organisations, the role which the Automation Development Team is fulfilling is known as
Service Development and so the name of the team is being changed to reflect that.

Paul Rich
Development Director
17 June 1998

hk UE EO DEERE FUSE omur aALLULALo ig) 002/002

‘CWU00000080
‘ewuo0000090
