Cwuo00000004
cwuo0000004

Letter to Branches

For instant updates: http//;www.cwu.org — email fie GRO I

150 The Broadway, Wimbledon, London, SW19 1RX Tel vee, ea
General Secretary: Billy Hayes (www.billyhayes.co.uk)

No: 269/15 Ref: 250 Date: 21°t April 2015

TO: ALL BRANCHES WITH POSTAL MEMBERS

Dear Colleague
POST OFFICE: HORIZON SYSTEM - SECOND SIGHT FINDINGS

Branches will be aware of the publicity surrounding the serious situation faced by many
Postmasters with regards to alleged problems with the Post Office’s Horizon computer
system. This contentious issue has received a significant amount of media coverage
over the course of the last year, including two relatively long features on BBCis “The
One Show” in December last year and “Inside Out” in January 2015 which were broadly
critical of the Post Office.

In turn, the issue has led to significant Parliamentary activity including:

e An adjournment debate on 17th December 2014 in Westminster Hall.

« BIS Select Committee inquiry on 3" February 2015 at which the CWU gave
evidence.

« A question being asked to the Prime Minister during PMQs on 11% March by
Conservative Backbencher James Arbuthnot (Hampshire North East) who asked if
the Prime Minister was aware of the situation regarding the Post Office Mediation
Scheme.

Yesterday, 20" April, the Post Office published its response to the report from Second
Sight, the forensic accountant appointed by the Post Office to investigate the merits of
each Postmaster applicant's case as part of the Complaint Review and Mediation
Scheme. The Union has a number of Postmaster members involved in the mediation
scheme and are we are seeking justice for these particular members. As expected, our
Postmasters Branch is fully supporting these individuals.

The plight of the affected Postmasters has attracted a significant amount of press
coverage over the last couple of days, which is not surprising as the Post Office has
dismissed the findings of Second Sight’s second report in a 92 page rebuttal document
and insists that “Investigations over the past three years have confirmed that the Post
Office’s Horizon computer system is operating as it should.”, despite evidence from
Second Sight, noted in its report findings which disputes this.

As a consequence of this impasse and the current attitude of the Post Office, the Union
has called for an independent inquiry into the Horizon debacle and justice for those
Postmasters who are claiming they have been accused of wrong-doing. We are also
calling upon the Post Office to formally recognise the CWU to represent Postmasters with
immediate effect (a theme which we pursued at the BIS Select Committee).

COMMUNICATION WORKERS UNION

NT INFORMATION FOR MEMBERS

Cwuo00000004
cwuo0000004

Our press release from yesterday and various related documents for background reading
are attached to this LTB for your information including a hard-hitting Private Eye article.

Yours sincerely

Andy Furey
Assistant Secretary

e  &

a —
2015.04.20 Sian 150415 1048 FINAL. Post Office PMQs 11th March Private Eye 18th
Jones - Press release Response to SS Pt 2 «statement mediation : 2015.docx March 15. pdf

Recording of the BIS Select Committee Inquiry 3' February 2015:
http://www. parliamentlive.tv/Main/Player.aspx?meetingId=17184

CWU web story from December 2014
http://www.cwu.org/news/archive/mps-brand-post-office-debacle-national-scandal.htmI

COMMUNICATION WORKERS UNION

NT INFORMATION FOR MEMBERS

