Cwuo0000093
cwuo0000093

Branch Office

Staffing
Agreement

Contents

1. Background .....................- 3
2. Key Principles ....................- 4
3. Structure of the Agreement ....... i)
4. Application ..

Flexible Attendance System

Changes to Terms and Conditions . 7
6.1. Contracted Hours ............7
6.2. Shorter Working Week 7
6.3. Flowthrough of Changes

to Contracted Hours into

Hourly Pay Rates . 8
6.4. Overtime/

Premium Payments ..........8
6.5. Annual Leave Q)
6.6. Bank Holiday Credits 10
6.7 Retention Beyond

60 Years of Age 11
68. Part-Time Staff .............12
6.9. Incentive Scheme 12
Branch Office
Staffing Arrangements .......... fe)
7.1. Duty Structure 13
7.2. Branch Office Opening Hours 13
7.3. Attendances................13
74. Start and End of

Day Procedures .............13
7.5. Meal Breaks — Unpaid 14
7.6. Tea Breaks —Paid......... Bue)
7.7. Training 15)
78. Full and Part Time

Staffing Mix 16
7.9. Leave Reserves 17
7.10. Surplus Staff 17
7.11. Casual/Agency Staff 18

7.12. Contractual Issues ..........18

Cwuo00000093

Cwuo00000093

8. Minimum Standards ............. 19
9. Efficiency Measures ............. 19
10. Multi User Till Working .......... 19
11. Single Till Working ...
12. Infrastructure .................... 20
13. Implementation ................. 21
WAS RevieW cen snnaesne ses seesee sess 21
Annexes
A Flexible Attendance System ..... 24
B Compensation Payment ......... Caf
C__ Retention Beyond Age 60 ....... 29
De DULL) REVisIORSEeeeent eer ee trees 30
D1 Branch Office

Staffing Arrangements. .......... 33)
E Service & Efficiency enablers ..... 34
F Leave Reserve Calculator ........ 35
G Minimum Standards

non-compliance process

for use at Branch Offices ......... 36
H Data Requirements .............. Cyy

The commercial background to the development of this agreement is the rapidly
deteriorating trading conditions affecting Post Office Ltd. The financial restructuring of the
Horizon programme has added in excess of £100 million per annum to Post Office Ltd’s
expenditure. The projected Post Office Ltd performance for 2000/01 is a trading loss in
excess of £125 million. Additionally, some areas of core business are already in significant
decline and the Government has announced the cessation of the payment of pensions and
benefits through post offices in the traditional way starting in 2003.

The Government's Performance and Innovation Unit report identified possible areas of new
business for Post Office Ltd. These have still to be worked up into commercial propositions.
The report also highlighted the £50 million per annum loss currently being made by Branch
Offices, and charged Post Office Ltd to address that issue in particular, as well as to drive up
the efficiency levels of Branch Offices. Overall, Post Office Ltd is required by Consignia to
return to break even by 2005, and this agreement, alongside other initiatives, forms an
important part of the action plan to meet the Government's and Consignia’s requirements.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093
21

22s

23:

24.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

This agreement is underpinned by a set of key principles, which are jointly recognised by
both parties:

. Customers should be able to rely on Branch Offices for consistent and excellent
service, supported by a culture of excellence in everything that Post Office Ltd does.

. It is not acceptable for Post Office Ltd to fall short of this standard if it is to be able to
make the necessary commercial recovery.

s The future existence of Post Office Ltd, and hence its ability to offer job security,
depends on a step change in service and efficiency levels.

Post Office Network aims to be a good employer offering long-term employment
opportunities to full and part-time staff, with fair terms and conditions of employment
for all. This agreement will contribute to Post Office Ltd’s commercial recovery, and help to
promote the long-term viability of Branch Offices and employment. CWU recognises Post
Office Ltd’s continuing aim to introduce change without the need to resort to compulsory
redundancy.

This agreement is aimed at seeking a better way of resourcing Branch Offices, consistent
with the flexibility, efficiency and service needs of the Business, and reflecting a joint desire
for fair employment practices and equality of opportunity.

This agreement will help foster better Industrial Relations at both local and national level.
3.1

32.

3.3,

34.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

Many of the issues discussed and agreed between Post Office Ltd and CWU impact on
the way in which Branch Offices are resourced, and how structured core duty patterns are
derived, agreed and introduced. This in turn is a strong driver of performance in individual
outlets. These issues are addressed through the agreed Flexible Attendance System
contained in Section 5 along with Annex A and other agreed changes to Branch Office
Staffing Arrangements.

Post Office Ltd and CWU recognised that there was a need to agree changes to the terms
and conditions of employment of staff in Branch Offices in order to facilitate the successful
implementation of the Flexible Attendance System and the Branch Office Staffing
Arrangements. Section 6 of this agreement deals with the agreed changes to terms and
conditions of employment

The individual elements of the Branch Office Staffing Arrangements are contained in this
agreement in Section 7 along with Annex D1. These elements reflect the many issues that
need to be taken into account in defining the appropriate staffing mix and duty pattern ina
Branch Office, and will be deployed consistently throughout Post Office Ltd.

In concluding this agreement Post Office Ltd and CWU recognised a number of other issues,
which needed to be addressed. Sections 8 -12 of this document deal with these.
41

42

5.1.

5.2.

53,

*

Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

This agreement applies to Postal Officers, Postal Assistants,* Retail Assistants and Customer
Service Advisors employed in Branch Offices only, although it is agreed that both parties will
open a dialogue about extending appropriate sections of this agreement into other areas of
CWU representation.

The CSA grade exists as part of the business grading structure. Post Office Ltd recognises
that CWU have collective bargaining and representational rights for the CSA grade. CWU are
free to raise claims and issues, including terms and conditions of employment, relating to
the new grade in exactly the same way as for long-established grades.

Anew Flexible Attendance System has been agreed which is detailed fully at Annex A. This
system is designed to increase the resource available to meet peaks of demand, whilst also
helping outlets to recycle hours more easily from times when less staff are required. As a
consequence the drive to increase the number of part-time posts will cease, and Post Office
Ltd fully accepts that one significant effect of this agreement will be the reversing of the
previous trend, to a position over time where full-time staff constitute a majority of the
workforce.

In order to monitor this part of the agreement, Post Office Ltd will provide CWU
Headquarters with quarterly reports on the numbers of full and part-time staff in
post for all CWU represented grades.

It is agreed that the Flexible Attendance System will be applied consistently throughout the
Branch Office network, replacing any existing local arrangements. This system will introduce
anew mandatory measure of flexibility into all Branch Offices. It is not envisaged that it will
be necessary to vary the hours of all full-time staff from their scheduled core duties on a
regular basis.

Post Office Ltd and CWU will work towards assimilating the small number of Postal
Assistants working in Branch Offices. The aim is to have completed this work by 1 July 2001.
6.1.

6.2.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

Contracted Hours

6.1.1.

6.1.2.

6.1.3.

As part of this agreement it is agreed that it will no longer be the practice for all
Postal Officers, Postal Assistants, Retail Assistants and Customer Service Advisors
working in Branch Offices to be paid for the time spent on meal relief. This has the
effect of reducing the number of hours for which a full-time member of staff is paid
by five per week, whilst not reducing salary levels. As a result, this has the effect of
increasing the hourly rate of pay,

Part-time contracts will be reduced by the number of hours currently paid for meal
reliefs. Where an existing part-time contract is for more than 36 hours per week
(35 hours per week in London) the individual should be offered the opportunity

to move to a full-time net hours contract wherever possible.

Part-time staff who, on rotation of duties, currently have constant gross hours per
week will move to constant net hours per week with their revised contracted net
hours being based on the average number of net hours in their current duty rotation,
rounded up to the nearest half hour.

Shorter Working Week

6.2.1.

622

It is agreed that the length of the working week will be reduced by one hour for all
full-time Postal Officers, Postal Assistants, Retail Assistants and Customer Service
Advisors working in Branch Offices.

The overall effect of these two changes to contracted hours is to bring the

full working week to 35 hours inside the London Weighting area, and 36 hours
elsewhere. This will be introduced with effect from 1 July 2001 as part of

the revisions in each Branch Office necessary to align duties to the terms and
conditions that form this agreement.
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo00000093

6.3. Flowthrough of Changes to Contracted Hours into Hourly Pay Rates

63.1.

6.3.2.

The reduction to the number of hours paid in a working week will automatically flow
through into the hourly pay rate for both full-time and part-time staff. This will have

the effect of increasing hourly rates by approximately 17% and on the maximum of

the scales will have the following effects net of counter allowance:

Postal Officer CSA Zone 1 CSA Zone 3
1.4.01 1.7.01 1.4.01 1.7.01 I 1.4.01 1.7.01 I 1.4.01 1.7.01

National £7.08 £826 £600 £7.00 £5.02 £586 £642 £7.49
Inner London £849 £9.95 £7.38 £8.65 £637 £746 £7.81 £9.15
Outer London £7.093 £9.29 £683 £8.00 £581 £681 £7.26 £8.50
Hotspots £5.30 £618 £6.70 £7.82

No current part-time member of staff will be financially disadvantaged by the
introduction of this contractual change, i.e. the gross pay for their new contractual
hours will not be less than their current gross pay, consequently there will be no
negative impact on reckonable pay for pension purposes.

6.4. Overtime/Premium Payments

64.1.

642.

It is agreed that the current arrangement of a premium rate of overtime payable to
full-time Postal Officers, Postal Assistants and Retail Assistants in Branch Offices who
work in excess of their conditioned hours, and to part timers who work in excess of
the conditioned hours of full timers, will be replaced with effect from 1 July 2001 by
the following formula:

Monday - Saturday Overtime:
* Up to and including six hours over contracted full-time hours per week will be paid
at flat rate.

* Over six hours over contracted full-time hours per week will be paid at 1.33 times
hourly rate.

For Postal Officers, Postal Assistants and Retail Assistants in Branch Offices, existing
Saturday Premium multipliers remain unchanged at 0.5 of the hourly rate.
6.5.

6.43.

644.

645.

64.6.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

Existing overtime arrangements for Sundays and Bank Holidays remain unchanged.

Postal Officers, Postal Assistants, Retail Assistants and Customer Service Advisors in
Branch Offices will not be eligible for Night Duty Allowance.

As a consequence of the introduction of the above arrangements, Post Office Ltd
agrees that the future allocation of extra duty will not be on the basis of grade, pay
level or contracted hours. The principle will be to share extra duty opportunities fairly
and equally, allowing all staff to enhance earnings. All overtime above contracted
hours is voluntary.

Post Office Ltd recognise that the introduction of the contractual changes contained
within this section of the agreement will have an adverse impact on the premium
rate overtime and Night Duty Allowance earnings that some staff have grown used
to receiving. Post Office Ltd and CWU have agreed a formula for the calculation of a
one-off compensation payment to staff, based upon previous earnings levels. Details
of this formula are contained in Annex B. The compensation payments will be made
once the new duties for a Branch Office have been constructed and implemented.

Annual Leave

65.1.

65.2:

65.3.

It is agreed that the leave year should be consistently defined and operated as being
April to March. The mechanisms for the selection of annual leave will now be
standardised, and offices may deploy either of two possible means for selecting
annual leave. Offices are free to decide by a majority decision which option is used.
The two options are:

* length of post office service;
* a rotational basis, which treats all staff fairly.

Staff are entitled to take up to three weeks of their annual entitlement in the period
May to September, of which two weeks must be linked. In recognition of the fact
that many tour operators run package holidays mid-week to mid-week, leave
arrangements which match this pattern will be facilitated when this can be

planned for.

It is agreed that the only blocking off of annual leave will be during the Christmas
period when the four complete weeks prior to the week containing Christmas day
will be blocked off for annual leave purposes. When Christmas Day falls on a
weekend Post Office Ltd may, in the light of forecast customer arrivals, also block
off the week following Christmas Day, having first consulted CWU Headquarters.
There may be other occasions when there is a need to reduce the numbers on
annual leave.
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

6.6. Bank Holiday Credits

66.1.

6.6.2.

6.6.3.

6.6.4.

6.6.6.

All employees (full and part-time) due to work on a bank holiday will take the day
off and regardless of the number of hours they were scheduled to work, they will
not be required to make up any shortfall nor claim any balance of hours, e.g.

Monday 8.00 (bank holiday)
Tuesday Day Off
Wednesday 9.00

Thursday 8.00

Friday 4.00

Saturday 7.00

Scheduled hours 36.00

If the bank holiday had been calculated as a fifth of contractual hours (i.e. 7 hrs or 7
hrs 12 mins) as has happened in the past, then the employee would have had to
make up the shortfall over the week. However, under the new arrangements, the
shortfall is disregarded, and the employee is only required to work the remaining
scheduled hours — 28 hours in the example above. That is, everyone follows their normal
scheduled duty of the whole week with the bank holiday being another day off.

If a scheduled duty has a shorter attendance on a bank holiday than fifth of
contractual hours then the opposite applies — in other words the employee does
not claim back the difference between the scheduled attendance and a standard
day (fifth contractual hours) and is effectively losing under these circumstances.
However, in most cases the majority of staff are seen as benefiting from the
arrangements and over the course of a year, the probability will be that most
will gain rather than lose.

Full-time employees whose scheduled day off coincides with a bank holiday
have the choice of two options:

1. A day in lieu that can either be added to the annual leave card or moved to
another convenient time (such as the following week) if operationally possible.

Or

2. Overtime can be claimed at normal rate — this will be ‘Ath of the weekly
contractual hours.

Part-time staff who have more than one day off each week should be treated equally
to full-time staff and are entitled to 4th of weekly contracted hours in lieu or
overtime as detailed above.

Days off should not be changed deliberately to avoid paying overtime or days in lieu.
6.7.

6.6.7.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

For employees who are on annual leave over a bank holiday the following
arrangements apply:

If the employee is on annual leave for the whole week then only four days should

be shown on their annual leave card, with the other day being the bank holiday
absence. In the case of part-time staff, then only four-fifths of their contractual hours
should be shown on their card.

Retention Beyond 60 Years of Age

67.1

67.2.

67.3.

674.

675.

67.6.

6.77.

6.78.

679.

Post Office Ltd recognise the CWU desire to offer those staff who reach the
current retirement age of 60 the opportunity to work up to, but not including,
their 65th birthday.

Post Office Ltd agree that under the following agreed set of circumstances, an
individual may be retained beyond their 60th birthday. This agreement will be
effective from 1 July 2001

This agreement outlines the principles for consideration of retention of employees
beyond the normal retirement age of 60.

The agreement covers all CWU represented employees within Post Office Ltd.

The decision to retain an individual in employment will be at Post Office Ltd's
discretion and will take account of the following:

* There is no right to retention — individuals can express the wish to be considered.

* An employee must be assessed as capable and efficient by Personnel and the line
manager based on their performance, conduct and sick absence record.

* It must be compatible with overall manpower and career planning requirements
within Post Office Ltd and other Consignia businesses. Employees will not
normally be retained if there is locally a surplus of staff.

Where retention is agreed, the employee may choose whether or not to take their
pension (where they are a member of a Post Office Pension scheme). Where an
individual chooses not to take their pension, they can continue to make payments
into the pension.

Where retention is not agreed, the employee has the right to appeal.

For a retained employee the performance of the individual will be monitored at
six-monthly intervals. If at any time an employee's performance shows cause for
concern, they will be given three months notice for improvement, and failure to
improve will result in the retention being withdrawn by giving the appropriate period
of notice. In these circumstances the employee has the right to appeal.

The process for retention is shown diagramatically at Annex C.
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

6.8. Part-Time Staff

6.8.1. Both Post Office Ltd and CWU remain committed to the use of part-time staff, as
one means of addressing the fluctuations of demand at Branch Office counters.
Current practice is that part-time staff are conditioned to a range of weekly hours,
varying from one half-day attendance up to almost full-time. These two extremes
are each undesirable for a range of reasons, and it is therefore agreed that in future
new part timers recruited to work on the counter after 1 July 2001 will be
conditioned to between 16 and 28 hours net per week.

68.2. Post Office Ltd recognise the merit of CWU’s desire to see realignment of part-time
staffs’ terms and conditions. With effect from 1 July 2001:

* All salary earned for hours worked up to full-time contracted hours will be
pensionable.

* Sick pay will be based pro rata on the number of hours worked in the financial
year preceding the year in which sick pay is due*.

* Maternity pay will be based pro rata on the number of hours worked in the
financial year preceding the year in which maternity pay is due*.

* Pay whilst on annual leave will be based pro rata on the number of hours worked
in the financial year preceding the year in which annual leave is due.*

* Bonus payments will be based pro rata on the number of hours worked in the
period for which bonus was earned.

6.9. Incentive Scheme

69.1. All staff working in Branch Offices are eligible for payment through separately
negotiated Incentive Schemes.

* Where an individual has worked for less than 12 months in the preceding financial
year the calculation will be based on contracted hours. Normal sick pay limits apply
(Staff Contract Manual refers).
7.1.

7.2.

7.3.

7A.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

Duty Structure

TAA,

FeAl 2

Fal Bs

The agreed process used for putting together new duty proposals, presenting them
to the CWU and obtaining agreement following initial implementation of this
agreement, is contained in Annex D. This agreement is established against the
background of a joint desire to introduce a consistent procedure that minimises the
areas of potential disagreement.

This replaces the ‘Revised Counter and Writing Staffing Arrangements’ agreement
from June 1986, which is now superseded, although the provisions in that agreement
defining management standards in Branch Offices remain in force until such time as
alternative arrangements are agreed and implemented.

The service and efficiency enablers which apply to Branch Offices are included at
Annex E. CWU will be consulted about any new enablers that might emerge in the
future with the aim of reaching agreement at national level wherever possible.

Branch Office Opening Hours

7.2.1. CWU recognise that where necessary the Branch Office opening hours can be altered
to reflect the local trading requirements where it is advantageous to Post Office Ltd
to do so. Post Office Ltd agree that where Branch Office opening hours are to be
subject to change, the CWU will be consulted at HOA to RCR level.

Attendances

7.3.1. The minimum daily attendance is agreed as three and a half hours on weekdays,

three hours on a Saturday with lunchtime closing, and three and a half hours on a
Saturday with full day opening. These attendances will include a scheduled tea break
of fifteen minutes.

Start and End of Day Procedures

7A.

It is agreed that it is desirable to have consistent time allowances across all BOs for
opening up and putting away of tills. The following standard times are therefore
agreed for incorporation into all future duty revisions, without exception on non-
balancing days:

* ten minutes for getting a till out and preparing to serve customers;
* five minutes for preparing to start serving if the till is already out;

* five minutes for putting a till away at the end of duty, this will be time allowed for
totalling NSB volumes, logging off terminals and putting tills away, recognising
that these tasks can be performed concurrently,
75.

7A2.

743.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

Security time also needs to be taken into account in duty revisions, although the
variation in local requirements and practices makes it impossible to agree on any
standard times for this activity. The existing BOSS agreement remains in place; this
defines the method of calculating the agreed security time and in most cases it is
envisaged that the necessary time need not exceed five minutes.

For balancing days Post Office Ltd and CWU agree that 50 minutes be allowed for
end-of-day procedures and the balance. Post Office Ltd and CWU agree that this will
be jointly reviewed with the introduction of ERA.

Meal Breaks — Unpaid

75.15

75.2.

753

7586.

For a full-day attendance an unpaid meal break will be scheduled, and its duration
will be no less than 30 minutes and no more than one hour.

For a full-day attendance Post Office Ltd will aim wherever possible to schedule the
main meal break during the period 11.30 -14.30. CWU recognise that flexibility will
need to be retained so as to help meet any operational difficulties which might arise.

A full-day attendance will be regarded as a minimum fifth of full-time contracted hours.

Where an attendance is for less than a full day, but greater than five hours, it must
include a 30 minute meal break; the time spent on this break is unpaid. The only
exception to this being young workers (under 18 years of age) who are entitled

to a 30 minute unpaid break after four and a half hours work.

CWU recognise Post Office Ltd’s requirement to maintain excellent service levels over
busy lunchtime periods through the matching of staffing levels to customer arrival
patterns. Therefore, it may be desirable to minimise the number of staff away from
the counter because of meal breaks at busy periods; this can be achieved through
the scheduling of shorter 30 minute meal breaks.

During unplanned pressure periods, staff with a scheduled meal break of greater
than 30 minutes may be asked to volunteer to take a shorter meal break and be
given the choice of banking the additional hours or claiming overtime (at single rate).
In these circumstances the minimum meal break must be no less than 30 minutes.

The introduction of shorter meal breaks may create the possibility of constructing
scheduled core duties for full-time staff which include some four day working weeks
within a four week reference period, with the total hours scheduled in the reference
period being equal to four times the contracted weekly hours.
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

7.6. Tea Breaks — Paid

77.

76.1.

76.2.

763.

Post Office Ltd accept the clear principle that staff should be entitled to have

Paid tea breaks away from the counter. This agreement specifies the number of 15
minute breaks that should be scheduled into a particular attendance, so as to ensure
that staff are not required to work at the counter for an unreasonable period without
a break. These are:

Total scheduled working hours Number of paid tea breaks

Up to 5 hrs 1

Over 5 hrs 2

Where an individuals duty extends beyond 18.30 and the total hours worked is
greater than seven, they will be entitled to an additional 15 minute paid tea break.

In the light of the basic principle of this agreement that ‘Customers should be able to
rely on Branch Offices for consistent and excellent service, supported by a culture of
excellence in everything that Post Office Ltd does’, it is understood that during
periods of unexpected customer pressure tea breaks may be brought forward or
delayed.

Core duties should not contain a period of greater then two and a half hours
unbroken time at the counter either side of a meal break.

Training

771.

TID.

Post Office Ltd recognise that the current approach to counter skills training presents
difficulties for part-time staff. Currently Post Office Ltd is trialling a revised approach
to the training of part-time staff. Once this has been evaluated CWU will be
consulted about its introduction nationally.

Post Office Ltd recognise that the content and deployment of half-hour training
sessions requires improvement. Post Office Ltd and CWU agree that the half-hour
training sessions must provide branch managers with a formal means to
communicate face to face with their staff about the following:

* new counter procedures and major product changes and launches;
* local performance, including sales and service performance;
* corrective actions required to improve performance;

* key business issues.
773,

774.

Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

Publications used to support half-hour training will include Leaders Brief (referring
particularly to Focus and Sales and Marketing Workaid, as well as Courier and other
internal publications), National Training Briefs and Workaids; Local Training Briefs.
Post Office Ltd will ensure that all staff have access to the sessions through all duties
(both full and part-time) including half an hour per week for this purpose. It is the
branch managers responsibility to ensure all staff attend these sessions unless
exceptional operational difficulties arise.

Where Post Office Ltd identify that a new product launch or an existing product or
procedural change will require more than the time available in the half hour session,
arrangements will be made to accommodate this. Post Office Ltd will consult CWU.
at a national level when this situation arises.

7.8. Full and Part Time Staffing Mix

78.1.

78.2.

78.3.

CWU and Post Office Ltd agree that part-time working is in many respects a stepping
stone to full-time employment, whilst recognising that a mix of full and part-time
staff remains the most effective means of addressing the issue of delivering
excellent service to customers. The overall effect of the various provisions in this
agreement will be to create opportunities to spread flexibility much more evenly
across the whole workforce in Branch Offices. As a consequence the drive to increase
the number of part-time posts will cease, and Post Office Ltd fully accepts that one
significant effect of this agreement will be the reversing of the previous trend, to a
position over time where full-time staff constitute a majority of the workforce.

Where a future opportunity arises to increase the full-time workforce in a Branch
Office and the creation of a full-time post would not compromise service, then Post
Office Ltd undertake to remove all previous constraints on the creation of such posts
and the recruitment of full-time staff. As the first option in resourcing to a full-time
post Post Office Ltd agree that the post will be offered to existing part-timers in the
Branch Office in which the vacancy has arisen, subject to there being no outstanding
underperformance issues from the most recent appraisal. Where a choice has to be
made between individuals, and the decision cannot be made based on performance,
then the post will be offered to the most senior. If the post cannot be filled from
within the office, part-time staff in surrounding Branch Offices will be offered the
post, subject to there being no outstanding underperformance issues from the
most recent appraisal. If none are willing, then the vacancy will be resourced by

the normal means.

Asa one-off exercise, Post Office Ltd agree to identify part-time staff who would
wish to go full-time as and when the opportunity arises. Those individuals, subject
to there being no outstanding underperformance issues from the last appraisal, will
be the first option when it comes to filling future full-time vacancies. Additionally,
opportunities will be sought for existing part timers to increase their contracted
hours, where such a move is consistent with the service and efficiency needs of

the office in question.
79.

784.

785.

Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

Whenever a part-time post becomes vacant, Post Office Ltd will investigate the
Possibility of increasing the contractual hours up to and including Full Time
contractual hours, of one or more existing Part Time staff to cover the post,
before recruiting into it.

Any complaint about the local application of these agreed criteria can be raised
through the existing Grievance Procedures.

Leave Reserves

79.1

79.2.

Anew approach to the provision of reserves has been agreed, which is based on the
following principle:

* To calculate the total number of annual leave reserves required, whether they
be full or part-time, the ratio will be 1:7 of total staff, (including the branch
manager(s)), with break points at 11, 18 and 25, which will bring in 2, 3, or 4
reserves respectively.

A calculator for the precise provision for individual office reserves is at Annex F.

The above assumes that the reserve(s) is attached to only one Branch Office,
although it has also been agreed that reserves can be pooled where geographically
sensible. In such cases the provision of reserves should be calculated on the basis
of a 1:6 ratio, which would be intended to cover for both unforeseen and foreseen
absence. However, it is not the intention to introduce such an arrangement where
the Business would incur significant travelling costs.

7.10. Surplus Staff

7.10.1. Occasionally it may be necessary to move staff permanently from one office to

another. One possible example is that one office could have supernumerary hours,
whereas a nearby office has a vacancy. If this, or any other reason applies, then it can
sometimes be difficult to decide which member of staff should be the one to move.
The following procedure has been agreed in order to introduce fairness and
consistency into the decision making process.

Step1
The branch manager to talk to affected staff, outline the reasons for the move, and
seek to develop a solution acceptable to all

Step 2
Seek a volunteer — if there is more than one volunteer then the choice should be
made on cost grounds.

Step 3

If there is no volunteer, then the branch manager will need to consult the RNM who
will make the decision based on the best mix of personal and cost factors, seeking
input from the Territory Personnel Advisor as necessary. The cheapest option does
not necessarily have to be chosen where the difference in cost is minimal and there
are more compelling personal factors to be taken into account.
7.11.

7.12.

7.10.2.

Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

Step 4

An individual who does not agree with the decision to be compulsory transferred
will be entitled to a formal appeal, with CWU RCR representation, to the next line
manager who must be of a higher grade then the manager making the original
decision. The manager hearing the appeal will consider the reasons for compulsory
transfer, which must be clear, take account of personal circumstances and consider
viable alternative options presented by the individual making the appeal.

When a member of staff is moved compulsorily they will receive the payment of
excess fares and retain their terms and conditions on a mark-time basis. Because of
this, there is a cost element to the decision, although equally it is important that the
individual requirements of affected staff are established and considered

Casual/Agency Staff

7111.

7.11.2.

7.11.3.

7114.

The employment of casual/agency staff has been agreed between Post Office Ltd
and CWU and the criteria for their utilisation follow.

Post Office Ltd agrees the principle of a directly employed workforce in its Branch
Offices as its primary resourcing method. Resourcing requirements should be foreseen
and planned for. Any short to medium-term resourcing requirements should

be met through the use of temporary contract staff. Post Office Ltd will not use
casual/agency staff as an alternative to the recruitment of directly employed staff.

The primary objective is to deliver excellent customer service through the resourcing
of Branch Offices with directly employed staff, including the use of reserves. The
introduction of the Flexible Attendance System alongside revised rates of pay for
overtime enables Post Office Ltd to agree that casual/agency staff will only be used
once all other methods of staffing have been exhausted.

The use of casual/agency staff will be an option if an emergency or pressure
situation cannot be resourced by regular staffing methods. These include part-time
staff being offered the opportunity to work up to and including full-time hours and
the utilisation of overtime for all directly employed staff.

Contractual Issues

7.12.1.

7.122.

Post Office Ltd and CWU recognise that as a result of this agreement there is a need
to reduce the number of ‘atypical’ contracts of employment that are used in Post
Office Ltd and are jointly committed to the introduction of a reduced number of
contracts. Post Office Ltd and CWU aim to complete this review by 1 July 2001

As an interim measure, pending the outcome of 7.12.1 above, Post Office Ltd agrees
to cease the use of all Flexible Monthly Contracts from 1 July 2001, excepting those
for Leave Reserves.
81

9.1.

10.1.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

The new minimum standards leaflet, which details the personal standards expected of staff,
was reviewed and reissued in December 2000. Post Office Ltd recognises that some staff will
find compliance with particular standards more difficult than others, but is committed to a
training/counselling environment to assist staff in meeting the required standards. In view of
this it is expected that the use of the ‘Minimum Standards non-compliance process’ at
Annex G, which can lead to the conduct code being invoked, will be an absolute last resort.

Work previously carried out by Post Office Ltd in measuring the relative efficiencies of
Branch Offices, including assessing the viability of measuring counter, back office and
Post Shop efficiency separately, suggests there are significant differences in performance.
By adopting consistent measurement systems it is possible to ensure that improvement
opportunities are targeted in those areas that would produce the greatest efficiency
benefits. Post Office Ltd will continue development work and agree to involve CWU
throughout, and when a sufficiently robust measurement scheme has been developed,
Post Office Ltd will consult with CWU with a view to reaching agreement on its
implementation.

Post Office Ltd and CWU agree that MUTE should be both fully and consistently introduced.
A trial of the loss procedures associated with MUTE has indicated that it is no longer
necessary to require counter staff to sign the P240 in respect of certain defined losses, and
this existing requirement is therefore dropped. A review has been carried out of the losses
and gains procedures associated with Multi User Till operating, and new procedures have
been agreed and will be published as a separate document.
20

W111

121

Anumber of the limits at which point various actions are triggered have been
reviewed. These include:

* The limit below which a clerk can show a clear balance is increased from £2 to £5.

However, there is no requirement for a clerk or clerks to physically make such a
loss good, but in those circumstances the loss should be declared.

* The threshold at which three losses within three months triggers disciplinary
action is increased from £20 to £30.

* The threshold at which a loss is automatically referred to Security and
Investigation is increased from £200 to £250.

Post Office Ltd agrees to consult on a more regular basis with the CWU in future on
infrastructure issues, and in particular has proposed the following improvements in
information sharing:

* Notification of any new trials of equipment in the concept store in Barking.

* The sharing of any results of trials or research into format which may have a
bearing on the future operation or design of Branch Offices.

* Invitation to a CWU representative to be added to the membership of the Branch
Office standards group, which maintains the standards within the BO Cost model.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093
13.2.

134.

14.1.

14.2.

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

All of the changes included in this agreement will be implemented with effect
from 1 July 2001, recognising that this will require full duty revisions in every
Branch Office.

For the introduction of the Flexible Attendance System the scheduled core duties for
a Branch Office will be prepared at Territorial level by Branch Managers who will have
been fully trained in relation to the new arrangements. These duty revisions will be
forwarded to Territory Deployment Teams comprising Post Office Ltd Managers and
selected CWU Representatives for agreement. These Team Members will also have
been appropriately trained. In the event of no agreement at this level, the Duty
Revision will be referred to a nominated HOA for the Territory, and CWU nominated
RCR, for agreement at that level.

Post Office Ltd and CWU will jointly produce a communication plan which ensures
that all staff are fully informed of the planned changes and have an opportunity to
raise and get answers to questions that arise. CWU and Post Office Ltd will keep each
other fully informed on the content and timing of all planned communication on
relation to this agreement.

Any disagreements arising during the implementation of this agreement will be
addressed at HOA/RCR. In the exceptional situation where the disagreement about
implementation cannot be resolved at HOA/RCR level, it may be escalated to the
signatories of this agreement.

Once this agreement has been implemented, ie. after 1 July 2001, any disagreement
should be resolved through the existing procedural framework.

This agreement will be subject to formal joint review after one year from the date of
implementation and, according to operational experience, renegotiated where
necessary

The information listed in Annex H was provided as background to the development
of this agreement and the same data will form an input to its joint review in one
years’ time.

21
2

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo00000093

Annexes
A Flexible Attendance System ................02 22 cece eee e eee cece 24
B Compensation Payment ..............22--2- esses eee ee eect eee eee 27
C Retention Beyond Age 60 .............2.2.-. esse eee eee eee eee ee 29
DR DULUIRGVISION Siete eee e rer eee etter enn ener renter 30
D1 Branch Office Staffing Arrangements .................-22.22225- 33
E Service & Efficiency enablers ...................02 22 ee eeee ee eee 34
Leave Reserve Calculator ...............-.2-.2..--0-0e eee eee ee 35
G Minimum Standards non-compliance

process for use at Branch Offices ..................ee cece eee ee 36

Data Requirements ................-.. se ee eee eee eee e ee ee ee eeee ay/
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

ANNEX A

Background

1.

The Flexible Attendance System has been designed to increase the flexibility of Branch
Office staffing, by creating a better system for the establishment of scheduled core duties
that can be adjusted according to the predicted customer traffic flow. This is introduced
together with a mechanism for the banking of hours.

The banking of hours system creates opportunities for staff to bank additional hours
voluntarily worked and take them at quieter periods, for example mid-month or through
the option of annual leave allocation process.

Key Principles

3.

24

The main aim of flexible working is to align staffing to traffic flow to ensure customer
service is the top priority. It allows staff to work in a more consistent environment, whereby
their workload is spread throughout the month by using extra staff at peak times and
reducing staffing during quiet times.

The flexible attendance system, whilst continuing to operate on the basis of structured
core duties, can be used to balance staffing levels to customer traffic and thus generate
additional opportunities for staff to take time off when it is suitable to the individual.

The system requires managing effectively with all hours worked being credited. All staff will
be treated equally regardless of their grade or contractual status. Staff will need to
understand the key principles of flexible working and the impact this will have on the
scheduled core duties.

There are significant advantages for individuals working within this system, as they have

the enhanced ability to take time off when they want, rather than by the traditional method
dictated through scheduled duties. However, this has to be against the background of a
culture of being prepared to ‘give and take’ in order to be fully successful.

All full-time staff are liable to have their rest day varied within prescribed limits. During busy
weeks, scheduled days off may be exchanged for a compensating rest day to be taken by
the individual within agreed criteria.

It is the responsibility of the branch manager to give six weeks notice of the need to attend
on a scheduled rest day. It is the obligation of the individual to work this attendance. There
should be a clear understanding by all staff that the scheduled duties are an agreed core,
and are therefore subject to flexibility provided all individuals are given the appropriate
period of notice.

It is not envisaged that it will be necessary to vary the hours of all full-time staff from their
scheduled core duties on a regular basis. However, the precise pattern will inevitably vary
between offices depending on their size, staffing mix, and customer arrival patterns.

Part-time staff may also participate in the Flexible Attendance System.
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

How the System Works — Scheduled Core Duties

11.

Scheduled core duties are prepared in the agreed way with a maximum of five scheduled
attendances in any one week.

The duties are an agreed core to the staffing requirement of the office. They do not take
into consideration weekly fluctuations in traffic, ie. Month end. The flexible attendance
system allows these core duties to be adjusted according to traffic flow, while still
maintaining continuity.

Under this scheme, full-time staff will have a liability to be scheduled to work the equivalent
of one full day over and above their weekly conditioned hours. In these circumstances it is
important that duties are organised in time to give notice to staff. Therefore, at least six
weeks notice will be given of the hours of the additional day and hours of attendance that
an individual is required to work in a particular week.

If a member of staff would prefer a certain day as their compensating day off in a particular
week, then they will be required to give the branch manager at least six weeks notice of that,
so that duties can be formulated to accommodate it.

A compensating day off for working a rest day must be taken within four months and can
be linked to a scheduled rest day. Where a compensating day is gained through working a
Saturday, it may be taken on a Saturday if the individual opts to do so. Staff wishing to
reclaim surplus hours worked will be permitted to do so on a like-for-like basis.

How The System Works — Banking of Hours

16.

Despite having scheduled core duties in place, it is still necessary to retain the ability to
accommodate unforeseen circumstances. This will be achieved through the operation of the
banking of hours system, with individuals performing additional hours over and above their
contracted hours on a voluntary basis, and being compensated through time off or the
payment of overtime, the choice being made by the individual.

One effect of the flexible attendance system will be to reduce significantly the reliance on
month end pressure overtime, by the diversion of hours from mid-month. However, if a
member of staff volunteers to work a six day attendance at the branch manager's request in
order to cover an unplanned or unexpected staffing requirement, then overtime can be paid
rather than the banking of hours, unless the member of staff wishes to bank hours.

Members of staff may prefer to build up a surplus of hours to take additional time off for
holidays, etc. The additional hours will be taken as if they were Annual Leave and are
therefore subject to the selection process. As these days/weeks are over and above the basic
entitlement, they should only be taken once all the actual Annual Leave entitlements have
been selected, to ensure fairness.

25
20.

Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

It is important that the hours are maintained within sensible limits. At the point at which
surplus hours would otherwise exceed a total of 24, a member of staff may opt to convert
some or all of those hours into additional full days (7 hrs/7 hrs 12 minutes) off to be added
to their annual leave cards to be taken at the next annual leave signing. Those extra day(s)
can then be taken in accordance with the normal processes for authorising leave in that
office. No more than 12 additional days leave may be created by this means in any one year.

A surplus of + or - 24 hours must not be exceeded, unless it is for an exceptional reason

and a short period in agreement between the branch manager and member of staff. With
sensible scheduling and planning, a significant surplus or deficit of hours should not build
up. If this does occur on an ongoing basis, it would indicate a need to review the core duties.

Recording of Hours

21.

A time-sheet will be provided for each member of staff and updated on a weekly basis. It is
essential that the time-sheets are used in conjunction with conventional recording of duty
methods. A diary or duty book should be kept to note daily changes in attendance, and
referred to when preparing the time-sheets. It is important to keep accurate records of
attendance, and they must be available to staff at all times.

Review

22.

23,

26

The operation of a system of this type across the whole Branch Office network is a radical
departure from previous practice, and both sides agree that it will need to be jointly
monitored and reviewed if significant problems with its operation are experienced.

It is agreed that Post Office Ltd and CWU will formally review the Flexible Attendance
System one year after its introduction.
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

ANNEX B

Principles

fal.

Post Office Ltd recognise that the introduction of the contractual changes contained
within this agreement will have an adverse impact on the overtime earnings that
some full-time staff have grown used to receiving. Post Office Ltd and CWU have
agreed a formula for the calculation of a one-off compensation payment to full-time
staff based upon previous earnings levels.

Staff will be paid a one-off lump sum once new duties in line with the Flexible
Attendance System have been implemented. The new duties should come into
effect from 1 July 2001. If for any reason this is delayed in a Branch Office the
compensation for staff in that Branch Office will not be paid until after the new
duties are implemented.

Staff will be compensated at a rate of 2.5 times the amount they earned from
overtime worked Monday to Saturday and ‘nights’ under existing contractual
arrangements less what they would have earned if the new arrangements had been
in place during the reference period of 1 July 2000 to 30 June 2001. The payment
calculated using this formula will be increased by the agreed 2001 pay award, i.e:

* ((What was earned) — (What would have been earned)) x 2.5

Full-time staff

21.

Under current contractual arrangements full-time staff are paid a premium over and
above the standard hourly rate of pay as follows:

* Overtime hours worked above contracted hours Mon - Fri paid at 1.33 x hourly rate.
* Overtime hours worked above contracted hours Saturday paid at 1.5 x hourly rate.
* Night Duty Allowance paid at 1.33 x hourly rate.

From 1 July 2001

* Upto and including six hours over contracted hours per week will be paid at flat rate.

* Over six hours over contracted hours per week will be paid at 1.33 x basic hourly rate.

Pa
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

2.1.1. Compensation payment will be:

+ ((MF—(MF/1.33)*1.17)) + (S-(S/1.5)*1.17)) +(NDA—((NDA/1.33)*1.17)))*2.5)*2001
pay award.

where:

+ MF is the amount of Monday to Friday overtime earnings during the period 1 July
2000 to 30 June 2001.

* Sis the amount of Saturday overtime earnings during the period 1 July 2000 to
30 June 2001.

+ NDAis the amount of Night Duty Allowance earnings during the period 1 July
2000 to 30 June 2001

3. Part time staff

3.1 Under current contractual arrangements part-time staff are paid a premium over and
above the standard hourly rate of pay as follows:

* Overtime hours worked above normally contracted full-time hours Mon - Fri are
paid at 1.33 x hourly rate.

* Overtime hours worked above normally contracted full-time on a Saturday are
paid at 1.5 x hourly rate.

* Night Duty Allowance paid at 1.33 x hourly rate.
From 1 July 2001

* Up to and including six hours over normally contracted full-time hours per week
will be paid at flat rate.

* Over six hours over normally contracted full-time hours per week will be paid at
1.33 x basic hourly rate.

az. Compensation payment will be:

© ((MF—(MF/1.33)*1.17))+(S—(S/1.5)*1.17)) +(NDA—((NDA/1.33)*1.17)))*2.5)
*pay award.

where:

* MF is the amount of Monday to Friday overtime earnings at premium rates
during the period 1 July 2000 to 30 June 2001.

* Sis the amount of Saturday overtime earnings at premium rates during the
period 1 July 2000 to 30 June 2001.

* NDAis the amount of Night Duty Allowance earnings during the period 1 July
2000 to 30 June 2001.

28
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

Retention Beyond Age 60 ANNEX C

( Employee )
reaches age 59

7 Y :

(Manager confirms they»)
\ want employee to remain /

Personnel Advisor confirms
\__ manpower planning implications

7 y

(Write to employee inviting >)

{application for retention)

x

Does
—employee apply for >
retention?

_— NS

Obtain report on employee's
capability, conduct, performance
and sick absence )

Personnel Advisor makes
decision in consultation with)

7

Follow the
retirement procedure _/

line manager
Ne % a
. / Reasons for decision »\
aioe Sn I explained verbally to
Yes —<— Retention agreed? Nom Cmmpioyee. CWU RCR
— \ notified, /
Employee advised and > See note 1 -
I notified of variation to terms I Does employee
\ and conditions yy, ~wish to appeal?
on ‘

Individua's performance, y
conduct and sick absence I
reviewed every six months with eemniouee — —_e- y
reference to manpower plan_/ jppeal in per 9 /
\ Dy “

Yes Y Y Ne

in /- Decision taken ata higher
_-“‘s continued Yes I level than previously. Notify I
__<" “retention 9 > employee and union. /
appropriate? See notes ——_____—
4 a
NW No 283
Reasons for decision as ———
explained verbally to Does employee yg yo Follow the hae
‘employee and three months “wish to appeal? \ retirement procedure
\ notice given a

Notes

1. Where it is considered that an application for retention over 60 cannot be granted the appropriate CWU RCR will be informed,

2. Employees may be accompanied at appeal interview by a CWU RCR or colleague.

3. Employees must register their intention to appeal within 5 working days of receiving the decision and the appeal must be
resolved within another 15 working days.

29
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

ANNEX D

Principles

1

1.10.

All duty revision consultation will take place within the principles and procedures laid
down in the Industrial Relations Framework Agreement, the Procedural Agreement
Framework, and the Staffing Agreement.

At all times both parties must be driven by the objective of seeking to reach an
agreement which best serves the interests of the business and its employees.

It is in the interests of good business that both parties are kept up to date and well
informed, and this will require a sharing and exchanging of all information relevant
to any duty revisions.

Formal proposals put forward by either party must be given serious consideration by
the other. They should never be rejected out of hand, but in all cases where they are
not acceptable a formal reasoned response must be given

There will be full and comprehensive discussions with a commitment to staff offices
to provide excellent customer service, with no preconditions or preconceptions by
either party without this agreement.

There must be a determination to reach agreement in local discussions.
Disagreements will not be registered until all avenues of resolution at local level have
been fully and genuinely explored.

The manager involved in local discussions must be fully empowered to negotiate,
be free to make decisions, and where necessary agree changes to proposals with the
overriding objective of reaching agreement wherever possible.

Duty revisions should not be introduced by executive action until the procedures
outlined in the Procedural Agreement Framework have been exhausted.

Duties will be drawn up so that staff of all grades have an equal opportunity to work
on Saturdays.

As a consequence of the changes introduced by this agreement, duty revisions will
only be necessary where:

* new business is acquired;
* existing business is lost;

* there are regular ‘quality of service’ failures necessitating the realignment of
staffing to customer traffic;

* there is a change to opening hours.

In addition to meeting the terms of the new Staffing Agreement, duties will not be
drawn up on the basis of Branch Managers working on the counter or performing
back office work that is appropriate to Postal Officers, Retail Assistants or CSAs.
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

2: Information to be Provided

21

22.

23.

It is agreed that the data listed below will be submitted for duty revisions:
+ Mystery Shopper data.

* Service and efficiency team report/audit.

* Mid and month end Horizon MIS desktop reports (clerks graph).

* WTMS 20 week print out (where available).

* Horizon MIS counter serving hours used and required.

* Comprehensive existing duties (line charts, rotations, etc.).

* Contractual status of all employees (including contracted hours).

* Any identified increase/decrease or major change on workload,
i.e. Giro business customers.

* Current/new opening hours of the office.

* Balance of staff (for 13 week period).

* Hours spent on the counter by the branch manager in the previous three months.
* Customer Advisor usage including number of hours.

* Details of hours banked and rest days changed under the Flexible Attendance
System in the previous 3 months.

* Analysis of overtime worked by individuals for the same period.

* Proposed duties (fully completed line charts).

This information will be provided along with a short covering note explaining the
reasons why the changes are necessary and giving reasoned arguments to support
the proposed duties.

Duties will be constructed fully taking into account the components contained in the
model at Annex D1

3. Service and Efficiency Team Audit Visits to Branch Offices

3.1.

When the Service and Efficiency Team visit a Branch Office to conduct an audit as
a preliminary to the drawing up of new duty proposals, then the appropriate CWU
representative, in the spirit of ensuring access to all relevant information, will be
given advance notice of the visit, and will be afforded the opportunity to attend the
office at that time.

31
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

Consultation with Staff

Al

In order to gain support for any changes in duty arrangements and to enable them
to get a better understanding of the workings of the office, it is agreed that an
essential part of consultation with the CWU involves allowing time and access for the
CWU representative to visit the Branch Office and seek the views of the staff on any
duty proposals.

Timescales

5.1.

5.2.

53.

Both Post Office Ltd and the CWU are committed to processing duty proposals as
speedily as possible. To facilitate this all the information listed at 2.1 above will be
presented in a standardised form and associated with the initial proposal.

It is recognised that the CWU representative will need to study the information
provided, consult with the staff, and if necessary draw up counter-proposals, prior
to beginning local discussions with the manager. Planning and timescales will allow
for this.

Timescales will be a matter for consultation and not imposition, taking into account
the facility time available for CWU representatives, the number of ongoing duty
revisions, the size of the office and the availability for meetings of the relevant
manager. However, the timescales must always be driven by the need for prompt
resolution, with the overall objective of completing the process for reaching local
agreement (Procedural Agreement Framework paragraph 4) within 14 working days.
Any unreasonable delays will be unacceptable.

Application of this Annex

61.

It must be clearly understood that this Annex is concerned with the process of
reaching local agreement on duty revisions. It is expected that the principles and
procedures of this Annex are adhered to and that as a result disagreements will
be exceptional. However, should they occur they will be dealt with through the
procedures for resolving local disagreements contained within paragraph 5 of
the Procedural Agreement Framework.
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo00000093
Branch Office Staffing Arrangements Annex D1
Le ey (mune) (228) (oe
\ Service \ Hours) \ 0?) \ office)
Ne net) S y CF AEE ww,
Naw ™ Facts about
EecraTce
petomenceve tends [ems {———I__pertortancs factors Pas.
thr gh dutt
ull _ - Se.
~ ~ f
(conser) (‘og (sor (2 us») (ratte) (sueou ) stone)
etH ) \ put) arrivals reports mix ) \ Advisor)
UF KE KS Ne) MY NY EY
(ono) (ous) (se) Mut ( tx (Coens) (cae ) (esa
\ ) T ) \ he ) \ ) i
e VS) \verate) \ atte) Nay, aa, Nar
\ —s a
ws = Facts about the
Who does what? I ee a Processes: a Other factors > thingsaredone _

duty ingredients
at different levels

ao a ~
= Ke ~ :
(“wer \ Union (Teinng ) (“crtce \
Wvcacties I (Resourcing) {endstat) tne (Gu )
y Sinput)—\
OF NY Ket ae
(nme (28° (sae
\ “types ) andend ) I enablers
LY RY ND
Considerations
National Agreement National Agreement _———3e_ National Agreement ——ae_joBetortores
new duties
aw
/ a
S LL = <
siatt ) A (‘cortiog —— (‘anene (28 any
\ mix A nd (Overtime } I “hours ) \ ances } ( attoned ) \ week
\ } breaks / \ hours /
VY es WF J NN,
a —
Allthe above converted I_y. Union consultation a: Cuties agree? —Yes-2= Implementation
into duty proposals aT
A
i
No

Y

Procedural Framework
‘Agreement deployed
at RCRievel

(erases
Nes

33
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo00000093

Service & Efficiency enablers Annex E

ENABLER MEASUREMENT

Head of Q manned

MUTE

Customer Advisors,

Duty Review

WTMS

Outlet service planner

Escalation process

Counter News/Work Aid
signature that they have been read

% hour training sessions,
(includes PK/Sales prompts monthly)

Mystery Shopper

Compliance certificate signed off —
reported by S&E managers

One trained in each office, also where used
and number of hours — through S&E managers

Through S&E managers

Number of offices on system — through S&E
managers

S&E managers to request evidence from one
HOA area each month

Service development ad hoc requests of
recovery plans

S&E teams to check during S&E audit/visit
Could also check deployment at Senior

Manager visits if we add to form

Via the deployment log

34
Annex F

Leave Reserve Calculator

‘AWDs RESERVE ENTITLEMENT ‘AWDs RESERVE ENTITLEMENT AWDs: RESERVE ENTITLEMENT.

RESERVE ENTITLEMENT

Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

35
Cwuo00000093

Cwuo0000093

Annex G

This process has been introduced to ensure people standards are deployed in Branch Offices. The
Process is aligned with the Conduct Code and should be read in conjunction with that document.

When a branch manager personally identifies non compliance with any of the people standards by
an individual or through management information such as Mystery Shopper, Senior Manager visit,
he/she should:

1:

Inform the person how, when and why they are not meeting any of the standard(s) and ask
for reasons for non compliance.

Remind individual of the requirements and agree appropriate actions with them to ensure
compliance is met within an agreed timescale.

If compliance is met within agreed timescale then no further action required.

If still non compliance within the agreed period then meet individual again to discuss
reasons for not meeting agreed timescale.

Agree new date for compliance and warn that failure to do so without good reason may
result in the application of the conduct code.

If compliance within agreed timescale then no further action required.

If still non compliance and no satisfactory reason can be given, then agree final compliance
date. Warn that if not met the conduct code will be applied.

If compliance within agreed timescale then no further action required.

If still non compliance within agreed timescale then proceed to counselling interview stage
of conduct code and progress accordingly.

The same process will apply for either consistent or regular non compliance.

The branch manager should make a record of discussions or interviews held and confirm actions
required to the individual in writing.
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

Annex H

Staff numbers:
— Full-time PA, PO, RA, CSA
— Part-time PA, PO, RA, CSA split>16 hours>32 hours.

Number of additional hours worked by part-time staff.

Number of hours worked Monday - Friday at premium rates by full-time staff.
Number of hours worked Saturday at premium rates by full-time staff.
Amount of NDA paid to Branch Office staff.

Staff turnover split full-time and part-time.

Days lost to sickness in Branch Offices FT/PT.

Days lost to maternity leave in Branch Offices FT/PT.

Number of staff aged 55-60.

7
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093
Cwuo00000093
cwuo0000093

Cwuo00000093

Cwuo00000093

Published by Personnel Consultancy, Post Office Lt
Designed by Communications Services
