From: David Chaplin <[GRO] @horizonscandalfund.org>
Sent on: Friday, March 31, 2023 11:11:48 AM

To: Post Office Horizon Inquiry -
Secretariat <POSecretariat@postofficehorizoninquiry.org.uk>

cc: Beaumont, Julie (Post Office Horizon
Inquiry) <[GRO] @postofficehorizoninquiry.org.uk>; Eyre, Helen (Post
Office Horizon Inquiry) <[GRO] @postofficehorizoninquiry.org.uk>

Subject: Compensation Hearing 27th April - evidence

Dear Sir Wyn,

I am Chair of the Trustees for the Horizon Scandal Fund, a registered charity (no. 1199595)
set up in 2021 to help those subpostmasters, assistants and workers who have been
affected by this scandal. The charity is primarily funded by a share of the revenue from sales
of Nick Wallis’s book, The Great Post Office Scandal. We are also in receipt of donations
from those who have become aware of this scandal and want to help.

We know dozens, perhaps hundreds of people are in need as a direct result of the Post
Office’s actions against them so the Trustees thought we should write to you in advance of
the next compensation hearing on 27 April to let you know that we continue to receive
applications from desperate individuals. This is despite assurances from the Government
and Post Office that compensation is getting through. We are a small charity so we can only
disburse modest grants, but we have helped several Subpostmasters with counselling
services, respite breaks and even funds just to pay their rent.

As you know, people are still being directly affected by this scandal in the most awful way.
Some are dying, some are only just coming to hear about it after years of living in isolation
and poverty. Some suffer in silence as they are too proud to ask for help. Some are re-
traumatised every time the matter comes up in the media. Many are tired and no longer wish
to keep fighting or advocating for their cause.Others are determined to get full redress and
find the Post Office puts up horrendous barriers against them at every step of the way. Even
now.

We thought you should know all this as part of your evidence gathering for 27 April and to
say we would be willing to help provide your team with detailed information if you felt that
would be useful. Furthermore, if anyone contacts the Inquiry in need, and you don’t think
there is anything you can do to help, please refer them to us (or give them our details). We
can agree funding for legal fees, respite breaks, counselling, medical equipment and basic
hardship grants, and we have done so many times since our launch in 2021.

Thank you

David Chaplin
Chair of the Trustees, Horizon Scandal Fund
