FUJ00232728
FUJ00232728

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

0. Document Control

Document Owner Post Office Ltd

Document Author Paul Smith (Post Office)
Steve Browell (Fujitsu)
Document Sponsor I Martin Godbold (Post Office)
Document Version I 2.2 (DRAFT)

Last Updated 25/06/2021

1. Background “

The Post Office needs to ensure that Horizon, as the co; yste used by
n

Postmasters is robust. Any Defect identified must be manage auditable
and transparent defect management process with y ect recorded
centrally. Weekly governance reviews will ensure progress’ st resolution and

/or closure of all Defects with all evidence retained ¢entrally. Branch impact
assessment, and proposed branch communicati key elements and will
be managed and tracked through this Horizo! s ‘Review forum. Branch

communication will be the responsibility of P;

2. Purpose of the Horizon Defe@i eview
The Horizon Defects Review is a
and Fujitsu and designed to manai

9) within the supplier scope
new Defect and managing a

im attended primarily by Post Office
rocess of defect management (Section
. This includes reviewing any potential
fects to resolution.

The forum will revieyea' ntial new Defects noting where responsibilities
apply to making h Post Office recording each centrally within the
Post Office Service Managment toolset, ServiceNow, and appending them to a
managed list o' efects. The Fujitsu tracking reference will be recorded and
used to clarify (jitsu is involved and to capture the Fujitsu status updates
that are bi

The izoq Defects Review will focus its time on those Defects that are new or
reflett tl finition of a Defect as defined in Section 3. Progress of all lower
im efects (As defined as excluded in Section 3) will be validated through
reportip@ updates.

Defects (as defined in Section 3) can be identified and brought to the forum
through a number of sources including but not exclusive to:

e New Live bonded Incidents that meet the definition of Defect - that are being
worked on by Fujitsu.

e New Problems that have been raised by Fujitsu and meet the definition of a
Defect.

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 2 25/06/2021 2.2 (DRAFT)
FUJ00232728
FUJ00232728

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

¢ Deferred Defects from recent RAM/RAB approvals - where approval to go live
has been granted with Defects having been deferred.

e¢ Customer Business Impact Forum (CBIF) - where the implication of Post
Office involvement brings the item within the definition of Defect.

¢ Items idenitified through Post Office Investigations on behalf of Postmasters,
or raised through other forums that are Postmaster impacting - either
financially or operationally. These items must be raised as Incidents or
Problems by all resolving affected or tracking parties.

e Changes that have been through the Post Office CAB process that®ar¢
remedying an issue which should map to an existing or closed iden’

The weekly review will track the status of every open D ey identification
to resolution. Prioritisation will be given to any Defect ie potential to
impact a branch financially.

oth, Postmasters and Post
il? ensure there is clear
ions, release notes, and

A key output of this review will be transparenc’
Office stakeholders on all open Defects. Pos
communication, helpful knowledge articl iu
business updates against progress.

3. Definition of ‘Defect’ \

A Defect is defined as an issue.tha

e Relates to the LIVE sy;
¢ Is inconsistent with tI
¢ The Horizon Defegfs R

design or service specification
scope will be those Defects that also have at

least 1 of the fo 9 pttributes:
e Affects@or has th€ potential to affect, branch financial outcomes;
¢ Affects; the potential to affect, the way a Postmaster is required
to stem (User Interface, Report, Function);

has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office

r or Client.

. iy a workaround but the underlying issue still meets the criteria above

. @ under investigation and is not confirmed to meet the criteria above
but jas attributes that meet the criteria above (a potential Defect)

Each Defect will be recorded as an Incident or Problem in the supplier service
management toolset, and will be will be logged as a Problem in the Post Office
Service Management toolset. Every Defect will be categorised and prioritised
based on potential branch impact and given a priority/severity rating (as per
table below) that indicates its propensity to occur and its impact if it does occur.

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 3 25/06/2021 2.2 (DRAFT)
FUJ00232728

FUJ00232728
Horizon Defects Review ToR &

1= Critical

2=High

3 =Moderate

4 =Low

Defect classification for inclusion in the forum excludes:

e Anything not meeting the Defect description shown above (likely to be the
following example list):

e Minor cosmetic issues affecting neither the ease of use or acgounting
performed by Postmasters
Pos'

e Issues that would not knowingly affect a Postmaste: fice
These lower level issues will be reported upon and disclos: eae basis by
the supplier to Post Office to ensure full disclosure and\cl outstanding live
issues.

4. Responsibilities Y
The attendees of the meeting will be resp le ensuring new Defects are

raised and discussed, progress on existi is tracked and reported, and
that Defects are effectively managed

4.1 Horizon Defects Revi Chair

The Post Office HM Horizon IT Pri lanager will chair the Horizon Defects
Review Forum.

4.2 Horizon Defegsts iew Meeting
The membership istj eSponsible for the following:

= Ensure tra cy, accountability and that the controls and _ risk
managemen' bust and defensible.

i entation outlining the nature, symptoms, cause and effect of

vestigated as a single update into the Incident/Problem record as

Appendix A. with updates as necessary. (Resolving party only)

updates for each recorded Defect on a weekly basis at least one

g day in advance of the meeting as a single report to the forum chair

fe absence of system integration. (Resolving party only)

* Actively participating in all discussions regarding Defects raised to the forum
including the agreement of the initial priority of the Defect scored 1 - 4
defined in Section 3.

« Understanding, documenting and making plans to investigate and rectify
Defects.

= Considering the impact of Defects, identifying current impacts and symptoms
and proposing recommended solutions.

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 4 25/06/2021 2.2 (DRAFT)
FUJ00232728
FUJ00232728

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

Post Office is additionally responsible for the following:

= Providing communication to branches, stakeholders and legal representatives
in a clear and timely manner.

= Reviewing each new Defect raised providing an overall impact scoring using
the Post Office Criticality Matrix.

= Providing information to Post Office Legal advising of new Defects and
seeking legal advice as appropriate.

5. Membership
The table below lists the core membership of the Horizon Defects nel

Organisation

Head of Service and Operations Fujitsu

Branch Resilience Manager Post Office Ltd
Head of Horizon Live Services Post Office Ltd
Senior Service Manager IT Retail Post Office Ltd
HM Horizon IT Problem Manager Post Office Ltd
BRT Operations Manager Branch Reconciliation Team Post Office Ltd
Head of Branch Operations Engagement Team Post Office Ltd

Core membersgare pe@ted to attend all Horizon Defects Review meetings or
arrange approp resentation.

The tablepel ists the optional membership of the Horizon Defects Review.

Atten@agce\by optional members will be at the discretion of the core member ofr
q ePganisation:

Organisation

Service Delivery Manager Fujitsu

Application Support & Reference Data Manager Fujitsu

Subject Matter Experts Fujitsu
CONFIDENTIAL

Commercial in Confidence Page I5 25/06/2021 2.2 (DRAFT)
FUJ00232728
FUJ00232728

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

6. Secretariat

Post Office will be responsible for taking and circulating minutes, capturing
actions centrally and sharing updates after of each meeting. The minutes will
clearly identify the Defects that are the responsibility of Fujitsu to progress and
will show the Fujitsu reference and Fujitsu provided updates.

7. Frequency of Meetings

The Horizon Defects Review will be held on a weekly basis unless demand
requires more frequent meetings. Should a new Defect be acknowledged with
clear branch impact, an extraordinary Horizon Defects Review me can be
held to socialise the issue and begin investigation and remedial action.

8. Materials
Meetings will be led using Microsoft Teams with Post Of cl Denes low as the

central record of each Defect. Each action is held iceNow as an

auditable record and updated after each meeting by tl in Defects Review
Chair.

The minutes of the meeting will also be rec ord for dissemination
to the attendees of the meeting. These n il held centrally on the Post

Office Teams Site in the defect a ‘ary maintained and managed by
di

the Branch Resilience Manager. T' ment owner is the Post Office HM
Horizon IT Problem Manager. The c

u: of the document is the Post Office
Branch Resilience Manager. A

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 6 25/06/2021 2.2 (DRAFT)
FUJ00232728
FUJ00232728

Horizon Defects Review ToR &©

9. Business Defects Process

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 7 25/06/2021 2.2 (DRAFT)
FUJ00232728

FUJ00232728

Horizon Defects Review ToR

10. Appendix A - Minimum Defect Data Set
Title Title given to the issue
Summary Brief description of the Defect
Date raised Date recognised as a Defect

Date of first Instance

Date the Defect was actually introduced

Volume of instances seen

How many times has this manifested

External (Visibility of the
Defect)

Who can see the Defect when it manifests

Symptoms (To include any
visible errors in branch)

When the Defect manifests, what is seen or experienced by the
branch or user including specific details for error messages or
screens

Problem (Defect defined)

Detailed diagnosis and description of the Defect

Solution/Workaround

Any workaround available to mitigate the Defect, any solution to
the issue proposed or understood.

1. Glossary CL
Branch The physical Post Office premises/equipment
Horizon Point of sale system utilised in branch supported/developed in
part by Fujitsu
Postmaster The manager/owner of the branch, and responsible for branch
accounting
7 The organisation responsible for providing services to Post
Supplier Office Ltd
Defect As described in Section 3 of this document.
A problem is a cause, or potential cause, of one or more
Problem incidents. Problems can be raised in response to a single

significant incident or multiple similar incidents based on trend
analysis

Bonded Incident

An incident (issue raised by or on behalf of a branch that
requires remediation) managed across both Post Office and
another supplier where the Service Now tickets are linked and
incident updates flow between both parties

ServiceNow

Service Management system tooling used for recording
incidents, changes and problems.

Knowledge Article

Electronic documentation within the Post Office ServiceNow
toolset used by Post Office to document incidents/
Problems/Known errors. This usually includes support notes.

Release Notes

Documentation provided as part of a packaged/release detailing
the content of the release.

Customer Business Impact Forum - A joint meeting led by
Fujitsu to discuss items being progressed that require Post
Office involvement in decisions relating to the solution options.

CBIF Although all new items will be discussed, some may not meet
the definition of Defect and will not be managed as per the
process defined in this document.

Release Acceptance Meeting/Release Authorisation Board - A

RAM/RAB meeting to discuss and authorise the release of impending

CONFIDENTIAL

Commercial in Confidence

Page I 8 25/06/2021 2.2 (DRAFT)
FUJ00232728
FUJ00232728

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

changes.
Change Advisory Board - A meeting to discuss and authorise
the implementation of changes.

CAB

12. Review Date
Membership and chairing arrangements will be reviewed annually.

13. Version History

Document F Document
Version Wee ns Author/Reviser

7/09/2020 Converted onto TOR template Annmarie Woodcrat

21/09/2020 V1.1 Update membership details Annmagi loot

16/10/2020 V1.2 Update membership and ri oderaft
amendments

3/12/2020 V1.3 Update - add review process ri loodcraft

14/01/2021 V1.4 Update and review following POL nnmarie Woodcraft & Paul
chairing meeting Sinith

31/04/2021 V2.0 Updated to reflect the cha Padi Smith & Martin Godbold
focus to implementaty

17/06/2021 V2.1 Paul Smith & Steve Browell

25/06/2021 V2.2 Paul Smith & Steve Browell

14. Approvals an

Document

Version Approver Name and Title

Martin Godbold — Head of Live Service

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 9 25/06/2021 2.2 (DRAFT)
