FUJ00079087
FUJ00079087

ICL Pathway Memorandum

To: Bob Booth

cc: Jeff Austin, John Dicks

From: Dave Cooke

Date: 26/02/1999

Re: POCL Infrastructure Acceptance Specification

Further to our meeting on 26" January and the letter to John Dicks of 4"
February I can now advise you of the approach that ICL Pathway propose taking
on the two outstanding issues.

Technical Documentation

Basically we agree with your proposal. Criteria 469/1 & 470/2 will be moved from
Later Acceptance to Review with the document "ICL Pathway External
Applications Procurement Policy" cited as evidence.

The abstract for this document will read: -

"This document will describe how ICL Pathway will support POCL in externally
procuring applications for use on the Horizon platform or elsewhere within the
POCL Infrastructure. Such support will include the provision of information or
documents agreed as suitable to facilitate a successful procurement. This
agreement will be determined as part of the qualification and review of the POCL
Statement of Requirement for the new application".

Criteria 469/2 & 470/1 will remain in the Review section, but will have the list of
document references reduced to those quoted in the Solution together with the
above named External Applications Procurement Policy document. This
approach will give POCL the assurance that the necessary information will be
supplied within the context of an actual Statement of Requirement, rather than
the provision of Documentary Evidence within the context of Acceptance.

OPS / TMS issue

As advised by John Dicks, there is already a specific mechanism to enable the
central element of TMS to be aware that a particular message type has arrived in
OPS. ICL Pathway is now assessing when a more generalised form, of this
process can be made available. The intention is to enable the time of arrival of
particular messages to be recorded in another message type which itself may
FUJ00079087
FUJ00079087

June 15, 1999

then be processed. This processing may comprise batch analysis of data arrival,
or may be real-time alerting of an individual message arrival. This later facility
could be utilised by OPS if there was a specific process that had to be carried
out within the normal replication interval resulting from the arrival of that
message by the central element of TMS.

It is proposed that Criterion 467/3 now be accepted by reference to the new
document "OPS/TMS Data Acknowledgement Process" which will describe the
above mechanism.

A meeting to discuss this mechanism can be arranged once this document is
available.

I have updated the POCL Infrastructure Acceptance Specification to v1.8 with the
above changes.

I trust that we can now proceed to agreement of this version.

Regards,

Dave Cooke
