FUJ00225310

FUJ00225310
From: Jenkins Gareth Gl[/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=Gareth.Jenkins]
Sent: Tue 02/10/2012 8:45:54 AM (UTC)
To: Davidsgn.Jamest GRO. Phillips
Edward:
Ce: Thomas Penny!
Subject: I RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Thanks both for a rapid response

V'll copy you in on what I send Jarnail.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

ey Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Davidson James

Sent: 02 October 2012 09:45

To: Phillips Edward

Cc: Jenkins Gareth GI; Thomas Penny

Subject: Re: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Ok Gareth, please go ahead

Sent from my iPhone

Gareth

1. Fine to mark this Commercial In Confidence and “Legally Privileged” [note spelling...] but worth
asking Mr Singh what he proposes to do with the report as legal privilege will be lost if he sends
it to the other side.

2. Otherwise I couldn’t see anything in your latest document that caused me concern.

Ed

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 02 October 2012 09:19

To: Davidson James; Phillips Edward

Cc: Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
FUJ00225310
FUJ00225310

Ed / James,
V’'ve produced a draft report as requested by Jarnail (1% attachment).

I would like to send it to him asap so as he can confirm whether or not it meets his requirements (and if
not what else he wants covered).

Please can you confirm that from a Legal / Commercial perspective I’m not saying anything I shouldn’t.
Have I got the correct wording in the doc headers and footers?

Is it OK to get this document registered and put into our Document Management system so that it has a
proper Reference Number?

The Referenced Documents are all either produced by POL, documents we have already shared with POL
or a Witness statement which has been presented to court and so presumably is Public Domain.
Presumably that is OK. I’ve attached copies of the Fujitsu docs in case you want to look at them.

Thanks

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

FUJITSU

http: //uk fujitsu.6
s&s Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 01 October 2012 15:10

To: ‘Jarnail A Singh’

Cc: Thomas Penny; Hugh Flemington; martin smith; Davidson James; Phillips Edward
Subject: RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Dear Jarnail,
Attached are the two existing reports I mentions regarding Horizon and Horizon Online Integrity.
V'll try and produce a further short report addressing your specific points below in the next few days.

Hopefully that will cover off your requirements.

Regards

Gareth
FUJ00225310

FUJ00225310

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
Tel Hi

http://uk. fujitsu.com

ss Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Jarnail A Singh [mailto:
Sent: 01 October 2012 12:05
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Thomas Penny; Hugh Flemington; martin smith
Subject: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Dear Mr Jenkins

Welcome from your annual leave and your assistance advice in the past prosecution
cases and I understand you are assisting my colleagues at present. I need your urgent
assist judge has this morning ordered the prosecution to have the following report
ready to be served within Seven days.

On advise Post Office Limited have appointed one of their investigators, Helen Rose as
disclosure officer dealing with Horizon challenges. She has prepared a document/
spread sheet detailing all such cases, past and present, approximately 20 in total,
although none thus far successfully argued in court. Post Office limited have been
advised to obtain, an experts report from Fujitsu UK, the Horizon system developers,
confirming the system is robust. Post Office Limited maintain the system is robust, but
in light of adverse publicity, from legal viewpoint is that defence should be given
opportunity to test the system, should they still wish to do so, on consideration of our
report.

You will need to consider the Disclosure officers document/spread sheet(see
attachments) and need to address in your report the following issues:

1) A description of the horizon system (In laymen’s' terms so that a jury can understand
what it is and what it does)

2) A declaration that it has yet to be attacked successfully.

3) A summary of the basic attacks made on the system concentrating on any expert
reports served in past cases. If there are none then state that no expert has yet been
found by any defence team civil or criminal to attack the system. (at the moment there
seems to be little more than griping by defendants that the system must be at fault
without saying how)

4) Plainly, like all accounting systems, there is room for human error (Keying in wrong
amounts etc) are you able to state that innocent human error is unlikely to produce the
types of discrepancies of many thousands of pounds over many months.

If you require any further information or wish to discuss please do not hesitate to
contact me.

Regards
Jarnail Singh

FUJ00225310
FUJ00225310

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email
from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT,
LONDON EC4Y 0HQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ
with the registered company number 02154540

