To: Paula Vennells
Ce: Mike Young

Re: Executive engagement into Post Office
Dear Paula,

I thought the timing was appropriate to write to you and inform you of our plans and
objectives for the account and take the opportunity to introduce the two senior
executives appointed to support your business and lead on behalf of Fujitsu.

As you are aware Fujitsu is a business critical supplier to the Post Office and has been
so for over fifteen years.

The Post Office appears to me as a unique company with social and public sector
responsibilities combined with objectives to grow and develop as a private sector
business. This combined with the separation from Royal Mail Group and Government
plans for mutualisation the required restructuring and transformation must present
formidable challenges.

Back in August 2010 I attended a video conference with your predecessor David
Smith. Amongst other important matters, a paper previously submitted to David was
discussed and endorsed. The brief document set out the principles of working jointly to
explore the mutual benefits of developing our existing Horizon on Line contract to
ensure future alignment to the Post Office strategic plan. We envisaged that through
this process the Post Office will be much better positioned to undertake its
transformation and restructuring programmes on a significantly reduced time frame
with the added advantages of achieving business benefits earlier, at lower risk and at a
significantly reduced cost.

To support this initiative Fujitsu has proactively invested in the development of a
compelling proposal through a dedicated team working out of our Centre of
Excellence in Slough. Our intention is to present our proposition to you in early March
and gain your agreement to a period of exclusivity and joint working with the objective
of signing a new agreement by May 2011.

To facilitate this Fujitsu have assigned two senior executives, both known to your
teams; Stephen Long, Business Unit Director has the responsibility for the running of
the Post Office Account and Charles Matcham Senior Responsible Industry Executive
who has been appointed to take charge of future Strategic Engagements.

Stephen Long is (Short elevator note about Stephen etc)

Charles Matcham operates at board level is an industry specialist with extensive
experience in advising, developing and leading innovative, large scale commercially
driven and business outcome based solutions, including large scale ITC programmes,
business transformation and outsourcing contracts across both Private and Public
Sectors.

FUJ00174419
FUJ00174419
FUJ00174419
FUJ00174419

Charles will be in contact with your office to arrange a meeting to further discuss these
in initiatives. I look forward to an even closer and highly collaborative working
relationship between our organisations.

Yours faithfully

Duncan Tait
