FUJ00156645
FUJ00156645

From: Jenkins Gareth
GI[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GARETH.JENKINS]
Sent: Mon 01/10/2012 11:52:57 AM (UTC)
To: Thompson Peter:
Cc:
Subject: | RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
All,
Help please.

I’ve had a look through the attachments on Jarnail’s email and it isn’t at all clear exactly what he wants. | suspect he
wants a further report explaining why Horizon Integrity is OK. | had hoped that somebody would have sent him the
report | produced on this for Dave Smith 3 years ago (ARC/GEN/REP/0004) while | was on leave.

However before | contact Jarnail | need some guidance as to how this fits into my priorities. Should | drop everything
else and concentrate on keep Jarnail happy (one extreme) or should | wait for a CP to be raised and processed before |
start (the other extreme) or more likely, some in-between course,

As a matter of courtesy, | would like to get some response to Jarnail today at least indicating what we (I) propose to
do.

I'd appreciate some urgent guidance. Until | get some | shall do nothing further on this other than send a holding
email to Jarnail at around 17:00 if I’ve heard nothing by then.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

FUJITSU

http://

ch Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 01 October 2012 12:13

To: Thompson Peter; Pritchard Howard

Cc: Newsome Pete; Jenkins Gareth GI; Davidson James
Subject: FW: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
Importance: High

Please be aware of this urgent request from POL legal team; guidance will be required.
FUJ00156645
FUJ00156645

From: Jarnail A Singh [mailto:
Sent: 01 October 2012 12:05
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Thomas Penny; Hugh Flemington; martin smith
Subject: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Dear Mr Jenkins

Welcome from your annual leave and your assistance advice in the past prosecution cases and I
understand you are assisting my colleagues at present. I need your urgent assist judge has this
morning ordered the prosecution to have the following report ready to be served within Seven
days.

On advise Post Office Limited have appointed one of their investigators, Helen Rose as disclosure
officer dealing with Horizon challenges. She has prepared a document/ spread sheet detailing all
such cases, past and present, approximately 20 in total, although none thus far successfully argued
in court. Post Office limited have been advised to obtain, an experts report from Fujitsu UK, the
Horizon system developers, confirming the system is robust. Post Office Limited maintain the
system is robust, but in light of adverse publicity, from legal viewpoint is that defence should be
given opportunity to test the system, should they still wish to do so, on consideration of our report.

You will need to consider the Disclosure officers document/spread sheet(see attachments) and
need to address in your report the following issues:

1) A description of the horizon system (In laymen’s' terms so that a jury can understand what it is
and what it does)

2) A declaration that it has yet to be attacked successfully.

3) A summary of the basic attacks made on the system concentrating on any expert reports served
in past cases. If there are none then state that no expert has yet been found by any defence team
civil or criminal to attack the system. (at the moment there seems to be little more than griping by
defendants that the system must be at fault without saying how)

4) Plainly, like all accounting systems, there is room for human error (Keying in wrong amounts
etc) are you able to state that innocent human error is unlikely to produce the types of
discrepancies of many thousands of pounds over many months.

If you require any further information or wish to discuss please do not hesitate to contact me.
Regards

Jarnail Singh

prosecution Lawyer

one sok oe sok sees

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
0HQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the
FUJ00156645
FUJ00156645

registered company number 02154540

JERI IAI ISI SI IAI III II IIA III IIIA IDI I AI IASI ADI IIIA I ISOS SISO ISOS IA.
