FUJ00122283
FUJ00122283

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 03/08/2006 15:34:04

To: Pinder Brian [/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=PinderB]

ce: Sewell Peter (FELO1) [/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=SewellP]
Subject: RE: First draft Statement of Gareth Jenkins (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Attachments: 6803.STATEMENT_1180744.DOC

Brian,

I've had a go through this. It isn’t a complete witness statement and I won't have time to sort out the outstanding bits for a
while. I think we probably need to get the detailed analysis done before this can be completed.

I'm happy for you to send it as it is to Stephen if you like, but you may decide it isn't complete enough for that. Also I may
be able to research some of the areas (such as Auditing) that I'm claiming ignorance of if that is required.

I'm in London tomorrow, but back on Monday.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect
Post Office Account

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virustree.

From: Pinder Brian

Sent: 02 August 2006 17:23

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1)

Subject: FW: First draft Statement of Gareth Jenkins (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Gareth

Please see attached for your info / action

Any problems please let myself or Peter S know.
Many thanks

Regds Brian

From: Stephen Dilley [mailto:Stephen.Dille
Sent: 02 August 2006 13:30
To: Pinder Brian
FUJ00122283
FUJ00122283

Subject: First draft Statement of Gareth Jenkins (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Dear Brian,

I refer to our previous correspondence and attach the first version of a draft witness statement and
Exhibit for Gareth Jenkins. This is designed to:

1. Explain what Horizon is; and
2. Comment on Mr Castleton's allegations about the Horizon system.
Iam preparing a separate statement for Ann (to follow shortly) which will deal with the call logs.

Please can Gareth have a look at the first draft, make any changes he feels are appropriate and
also answer my questions in bold italics. Once 1 get feedback from Gareth, I will then revise the
statement with Counsel.

I look forward to hearing from you or Gareth as soon as possible.
Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

for and.on behalf.of Band.Pearce LLP
DDI: aoe :
Main office phon:

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and
protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If
you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is
prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce
LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
0C311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond
Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.
