FUJ00219629
FUJ00219629

Subject: FW: Legally Privileged: Known Error Log [BD-4A.F1ID26896945]

From: Newsome, Pete

Sent: 17 January 2018 15:29:30 (UTC+00:00) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London
To: Bansal, Steve (BRA01)

Ce: Jay, Christopher

Subject: FW: Legally Privileged: Known Error Log [BD-4A.FID26896945]

Steve

1am in Bracknell tomorrow can we discuss, I really don’t want to supply all the KELs information and we need to build
an argument as to why not.

Pete

Pete Newsome
Account Manager
Post i

Fujitsu UK&l

Web: uk.fujitsu.com

I £I¥inIe\c-

Responsible Business gun

of the Year

\-CIO: Global Intelligence for the ClO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup

hv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Amy Prime
Sent: Wednesday, January 17, 2018 1:56 PM
To: Newsome, Pete ¢ — me

Cc: Lenton, Matthe GRO
Legal (Chris Jay,)
Subject: Legally Privileged: Known Error Log [BD-4A.FID26896945]

ndrew Parsons { “} Defence

Pete

Freeths have asked if it is possible to provide Jason Coyne with all of the KEL entries (current and historic). They
FUJ00219629
FUJ00219629

have not yet provided an explanation as to why all of them are required (and we will be querying this) but it would be
of assistance if you could clarify the technical limitations of extracting the KEL.

My current understanding is that the KEL is hosted on proprietary software so the entries would only be in a readable
format if you have a copy of the software, otherwise it is necessary for screenshots / printouts of each entry to be
provided by FJ. Further, each entry comprises of multiple tabs (i.e. 1 KEL entry may require 4 or 5 screenshots to be
provided) so producing the screenshots is a labour intensive task.

Please could you confirm:

1.

2.
3.
4.

the above is correct and any other limitations you can foresee in providing the KEL to Jason Coyne;

an estimated time to produce screenshots of all KEL entries;

what software the KEL requires and who owns this software; and

whether it would be possible for either Freeths or Jason Coyne to obtain a copy of this software and the KEL
to be transferred to them.

If it would be easier to discuss the above, please feel free to call.

Kind regards

Amy

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Please con

~ womblebonddickinson.com
)) WOMBLE
BON

OND
DICKINSON in)

ler the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and am
this e-mail and any attachments. If you
dissemina

Any files attached to this e-mail will have beer
loss or dama

achments is confid

e not pete newsom

or copying of this eom

pete newsomd” ly is authorised to access
Tas soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,

ful

ally privileged and pi

notify amy.primd

achments is prohibited

on, distribution, publica

hecked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening ar

be caused by softwa

e which ma

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office

is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT

Womble Bond Dickinson (UI
services in the US, the UK,
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bon

pen to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or a

employee

LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
round the world, Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separat

Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited does not prac

nd elsewhere al entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor

ce law, Please see

saw. womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Reg

lation Authority
