FUJ00232498
FUJ00232498

HSRF SUMMARY REPORT ON SERVICE REVIEW FORUMS

MONTH: April 2002

Items headed Issues Escalated_will be discussed under the agenda item

REFERENCE DATA

General

.

RDORF Venue - With the future de-commissioning of Wolverton Mill,
from the beginning of the 2002/2003 financial year, the RDORF is trialling
the new Video Meetings service, as a cost saving measure. The
contingency plan, if the Video Meetings service is unsuccessful for any
reason, is to rotate RDORF meetings between Farnborough, Bracknell,
and Chesterfield.

Icons — Following the joint review on 14th February, a revised draft
version of the Horizon Icon Service Description was produced by ICL
Pathway (v0.5). POL has some outstanding issues, (primarily
commercial), and so a final meeting has been scheduled for 27th March,
with senior commercial decision makers requested to attend from both
businesses. The S 11 R software release, which includes outstanding
country flag scales icons, is due to be implemented on 12 March 2002. A
report on the benefits of Web Riposte from ICL Pathway should be
available shortly; it is believed that this will include mention of a potential
future service improvement for icon delivery.

Rework - The 16.8% of Product rework files received in the ICL Pathway
RDMC during February, was higher than the 11.4% rework figure for
January. The main cause of Product rework during February was an RDS
fault, which was fixed within the same month, but which will also have a
knock-on effect on March rework figures. Outlet rework fell from 7.3% in
January to 4.4% in February. The overall number of Outlet rework files
continues to remain low. POL are enhancing their internal monitoring of
rework, to facilitate a more helpful exchange of information with ICL
Pathway, at monthly RDORF meetings.

Interface Agreement - POL previously proposed the modification of the
Interface Agreement, so that it becomes an umbrella agreement,
encompassing integrated and simplified Service Descriptions and Service
Catalogues. A POL/ICL Pathway meeting is to be arranged shortly to
discuss.

OBC actual lead times - are being monitored over a two month period to
support the initiative that is looking at the possibility of reducing overall
OBC lead times.

RDS Enhancements - Version Control - currently has no revised go-live
date (RD Ops team impacting the exclusion of AP); the Reversal Flags
data-fix is now in UAT; Post Office Local Collection is now live; Network
Banking - development work on the interfaces has progressed to plan,
UAT expected end-March; Network Reinvention - a new quote has been
FUJ00232498
FUJ00232498

received from the supplier and now awaiting customer acceptance; Retail
Line Review Data Fix — ‘Segmentation’ set up as a project and a new
quote has to be obtained from the supplier; Network Banking Engine (IBM) -
development work on the interfaces has progressed to plan, UAT
expected end-March; Archive Non Core Data — specification out for
internal review; the remainder of the RDS work-packages are on hold.

ICL Pathway Monitoring/Reporting Enhancements for Reference Data
— POL have received ICL Pathway’s initial investigations into a possible,
more cost-effective solution variant, and will be discussing them in detail.
Network Banking - This is being supported, discussed and monitored by
the RDORF.

RDORF Terms of Reference — The recent POL draft TOR will be used as
a template by ICL Pathway, for the purpose of consistency with the other
TORs. The updated RDORF TORs, are to be circulated via the Library
system, for formal review. The updated RDOT/ICL Pathway OLA will be
sent out for formal review, (with the author’s response to previous review
comments), before the next RDORF.

PROBLEM MANAGEMENT

General

Orange Mobile Top ups - both parties agreed that the problem was dealt
with efficiently, once it had been identified. ICLP had misunderstood
POL’s issue regarding the time it took them to flag it up as a problem. Eric
Hillier agreed to investigate and report back at the next meeting
accordingly.

Quantum cards (Screen Freezes) - this continues to confound. The
diagnostics from the S10 download failed to identify or prove anything new
regarding this problem. ICLP continue to update the database with the
number of calls received on this topic and SSC (ICLP technical) are still
investigating. It was acknowledged that whilst the number of incidents was
not significant in terms of volume, impact on those affected was serious.
ICLP assured POL of their commitment to resolving the issue.

New Service Improvement Opportunities

POL advised that the structure of Problem Management was (along with
the rest of BSM) currently being changed due to reviews affecting all of
BSM and POL alike. Julian white outlined the major changes planned in
Operations and agreed to share the organisation charts once these started
to take shape. The main point made was that the relationship and
processes in respect of POL / ICLP remained largely unaffected. ICLP
confirmed that they were also going through an organisational change but
processes would be virtually unaffected by this. Both sides agreed to keep
each other updated on developments as they arose.

POL informed ICLP of the temporary change regarding who is leading
Problem Management for POL. Kevin Lenihan has been seconded to the
development team, to lead on Network Banking work and Julian White will
cover until a replacement has been appointed.
FUJ00232498
FUJ00232498

BUSINESS CONTINUITY

General

e Network Services business continuity plan and proposal to mitigate the risk
of Energis failing - the forum were unable to come to a formal agreement
on this as ICL Pathway preferred to provide a considered response having
first consulted with their Development and Commercial teams.

e Girobank DR gateway business continuity test - the test failed as a result
of problems at Girobank’s end. ICL Pathway do not want to re-test as they
have fulfilled their obligation - POL agreed to take this matter up with
Girobank’s Business Continuity Manager.

e Network Banking - possible changes to the Business Continuity Framework
have been highlighted. This was discussed as an operational issue rather
than contractual.

e The issue regarding possible failure of Energis and their network has been
raised at a contractual level and letters exchanged between Alan Barrie
and Stephen Muchow.

HELPDESK

General

e The forum discussed late notification to HSH and NBSC of problems
anticipated regarding a software drop (notified 5:20pm Friday, problems
expected Saturday). The issue is being pursued.

e Single Point of Contact - recognised the need for robust planning for
phase 2.

e The forum agreed in principle a change to the call matrix in the Interface
Agreement - NBSC will deal with savings stamp reversal incidents.

e Information was shared about transferred calls between helpdesks. Agreed
to devise a common form to capture problems and exchange information
weekly.

e The need to be more proactive in forward planning for up and coming
events was agreed.

e Problems are being caused when auditors ask for a one shot password
“just in case” then don’t notify ICL Pathway when they don’t need it - POL
agreed to pursue.

e Incorrect Reference Data is causing problems for ICL Pathway in relation
to outbound calls for non - polling. Of 593 calls made in February 2002 69
(11.6%) had incorrect access times. Of the calls made so far in March 35
of 140 (25%) had incorrect access times (Access times, in terms of when to
phone and also when to visit outlets).

e NBSC Telephony - HSH again complained about problems with the NBSC
telephony where there have been difficulties for callers when selecting
certain options on the IVR via SPOC. This has been escalated within
POL.
FUJ00232498
FUJ00232498

IP

General

The overall service in February was good.

The TIP Operational Review Book format was again reviewed and only

requires a few minor changes. It is now established as the basis of the

monthly service review.

e The Disaster Recovery Test on 8 - 10 March was successful. TIPORF wish
to record and thank in particular Steve Gardiner, ISD, for the part he
played. It is proposed that the next Pathway & POL DR tests which are
currently scheduled separately in August & October, be consolidated.

e Incident management is still via an interim arrangement until an
NBSC/HSH process can be finalised.

e Itwas decided that OPTIP did not require a file resend service (as required
for APS) but an ad-hoc Pathway resource service.

e A Service Improvement Proposals log has now been established, listing:
management of file rejections over system upgrade weekends;
management of rejections over normal weekend; improvement of auditor
visit process & EOD.

e A Risk Register has now been established, listing:

TIPORF inability to review & manage NWB reconciliation because TIPORF
is not fully aware of NWB implications.

e A £700k invalid barcode incident is under investigation to assess whether
ICL Pathway conformed to the TIP AIS.

.

AP

e HAPS was successfully decommissioned on 20/02/02.

e Horizon AP Client Service - On 17/01 AP Client service operating from the
non Giro FTMS experienced delays receiving their files due to an incident
raised by BT, on BT’s own network. The files were however delivered
within the OLA window.

« Horizon AP Client Service: On 22/02/02 the Girobank file was delivered
late as a result of Girobank’s Disaster Recovery test undertaken that
evening.

e CTO Service developments are proceeding to plan.

e The bank holiday reference data for Northern Ireland and also Scotland
was incorrect. This was corrected before Good Friday as this is where the
NI ref data error was.

« When the cash account reference data was sent to outlets over the last
weekend in February (23rd - 24th), the volume of data caused the system
to slow down, affecting the onward transmission of some inbound (i.e. tariff
data) client files. This impacted on ICL Pathway’s SLA performance and is
likely to do the same each year when cash account reference data is sent
to outlets.

e The status of all the AP Client OLA’s was reviewed and the following
changes were identified as being required: NBSC cover both in and out of
hours, changes to engineer response times and future changes to include
FUJ00232498
FUJ00232498

adhoc changes and file resends. It was agreed that the live clients whose
OLA had not been completed and signed off should be given priority. This
action is ongoing

¢ A list of all CRs & CCNs in progress was reviewed. No issues identified
with these as progress is good.

LOGISTICS FEEDER SERVICE

General

e Current plan for MRP - there is currently a bug within SAP that has stalled
the start of the background pilot. CHD have to get an expert in from
Germany to look at it.

e The risk register has identified that the Disaster Recover plans have not
been tested. As a result Paul Martin has taken an action to try to get them
included in the TIP test scheduled for August 2002.

« The OLA has been signed off by POL and Pathway are now waiting for it
to be sent to them for final sign off.

e There are still major concerns on both sides that the current SLA does
and will not meet operational requirements.
