FUJ00168538
FUJ00168538

From: Tait Duncan[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=TAITD]
Sent: Thur 25/10/2012 8:12:49 AM (UTC)

To: E
Ce:

; Bell Gavin} “}; Maclean

Subject: RE: Brief - Post Office

Stephen,
Sue had been called into a meeting with Paula. We are trying to reschedule

From: Long Stephen

Sent: 22 October 2012 17:11

To: Tait Duncan

Cc: Patterson Paul; Bell Gavin; Maclean Danny
Subject: Brief - Post Office

Duncan,

The proposed call between Sue Barton and yourself planned for tomorrow has been postponed until 08:30
hrs Thursday morning.

The following bullets cover the topics contained in the pre-brief for Sue as prepared by Brian Deveney.

¢ There are no issues with the Business as Usual service.

o You should expect a thank you from Sue.

e Problems with the anti-tamper facility on the Ingenico pin pads has resulted in far higher than
predicted failure rate and has led to cessation of the roll-out.

o Roll-out to about 2/3 of the +30k estate has been completed.

© Ingenico have designed a new moulding that should fix the defect as it will prevent banking
cards that are presented at an angle touching and activating the tamper mesh within the pin
pads.

o Roll-out due to re-commence Jan 13 for the remainder of the estate thus achieving PCI
compliance by Mar 13. This is acceptable to PO.

o Counters that have the defective pin pads will be retrospectively modified.

e Stephen Long departure.

o PO welcome the fact that they will be consulted during the process.

e Duration of the extension (to be called the ‘Transitional Support Services’) currently expected to be
24 months.

o We should be aware that PO expect to be negotiating from a strong position regarding the
scope of any extension. They will also want to negotiate over termination costs that are
currently payable should they choose to terminate a service early.

© We have maintained a robust position here and are waiting for PO to tell us what they want.
This is an important point that the bid team would like you to emphasise.

¢ A3% party commercial organisation (called ‘Second Sight’) have been carrying out a forensic audit
(mainly on PO processes) as part of Paula’s attempt to quash (once and for all) the class action being
taken by about 70 sub-postmasters. We have been impacted by various media reports quoting sub-
postmasters, some of whom are blaming Horizon for their financial irregularities.

o Sue will thank us for our support with this work.

e Fujitsu withdrawal from the Services Integration/Service Desk — part of the Towers procurement.
FUJ00168538
FUJ00168538

© Our decision was respected and understood by PO.
o Please ask for dates for next stages of the Towers procurement. We have submitted PQQs
but currently have no visibility of next steps.
¢  Brian’s brief to Sue refers to issues with HPBB.
o Although Milestone PM04 has been accepted (we have the acceptance certificate) actual
payment has been withheld until agreement achieved over mapping of deliverables to
project managers. Issue seems to be that we have proposed a PM who does not have telco

experience.
o This issue is expected to be resolved this week.
Please give me a call if you have any questions or require further information.

Regards,

Stephen

Stephen Long
Private Sector, UK & Ireland

Fujitsu

Web: http://uk. fujitsu.com

bt Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
