FUJ00171998
FUJ00171998

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Colin,

Holmes Jan R[/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FEL01/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HOLMESJ]
Fri 05/12/2003 10:48:14 AM (UTC)

Lenton-Smith Colin,
FW: Borehamwood

As I said to Graham, this is getting out of hand. There have been a number of 'phone conversations between Nic, Graham and I
where I have offered the temporary flag pending a decision but they have asked me to hold off. I have not had sight of the
03/11/03 email but it tends to suggest that DWP requested that data was not destroyed from that date. If that is the case and we
have been destroying the ‘evidence’ could we be in trouble?

Not what you want on a Friday.

Regards,
Jan

-----Original Message-
From: Holmes Jan R

Sent: 05 December 2003 10:44

To: ‘graham.c.ward

Cc: Lowther Neneh; Mitchell William
Subject: RE: Borehamwood

Graham,

This is rapidly getting out of hand.

I do not recall either you or Nic Samuels having asked for the temporary flag to be set so currently it is not. Under the
circumstances I shall ask for it to be set but as I said it is a temporary measure only.

Also I'm not sure what the DWP hope to achieve by threatening Fujitsu wrt destroying evidence since my understanding is that
this is being requested by the Defence and not the Prosecution. Or are DWP playing both ends against the middle.

What has to be remembered is that Fujitsu Services is a commercial organisation with a contract in place between ourselves and
the Post Office. I shall let our Commercial people know about DWP's escalation. Who do we charge our legal fees to?

Regards,

Jan

nooo Original Message- noe
From: graham.c.ward¢ GRO.

Ce: tony. r.uttin

neneh.lowther¢.

Subject: Borehamwood

Jan

For your information only at this stage. I am still waiting on the DWP to confirm that they are
prepared to meet the costs of preventing destruction of data. I have however received an e mail
(03/12/03) from the DWP (see extracted paragraphs below), which I thought you should be made

aware of.......

Please make arrangements with Fujitsu to ensure ALL Horizon
FUJ00171998
FUJ00171998

records relating to Borehamwood Post Office cease to be
destroyed. (as per my memo dated 3.11.03)

Our Solicitors are in the process of writing to Fujitsu to
highlight the legal implications of destroying evidence in this
criminal investigation.

Please contact me as soon as you have notified Fujitsu.

At this stage I presume the 'temporary flag' still stands and thus no further data is being destroyed.
Needless to say, we have responded by asking for a commitment to meeting the cost of
preventing destruction, which appears to have been ignored at this point. I do not know who the
DWP intend writing to within Fujitsu as they have not been supplied with names or addresses by
us, but would be grateful if you could send me a copy of any correspondence you may receive on
this matter.

If you wish to discuss please give me a bell
Regards

Graham

Casework Manager

Operations

Post Office Ltd Security
PO BOX 1

Croydon
CR9 1WN

2228 2 FRR A 2K A FAR A 2K RF CAR A 2 2 ER FR A ok ok aa a aaa

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete

this email from your system.
2 A RR RR AS 6 fe A RR Sf oA RR IS fe oA oe oR AR AC oe oe 2 2 RC AR oe of oo 2 aS a a a ag oe
