From: rashpal.dhest___
Sent: Fri 08/02/2002
To: Holmes Jan

Ce: hilary.stewart¢
Subject: Re: Data Centre Report - POL Distribution

Thanks for your note. I did say at the time that all audit time allocated in the

plan requires an output and whether it would be ok to produce a memo/report. I
believe that you agreed this approach on your return e:mail of 26/10/01. I would
see Mike Hannon the main recipient of this output and all the other customers are
included as part of our normal reporting requirements.

The provision of details to POL of the work undertaken was intended to provide a
high level overview of the element covered, and it was noted in paragraph 1.3 that
this was not the entire review so any assumptions as to the adequacy of control
would be ill judged. At no time have I claimed credit for this work, but tried to
show that all improvement opportunties were being actioned in the appropriate
manner by your organisation from which our management could take assurance.

In the interest of our open relationship this report has not been discussed with

anyone outside Audit. The reason why the report was sent to you first, was to get

your views as to the accuracy and level of details. As you said at the time, having
seen your processes I could have reported it immediately drawing my own conclusions
but this approach was never taken or intended, in order to foster a open

relationship.

I have been surprised by your reaction to the report. I did not think that there
were any issues that would reflect badly on your organisation. The suggested
replacement report provides no value in reporting this to management.

I will be out early part of next week, but available after that if you wish to
discuss further.

Thanks
Rashpal

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce,
copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this
in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

FUJ00171981
FUJ00171981
