FUJ00081921

FUJ00081921
To: Parker, Steve[ParkerS! ; Godeseth, Torstein[Torstein.O.Godeseth' Gareth
Jenkins[gi.jenking 7} .
Ce: Lenton, Matthew[Matthew.Lentor} J; Newsome, Pete[pete.newsome I

From: Ibbett, Dave[/O=FUJITSU EXCHANGE ORGANIZATION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINI
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=61D3A68D778E4959A5EFE06C96D]

Sent: Tue 3/5/2019 1:51:55 PM (UTC)

Subject: FW: Joint statements [WBDUK-AC.FID123822914]

Joint Statements.zip

Hi Gents,

lf you could have a look at joint statement 4 and shout if we need anyone else involved. I am assuming that statement 4 includes all
of the input we have sent in for remote access.

Regards,
Dave

From: Andrew Parsons [mailto:andrew.parson:
Sent: 05 March 2019 13:17

To: Newsome, Pete <pete.newsome:
<Dave.Ibbett! >
Cc: Jonathan Gribben <jonathan.gribben'
Subject: Joint statements [WBDUK-AC.FID123822914]

; Ibbett, Dave

}>; Lenton, Matthew <Matthew.Lento

Pete, Matthew, Dave

As part of the Court process, the experts on both sides have to meet and try to agree a joint statement on the key issues in the
case. This has resulted in them producing 4 Joint Statements. These statements are produced without the involvement of the legal
teams, hence why we haven't sent these over to FJ for comments before now.

The first statement is historic, has been superseded by events and can be ignored. The second and third statements are broadly ok,
and in places good (eg in JS3 at 3.1 Coyne admits that Horizon is robust!) so we don't need Fu's input on them.

We would be grateful for your comments on JS4 which is all about remote access and has caused us some concern. Please could
we have line by line comments on this document?

Thanks
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

: andrew.parsons!

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON Cin)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

FUJ00081921

FUJ00081921
The information in this e-mail and any a s confidential and may be legall ed and protected by law. dave.ibbett! nly is authorised to access this e-mail and any
attachments. If you are not dave.ibbet{””"~" GRO ~"Jplease notify andrew.parson{ “GRO —~}as soon as possible and delete aiiy copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution,

publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office is 4 More London

Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent
standing, Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing services in the US, the UK,
and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond
Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see www,womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
