FUJ00155420
FUJ00155420

Page 1 of 1

—s Ay —

Attachments: Standard_Fujitsu_WS_V9_Feb 2009.doc L POH-67 0

We are pleased to advise that our analysis of data covering 1 May 07 to 30 Nov 08 has been completed

The events logs have been checked for all data provided to POL as a result of the 195 ARQs which fall within
the timeframe. A total of 27 instances of concern were identified. All instances have been fully analysed and
we.can confirm that the locking was caused by contention between the EOD process and a Riposte
checkpoint being written. No transactions or balancing activities carried out at the branches were affected.

ACP has been raised to automate the event checking process and

The standard witness statement has been reviewed, and is attached. No reference has been made to the
locking issue but minor revisions have beén made.

The 4 (now 3) outstanding witness statements will be provided as soon as possible.
Please respond or call me if you have any questions or concerns.

Kind regards

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 8SN

Tel

Mob: {
Fax: I
E-Mail: b.
Web: hilp:/iuk fyjitsu.com

Fujitsu-Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW
This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are-subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

04/02/2009
FUJ00155420
FUJ00155420

Witness Statement

(CJ Act 1967, 59; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a)
‘and 58, MC Rules 1981, r 70)

Statement of

Age if under 18 Over 18 (If over 18 insert ‘over 18')

This statement (consisting of pages each signed by me) is true to the best of my knowledge and belief
and I make it knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I shall be liable to prosecution if I have wilfully
stated in it anything which I know to be false or do not believe true.

I I Dated the day of 2009 _

Signature

I have been employed by Fujitsu Services, Post Office Account, formally ICL Pathway Ltd
since DATE as an Information Technology (IT) Security Analyst responsible for audit data
extractions and IT Security. I have working knowledge of the computer system known as
Horizon, which is a computerised accounting system used by Post Office Ltd. I arm authorised
by Fujitsu Services to undertake extractions of audit archived data and to obtain information
regarding system transactions recorded on the Horizon system.

Horizon’s documented procedures stipulate how the Horizon System operates, and while I am
not involved with any of the technical aspects of the Horizon System, these documented .

processes allow me to provide a general overview.

At each Post Office there are counter positions that have a computer terminal, a visual display
unit and a keyboard and printer. This individual system records all completed transactions input
by the counter clerk working at that counter position. Clerks log on to the system by using their
own unique password. The transactions performed by each clerk, and the associated cash
and stock level information, are recorded by the computer system in a stock unit. Once logged
I on, all completed transactions performed by the.clerk must be recorded and entered on the
computer and are accounted for within the user's allocated stock unit.

I I The Horizon system provides a number of daily and weekly records of all completed

Signature Signature witnessed by

€S011A (Side A) . Version 7.0 0308
FUJ00155420
FUJ00155420

Witness Statement

(CJ Act'1967, 59; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r70)

Continuation of statement of

transactions input into it. It enables Post Office users'to obtain computer summaries for
individual clients of Post Office Limited e.g. Alliance & Leicester. The Horizon system also
enables the clerk to produce a periodic balance of cash and stock on hand combined with the
other transactions performed in that accounting period, known as a trading period.

Where local reports are required these are accessed from a button on the desktop menu. The
user is presented with a parameter driven menu, which enables the report to be customised to
requirements. The report is'then populated from transaction data that is held in the local
database and is printed out on the printer. The system also allows for information to be
transferred to the main accounting department at Chesterfield

The Post Office counter processing functions are provided through a series of counter
applications: the Order Book Control Service (OBCS) that ascertained the validi
‘order books before payment was made, this application ceased in June 2005; delete this for
data post June 05 the Electronic Point-of Sale Service (EPOSS) that enables Postmasters to
conduct general retail trade at the counter and sell products on behalf of their clients; the
Automated Payments Service (APS) which provides support for utility companies and others

Formatted: Highlight

who provide incremental in and out payment mechanisms based on the use of cards and other
tokens and the Logistics Feeder Service (LFS) which supports the management of cash and
value stock movements to and from the outlet, principally to minimise cash held overnight in
outlets. The counter desktop service and the office platform service on which it runs provides
various common functions for transaction recording and settlement as well as user access.

control and session management.

Information from counter transactions is written into a local database and then replicated
automatically to databases on all other counters within a Post Office outlet. The information is
then forwarded over ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line)or other communication
service, to databases on a set of central Correspondence Servers at the Fujitsu Services data
centres. This is undertaken by a messaging transport system within the Transaction
Management Service (TMS). Various systems then transfer information to Central Servers that
control the flow of information to various support services. Details of outlet transactions are

Signature Signature witnessed by

cso11a Version 6.0 08/06
FUJ00155420
FUJ00155420

Witness Statement
(CJ Act 1967, 89; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r70)

Continuation of statement of

normally sent at least daily via the system. Details are then forwarded daily via a file transfer
service to the Post Office accounting department at Chesterfield and also, where appropriate,
to other Post Office Clients.

An audit of all information handled by the TMS is taken daily by copying all new messages to

origin - outlet and counter, when it happened, who caused it to happen and the outcome. The
TMS journal is maintained at each of the Fujitsu Services Data Centre sites and is created by
securely replicating all completed transaction records that occurred in every Outlet. They
therefore provide the ability to compare the audit track record of the same transaction recorded
in two places to verify that systems were operating correctly. Records of all transactions are
written to audit archive media.

The System clock incorporated into the desktop application on the counter visual display units
is configured to indicate local time. This has been the situation at (INSERT PO), Branch Code
(INSERT) since (INSTALLATION DATE) when the Horizon system was introduced at that
particular Post Office.

The Horizon system records time in GMT and takes no account of Civil Time Displacements,
thus during British Summer Time (BST) (generally the last Sunday in March to the last Sunday
in October), system record timings are shown in GMT — one hour earlier than local time (BST).

tion which related to the category of

ransaction Logs, were shown in Ic

. This meant that

during the designated summer months ‘Transfer

' log entries were recorded in BST instead
of GMT and showed a one hour forward displacement in time from other transactions being

since when ‘Transfer In’ log entries have been recorded in GMT, consistent with all other

transactions being recorded in the logs. =

Signature Signature witnessed by

cesot1a Version 6.0 0908
FUJ00155420
FUJ00155420

Witness Statement
(CJ Act 1967, 89; MCAct;1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and 58, MC Rules 1961, r 70)

Continuation of statement of

When information relating to individual transactions is requested, the data is extracted from the
audit archive media via the Audit Workstations (AW’s). Information is presented in exactly the
same way as the data held in the archive although it can be filtered depending upon the type of

- (Deleted: auait data .
_- (Deleted: its origination

times from ghe point of gathering, storage and retrieval to subsequent despatch tothe ________

requester, Controls have been established that provide assurances to Post Office Internal
Audit (POIA) that this integrity is maintained.

During audit data extractions the following controls apply :

1. Extractions can only be made through the AWs which exist at Fujitsu Services,
Lovelace Lane, Bracknell, Berkshire and Fujitsu Services, Sackville House, Brooks
Close, Lewes, East Sussex. These sites are both subject to rigorous physical security
controls appropriate to each location. All AWs are located in a secure room subject to
proximity pass access within a secured Fujitsu Services site.

2. Logical access to the AW and its functionality is managed in accordance with the.
Fujitsu Services, Post Office Account Security Policy and the principles of ISO 17799.
This includes dedicated Logins, password control and the use of Microsoft Windows NT
security features.

3. All extractions are logged on the AW and supported by documented Audit Record
Queries (ARQ’s), authorised by nominated persons within Post Office Ltd. This log can
be scrutinised on the AW.

4. Extractions are only made by authorised individuals.

5. Upon receipt of an ARQ from Post Office Ltd they are interpreted by CS Security. The
details are checked and the printed request filed.

6. The required files are identified and marked using the dedicated audit tools.

7. Checksum seals are calculated for audit data files when they are written to audit
archive media and re-calculated when the files are retrieved.

8. To assure the integrity of the audit data while on the audit archive media the checksum
‘seal for the file is re-calculated by the Audit Track Sealer and compared to the original
value calculated when the file was originally written to the audit archive media. The

Signature Signature witnessed by
CSO11A ‘ Version 6.0 09/06

4
Witness Statement

(CJ Act 1967, 39; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and.58, MC Rules 1981, r70)

Continuation of statement of

result is maintained in'a Check Seal Table.

9. The specific ARQ details are used to obtain the specific data.

10. The files are copied to the AW where they are checked and converted into the file type
required by Post Office Ltd.

1

checked to ensure the counters were functioning correctly.

12. The requested information is copied onto removal CD media, sealed to prevent
modification and virus checked using the latest software. It is then despatched to the
Post Office Ltd-Casework Manager using Royal Mail Special Delivery. This ensures
that a receipt is provided to Fujitsu Services confirming delivery

ARQ(NUMBER) was received on (DATE) and asked for information in connection with the Post
Office at (NAME), Branch code (NUMBER). I produce a copy of ARQ(NUMBER) as Exhibit
(INITIAL/NUMBER). I undertook extractions of data held on the Horizon system in accordance
with the requirements of ARQ(NUMBER) and followed the procedure outlined above. I
produce the resultant CD as Exhibit (INITIAUNUMBER). This CD, Exhibit (INITIAL/NUMBER),
was sent to the Post Office Investigation section by Special Delivery on (DATE).

The report is formatted with the following headings:
1D — relates to counter position
User — Person Logged on to System
SU — Stock Unit
Date — Date of transaction
Time — Time of transaction
Sessionld — A unique string relating to current customer session
Txnid — A unique string relating to current transaction
Mode — e.g. SC which translates to Serve Customer
ProductNo — Product Item Sold
Qty —-Quantity of items sold
SaleValue — Value of items sold

Signature Signature witnessed by

sora, Version6.0 09108

. Windows Events generated by the counters within the branch/timeframe in question are ~~~

FUJ00155420
FUJ00155420

Formatted: Bullets and
Numbering
Witness Statement

(Ci Act 1967, $9; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and 58, MC Rules 1981, r 70)

Continuation of statement of
Entry method - Method of data capture for Transactions (0 = barcode, 1 = manually
keyed, 2 = magnetic card, 3 = smartcard, 4 = smart key)
State — Relates to. OBCS
IOP - Order Book Number — OBCS only
Result — Order Book Transaction Result - OBSC only
Foreign Indicator — Indicates whether OBCS payment was made at a local or foreign
outlet (0- Local, 1- Foreign). The foreign indicator defaults to a ‘0’ for all manually
entered transactions - OBCS only

The Event report is formatted with the following headings:
Groupid — FAD code
ID — relates to counter position
Date — Date of transaction
Time — Time of transaction
User — Person Logged on to System
SU — Stock Unit
EPOSSTransaction.T — Event Description
EPOSSTransaction.Ti — Event Result
(FROM ARQ562/0506) INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH. FOR DATA
PROVIDED WEF 24 JANUARY 2006 AND FROM ARQ562/0506 DELETE THIS PARA
BUT INCLUDE THE ADDITIONAL HEADINGS BELOW )
fe Januer: Bid a dans wae y the oigirel 3
Fescdo tom, the mew antl data. ir mart

GLa ncunn au

Tb reAned je

Fito T Bais 3d ba

ate Sha 2 BS Save Let fu

1 to Past OFn3 oe

Fyse = Ta stitty Jaton. nats

Signature Signature witnessed by

csot1a Version 6.0 09/06

FUJ00155420
FUJ00155420

Formatted: Not Highlight
FUJ00155420
FUJ00155420

Witness Statement
(CJ Act 1967, 59; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r70)

Continuation of statement of

Becca Auth nly “ser wis buted out the ance un]
TCrasI :

Ecoutivifaann Fey leer who walle

There is no reason to believe that the information in this statement is inaccurate because of

_- (Deleted: computer
(Deleted: computer
- (Deleted: on _

Any records to which ! refer in my statement form part of the records relating to the business of

Fujitsu Services. These were compiled during the ordinary course of business from
information supplied by persons who have, or may reasonably be supposed to have, personal
knowledge of the matter dealt with in the information supplied, but are unlikely to have any
recollection of the information or cannot be traced. As part of my duties, I have access to
these records.

Signature Signature witnessed by

cso11a, Version 6,0 09108
