FUJ00154969

FUJ00154969
From: Thomas Penny[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=THOMASP]
Sent: Tue 09/11/2010 6:36:47 PM (UTC)
To: ; Prenovost Jean-Philippefi

Cc:

Subject: I FW: Mr Humphrey - POL Prosecution Support

Pete / JP
I need some help here, please. See email string.

We had to use the offices of Suzie Kirkham and David Jones earlier in the year when Post Office legal was putting
Gareth under pressure in relation to the West Byfleet case. This is happening again.

It is totally unacceptable that we hear about a case being heard on Monday next only this morning, POL legal have
contacted Gareth direct and agreed process has not been followed, again — this should be via the Fraud Team in
Salford through to Prosecution Support in the Security Department. As can be seen, Gareth is expected to provide
prosecution support in another case, at extremely short notice. The request should be for Fujitsu to provide expert
prosecution support with reasonable return timeframes.

POL legal appear to operate in 11" hour panic mode, permanently; and they have a total disregard for agreed service
process, of which they were reminded earlier in the year. Their actions have me seeking urgent support of senior
management twice in one day for two different cases and this is not the way we should be conducting our service
to/from the customer.

Please could you help me to put some order back into this service.

I am at Snaresbrook Crown Court again tomorrow but will arrange for Gareth to receive the transaction material in my
absence.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account

lace Road, Bracknell, Ber

Web: —htip:/7u

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 38W
This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 09 November 2010 12:47
To: Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: Mr Humphrey

Penny,

To provide a bit of context:
FUJ00154969
FUJ00154969

° The Post Office concerned is Bradwell. FAD code is 418136
e The ARQs are 299, 300 and 301

Please can you let me have the ARQ info asap.
NB I’ve now moved back to the 5" floor (Bracknell side in the middle)
Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Beri

hire, RG12 8SN

GRO

“RYBUTOR TORISILCOHA

ee Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 09 November 2010 12:41

To: ‘Marilyn Benjamin’; ‘Juliet Mcfarlane’
Cc: Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: Mr Humphrey

Marilyn / Juliet,
I think I need some further background on this case. In particular what exactly are you asking me to consider?

This is the first I have heard of this particular case (though it may be one of those that Juliet mentioned to me on the
phone last week).

I’ve had a quick skim through the Report and can see that there is a lot of detail to be looked at.
I don’t have the preliminary report mentioned below and referred to in this report. Do I need it?

I'll try and get hold of the raw data which Mr Davidson has analysed from Penny (when she is back from Snaresbook —
assuming she is feeling better).

Presumably what you are after is a commentary on the report similar to that which I did for the Hosi case. You say the
trial starts on Monday, when do you need some information? I’m unlikely to get any data to analyse until tomorrow
at the earliest, and to address the detailed analysis I think I need that data. That means I’m unlikely to be able to give
you anything other then some high level statements until Thursday or Friday this week.
FUJ00154969
FUJ00154969

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

Fl

‘Hite TuTuiistcon

sh Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Marilyn Benjamin;
Sent: 09 November 2010°10:25~
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: FW: Mr Humphrey

To see Juliet’s E-Mail

Marilyn Benjamin
Criminal Law Division

From: Jennifer Andrews

Sent: 09 November 2010 10:14
To: Marilyn Benjamin

Subject: FW: Mr Humphrey

Ms Jennifer Andrews
Criminal Law Team

From: Juliet Mcfarlane

Sent: 09 November 2010 09:14
To: Jennifer Andrews

Subject: Fw: Mr Humphrey

Jenee

Could you ensure the Officer and Gareth Jenkins receive the report below for urgent comment. Case is in next
Monday. Gareth will need to be briefed as to the issue in the case. Could you also confirm he has seen the first expert
report.

FUJ00154969
FUJ00154969

From: Natalie War
To: Juliet Mcfarlane *
Sent: Mon Nov 08 16:04:46 2010
Subject: FW: Mr Humphrey

Dear Sirs

We enclose herewith the Accountants Report from Mr Davidson. We confirm that a copy has also been sent to you in
the post.

If you have any queries, please do not hesitate to contact us.

Regards

Natalie Ward

Norton Peskett Solicitors
141 King Street

Great Yarmouth

Norfolk NR30 2PQ

From: Nicola Ashdown

Sent: 08 November 2010 13:22
To: Natalie Ward

Subject: FW: Mr Humphrey

Sent: Monday, Novem er 08, 201
To: Nicola Ashdown
Cc: Emma Russell

Subject: Mr Humphrey
Auto forwarded by a Rule

Dear Ms Ashdown

R v Mr Humphrey

I attach Mr Davidson's signed report dated 8 November 2010 on the above matter.

Richard Bates

Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP
St Bride's House

10 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8EH, UK

FUJ00154969
FUJ00154969

54 Before printing, think about the environment.

Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales with
registered number OC 307043. Registered office: St Bride's House, 10 Salisbury Square, London
EC4Y 8EH. Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services
Authority. Crowe Clark Whitehill is the trading name of Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP and its
associated firms. Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP has offices in Cheltenham, Kidderminster, London,
Maidstone, Manchester, Reading, Tunbridge Wells and Walsall. It has an associated office in the
Isle of Man.

Visit our web site at http://www.croweclarkwhitehill.co.uk for latest news and information, and to
find out about our range of products and services.

The information contained in this message is confidential and is intended for the addressee only.
If you have received this message in error or there are any problems please notify the originator
immediately. The unauthorised use, disclosure, copying or alteration of this message is strictly
forbidden. This mail and any attachments have been scanned for viruses prior to leaving

the Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP network. Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP will not be liable for direct,
special, indirect or consequential damages arising from alteration of the contents of this message
by a third party or as a result of any virus being passed on.

Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP has the facility to monitor and read both incoming and outgoing
communications by e-mail.

Notice

Private and Confidential. This email may contain information that is privileged, confidential or otherwise
protected from disclosure. It must not be used by, or its contents copied or disclosed t ‘ons other than the
addressee. If you have received this email in error please notify our helpline oni_ _jand delete the
email.

Warning

It is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that the onward transmission, opening or use of this message
and any attachments will not adversely affect its system or data. Please carry out such virus and other checks
as you consider appropriate. No responsibility is accepted by Norton Peskett in this regard.

Henini ntntnaeneeneeKen® Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and
Wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ This
email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this
FUJ00154969
FUJ00154969

in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

