From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

FUJ00189289
FUJ00189289

"Parker Steve (Confluence)" }

Wed 23/01/2019 10:40:00 AM (UTC)

[APT Wiki] SSC Tech Support > Bramble: OCP and OCR analysis Transaction Data

There's 3 new edits on this page

& Bramble: OCP and OCR analysis Transaction Data

Parker Steve edited this page

Here's what changed:

Late version where the use of SSC Tool Smiley Desktop is described.

EOD and migration

EOD Insertions at counter caused problems later down the line with HNGX. The migration
process assumed that all EODs were written at counter 1.

Info

title We have written EOD's to existing counters but it is unusual, note in PC0180881

At two large branches, 8124 and 9320, MigrationPrep is failing every time it runs, in
fUpdateOfficeDOMs / fpOfficeTrailerExistsForT PAndDay / fsEODMarkerForNum.

I have found the cause of this problem. The majority of the MigrationPrep messages
contain an EODMessageNum attribute, pointing to the relevant EODMark. This is just the
message number, the node isn't stored, presumably on the assumption that it is always 1.

Hmmm. In the last year or so, SSC have developed a tool (which did go through LST
testing) which will insert EOD messages for a branch. This is normally used when a branch
has closed down and the kit removed before EOD on the last day of trading - so there are
messages on the corr server which will never be harvested unless we take some action.
The tool writes the necessary messages on the corr server - hence there may be EODs on
nodes other than 1.

We have also used the same tool very occasionally on branches which aren't closed, but
where, for example, one counter has been down for over a week resulting in none of the
transactions for the branch being harvested, and there are continuing problems trying to
replace the box (8124). Or 9320 where the kit was removed for a 2 week refurbishment
without writing a final EOD.

So when MigPrep looks on message run 1 for EODMessageNum for these branches, it
won't find it - hence the failure.
FUJ00189289
FUJ00189289

These are the only two branches currently affected. Until this has been thought about,
perhaps SSC should not use the tool for branches which are still trading (it is ok for closed
branches since they will never run MigPrep again).

There's a third branch with the same problem - 091008 - which also had an EOD written
for it by SSC.

Mr Godeseth says that, in the Old Horizon system, the SSC could also inject transactions, and
that those transactions were clearly distinguished from those entered at the branch because
they would have included a counter position greater than 32 when no branches would have had
such a high number of counters (First Witness Statement of Mr Godeseth, paragraph 58.10). It
accords with my experience that support staff should have a facility like this, so that branch
accounts could be corrected in exceptional circumstances — without resorting to DBAs

Godeseth 35:

All counter data was held in a bespoke message store (which was part of the Riposte product
supplied by Escher Inc.). This data was replicated within each branch to ail counter positions
and from each branch to the data centres where it was held in the correspondence server
message stores. Similarly, any data inserted into the message store at the data centre (for
example reference data or authorisations for banking transactions) would be replicated back to
the branch counters. Selected data was then extracted from the correspondence servers to
update Post Office's back end systems.

Godeseth 58.10

In Legacy Horizon, any transactions injected by SSC would have used the computer server
address as the counter position which would be a number greater than 32, so it would be clear
that a transaction had been injected In this way.

Go to page history

Stop watching page *
Manage notifications
