FUJ00121077
FUJ00121077

Welsh

Graham[Graham.Welsh¢ i]; ian.trundellt
neil.crowther{.. _...[neil.crowther€ ~~ ~~"éke
From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: Thur 4/29/2010 1:42:28 PM (UTC)

Subject: I RE: BTS issues 14/04/10
LocalSuspense.xls

Barry,

As actioned on the Teleconference here are the details of the issue with Local Suspense being
cleared multiple times.

Peak reference is 197797 (raised by Branch 351217 Uppingham). KEL is acha5259Q.

Note that the root cause is covered by Peak 197409 scheduled for OSR version 1.22. KEL
PorterS199P also relates to this and that defines the monitoring required to spot a BAL with this
issue. We have not seen this problem re-occur since we restarted the BALs on 16th April.

The following is copied from Peak 197797:

There was an intermittent system problem which affected some branches completing TP
rollovers between 7th and 15th April. The problem is understood; it is no longer happening
and the root cause is being addressed.

When the last stock unit was rolled over, the branch cleared Local Suspense and pressed
Confirm to complete the stock unit rollover. They were then returned to the screen asking
how the discrepancy was to be cleared. If they again selected an option, this wrote another
transaction pair to clear local suspense (this time in the new Trading Period).

33 branches have been affected by this problem, clearing local suspense between 1 and 4
times in the new period.

The attached spreadsheet shows the branches, the amounts and the settlement product used
for clearance.

In general, if they clear Local Suspense at the end of the current period using the same
method (e.g. Assign to Nominee, Cash) as they used last period, there will be no lasting
effect. The problem will not cause them a discrepancy (though it may look as if it has done
so) and the Assign to Nominee etc accounts in POLFS will be correct.

For branches where it is currently causing a cash discrepancy, where they cleared LS to
cash (make good), this could be resolved immediately by using the Housekeeping function to
clear losses / gains from LS.

Where branches chose more than one settlement option while going round the loop (marked in
blue on the spreadsheet), they should use the Housekeeping function before the next TP
rollover, to clear the loss/gain from LS that was settled to cash. Then the remainder
should be settled to Assign to Nominee or whatever during the TP rollover. If they have a
new loss/gain and this is not the appropriate settlement product, they may need additional
help.

MSU, please pass this information to Post Office with the attached spreadsheet. Please let
POL know that NBSC have already been involved with some of the branches (certainly those
highlighted in yellow) - Ibrahim raised this call in the first place and has already been
sent an update about Hucclecote.

Hopefully that clarifies everything.
Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect

Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
FUJ00121077

FUJ00121077
Tel: Internal:
Mobile: ; pee anny Internal
email: i
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com ~

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street,
London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of
confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not
been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

-Original Messa
From: barry.r.evansf
Sent: 27 April 2010 i7:
To: Andrews Mark (GD HQ); Welsh Graham; Jenkins Gareth GI; ian.trundell(7 GRO ¥
neil.crowtherf ~ _—
Ce: will.russell poo. .S8O TT)
Subject: BTS issues 14/04/10

(mailto:barry.r.evans

Dear All

Further to the BTS issues encountered on the 14/04/10 and the previous
week, there seem to be a number of issues that are arising from this, which
I have asked to be tracked on the RAG:

3 KELS that have been raised - R015
Issues at branches i.e. Binley woods - NEW
Issues at Troon - where a discrepancy has been settled 3 times. - NEW

In order for us to understand the problems that arose and understand what
caused this, the impacts on the branches, where we are with investigations
/ fixes etc can I suggest that we hold a conference call on Thursday to
discuss this in more detail.

With this in mind I will set up a conference call for 14:00. If there is
anyone else that needs to attend can you please forward this on to them.

If you require any further clarification, or are unable to make this time,
please let me know.

Regards

Barry

Barry Evans

HNGx Implementation Manager

IT - Post Office Ltd

Bristol Mail Centre, Gloucester Road North, Filton,
BRISTOL BS34 7ST

Tel

Email barry.r.evansi

JE IIS ISS IIS IO ISI IGS IOS ISI OSI IOS ISG III IO ISI IOI ISI IC io
Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
oH
FUJ00121077
FUJ00121077

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

JOSE II ISSO C EI ISOC IOS ISOC G TEI IIS G CISC GGT IIS CG III ICI II ek
