FUJ00124338
FUJ00124338

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth GI [/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=Gareth.Jenkins]
on behalf of — Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 25/02/2013 21:46:51

To:

cc:

Subject: FW: My comments on your report

Attachments: Comments.DefenceReport.docx; Stock Movements.xlsx

Rachael / Mark,

Below is an email I’ve just sent to Beverley with comments on her report.

l expect to be able to re-assure her that there aren't any issues with the data she has, and that any mismatches are due
to missing bits of paper or perhaps unclear descriptions of the evidence, but I can show her in the logs what actually
happened and that there is no issue with the system.

Not sure what that means to either of you or how you want to play things tomorrow.

Feel free to ring me on my mobile either tonight or in the morning if you want further clarification. Pil also pick up
emails first thing in the morning.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

Lf

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

ea Please consider the environment - do you reaily need to print this email?

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 25 February 2013 21:41

To: ‘Beverley Ibbotson’

Subject: My comments on your report
FUJ00124338
FUJ00124338

Dear Beverley,

V've now gone through your report and annotated it with a number of comments. I have also produced a spreadsheet
with some of my calculations. (I’ve not had a chance to explain them properly, but can talk you through what you
don’t understand.)

te

Comments. Defe..

Stock
Movements.xisx

It may be helpful if we could go through this and see what we agree about and what we don’t. _ I understand the trial
starts at 10am. What time can you get to court? _ I’m staying across the road so I can get there as early as you like.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

FUJITSU

Gareth Jenki
hittp:/uk.fujitsu.¢

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

wy Please con

environment - de you really need
