FUJ00174576
FUJ00174576

From: Tait Duncan[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=TAITD]
Sent: Thur 03/01/2013 2 PM (UTC)

To: Lamb Hele Roberts David
(LON22)
Subject: Fw: Press Digest - 03/01/13

Helen, what's the POL stuff about please?

From: Pressoffice

Sent: Thursday, January 03, 2013 01:16 PM
To: di Press Digest; 'teamfujitsi
Subject: Press Digest - 03/01/13

Please find attached the Press Digest for today.
Regards,

Press Office

Fujitsu

Tel:

Email: pressoffice:

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not
guarantee that this e-mail has been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

NEWS SUMMARY

Prepared by Harvard for

FUJITSU
Thursday 03" January, 2013
Report Details

Marketing Week — What does 2013 hold for retail?

Wednesday 19 December — There's nothing new about apps anymore, but next year retailers will strive to develop apps that
fulfill a genuine need and provide a valuable service for customers. Imagine an app that converts recipes into shopping lists of
products available at your chosen supermarket, and re-orders the shopping list to reflect the layout of the particular supermarket a
customer is in. No more trawling aimlessly up and down the aisles looking for freeze dried horseradish and inevitably forgetting

toilet roll. [Reader Comment published from Simon Carter]

http:/Awww.marketingweek.co.uk/opinion/what-does-2013-hold-for-retail/4005200.article

Computer Weekly — Post Office admits that Horizon system needs more investigation

Wednesday 2 January —- Years of struggle from campaign groups has forced the Post Office to look again at a computer
system which has been blamed for sub-postmasters being wrongly accused of false accounting. Despite numerous complaints

the Post Office has consistently stated that there is no fault with the Horizon system. But postmasters claim problems with the
technology could be generating unexplained losses. Thousands of Post Offices use the Horizon IT system for their accounts.

http://www.computerweekly.com/news/2240175402/Post-Office-admits-that-Horizon-system-needs-more-investigation

FUJ00174576
FUJ00174576

V3.co.uk — HP and Mike Lynch renew war of words over Autonomy scandal

Wednesday 2 January — Mike Lynch has once again hit out at HP over its claims Autonomy's management had doctored its
accounts, forcing the tech giant to write down around $9bn of the software maker's value. HP recently submitted a 10-K filing to
the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in which it gave more details of the alleged accounting issues. But Lynch has
hit back saying it does not provide enough evidence to back up their claims. "It is extremely disappointing that HP has again failed
to provide a detailed calculation of its $5bn write down of Autonomy, or publish any explanation of the serious allegations it has
made against the former management team, in its annual report filing," he said.

http:/Awww.v3.co.uk/v3-uk/news/22333 1 1/hp-and-mike-lynch-renew-war-of-words-over-autonomy-scandal

Computing ~ Google aims to lure '90% of Microsoft Office users’

Wednesday 2 January — Google is looking to lure 90% of all Microsoft Office users to its Google Docs offering. In an interview
with AllThingsD, Google vice president and head of enterprise, Amit Singh, said that Google will step up its pursuit of business
users. “Our goal is to get to the 90% of users who don't need to have the most advanced features of Office," he said. The
remaining 10% of “advanced” users will continue to use the desktop version, he suggested. Singh went on to explain that although
Google Docs already coexists with Microsoft Office, the company is working hard to improve integration.

http:/Awww.computing.co.uk/ctg/news/2233437/google-aims-to-lure-90-per-cent-of-microsoft-office-users

V3.co.uk — Intel betting on mobile to dominate CES

Thursday 3 January - Intel is making a pitch for a new generation of mobile devices ahead of the 2013 CES conference in Las
Vegas. The company has outlined a series of five key points which it believes will prove essential in the coming year as vendors
release their latest devices. According to Intel, customers will look to factors such as the quality of touch interfaces, thin hardware
designs and multi-gesture input support when deciding on their purchases. The company believes that vendors who integrate
those qualities in their devices will succeed in the coming year.

http:/www.v3.co.uk/v3-uk/news/2233502/intel-betting-on-mobile-to-dominate-ces

Computing ~ Big data in 2013

Wednesday 2 January — Welcome to 2013, during which perhaps 30-50% more data will be created than in the previous 12
months. What will this year bring to help us make better use of this increasingly abundant resource? With big data now hitting the
mainstream, we can certainly expect a whole lot more hype and bandwagon-jumping. Just as in the late 1990s it became de
rigeur to stick "dotcom" on the end of every other noun, big data will find itself similarly appropriated by all and sundry. But will
investors in big data suffer the same fate as their dotcom counterparts? Will the next Oracle or Microsoft emerge from the new
paradigm? And will the technology become usable by non-technical users?

http:/www.computing.co.uk/ctg/analysis/2233362/big-data-in-2013

Computer Weekly — What does 2013 hold for financial services IT?

Wednesday 2 January — With 140,000 pages of financial services regulation published in the last two years, banks have to
perform a balancing act when it comes to IT investments. While rules introduced to make it easier for consumers to switch
accounts will overtly force banks to invest in IT, there are covert pressures emanating from customer demand, such as the need
for mobile banking platforms. Computer Weekly spoke to industry experts about their predictions for IT spending in financial
services in 2013.

http:/Awww.computerweekly.com/news/2240175393/What-does-2013-hold-for-financial-services-IT

Computer Weekly — IT problems cause Lloyds ATM outage, again

Wednesday 2 January — Lloyds’ customers were unable to withdraw money from cash machines and complete debit card
transactions on New Year's eve, as the banking group was again beset with IT problems. Lloyds confirmed that customers
experienced ‘intermittent’ problems using cashpoints on December 31. But a spokesman for the bank was unable to give any
further details about the IT problems behind the system failure. The problems follow an outage in October, which left Lloyds’
customers unable to get money from ATMs or use online customer services.

http:/Awww.computerweekly.com/news/2240175407/IT-problems-cause-Lloyds-ATM-outage-again

FUJ00174576
FUJ00174576

Government Computing — Government publishes shared services plan

Wednesday 2 January — The Cabinet Office has published an "ambitious" strategic plan which lays out how it will implement,
operate and manage a programme for shared services within central government. The plan, for Next Generation Shared Services
(NGSS) hopes to save £400-£600m each year from back office administration costs as the government seeks to ensure that the
back office “plays its part in the deficit reduction programme." The NGSS strategy has the backing of government departments as
well as the Civil Service and its most senior civil servants, including Sir Bob Kerslake, head of the Civil Service and Sir Jeremy
Heywood, the Cabinet Secretary.

http://central-government.governmentcomputing.com/news/government-publishes-shared-services-plan

