FUJ00168320
FUJ00168320

Sent: Sun 21/10/2007 4:06:19 PM (UTC)
To: KamarulzamanS

Ce: Terblanchel; BaldwinD

Subject: FW: Royal Mail - Project Light
Sharmin

Below is a draft response to Stephen. Please could you check this with Ian /Dave before it goes out to ensure that I have not missed anything
that needs to be said (or they can respond to this directly), and then send it to Stephen ce. the others on Monday

Thanks,

Dear Stephen,

Thanks for your comments. In particular I appreciate your remarks about the commitment that both sides have continued to demonstrate,
despite the difficulties we have encountered with the project. We will certainly continue the efforts to ensure that the project can move off Red
Alert status on an agreed basis at the end of the month.

If we can pass this milestone this would be appropriate point for us to conduct a ‘lessons learned’ exercise - Dave will nominate someone
suitably senior but independent from within Fujitsu to do this.

Lagree with your point about drawing the line under the history - like you I hope we will be able to do this - and move forward to a continuing
strong relationship between our companies.

Regards,

David

-----Original Message--—-
: stephen. windsor-lewisI

Fro
Sent: 19 October 2007 17:22

To: Courtley David
Ce: wendy.powneyf” "Gi

tony.mecarthy¢ 4
Subject: Royal Mail - Project Light

ray.vaughan

“j: Terblanche lan;

David
A few thoughts following the Executive Red Alert call earlier this week.

We continue to be concemed that this project isn't delivering what it
should be, but appreciate that isn’t due to a lack of commitment from both
parties. In fact, we're pleased with the progress being made to recover
this project, and ask you to now make every effort to deliver the complete
Red Alert Exit testing by the further revised target date of the end of
October (following this Week's additional system delays).

In the expectation that Red Alert Exit will be achieved, we have agreed to

a meeting between Ian Terblanche and Ray Vaughan to discuss the commercial
issues that have arisen through the delivery of the project. In that

meeting, we will be seeking compensation from you as we have incurred
higher costs than expected, and we will address your concems regarding the
stopping of invoice payments.

We have also identified the need for a 6 month extension of the current MDS
service from 24/10/07, but acknowledge that both parties want to make
changes to elements of that service.

I'd now like to draw a line under the Project Light history by successfully
completing the exit criteria and resolving the commercials, and look
forward to continuing with what has been overall a very strong and
successful relationship between Royal Mail Group and Fujitsu.

Regards

Stephen

Stephen Windsor-Lewis
Director, Group People Programmes
Royal Mail Group

JSS OU HU Ha oS aaa a eae abba eda bebe a adda a eeoo ao ea a cook

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 148 Old Street London EC1V 9HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system
eanrernrenrrenerecrreneettttrertrcrt tert ettetterttereteret tert te!

FUJ00168320
FUJ00168320
