FUJ00159667
FUJ00159667

From:
Sent:
To:

Cc: .
i GRO

Subject: RE: Post Master Lawyers

Pete,

There should be absolutely no contact between Gareth and Freeths. Gareth — FYI.

Can we find out if there is anybody else who has been contacted? We need to do a note out to team.
Andy - can we leave this with you to take up with Freeths?

Thanks.

Best Regards

Christopher Jay, Senior Counsel

FUJITSU
Jays Close, Viables Business Park, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG22 4BY

E-mail: Legal. Defence @
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Geo

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children,
Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Newsome, Pete}.
Sent: 25 September 2018 13:45
To: Stewart Garry ¢.
Cc: Defence Legal (Chris Jay)
Subject: FW: Post Master Lawyers

Garry

The Postmasters solicitors have tried to contact Gareth Jenkins (the infrastructure Gareth not the retired Architect
involved in the process). I have asked for advice from Chris on how to proceed but wanted to keep you in the loop as
others may have been contacted.

Pete

Pete Newsome

Account Manager

DHL and Post Office Account, Fujitsu UK&l
Tel:

E-Mail: pete newsomey
Web: http:/uk fujitsu. citi

Web: uk fujitsu.com

FUJ00159667
FUJ00159667

Responsible Business
of the Year

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children

I-CIO: Global Intelligence for the ClO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

To meet with the new GDPR regulations we are reviewing our opt-in preferences. If you are happy to give opt-in consent to continue receiving relevant
marketing communications please visit this link and simply enter your email

From: Newsome, Pete

Sent: Tuesday, September 25, 2018 11:27 AM
To: Jenkins, Gareth
Harvey, Michael <i
Cc: Peart, Dave <~
Subject: RE: Post Wiz

; Defence Legal (Chris Jay,) { GRO

Thanks Gareth °
Chris

Can you advise how we respond and do we inform WBD?

Pete

Pete Newsome
Account Manager
DHL_and Post Offi

Account, Fujitsu UK&l

Web: http://uk.fujtsu.cor
Web: uk fujits:

@
&

SS Fujitsu named as
Responsible Business
of the Year

Fulitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children
\-CIO: Global Intelligence for the ClO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup
FUJ00159667
FUJ00159667

hwy Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

To meet with the new GDPR regulations we are reviewing our opt-in preferences. If you are happy to give opt-in consent to continue receiving relevant
marketing communications please visit this link and simply enter your email

From: Jenkins, Gareth

Sent: Tuesday, September 25, 2018 11:25 AM
To: Defence Legal (Chris Jay,) <_
Harvey, Michael
Cc: Peart, Dave
Subject: Post Master Lawyers

Newsome, Pete

To let you know that I have been contacted over LinkedIn to call Imogen Randall (email text below). Her profile says
she is a Senior Associate - Commercial Litigation at Freeths LLP.

Dear Gareth. Please excuse the contact out of the blue. I am a solicitor at Freeths acting for a group of
subpostmasters in an action against the Post Office reaardina Horizon would you be willing to discuss
the matter with me briefly? Regards, Imogen Randall }__ RO

I haven’t responded yet. Would you like me to refer her to one of yourselves?

Kind regards,
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Architect

FUfITSU

Fujitsu. 22 Baker Street.Landen, W1U 3BW.

Web: http://www fuji

Fujitsu World Tour 2018

Human Centric Innovation,

ee Co-creation for Success

