FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

Document Title: Management Care Visit Programme
Document Type: Procedure

Abstract:

Status: Draft

Author: Julia Bowes

Comments To: Julia Bowes

Comments By:

Distribution:

© 1996 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 13
FUJ00058492

Fuy00058492
ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033
Procedure Version; 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

0 DOCUMENT CONTROL
0.1. DOCUMENT HISTORY

Version Date Reason

0.1 30/07/97 First draft for internal Pathway review
0.2 ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS

Reference Vers Date Title Source

0.3 ABBREVIATIONS

MCVP - Management Care Visit Programme.
POCL - Post Office Counters Limited
RLM - Regional Liaison Manager

0.4 CHANGES IN THIS VERSION

None

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 13
FU.

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

0.6 TABLE OF CONTENT

1 PURPOSE.....

2 INTRODUCTION.
3 TRAINI

4 PREPARATIONS AND DOCUMENTATION.

5 ARRANGING APPOINTMENTS....

6 THE INTERVIEW..

7 FOLLOW UP LETTER......

8 FEEDBACK REPORTB.....

9 ANALYSIS...

10 INTERVIEWER’S SUMMARY GUIDE.....

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 13

FUJ00058492
IJ00058492
FUJ00058492

FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

1

PURPOSE

The purpose of the MCVP is to monitor the user’s perception of ICL
Pathway’s Post Implementation Customer Service. The interviews will allow
ICL Pathway to gain an understanding of the user’s (Postmasters) problems,
concerns, suggestions and good news. Where and when relevant ICL
Pathway can act upon this information as an aid to resolving problems, taking
pre-emptive action and learning from good news and positive feedback.

This programme is non contractual, and will be managed within the Customer
Service department of ICL Pathway.

INTRODUCTION

The MCVP will be carried out annually, visiting around 500 Post Offices per
year after full roll out of the programme (1999 onwards). Until that time a
small number of Post Offices will be visited in Q4 of 1997 and around 200 in
1998. Cumulative analysis will be carried out internally on a monthly basis,
and results published quarterly.

A number of relevant senior ICL Pathway representatives will be selected to
carry out the interviews (hereafter known as the interviewers).

TRAINING

The Customer Satisfaction Manager will present the details of the procedure
to the interviewers before they have contact with any Post Offices regarding
the interviews.

The purpose and the goals of the MCVP will be presented. The interview
procedure and questionnaire will be explained in detail and the interview
process will be established. All other relevant documentation will be
presented, and any questions or concerns raised by the interviewers will be
addressed.

Section 9 of this document is the Interviewer’s Summary Guide, which is
designed to be extracted and used as a reference guide during the
interviews.

It is important for the interviewers to understand why each interview must

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 13
FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

follow a standard procedure, to ensure all results can be fairly compared and
a true analysis obtained.

4 PREPARATIONS AND DOCUMENTATION

The interviewers will be sent, electronically, copies of relevant
documentation, plus hard copy ‘Interview Packs’ which should be maintained
by the interviewers, containing all relevant reference documentation. These
packs must be taken to the interviews.

The Interview Packs will contain the Procedure document (including
Interviewers Summary Guide), Phone Script, sample forms and documents
(referred to in the questionnaire), the Questionnaire and the list of Post
Offices to be contacted

Before contacting the Post Offices, the interviewers must familiarise
themselves with recent Horizon System Helpdesk call history. The call
history should be assessed to check there is no reason why the Post Offices
should not be contacted at this point in time to arrange a visit. The decision
not to visit a particular post office will be made by the Customer Satisfaction
Manager (or nominated representative).

For 1997 only the POCL RLM’s will be supplied with the list of potential Post
Offices, before they are formally chosen. Any Post Offices which they feel
need excluding from the list will be discussed with the Customer Satisfaction
Manager, and any agreed amendments to the list of Post Offices will be made
accordingly.

5 ARRANGING APPOINTMENTS

Once the list of Post Offices has been received by each interviewer, he or she
can start to arrange the visits, after first requesting and having the Horizon
System call history checked by the Customer Satisfaction Manager.

Details of the Post Offices, FAD Code, Address, Phone Number and Contact
Name will be supplied to the interviewers. Each list will be personalised for
each interviewer, only containing the Post Offices to be visited by that
interviewer.

The interviewers should first familiarise themselves with the Phone Script
(Ref: MCVP 97/script.doc) and then telephone the Post Offices, using the
script, to arrange the appointments.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 13

FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

As each visit is arranged details of the Post Office and appointment must be
sent to the Customer Satisfaction Manager for entry onto an Appointments
Database.

The interviewers must ensure the Post Offices have a contact number and the
interviewer’s name so that they can contact the interviewers should a problem
arise with the arranged appointment. If an interviewer is difficult to get hold of
in general then they should leave the contact number for the Customer
Satisfaction Manager as an alternative.

The interviews should always be arranged at a time to suit the Post Office.
This may involve a lunch time, or in some cases an evening meeting. The
interviewers should also stress that the interviews need take no more than
half an hour, but that there is no time limit applied.

If the interviews are arranged significantly in advance (more than 10 days) the
interviewer should contact the Post Office nearer the visit (no more than 2
days before) to confirm it can still go ahead.

It is up to the interviewers to obtain directions to the Post Offices.

6 THE INTERVIEW

Before going to the Post Offices the interviewers must familiarise themselves
with the questionnaire.

The questionnaire has eleven sections. Before commencing with Section 1
onwards the interviewers should explain a little more about the purpose and
objectives of the visit, as stated in the notes on the front sheet of the
questionnaire.

Section 1

This section can be pre-filled, where possible, before the interviews, to save
time. However, all information must be checked with the interviewees before
moving on to the next section.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 13
FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

Section 2

The interviewers should gain a very brief understanding of how the
implementation of the Post Office went in general. This will not form part of
the statistics, but it will help ICL Pathway understand if any implementation
experiences have influenced the subsequent views of the interviewees, either
positively or negatively.

Sections 3 to 10

All the answers to the questions in these sections will be analysed. There is
an ‘N/A’ (Not Applicable) option for each question, but it should be avoided if
at all possible. When asking each question the interviewers should read out
the positive and negative answer options, and only then offer ‘N/A’ if it
appears unavoidable.

Where ‘N/A’s are recorded the number of Post Offices we can analyse
against that question is reduced, thus giving a smaller sample of Post Offices’
views.

The interviewers must mark the boxes appropriate to the answers given. The
interviewers must not suggest answers or influence answers in any way, other
than to try to avoid ‘N/A’ answers where possible, but must ensure the
interviewees understand the questions fully before they answer.

There is an opportunity for the interviewees to comment further on the
response given to each question. The interviewers should ask if there are
any comments after each question is answered.

It is especially important to get comments when the questions have a
negative answer, in order to help ICL Pathway understand the reasons
behind the negative comments, and thus enable them to take any possible
corrective action, either generically or for a single Post Office, if relevant.

Section 6 - Payment Card Helpline, IS NOT APPLICABLE TO OBCS (1B)
Post Offices, and is therefore not applicable for the 1997 interviews.
This section should either be removed or skipped over during the
interviews.

Section 11

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 13
FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

This section gives the interviewees a chance to express any concerns,
problems or suggestions for improvement to the Horizon system or services.
The interviewers should also encourage any positive comments or
experiences the interviewees can share. This will help to keep this section
balanced.

At this point the interviewers should try to engage general conversation in
order to get opinions free flowing and less ‘closed’ than those given during
the questionnaire, but remembering to keep the conversation relevant to the
purpose of the interviews (i.e. about the services provided after
implementation).

Questions such as:
‘What else would you want ICL Pathway to do to improve services?

What sort of things do we do well and what sort of things do we need to
improve on?’

If the interviewees ask any questions, the interviewers should note them down
and explain that they are not in a position to answer any specific questions as
part of the interview process. If required an ICL Pathway representative could
contact the interviewees at a later time to respond to any specific questions.
These questions should be noted down in Section 11 or in the additional
notes area.

At the end of Section 11 the interviewers must ask whether the interviewees
are willing to be contacted again, if necessary, after the interview results are
analysed. The interviewers must delete either the ‘willing’ or ‘unwilling’ part of
the statement accordingly.

The interviews can then be terminated. The interviewers should remember to
thank the interviewees for their time and co-operation, and then leave the
premises.

7 FOLLOW UP LETTERS

As soon after the visit as possible the interviewers should write to the
interviewees confirming the main points of the interview, to ensure there is no
future controversy or mistunderstanding about the information provided by the
interviewees.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 13
FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

The first and last paragraphs of the letter will be supplied as a standard. The
middle section of the letter will be the summary of the interview (as compiled
by the interviewers). This does not need to include details about sections 3
to 10 of the questionnaire, but should cover the information provided for
sections 1, 11 and any additional notes made.

8 FEEDBACK REPORTS

The completed questionnaires and reports must be treated as confidential
within ICL Pathway. They must be kept securely until they can be passed on
to the Customer Satisfaction Manager, as quickly as possible.

The results of the questionnaires are entered on to an analysis spreadsheet
(see document reference MCVP 97/analysis97.xls). The FAD code is used
as the unique reference for each completed questionnaire. The hard copies
will be filed securely in numerical order by FAD code. Any questions,
concerns or required actions logged will be recorded against the FAD code.

9 ANALYSIS

Pre-designed graphs will reflect Positive, Very Positive, Negative, Very
Negative results for each section, from 3 to 10.

A report will be produced monthly showing graphs with the cumulative results
to date and a brief summary on each section’s results. Relevant information
from Section 11, and any additional notes, will also be summarised. This
report will be for limited distribution within ICL Pathway.

A quarterly report will be produced, similar to the monthly reports, which will
reflect the cumulative, quarterly results. There will also be further
recommendations for action on feedback of note.

Results will be formally published internally each quarter. The most
appropriate method of publication to be decided at the relevant time.

The quarterly report will be presented to the PDA via the Satisfaction Forum.

General publication to all Post Offices is expected to be a brief write up, using
the most appropriate method of publication, which will be decided at the
relevant time.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 13
FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

Concerns, suggestions or comments which require further action will be
recorded separately on the spreadsheet as a log for action. The FAD code,
name of the Post Office, and details of the comments will be noted, and any
actions taken can be recorded. The record will be kept open until a
satisfactory conclusion is reached. The action can then be marked as closed.
The Customer Satisfaction Manager will maintain and manage the log.

The Post Offices will only be contacted to follow up any feedback if they
agreed at the interview to further contact, and only then when considered
necessary by ICL Pathway.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 13
FUJ00058492

FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

10

INTERVIEWER’S SUMMARY GUIDE

Preparation

If there are any outstanding questions or concerns regarding the visits or the
procedure, contact the Customer Satisfaction Manager before contacting
any Post Offices.

You should have received electronically the Phone Script (ref: MCVP
97/script.doc), Questionnaire (ref: MCVP 97/Quest&Report.doc), standard
follow up letter (ref: MCVP 97/letter.doc) and MCVP Procedure document
(ref: CS/PRO/033). A new questionnaire should be printed for each Post
Office visit (always have a spare questionnaire in your Interviewer’s Pack just
in case).

You will have received an ‘Interviewer’s Pack’. This should contain:

Phone Script, Questionnaire, Sample documents, Interviewer’s
Summary Guide, Post Office list.

Arranging Appointments

First check the Horizon System call history (to be supplied by the Customer
Satisfaction Manager on request). Contact only the Post Offices on your list.
Arrange a time to visit using the phone script. Make sure you cover all the
information on the phone script.

Get directions to the Post Office.

Feed back immediately all appointments made to Customer Satisfaction
Manager, giving:

FAD Code, PO Name, PO Contact, Phone Number, Date, Time.

If any appointment details change, notify Customer Satisfaction Manager
asap.

The Interviews

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 13
FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

Section 1 can be completed before the interviews, where possible. You must
check this information with the interviewees before moving on to Section2.
Make sure your handwriting is always legible.

Just get any points of note regarding the implementation work, as it may have
a bearing on how the interviewees respond to the questionnaire. If nothing
out of the ordinary happened during implementation and the interviewees
appear fine about it, just enter OK in Section 2.

Don’t rush the questions. Make sure the interviewees understand each
question before giving an answer. Read out the four positive and negative
options available as answers. Only volunteer the N/A option if you see no
alternative.

The small italic print in brackets under some questions is for your information only,
do not repeat it at the interview. Some will reference sample documents you
have in your Interview Packs. These can be shown to help identify the
documents referred to in the question.

Make sure you ask for any other comments after each question is answered,
especially where negatives have been given.

When you get to Section 11 try to contain the responses to relevant issues,
concerns and always ask if there are any good news stories the interviewees
can share with us. Encourage discussion about their views. Use the
additional notes section if needed.

Delete the ‘willing/unwilling to be contacted again’ statement as appropriate.

Thank the interviewee for their time, shake hands, and leave the premises

Follow Up Letters

A standard letter should be completed. The middle section should be your
summary of the interviewee’s views, questions, concerns, etc, but not the
responses to sections 3 to 10 of the questionnaire.

Feedback Reports

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 13
FUJ00058492
FUJ00058492

ICL Pathway Management Care Visit Programme Ref: CS/PRO/033

Procedure Version: 0.2
Date: 07/08/97

Keep the completed questionnaires and reports confidential and secure.
Return them to the Customer Satisfaction Manager as soon as possible.

Reprint the questionnaire and add it to the Interview Pack ready for your next
Interview. If you are doing more than one a day make sure you take enough
copies of the questionnaire with you.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 13
