FUJ00232476
FUJ00232476

HSRF SUMMARY REPORT ON SERVICE REVIEW FORUMS

MONTH: March 2001

Items headed Issues Escalated_will be discussed under the agenda item

REFERENCE DATA

General

The Forum was useful and productive

* Automated Payments -. It was considered beneficial to have OSG (Automated
Payments) representation for this and future RDORFs, to cover AP in greater depth.

Icons - ICL Pathway have produced 60 new Icons for PON approval on a “without
prejudice” basis. The outstanding Icons are to follow shortly. BSM and ICL Pathway met
in a RDORF sub-meeting to discuss the ICL Pathway draft Icon process service
description document - which is currently being updated.

© Tight Timescales - There were no DVLA Budget changes on 7 March, but ICL Pathway
and PON had prudently prepared for any necessary action required. As a precautionary
measure a further DVLA Tight Timescales request was raised to address a requirement
for anew DVLA product due on 29 March.

* Rework - PON’s Corrective Actions for reducing Rework were presented to ICL
Pathway. Rework for Outlet Change has remained at 1% for the second successive
month, but Product Rework increased to 48%. There were 3 specific causes of 51 of the 84
Rework files in February, which accounted for some 70% of the total Rework. The
monthly Rework report is to be enhanced to include a narrative and to distinguish
between the volume of Rework files and the actual number of changes held up by
Rework, ie there may be several Rework files for one change. Product Rework for March
is expected to fall sharply.

* RDS Work Packages/Enhancements - Implementation is currently being affected by
immediate Network Banking and ERA requirements.

¢ HSRF - RDORF Communications - To help address the concerns of some RDORF
attendees about a lack of communication between the two Forums, I am arranging, with
Sue Stewart for a copy of the HSRF minutes to be distributed to RDORF attendees, for
information and possible comment at RDORF meetings, where it is felt that the RDORF
may be able to add value.

* OBC Product Non - Conformance - The number of incidences remains low.

* OBC Product changes and OBC Outlet changes continue to run below SLA levels.

Issues Escalated

The RDORE request that the HSRF agree to delegate authorisation for Tight timescales to
the RDORE.

INCIDENT REVIEW AND EXCEPTION (BIMS)

General

© Meetings continue to run smoothly with good co-operation from both sides

© Charges agreed and finalised for Dec - Feb 2001

«Recognition given for the overall improvement in the quality of information supplied
for BIMs by ICL Pathway

© The group is still working on other improvements to the process

© Away forward was agreed for calculating the SLA - the Service Review Book will, in

FUJ00232476
FUJ00232476

future, reflect the performance figures as agreed between ICLP and PON

PROBLEM MANAGEMENT

General

The meeting, was very constructive. Both sides continue to develop and improving their
processes, procedures and structures. The Field Support Manager initiative continues to
work well with the BSM Problem Management duty and this particular area continues to be
a real success story which is constantly improving. A positive meeting.

Issues Escalated
¢ Screen Freezes in planned orders - This has been outstanding since 22 Sept. 2000. It
appeared that the issue was being resolved but there have been 22 incidents in the last
4weeks. ICLP have still not found a root cause and have informed PON that
Development can’t reproduce this in testing.
¢ The following issues were previously raised for discussion at the HSRF and will be
raised by PON & or ICLP :-
¢ Environment issues - scope of responsibility (PON / ICLP);
* Non Poll progress (PON);
© OPTIP MBCI (ICLP) - what is happening / process to let them know.

BUSINESS CONTINUITY

General

The meeting focused on:

Problems caused by M1 version of Riposte

« Business Continuity Tests, still awaiting completion of last years test schedule (Bootle
Data Centre (re-test), RDMC and Bracknell)

* Cross domain processes for managing, Major Business Continuity Incidents (MBCI's)
were discussed with a view to standardising and a cross domain walkthrough.

Increasing awareness of RDMC and reviewing cross domain continuity arrangements
across the Reference Data process.

© Formal review of RDMC, Bracknell, and Equipment Business Continuity Plans.

* The OLA between PON BSM (OSG) and ICL Pathway (Ref: PON/OSG/OLA/001
(version 2.0)), requires an expansion to the section outlining the business continuity
arrangements.

HELPDESK

General

© Useful meeting which included a presentation on the forthocming, Everest release.
Representatives from NBSC Training and Customer Management attended to gain an
insight into the latest release.

¢ A presentation by NBSC on the latest Customer Satisfaction Survey provoked a good
response and debate re the key quality areas that both helpdesks need to focus on.

© Only one incident raised for review

Separate meeting’s have been held re :
* Interface Agreement which is in the process of being updated
* Complaints forum which addresses specific complaints - 3 complaints raised for review

LOGISTICS FEEDER SERVICE

General

The LFS_ORF, currently meeting on a monthly basis, continues to be both useful and
productive.

Concern remains over the issue of business representation both at the forum and on the
LFS document set. This is of particular concern as current Post Office representation is
scheduled to change in the near future.

No major operational issues raised during, the meeting, though impacts of M1 migration
were visible in records presented by ICL Pathway. (A bug was discovered in Riposte
s/w, causing late delivery of records for pouch delivery, collection & daily cash on hand,
on 27" & 28" February. A fix was delivered to live on 4° March.)

An LFS reporting error has been logged by Pathway é& is under investigation. Daily cash
on hand records for 22™,23",24" Feb, exceed the outlet population.

A significant mismatch appears to exist between Pouch Delivery information (actuals vs
scan records) and when compared with Planned Orders issued.

Agreement on LFS incident management process with NBSC is progressing, albeit more
slowly than the forum would wish.

FUJ00232476
FUJ00232476
