FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014
Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98
Document Title: Training Scheduling and Minimum Training Compliance
Document Type: Process
Abstract: This document describes the processes undertaken for

scheduling user attendance to the Horizon training and
awareness events delivered as part of Live Trial and
National Rollout. This covers the standard user
programmes of Management Infrastructure Briefings,
User Awareness Events and User Training for both
outlets and POCL Head Office staff.

Status: Final

Distribution: ICL Pathway:Andy Barkham
Lorraine Holt
Paul Underwood
Barrie Hancill
John Coman
Allen Prescott
Pathway Library

Peritas: Stuart Kearns
Chani Martin
Peritas Library

POCL: Mick Ledger
Trevor Rollason
Dawn Green
Andy Jones
Fiona Anderson

Author: Andy Barkham

© 1998 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

0 Document control

0.1 Document history

Version Date

0.1 27/2/98
0.2 23/4/98
1.0 27/5/98

Reason

First Draft for initial comments following a joint workshop
between POCL and ICL Pathway

Comments incorporated after 1* Draft
All comments included & issued for sign-off

0.2 Approval authorities

Name
Stuart Kearns

Andy Barkham

Barrie Davies

Position Signature Date
Project Director, Peritas

Training & Awareness
Manager, ICL Pathway

Implementation Manager,
ICL Pathway

0.3 Associated documents

Reference
1 SY/REP/021

2  PATH/39/016

3. IMP/DOC/004

4  BP/TRN/OO1

5  IM/REQ/024

6  IM/REQ/025

7 IM/STR/040

8 SU/PRO/025

Vers Date Title Source
1.0 19/10/97 Standard Reports and ICL
Formats Pathway
0.2 1/4/98 Horizon Communications ICL
Document Pathway
1.4 14/11/97 Split Implementation Proposal ICL
Pathway
3.3 23/3/98 Training and User Awareness ICL
Baseline Pathway
0.2 23/4/98 Management Infrastructure ICL
Briefing Reference Document Pathway
0.2 23/4/98 User Awareness Reference ICL
Document Pathway
0.2 30/3/98 Scheduling Strategy ICL
Pathway
Peritas Process Manual Peritas

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014
Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98
9 CAR 531.000.01 Specialist Training POCL

0.4 Abbreviations

0.5

MIB
RODB
MTC
POCL
ROSD
TAC
TPAS
SPMR
UAE
HSHD

Management Infrastructure Brief

Roll Out Database

Minimum Training Compliance

Post Office Counters Ltd

Roll-Out Support Desk

Training Administration Centre
Training Project Administration System
Subpostmaster

User Awareness Event

Horizon System Help Desk

Changes in this version

1. Comments from V0.2 included

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref. IMP/REQ/014
Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98
0.6 Table of content
V WntrOdUuction.............eeccceceescececescecseeeeeescecscsseeeseesscseeeescesecesseensescesieeeeeeteeneets 5

2 Scope.....
3 Using This Documen:
4 Management Infrastructure Brief (MIB).

41 OVOIVIOW. oo. eec eee ecee es ee cece cece eeeeeeeeeeeaeeteeseeeeaciteneneereeesetinseseeetecesenees 6
4.2 Process Detail .........0.....ccccccceceecee cece ceecesceececeeceeeeeeeceseeeeeeeceeneeneeeeeaees 6
5 User Awareness Event (UAE)..............:cccceecececeeeeeseeeeeeeeeseeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeees 10
5.1 OVEPVIOW. .....ecececesececeeeeecseeeeeeececacececsesrerenceeevereneasecetereteeseeeseteeseerenee 10
5.2 Process Detail...............cecececceceseseceeseeeeeeeeeseeneeeeeeeeeeeseseseseeseeereseeeeeess 10

6 User Training..
6.1 Overview.

6.2 Process Detai

7 Exception Handling - Request for Extra Course Places............0..0.e 31
7.1 OVOPVIOW. «0... cece ec eceeesceeeeeeeeceeececeeeeeeeeeteneeeesesisitetensnseeiseteneeeeeetes 31
7.2 Process Detall.............cccccceccceeseeceeeseseseeeeeeesseceeseseseesseneescateceteeeeeeees 31

8 Exception Handling - Request for Change of Training Dates..................... 34
8.1 OVOPVIOW. 0... eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeececeeeeeeeeeseetereceresereciteteeeetetetiteeeteetreees OF
8.2 Process Detail ...............ccccceceeceseeeceeeeeseseeeeeeeeseeeeeneeeseesseeeeeseeeeseeeees 34

Appendix A - The Split Implementation Programme.................:::cceceeeeereeee 37

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

1 Introduction

This document details the training scheduling processes used by Peritas for
the User Training, Management Infrastructure Briefing and the User
Awareness Event. This is a high level document which does not duplicate the
detail found in the Peritas call scripts (see Horizon Communications Pack -
Ref [2]) or the information covered in the Scheduling Strategy Ref [7].

2 Scope

The processes contained in this document are detailed in flowchart format
with supporting text to provide clarification. This document does not attempt
to detail every possible scenario, concentrating instead on the standard
approaches that Peritas will be using. The procedures and processes used
in other scenarios are detailed in the Peritas Procedures manual Ref [8].

This document concentrates on the role and responsibilities of Peritas in the
training scheduling process carried out on behalf of ICL Pathway during
rollout. It shows what action needs to be taken at each stage, including time
scales and, where appropriate, the individual responsible for completing the
action. The interfaces with POCL and ICL Pathway are also shown and the
actions required of them are described in broader detail.

This document deals with the standard User Training and does not cover the
processes undertaken for the scheduling of Specialist Training. That area
will be covered in a separate document.

3 Using This Document

Each section contains a flowchart which illustrates the process to be followed.
These are supported by explanatory text. The text will refer to relevant call
scripts and other documents. Cross -references to these documents have
been included where appropriate.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

41

4.2

Management Infrastructure Brief (MIB)

Overview

The MIB is run as part of the Infrastructure phase and is designed for the
SPMRs and Office Managers. It provides them with information about the
activities involved in the roll-out, and focuses on their role and responsibilities
during the Site Survey and Site Preparation stages. The MIB takes place in
Week 6 of the Infrastructure Phase.

Please refer to Appendix A for more details about the Infrastructure Phase.

Process Detail

(Flowchart held at the end of this section on page 9.)

1. The RODB sends this information to Peritas to be loaded into TPAS
(Training Project Administration System) as part of the standard daily
update.

1. Invitation letters for the MIB are sent to the office contact, inviting the
SPMR to attend a briefing. The invitation includes a Response Form which
the SPMR is required to completed and return to the TAC, as well as
details of the venue. The Response Form confirms the following details:

- Office address

- contact telephone numbers

- contact name & job title

- Number and type of staff (i.e. full/part time)
- Relief manager details

1. Peritas sends the Forward Schedule out to the POCL regions and ICL
Pathway. This report is produced on the last working day of each week
and details all of the MIBs and UAEs scheduled for the next 6 weeks.

Note: Those events which the report states will occur in 5-6 weeks time

are only provisional. Those events scheduled for 4 weeks time and less
are confirmed events.

1. The SPMR / Office Manager is given 8 working days to return the
Response Form to Peritas.

1. If the Response Form has not been returned, the Peritas TAC will

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

telephone the SPMR to ensure that they have posted their Response
Form. If they have not, they will be encouraged to do so as soon as
possible and the relevant information will be requested.

The script for this call is held in the document Null Confirmation Call MIB.

1. The Response Form is processed and Peritas captures the details
specified in (2) above as well as details of relief staff and the name(s) of
the person(s) attending the MIB. The forms are processed daily, as
received and details downloaded onto the RODB.

1. On each Saturday, a report is produced which details those post offices
who have been invited to the MIB, but have either declined to confirm their
attendance or cancelled their reservation.. This report (the MIB Forward
Schedule) is e-mailed to ICL Pathway and the relevant POCL regions for
their attention.

1. While attendance on the MIB is not compulsory, it is beneficial for all
SPMRs & Office Managers to attend. The POCL regions should contact
the SPMR by phone to investigate why they do not wish to attend, and
encourage them to contact Peritas to discuss appropriate dates.

Note: the POCL region should not discuss potential dates with the SPMR
as events may already be full. (This is not the case with MIB, as there is
only one MIB event per PO region in any one week, there is no course limit
on MIB events.)

1. If they have any query regarding MIB or training, the SPMR can contact the
TAC either by phone or in writing. Should they require an alternative date,
the TAC will offer them all available dates. (It will be made clear to the
SPMR that they should attend a MIB in the same week as the one that they
were originally called up for where possible). If the date agreed falls out of
the original week the TAC will explain to the SPMR that a briefing pack will
be posted prior to them attending the event. The TAC will also explain that
delaying the MIB will not delay the rest of the Infrastructure Activities.
When they attend the MIB, the trainer will refer to the event as occurring
on Week 6. The SPMR must note how many weeks their MIB has been
delayed by & adjust the week accordingly (i.e. if they attend a week late,
their MIB will be in Week 7).

Note that a briefing pack will only be sent to an SPMR before their MIB if
they have deferred the date of their MIB. In this case, a pack will be sent
out to ensure that they will understand the requirements surrounding the
Site Survey arrangement call before they receive it.

The SPMR can contact Peritas to reschedule their event at any time.
(Note that the process for agreeing a change of date with an SPMR is

detailed in Exception Handling - Request for Change of Training Dates -
see Page 34)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

1. The SPMR / Office manager is contacted by telephone 3 working days
before their scheduled MIB event. The call is used to confirm that the date
agreed is still convenient for them and to remind them of the details
concerning the venue, start times, etc.

The script for this call is held in document 72 hour Confirmation Call for
MIB.

1. The MIB events are evening events, beginning at 7pm and finishing by
9:00pm. The event itself lasts for about 1 ’% hours (but may vary
dependant on the length of the Question and Answer session). The MIB is
run by a Peritas Trainer on behalf of ICL Pathway, supported by a POCL
representative. Both stay behind after the event to answer any queries the
attendees may have. Once the SPMR has finished with the video, it can
be returned to ICL Pathway at the address provided.

1. At the end of each week, briefing packs are sent out to all those SPMRs
whose scheduled events occurred during the week and who have not
received a briefing pack. The packs comprise the Management
Infrastructure Brief (provided as a handout to attendees on the event) and
a copy of the MIB Video (shown as part of the event.)

1. The RODB is updated with details of the MIB activities. Standard reports
are generated to ICL Pathway and POCL by Peritas as detailed in the ICL
Pathway Standard Reports and Formats Ref [1].

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref. IMP/REQ/014
Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98
1 ee
RODB Sends names /
locations / FAD Week -1
2 3.
Letter to invite to MIB & Week 0 I Forward Schedule sent
Response Form to to RLM/ HIM / IPMs /
record fixed details sent ROSD / ICL Pathway on
to SPMR Friday of each week
8 working days
4. 5.
Week 2
Has the response ~~ Non-confirmation call
“form been returned? _~ made to SPMR
Yps
6.
Week 2
Process the Response
Form, record staff count,
relief details & name of
MIB attendee
7 8. 9.
Weeks 3-5
Produce weekly Regions chase up non- SPMR contacts Peritas
Exceptions report. Send I_______»I attendance and I___»\to re-confirm attendance
to regions & Pathway encourage to attend if necessary
10.
Peritas calls SPMR to
remind about MIB event
3 Working days
before event
11. J 12. 13. 14.
Week 6
RODB Updated
MIB Packs sent to all
Weekly & Monthly End of MIB
MIB EVENT SPMRs not attending an reports sent to Activities
event
Pathway
Figure 1 - MIB Scheduling Process
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

5.1

5.2

User Awareness Event (UAE)

Overview

The UAE is run as part of the Installation phase and is designed for all post
office staff and outlet users. The event concentrates on the issues
surrounding the installation of the Horizon System as well as giving an
overview to the changes to POCL business as a result of Horizon. The UAE
also explains the training process and describes the events and activities
which will take place around the actual Horizon System installation. The UAE
takes place in Week 5 of the Installation Phase.

Please refer to Appendix A for more details on the Installation Phase.

Process Detail

(Flowcharts held at pages Error! Bookmark not defined. and Error!
Bookmark not defined..)

1. The RODB sends this information to Peritas, to be loaded into TPAS as
part of the standard daily update.

1. Peritas schedules UAE and the User Training events based on the
installation date provided by RODB.

1. Peritas sends the Forward Schedule out to the POCL regions and ICL
Pathway. This report is produced on the last working day of each week
and details all of the MIBs and UAEs scheduled for the next 6 weeks.

Note: Those events which the report states will occur in 5-6 weeks time
are only provisional. Those events scheduled for 4 weeks time and less
are confirmed events.

1. Invitation letters for the UAE are sent to the SPMR or outlet manager.
These invite users to attend a UAE and provide details of venue, etc. The
letter also confirms the installation date. The SPMR is also sent a Training
Questionnaire which confirms the names of all the staff and asks the
SPMR to indicate which staff require to attend a Managers course instead
of the standard event for Counter Assistants.

1. The SPMR / Office Manager is given 8 working days to return the Training
Questionnaire to Peritas and confirm their attendance at the UAE.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

1. If the Questionnaire has not been returned, the Peritas TAC contacts the
SPMR to that they have posted their Training Questionnaire and to confirm
the relevant details.

The script for this call is held in the Horizon Communications Document
Ref [2].

Note: POCL Headquarters Staff are scheduled on these events using a
separate process. This process is detailed in the Scheduling Specialist
Training document.

1. As part of this call, the TAC takes the details for completion of the Training
Questionnaire over the telephone and asks the SPMR / outlet manager to
confirm this in writing as soon as possible.

Note: The procedure for scheduling POCL Head Office staff onto events is
not covered here and can be found instead in the document Scheduling
Specialist Training (document under development).

1. The Training Questionnaire is processed and Peritas confirms the names
of those attending the UAE, and those staff who need to attend the
Managers Course as well as those who need any specialised training (i.e.
Auditors training). The RODB is updated with this information each
evening.

On each Saturday, a report is produced which details those post offices
who have been invited to the UAE, but where the SPMR or outlet manager
has not agreed to attend. This report (the UAE Forward Schedule) is e-
mailed to ICL Pathway and the relevant POCL regions for their attention.
Copies are provided to the Rollout Support Desk (ROSD) for information.

1. While attendance on the UAE is not compulsory, it is beneficial for all staff
to attend. The POCL regions should contact the SPMR by phone to
investigate why they (or their staff) do not wish to attend, and encourage
them to contact Peritas to discuss appropriate dates.

Note: the POCL region should not discuss potential dates with the SPMR
as events may already be full.

1. The SPMR can either contact Peritas by phone or in writing. Should they
require an alternative date for themselves or their staff, Peritas will offer all
of the dates available to them. These dates will cover venues both inside
and outside their standard post office catchment area (i.e. 30 miles). This
is to ensure flexibility and that the opportunity is available to assist with the
scheduling. It will be made clear to the SPMR that they and their staff
should attend a UAE in the same week as the one that they were originally
called up for (where possible). The SPMR can contact Peritas to

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

reschedule their event at any time before the Reminder Call is made (3
days prior to the event).

(Note that the process for agreeing a change of date with an SPMR is
detailed in Exception Handling - Request for Change of Training Dates -
see Page 34)

1. The SPMR / outlet manager is contacted by telephone 3 working days
before the first scheduled UAE event for their office. The call is used to
confirm that the date agreed is still convenient for them and their staff and
to remind them of the details concerning the venue, start times, etc. It is
the responsibility of the SPMR / outlet manager to remind their staff.

The script for this call is held in document 72 Hour Confirmation Call for
UAE.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 38
ICL Pathway

Training Compliance

Training Scheduling and Minimum

FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

1

RODB Provides Peritas I Week 4
with Installation dates

Aw

Peritas schedules UAE
and User Training Week 1
events

3. Y 4.
Forward Schedule sent
Week 1 I t0RLM/HIM/IPMs /
» ROSD / ICL Pathway on
Friday of each week

Peritas sends letter

inviting PO staff to UAE.

enclosing Training
Questionnaires

5 Y
Week 2/3

Peritas calls to find out

Has the
Questionnaire been ~>———Ne——», why the Questionnaire
_ returned? has not been returned
8 working days
later
Yes

8 AZ
‘Questionnaires
processed. Attendees

Page One

7.

Questionnaire details
taken over the phone by
Perirtas and confirmed
in writing by SPMR

for UAE confirmed.
Names for counter &
managers courses
collated

: 10,
Weeks 3-5

RODB Updated. Produce
weekly Exceptions Report.
Saturday despatch to
Regions & Pathway

Regions chase up those
not wishing to attend
UAE and encourage to
attend

1

SPMR contacts Peritas

to re-confirm attendance

for themselves and their
staff if necessary

{ Page2 }

Figure 2 - UAE Scheduling Process Page 1

1. The UAE events are evening events, beginning at 7pm and finishing by
9:00pm. The event itself lasts for approximately 1 % hours and is run by a

Page 12 of 38

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

Peritas Trainer on behalf of ICL Pathway, supported by a POCL
representative. Both stay behind after the event to answer and queries the
attendees may have.

1. At the end of each week, UAE packs are sent out to all those SPMRs
whose scheduled events occurred during the week and who did not attend.
The packs comprise the User Awareness Brief (provided as a handout to
attendees on the event) and a copy of the UAE Video (shown as part of the
event.) This is returnable to ICL Pathway at the address provided

1. The RODB is updated with details of the UAE activities. Standard reports
are generated to ICL Pathway by Peritas as detailed in the ICL Pathway
Standard Reports and Formats Ref [1].

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref. IMP/REQ/014
Training Compliance Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98
Page Two

Peritas calls attendees Week 5/6
to remind about the UAE
event. Also reminds
about the questionnaire 3 working days
if not yet returned before UAE event

Week 5
UAE Event

14, ‘

Peritas send UAE packs Week 5
to any SPMRs that do
not attend an event

15. ¥

RODB Updated. Week 5
Weekly & Monthly
Reports sent to
Pathway

¥

I End of UAE Activities

Figure 3 - UAE Scheduling Process Page Two

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i: Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

6.1

6.2

User Training

Overview

The User Training events take place in the period surrounding the Installation
Date for each post office. The majority of the training will take place during
the 5 working days prior to Installation. The rest will take place up to 2
working days afterwards. Minimum Training Compliance (MTC) must be
achieved before the Installation Date. MTC is defined as being sufficient staff
to run the Horizon System under normal working circumstances. The exact
number for each post office is defined by POCL in the Minimum Training
Compliance matrix (document to be defined).

User Training comprises standard training (i.e. for managers and counter
clerks as detailed below) and specialist training (i.e. for Auditors, Help Desk
and Trainers and is detailed in a separate the POCL specialist training
document Ref [9]. The courses included in User Training are:

e Horizon for Postal Officers (1 day)

¢ Horizon for Counter Assistants (1 day)

e Horizon for Branch Managers (1% days)

e Horizon for Outlet & Franchise Managers & SPMRs (1 % days)

All courses include a competency test which attendees must pass before they
are allowed to work on the Horizon System. Attendees are given three
chances to pass the test, after which they are passed to POCL. POCL will
provide them with help to bring them up to standard or take other action.
Peritas also provides Remedial Training to help staff who have failed to get
through the competency test. This takes the form of a 1-2 hour tutorial run in
the evenings where staff can concentrate on areas they found difficulty with
and then retake the applicable sections of the competency test. Staff are
given three attempts to pass the competency test. If they have still not
passed after their third attempt, POCL assumes the responsibility for their
training.

Process Detail

(Flowcharts held at pages 19, 22, 25, 27 and 30)

1. Peritas confirms the training venues, based on their draft schedule and the

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i: Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

information received in the Training Questionnaire (see User Awareness
Event, Process Detail, paragraphs 2 and 7).

1. Invitations to attend and a Horizon Booking Form are sent out to the
SPMRs / outlet managers at each post office. The Horizon Booking Form
details the courses to which staff have been allocated and the invitations
include details of dates, times, and venues. The Horizon Booking Form
includes instructions to the SPMR. The SPMR has the flexibility to change
the staff allocated to courses without contacting Peritas, as long as they do
not change the number of places allocated to a particular course or the
types of course the staff member is attending. Once the SPMR has
confirmed the dates with their staff, they should return the Horizon Booking
Form direct to Peritas. It is the responsibility of the SPMR to check that the
dates are suitable for their staff and to make any necessary arrangements
for cover during that period.

1. The SPMR / outlet manager is given 8 working days to return Horizon
Booking Form to Peritas.

1. Any office who has not returned their Horizon Booking Form within 8
working days will be contacted by telephone by the Peritas TAC. All staff
training dates will be secured over the telephone and the SPMR will be
asked to forward confirmation in writing as soon as possible, so that a
record can be kept.

The script for this call is held in document Null Confirmation Call User
Training.

(Please note that process boxes 4, 5 and 10 will be dealt with during the
same conversation. They represent checks that the TAC operator will
make during the course of the telephone call. The conversation will also
include discussions on available course dates. The process for changing
a course date is detailed in Exception Handling - Request for Change of
Training Dates - see Page 34).

1. TPAS checks that the number of staff members who can attend is enough
to ensure that post office can achieve MTC (as per the Minimum Training
Compliance matrix - document to be defined).

1. Should the number of staff able to attend training mean that the post office
cannot achieve MTC, the Peritas operator informs the and escalates to the
POCL region accordingly. Peritas then flags the post office as a problem
to ICL Pathway via the RODB and includes the details on a Daily
Exception Report. This report is sent at the end of the day by e-mail to ICL
Pathway and the POCL regions. Copies are sent to the ROSD for
reference.

1. The POCL regions then take appropriate action to encourage staff to
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 38

FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i: Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

attend the training. They should contact the SPMR by phone to investigate
why they (or their staff) do not wish to attend, and encourage them to
contact Peritas to discuss appropriate dates.

Note: the POCL region should not discuss potential dates with the SPMR
as events may already be full.

1. The SPMR must contact Peritas by phone. Should they require an
alternative date for themselves or their staff, Peritas will offer them all of
the dates available to them. These dates will cover venues both inside and
outside their standard post office catchment area (i.e. 15 miles). This is to
ensure flexibility and that the opportunity is available to assist with the
scheduling. The SPMR can contact Peritas to reschedule their event at
any time.

The time allowed for the SPMR to respond depends on whether or not the
issue of Joining Instructions is being delayed. If it is not being delayed, the
SPMR has 3 working days to contact Peritas. If issue of Joining
Instructions is being delayed, then the SPMR must reply to Peritas within 1
working day of the report being sent to the POCL region. Failure to
respond within the timescales set, will result in Peritas escalating the
matter (see text for paragraph 9).

Once the SPMR contacts the TAC, Peritas will do any re-scheduling that is
required - as long as dates are available.

Note: Re-scheduling without further escalation is only allowed once.
Should the post office still be unable to achieve MTC prior to installation,
the matter will be escalated further to POCL. Peritas will flag the post
office as a problem to ICL Pathway via the RODB and inform the ROSD of
the situation. The ROSD will contact POCL separately. The post office
will still appear on the daily exception report issued to ICL Pathway and the
POCL regions. No further scheduling will take place for this post office
until the SPMR can confirm that sufficient staff to achieve MTC are
available within the timescales prior to installation.

Overleaf : Figure 4 : Scheduling for User Training Page One

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Training Compliance v Ref: MPIREQION
‘ersion: d
Date: 27/5/98
Page One
4
Book Training Venues

Training Questionnaire

2.

Invitations and Horizon
Booking Form sent to
attendees

8 working days

Has the form been >
completed &
returned?

( Page2 )

(based on information trom

Week 6

Week 6

Week 7/8

No.

Note - re-scheduling at
this level is allowed
‘once only. Instead of
I repeating the loop, the
problem will be
escalated to Pathway
for resolution

: . I

Peritas makes a ¥ »—~ Can enough staff to
reminder call achieve MTC attend
training?
Yes

No-

‘Once Only.

Flag RODB. Produce
» daily exception report for
Regions

¥

Regions take action to
‘encourage attendance

If the re-scheduling will not delay the
issue of the Joining instructions, 3

working days are allowed for

response. [fit will delay the issue of
9 Instructions, 1 workingday is
allowed for response

Peritas re-schedules
training

8.

SPMR contacts Peritas

to reschedule training

(for themselves or their
staff)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/O14

ini i Versi 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

1. The Peritas TAC checks to ensure that all staff from the post office are
able to attend training before the Installation Date. This ensures that “Go
Live” can take place.

1. Should some of the post office staff not be able to attend training, the
Peritas operator informs the SPMR that the matter will be raised with the
POCL region. Peritas then includes the details on a Daily Exception
Report. This report is sent at the end of the day by e-mail to ICL Pathway
and the POCL regions and copies to the ROSD for reference.

1. The POCL regions then take appropriate action to encourage staff to
attend the training within the contractual training window. They should
contact the SPMR by phone to investigate why they (or their staff) do not
wish to attend, and encourage them to contact Peritas to discuss
appropriate dates.

Note: The POCL region should not discuss potential dates with the SPMR
as events may already be full.

1. The SPMR must contact Peritas by phone. Should they require an
alternative date for themselves or their staff, Peritas will offer them all of
the dates available to them. The SPMR can contact Peritas to reschedule
their event at any time up to the issue of the Joining Instructions (3 weeks
prior to the course) . At this stage, Peritas may also offer training up
to 2 work7ing days after the Installation Date. Peritas will be as flexible as
possible in offering alternative dates to minimise disruption to scheduling
and go live. Those offered will be both inside and outside the standard
distance from the post office (15 miles).

The time allowed for the SPMR to respond depends on whether or not the
issue of Joining Instructions is being delayed. If it is not being delayed, the
SPMR has 3 working days to contact Peritas. If issue of Joining
Instructions is being delayed, then the SPMR must reply to Peritas within 1
working day of the report being sent to the POCL region. Failure to
respond within the timescales set, will result in Peritas escalating the
matter to POCL (see text for paragraph 9). Copies of the report will be
sent to ICL Pathway and the ROSD for reference.

1. The Peritas Operator will check that all staff are now allocated onto
training courses. This ensures that “go live” can take place.

1. If any post office staff are not assigned to training dates, Peritas will report
this to ICL Pathway Steady State and the POCL regions. This will be done
using the Daily Exception Report which will be e-mailed to ICL Pathway
and the POCL region.

1. The Peritas operator will schedule training for all those staff who can
attend within the contractual training window.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 38

FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/O14

ini i Versi 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

1. The Peritas TAC confirms the scheduling of all staff onto training events.

Twelve working days before the first training event for a post office, Peritas
will issue Course Joining Instructions. These are sent to the office contact
(usually SPMR or outlet manager) for distribution to their staff. The Joining
Instructions will confirm the date, time and venue for the event as well as
directions to the venue. It is the office contacts responsibility to distribute
these to their staff as quickly as possible.

Note: Transport to and from the venue will be the responsibility of SPMRs
/ outlet managers and staff and not ICL Pathway.

Overleaf : Figure 5 : Scheduling for User Training Page Two

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Training Compliance v Ref: MPIREQION
‘ersion. d
Date: 27/5/98
Page Two
Paget ) E
10. x 1 12.
Peritas gives details
Can all the staff
17.

Confirm scheduling of
staff onto events

18 Week 9

Issue Course Joining
Instructions

Page 3)

Week 7/8

attend before Inst

date?

Yes

I

16.

‘Scheduling confirmed by
Peritas for those who
can attend

<

Yes

‘of non attenders to
No»
Regions via daily
exception report

Regions take action to
encourage attendance

Can all staff
now attend?

15.

Those who cannot
attend are reported to
Regions & Steady State

13.

SPMR contacts Peritas to
re-confirm staff attendance
if necessary (including
possibility of training on
days -1 & -2)

If the re-scheduling will not delay the
issue of the Joining instructions, 3
working days are allowed for
response. Ifit will delay the issue of
Joining Instructions, 1 workingday is
allowed for response

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 0 of 38

FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/O14

ini i Versi 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

1. The office contact (SPMR or outlet manager) will be contacted by
telephone 3 working days before the first training event scheduled for their
office. This call confirms the dates for ALL staff attending training. The
Peritas operator ensures that venue details are correct.

The script for this call is held in document 72 Hour Confirmation Call User
Training.

1. Part of the above call checks that individuals can still attend.

Please note that this section of the flowchart represents the key areas that
the Peritas operator will cover whenever an individual tells Peritas that
they cannot attend their scheduled training date. To that end, this section
should be read with Exception Handling - Request for Change of Training
Dates - see Page 34 which covers the general procedure for dealing with
this situation.

1. Firstly, the Peritas operator checks to see if the individual concerned can
be re-scheduled before their assigned Installation Date.

1. If they cannot be re-scheduled before their Installation Date, the Peritas
operator checks to see whether achievement of MTC for that office is
threatened or affected.

1. If MTC is threatened by the individual being unable to attend, Peritas sets
a flag on the RODB to alert ICL Pathway. Peritas also raises the issue
with the ROSD for escalation within the POCL region. Details are included
on the daily exception report which is e-mailed to all parties for resolution.

1. Should non-attendance not affect the achievement of MTC, the individual
is then offered training up to 2 working days after their Installation Date.
This offer is authorised by a TAC supervisor or manager before being
made by the operator. Notification will be confirmed via exception reports
to ICL Pathway, Steady State, ROSD and POCL respectively.

1. If the individual can still not attend, the situation is raised as an issue with
ICL Pathway via the ROSD and detailed on the daily exception report to
POCL. The report will be sent out to the POCL region and ICL Pathway at
the end of the day. Copies will be sent to the HSHD accordingly.

1. The POCL regions should them take action to encourage the individual to
attend within the contractual training window. They should not offer
alternative dates as there may be no spaces available. Instead, they
should encourage the individual to contact Peritas again to agree dates.

As before, Peritas will be as flexible as possible in offering alternative
dates to minimise disruption to scheduling and go live. Those offered will

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/O14

ini i Versi 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

be both inside and outside the standard distance from the post office (15
miles).

Note: At this stage, the individual MUST contact Peritas within 1 working
day of the issue being raised. This post office will now be on the critical
path and could be removed from the rollout schedule and placed into the
Sundries programme later in the timetable.

1. The SPMR (or the individual concerned) must contact Peritas by phone.
Peritas will offer them all of the dates available to them, including the
possibility of training up to 2 working days after the Installation Date.
(These days are seen as contingency). Peritas will be as flexible as
possible in offering alternative dates to minimise disruption to scheduling
and go live. Those offered will be both inside and outside the standard
distance from the post office (15 miles).

1. The Peritas operator will re-schedule them where possible.

1. Should it still be impossible to schedule the individual, Peritas will raise a
flag on the RODB and inform the ROSD of the situation. The ROSD will
then escalate the problem further with POCL. Details will be included by
Peritas on the daily exceptions report.

1. Peritas will re-schedule the individual with the dates agreed. Over the
telephone, they will confirm details of date, time and venue. Written
confirmation will be sent to the individual (via their office contact).

The User Training lasts either 1 or 1 % days. Both courses start at 9am and
last until approximately 5pm. (The second day of the Managers Course
finishes at approximately 2pm).

Overleaf : Figure 6 : Scheduling for User Training Page Three

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 38
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Training Compliance

Ref:

Version

Date:

FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

IMP/REQ/014
1.0
18/06/98

Page Three
This offer will be
— authorised by a TAC
/ supervisor or manager
(I Page2 ) before being made
A )
19.
¥ I 25,
Week 10/11 (3 working 22. 24
Peritas calls SPMRs to days before first event for
remind them of all Po) an the individual Call to ROSD. Daily
training dates booked »< Is MTC threatened > No an the individual No» exception report sent
attend on days -1 or.
or affected? “0 to regions
No ‘Same Working Day 1
I
y
20. x 21. 23 * 26. y
Flag on RODB / ROSD.
Can an individual ~ Can they be Pathway liaises with Regions / Regions take action
Ne—®< rescheduled before POCL. include on daily)
still attend? include on daily to encourage
Inst date? exceptions report pridinrtninl
OO Yes.
. Yes
a 30,
YT 28. 27. ¥
31 Reschedule ;
: ¥ vie SPMR contacts Peritas
* L Can they now to re-schedule training
attend? including possibility of
User Training training on days -1 & -2
B )
No
Week 11/12 Note that this questions is not 29. 4
actually asked by Peritas. This Fiag on ROBB /ROSD
¥ process is entered whenever an Pathway eecelates with
/ individual tells Peritas that they I Regions / POCL. Include on
( Pages } cannot attend - for whatever reason daily exceptions report
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 18/06/98

The following section of the process deals with the process to be taken
should an individual not arrive for their scheduled training. and the action
taken. It then looks at the action taken by the trainer at the end of the
course.

1. The trainer is sent a list of all the attendees for each event by the Peritas
TAC. As people arrive, the trainer checks their names against those who
are expected.

1. If any individuals fail to appear, the trainer contacts Peritas at the first coffe
break in the course and informs them of the individuals name & FAD code.
This will occur by 11am at the latest.

1. The TAC will follow this up with the individual direct. They will contact the
post office to check why the individual has failed to appear. They will
continue attempting to contact the individual until the normal closing time
for the post office, or until 6pm (whichever is earlier).

1. If the Peritas TAC can contact the individual, they will attempt to re-
schedule them on a course prior to their post office installation date. This
will be confirmed in writing on the same day.

1. If the individual cannot attend an event (or the Peritas TAC has been
unable to contact them), ICL Pathway will be alerting by Peritas raising a
flag on the RODB and details will be automatically included on the daily
exception report to POCL. Copies will be provided to the HSHD for
reference.

1. At the end of the day - after any remedial training has taken place - the
trainer sends the appraisal forms to the Peritas TAC. If they cannot be
sent that day, they are sent by 9am on the next working day.

(NB - this action takes place after actions 38-49. It has been included in
this position for reasons of clarity.)

1. The trainer checks the results of each persons competency test to ensure
that they have achieved the pass mark (which is 90%).

The Peritas TAC includes details of those passing the course on the monthly
report User Training Competence Test Summary. The RODB is updated
when MTC or Fully Trained status is achieved.

Overleaf : Figure 7 : Scheduling for User Training Page Four

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Training Compliance Verner My REQION
Date: 27/5/98
Page Four
Page 3 I
32 y ensures ot 33. 34 35. 36.

Did all the scheduled

Training Administration Kan 5
Centre chases until PO an they attan«

Trainer informs Peritas Flag on RODB. Detail

attendees arrive? No— at first break (by 11am) closes (or 8pm at the >< another event pre- No» on daily exception report
latest)
Yes
¥ ¥
Trainer sends appraisal
forms to TAC at end of (I B A
day if possible. Always
no later than 9am the
next day (or first post).
38 ‘ Last Day of
course

Did the individual
pass?

39. Yes

¥

Update RODB. Include in\
standard report to regions)

No—»{ Page 5 I

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

IMP/REQ/014
1.0
Date: 27/5/98

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum
Training Compliance

1. The trainer talks to the individual about their options for remedial training,
and tries to arrange immediate remedial training where at all possible.

1. Before any remedial training takes place, the trainer contacts the Peritas
TAC and provides a verbal report and update. This report details all those
who have failed the competency test. This takes place by 6pm and is also
recorded on the delegates appraisal forms for audit purposes.

1. During the telephone call (and assuming the individual cannot attend
immediate remedial training), the trainer gets the TAC to check for
available remedial training dates.

1. The TAC checks to see if failing the competency test has caused MTC to
be threatened or affected.

1. If MTC is affected, the TAC raises a flag on the RODB, and raises the
issue with the ROSD for escalation to the POCL regions.

1. ROSD escalates the issue with ICL Pathway and POCL, who assess the
impact on the installation and decide on an appropriate course of action.
One working day is allowed for a decision to be reached by both parties.
The Peritas Training Administration Centre is informed via the HSHD
accordingly.

Note: Remedial training will continue to be offered by Peritas while the
best course of action is being determined as part of the above escalation
process.

1. At the end of any remedial training, the TAC collates all the information
received and generates a report which summarises all of that days results.
This report is e-mailed to ICL Pathway.

1. Before finalising any remedial training, the trainer (together with the TAC)
checks that the individual has not already taken 3 competency tests.

1. If the individual has just failed their 3 competency test, they are not re-
scheduled for a further remedial training event. Instead, Peritas informs
ICL Pathway by raising a flag on the RODB and informs ICL Pathway
Steady State and POCL via the daily exception report. POCL takes on the
responsibility for determining the most appropriate course of action as per
their agreed policy. Notification to ICL Pathway Steady State takes place
to ensure that non-competent users are not using the system.

The trainer and the TAC check to see if the individual can be re-scheduled. If
the individual concerned is vital to achievement of MTC, the training must
take place prior to their Installation Date. If they are not, they can be re-
scheduled up to 2 working days after the Installation Date.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 38

FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

IMP/REQ/014
1.0
Date: 27/5/98

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum
Training Compliance

Overleaf : Figure 8 : Scheduling for User Training Page Five

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Schedu! Ref: IMP/REQ/014
Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98
Page Five
Page 4 )
40. y
Trainer checks with
individual to see if _
immediate remedial
training can take place. (Bs)
Actioned by Peritas Training Administration Centre
“1 y 43. 46 47 49. Re-scheduling
Trainer reports failures Daily report sent to L ~ done by
to TAC by phone at end Pathway summarising Is this their 3rd Can they be
of day (by 6pm) and Is MTC threatened ~>——No—» passes & fails. (Generated failure? No» rescheduled for
records on delegate or affected? after any remedial training fallure’ remedial training?
appraisals finishes for the day) 4
ry
Yes Yes
Ne
42. ' 44, 48. 48. °

Trainer checks for
available remedial
training dates with TAC

Pathway & POCL
> assess impact on

Flag as a problem on
RODB ‘i ‘
installation

Response required within
1 working day. Note that
other activities (i.e.
remedial training) will
continue while awaiting
response

Flag on RODB. Regions
(Pathway informed. POCL \
take on responsibilty for
determining action

Note: If MTC is affected,
training cannot be re-
scheduled later than the
day prior to installation. If
MTC isn't affected, it can
be re-scheduled up to
Inst -2

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

7.1

7.2

Exception Handling - Request for Extra Course Places

Overview

This process is used whenever an office contact (either SPMR or outlet
manager) contacts Peritas to request an extra place on a course.

Note: This is used ONLY when the SPMR / outlet manager is requesting a
place for an individual who is not part of the recorded staff complement (as
captured during the Management Infrastructure Brief activities and confirmed
using the Training Questionnaire sent out with the User Awareness Event
invitation).

Process Detail

(Flowchart held at page 33).

1. This process is started by Peritas issuing training dates or invitations -
dependant on whether the event in question is a User Training event or a
MIB or UAE.

1. The TAC is contacted by the office contact or by POCL Head Office. This
contact can be by telephone or by post.

1. The contact includes a request for an individual other than those recorded
on the staff complement to attend an event.

1. The TAC checks to see what role the individual plays in the running of the
post office and availability of places within that post office’s training
window.

1. If they are an Area Manager or a Relief, the individuals details are
recorded in a Relief record within TPAS.

1. If they are staff members at the post office (either full time, part time or
occasional staff), their details are noted and added onto TPAS as a new
staff member within the post office record. Details are passed to POCL for
information vie e-mail. Copies are sent to ROSD and ICL Pathway for
reference.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

1. If they have no role in running the post office, the request is refused.

1. If they are a landlord, they are permitted to attend the MIB event, but not
the UAE or User Training

1. Peritas schedules the individual onto an event as per normal procedures
(see appropriate sections within this document).

1. RODB is updated (if required - i.e. Relief Manager) and Peritas includes
the individual on attendance reports as part of the event.

Note: ICL Pathway will train attendees known to them during rollout as part
of the above process unless otherwise indicated in writing by POCL prior
to individual attendance. All refusals will be the responsibility of POCL if
not covered as part of point 7 of this process.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 38
ICL Pathway

Training Scheduling and Minimum
Training Compliance

FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

Ref: IMP/REQ/014
Version: 1.0
Date: 27/5/98

1

Relief record on TAC
system

Take Details & create

Peritas issues dates
(User Training)or
invitations (MIB/UAE) 2

SPMR or HEad Office
<a contacts Training

Administration Centre

(by phone or via post)

¥
SPMR requests an
additional person attend
training - someone who is
extra to the currently
known staff complement

4 ¥

Peritas determines the
role that the individual
plays in running the post
office

‘Area Managers / Relief None

PT / Occasional Staff,
Full Time Staff

~

Landlord

Take Details and add on
the system as a new
staff member

Schedule onto Event

10. ¥

( Include on attendance \
\ report

Refuse Request

Is the event an
MIB?

Figure 9 - Process for Requesting Extra Course Places

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

8.1

8.2

Exception Handling - Request for Change of Training
Dates

Overview

This process is used whenever an SPMR contacts Peritas to request a
change of training dates for themselves or their staff.

Note: This contact may be initiated by the SPMR, or it may be initiated by
Peritas when they call the SPMR for another reason.

Process Detail

(Flowchart held at page 36)

1. This process is started by Peritas issuing training dates or invitations -
dependant on whether the event in question is a User Training event or a
MIB or UAE.

1. This process may also start by POCL regions encouraging the SPMR to
contact Peritas after a previous refusal to attend or agree training dates.

1. The TAC is contacted by the outlet contact or by a POCL Head Office
representative with a request to change the training dates for themselves
or a staff member. This contact can be by telephone or by post.

1. The Peritas operator offers the SPMR all of the available dates within the
standard catchment area. (This is a 15 mile radius of the post office for
User Training and a 30 mile radius of the post office for MIB & UAE. In
some areas, the catchment area will be limited to the region covered by the
post offices outbound post code.)

1. The TAC attempts to get a date agreed by offering all available dates
within the boundaries specified above.

1. The individual is re-scheduled on the date agreed within the contractual
training window.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date: 27/5/98

1. The Peritas operator offers the SPMR all of the available dates outside the
standard catchment area. (This is a 15 mile radius of the post office for
User Training and a 30 mile radius of the post office for MIB & UAE. In
some areas, the catchment area will be limited to the region covered by the
post offices outbound post code.)

1.A call is issued (MIB/UAE), or Joining Instructions are issued (User
Training).

1. The TAC attempts to get a date agreed by offering all allowable dates.

1. The individual is marked as an outstanding problem on TPAS. Their
details are included on the MIB Forward Schedule or UAE Forward
Schedule. Action is taken forward by POCL (see Management Information
Briefing, paragraph 7 and User Awareness Event, paragraph 8).

1. The process continues in the User Training section - see Connector D on
page 19.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 38
FUJ00001277

FUJ00001277
ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum v Ref: MPIREQION
ini i: ‘ersion: .
Training Compliance Date. 27/5/98
2.

1

Peritas issues dates
(User Training)or_—_}
invitations (MIB/UAE) /

Individual marked as a
problem. Daily

exception report issued
XREF to MIB
Scheduling Process

3.

SPMR contacts Training L

Administration Centre y

4. (by phone or via post)

with request to change
training dates

4.

SPMR offered all available

\
_4 Regions chase SPMR
oo J

Note that in some
areas the catchment.
area is limited to the
region covered by the

offices’ outbound post

dates within (User code
Training) 15 miles of their
post office, or (MIB/UAE)
30 miles of the post office
5. 6.

Can a date be
agreed? Re-Schedule
7. 8.
MIB / UAE - call issued. >
SPMR offered all (User Training - Joining I

available dates, outside
the 15 mile limit

Can a date be
agreed?

MIB / UAE :

User Training

Instructions issued,

XREF to User Training
> Scheduling Process -
Connector D (Page 1)

Figure 10 - Process for Dealing with Request to Change Dates

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 5 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date. 27/5/98

Appendix A - The Split Implementation Programme

The events relating to the elements of both the Infrastructure and Installation phases

and their associated timescales are detailed in the tables below.

Note: This information is taken from the Split Implementation Proposal Ref [3]
Infrastructure Activities

Week I Programme Event
7 Infrastructure I MIB invites sent ( Saturday )
2
3
4
5
6 MIB event
7 Pre survey call made by WTL to office
to arrange survey & preparation
appointment.
8
9 Survey of offices takes place.
10 Survey Analysis
Schedule POCL re-survey resources (
where applicable )
1 Resurvey Call (where applicable)
Confirm POCL re-survey resources (
where applicable )
12
13 Resurvey
14 Resurvey Analysis
15 Screen
16 Parts
17 -
18 Pre preparation telephone call Lead
19 Time
20 yme Modifications ( Where applicable
21
22 Preparation & Acceptance
23 Ready for Installation (RFI)

Installation Activities

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 38
FUJ00001277
FUJ00001277

ICL Pathway Training Scheduling and Minimum Ref: IMP/REQ/014

ini i Version: 1.0
Training Compliance Date. 27/5/98

Programme

Installation & I User Awareness invitations Issued.
Awareness

User Awareness event.

Training Invitations Issued

Training Instruction Received in Offices
ISDN Installation

Training Event

Installation, Migration and Acceptance

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 38
