FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway
Bringing

Technology Monthly

to Post Office Progress
Counters & Report ‘CL
Benefit Payments f

MMMM starch 1998

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref. PA/REP/024
Version: 1.0

Date: 16/04/98

Document Title: Pathway Monthly Report - March 1998

Associated Documents:

Reference Vers Date Title Source
{1} PM/PRO/0002 1.0 26/09/96 Pathway Programme - Project
Planning, Reporting:and Control

Approval Authorities:

Name Position Signature Date

J.H. Bennett Managing Director

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page I of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

\

ICL Pathway Monthly Report

Contents:

Managing Director’s Summary

Systems Report.

Commercial and Financial Report.

a Customer Requirements Report.

Customer Service Report,

Quality and Risk Report.

Z Business Development Report.
ae

International Sales Report.

Organisation & Personnel Report,

Post Office Client Report
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

Areuruins
§ 1019911
SuIseULY

i

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref. PA/REP/024

Managing Di Version: 1.0
ging Directors Summary De. 16/08/98

Managing Directors Summary

MANAGING DIRECTORS SUMMARY

° We have had another good month with the Release Ic-with a rapid
increase in the number of payment cards now issued and only a couple of
incidents both caused by.human error and both being addressed to
prevent reoccurrence. We should reach the peak of 40,000 card in
circulation during May and that will remain steady together with the
100,000 or so OBCS transactions conducted each week. There is a
general recognition al] round that the system is stable and runs-well.

° Easter weekend sees the cut over of CAPS to their new Nile 1.0 release.
This now looks in good shape, has been signed off by the Release
Authorisation Board and we have.weekend plans in place to support a
successful conversion. The main activity is within CAPS but without a
doubt a successful weekend will be an important achievement for the
programme at large.

e The last month has not been an easy one for the work on New Release 2
planning and progress. Severe problems with EPOSS testing within
Pathway and linking through to reference data within POCL have caused
a delay of between three and five weeks to the schedule. A mitigation
plan has been drawn up although this has high risk and low confidence
and discussions are now in hand with the sponsors to open up the debate
on a better plan to get to Live Trial in January 1999. This area will
remain extremely difficult for some time.

e We are now close to reaching agreement with POCL that they will, albeit
it on.a ‘without prejudice’ basis pick up their share of the.costs of
modifying their estate to allow the implementation programme to
proceed. Resolution of this dispute will still need to be determined
through the Treasury Review or our dispute resolution process Which
exists Within the contract. However, programme activities can continue
in the meantime.

° The ‘HM Treasury review has yet to’start and although there have been
numerous debates between the sponsors and their key departments, it is
clearly difficult to get this complex activity underway. Ministers are
likely to have to sign off the terms: of reference and there remains a
debate as to whether the review should be an independent review or as
advised by DSS lawyers, conducted under the audit conditions within the
contract itself.

. Good progress has been made with acceptance-tests with the majority of
these now written and with the customer for sign-off.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

Ick Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

Managing Directors Summary Version: leoaios

° Another problematic month with press with the low profile attitude of
the sponsors not helping to dampen down the rumours and.speculation
A number of attempts have been made to raise the profile but in the face
of the Treasury review there is neither enthusiasm nor commitment to
say more than the absolute-minimum. Pres§ activity will therefore
continue on its currént fairly negative style until the news runs out.

° Dave Miller has now formally taken over as Horizon Programme
Director and the PDA has gone out of ‘existence. This has in factmoved
very, swiftly and although there-are some femnants to tidy up, this has
been'a good piece of work. Our main task now is to draw in as closely
as we can to Dave Miller and his Horizon Programme team and ensure
that programme plans as now drawn up reflect the entire programme and
do not simply monitor Pathway’s contribution. In particular, we need
better access and visibility of CAPS and indeed other POCL
programmes.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 33
FUJ00058170

FUJ00058170
ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PAIREPIOD
Managing Directors Summary Version 6104/98
PROGRESS
RELEASE 2 HIGH LEVEL PLAN
oS —_ Release 2 High Level Plan v3.1 5/3/98 er

Prin Date

T7MARSB

¥ T9SE T99y
Dis & M:A AS ON DJ FM A
Counter Applications —
Development
19 35
[Agent Development aa

Host Development

Infrastructure Development

System Testing

DIT Test
BIT Testing
2
Acceptance Prep and Testing I i iris
16 : 2
End to End Testing EE)
POCL End to End Procedure =

Walk Through

Technical & Security Testing

Model Office Rehearsal #1

Model Office Rehearsal #2

Model Office Test

[Contingency :

Counter Migration 1¢ to NR2

Data Centre Clear Down and
Migration

Live Operation

Live Triat

Counter Procedures / PPD
Production

National Roll Out Preparation

Start Nationa! Rott-Out

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 4 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O24

Managing Directors Summary Version 10 aloe

GENERAL

° We have received more Customer Satisfaction feedback on Release Ic
both from interviews with sub-postmasters and the completion rate of
service reply cards.

° There have been a number of important meetings directly with the CAPS
team during the month and in general, these have been much better than
brokering discussions through the PDA. In particular a good
presentation was given to-the CAPS Board on the Pathway approach to
reconciliation which has been a sore and sensitive point for quite some
time. The response was positive and supportive and businesslike.

° We are making progress with Post Office Counters as to the right
position to draw the boundary between our data warehouse and theirs
[TIP] with the result that we might take on more work from them which
will still result in a reduction in their net costs and also mean a slicker
process between us.

. Good work has been done across the team to finalise what soft EVP
really means and ensure that the requirements can be delivered in NR2+.
We are beginning to get to the end.of this contentious issue

° On the new business front, pressure is on to get the logistic feeder system
and the AP Smart'system signed off. This-means putting deadline
pressure on POCL.

. We continue to push forward on our views on social banking with social
budgeting being the first step. A three way line up between Girobank,
Pathway and Post Office Counters is beginning to prove beneficial and
we are close to putting together a demonstration of the first step of social
budgeting to bind people together and develop enthusiasm for this
initiative.

° Presentations and demonstrations of our system continue-to be given and
the key one this month was to David Clarke, Chancellor of the Duchy of
Lancaster which was extremely effective. The next one proposed is with
the Ian McCartney the DTI minister which has now been diaried for late
April.

. Work is now going on to see how we can get a higher profile across Post
Office Group, particularly in the area of electronic postal services, which
might have a greater benefit to Royal Mail than to Post Office Counters
themselves.

° The good news this month is the success of TPLC in winning a part of
the one-stop shop PC valuation exercise which will give them access to
something like 40,000 PC’s over the next few years. This deal has been
struck alongside Computacenter and is a major achievement for TPLC.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

Managing Directors Summary version 0498

. On the Better Government initiative, we are well linked up between
ourselves and Enterprises and are closely working on the Café. Express
material to see how that can be leveraged off the Pathway infrastructure.
In addition, there is now a fraud working group to see-how this:can
create business returns across the whole of ICL and we are playing a full
role in this with the government team.

ISSUES

° We have a major task to replan following the difficulties on EPOSS and
Reference Data and to carry the sponsors with us on this and to ensure
that this does not interfere with the HM Treasury findings.

° We still have not achieved sign-off of the RCD for NR2 notwithstanding
a robust-exchange of correspondence. This cléarly has some way to go
still and is getting increasingly contractual.

° We shall need to be extremely careful about how we move ICL Pathway
forward with regard to, ISO 9001 registration. There:is a view within the
sponsors that this is an acceptance issue and this we need to rapidly
diffuse.

° On the related issue we need'to handle the.data protection act with care
and ensure that we are compliant with these arrangements and do not
incur onerous extra responsibilities.

. We are beginning to conduct mid-stage quality audits on of own
processes, particularly through the programme group and this‘is proving
a valuable cross check on our disciplines and adherence to policy and
process. Each of these is giving us quite a lot of room for improvement
and extra tasks.

° We continue to have an unhealthy balance between permanent and
freelance. staff and are now gunning hard to increase the permanent
resources in the core areas in order to force a better balance over the next
twelve months. This is a complex and difficult area and will only be
achieve by continuing attention and effort.

. The potential unravelling ofthe German Post Office bid and.its knock on
impact to Escher is an area which could cause related problems through
on to the UK bid and commitments/dependencies required from Escher
to complete this programme. This will need to be very carefully
managed over the next few weeks and months

e The continuing issues and mitigation actions to hold NR2 dates is
reducing resource available to work on NR2+. Although progress is
being made unless NR2 stabilises soon, in terms of product delivery and
rate of change, it will have a knock on effect on dates for NR2+.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 33
=—-—_— —
——_——
—_———
—_— a

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

Systems
Report.
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref. PA/REP/024

Syste Version: 1.0
ystems. Report Date: 16/04/98

Systems Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e A frustrating month, no shortage of effort or commitment but unfortunately not
the equivalent progress against‘schedule, due to problems experienced with
Reference Data and EPOS. The’ fears expressed in last months report that this
issue could potential derail the programme came perilously-close to being
realised, even though it was subject to daily management attention.

. A recovery plan to bring the system test and business integration tests back on
schedule is in the process of being devised. This is being brokered with BA and
POCL and will be discussed at the ‘formal management review ‘ planned 8”
April 1998.

° A number of design hangouts are being monitored very closely to ensure that
their interception does:not adversely impact the testing schedule. These include
elements of Audit and BA/POCL financial reconciliation functionality,
improvements to Riposte message store usage and performance, security
firewalls and mirrored disc’s at single counter outlets.

. Although we seem to be slowly succeeding in.our battle against internal change,
we cannot afford to be complacent and continue to monitor and manage change
rigorously.

° Fortunately, very few software problems are now being raised against release Ic.
This enables key design and development staff to concentrate on New Release 2.

e Progress on the implementation activities is slow and it has become necessary to
prompt POCL to take a more active interest in helping to accelerate issue
resolution, particularly those surrounding the counter migration procedures.

PROGRESS

. The high level designs (HLD) for late changes to New Release 2 have been
produced. These include ‘frame relay’ connection to outlets for those not served
by ISDN, the introduction of security firewalls, and disc mirroring at single
counter outlets. In addition, considerable progress has been made plugging the
gaps in the audit and reconciliation functionality.

e The Roll-out database (Version 2.4a), the. new TPS Host, the 1C to NR2
migration module. and several maintenance updates for BES, EPOS, PAS/CMS,
autoconfiguration’and FTMS have been delivered during the month.

° The testing associated with OBCS and APS is substantially complete, the team
is awaiting maintenance deliveries to clear the last few software errors.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme-Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

Version: 4.0
Systems Report Date: 16/04/98

° As reported in last months report, the focus of attention is now ‘the-main pass
stages of BPS and EPOS system testing. These activities have been-seriously
impacted by a serics of problems related to the mapping of ‘reference data’ to
the EPOS counter application. A number of corrective:actions have been
implemented and recovery options are now being evaluated. The Direct
Interface Testing with BA (CAPS & OBCS) and POCL (RDMC & TIP) has
gone well and we are now poised to start the.final stage (i.e. DIT2)

. Progress on the technical, performance, security and systems management
aspects of the solution slowed during March and is now the subject of close
management scrutiny.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEM

° We have still not been able to find an acceptable resolution to the use of the
FAD code in the Pathway solution. Neither POCL or ICL. Pathway can afford
the substantial costs or the time involved bringing the process in line with the
other. Recent discussions with senior managers within POCL suggest that there
may be a way forward. This must'be documented and agreed within the next few
weeks.

° The.condition of the POCL estate is considerable worse than anticipated. The
work involved in bringing them up to a standard fit for automation is both time-
consuming and costly. Letters between ourselves and. POCL seeking to identify
a solution continue but no success to date. We continue to investigate the
possibility of using ‘flat screens’ in the background. Early signs are
encouraging but more work is required.

. The size of the Riposte message store has become a source for concern. It is
causing difficulties for the test rig. builders and testers during recovery activities.
There are also performance issues related to applications which’scan the
message store. Escher are working on compression algorithms which will help if
we can intercept this version without undermining all the testing carried out to
date. We are also redesigning the.storage of reference data at the counter to
avoid unnecessary replication of messages.

ISSUES

. A version of the Roll-out database has been delivered to support the survey and
prep stages of outlet implementation. There are concerns-that the updated
version of the system required to support.the actual installation activities will
not be ready on time. This is being monitored very carefully.

. The performance of the system and our ability to test certain areas is becoming
an issue. Some believe that the hardware and time available.in insufficient to
confirm the behaviour of the system when-fully loaded. There is also a concern
that the sponsors will require ‘proof’ of compliant performance before giving
‘Acceptance’ rather than proof of scalability.

° The audit high level design is complete and the early indications are that the
additional functionality required can be accommodated. Further work continues.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

Version: 1.0
Systems Report Date: 16/04/98

e The addition work to ensure that we comply with the end to end financial
reconciliation requirement has been identified. The impact of this work is
currently being evaluated. The existing 1¢ application to handle.reconciliation
exceptions (RED) is inadequate for NR2 and must be replaced.

° The design of the Non-ISDN solutions i.e. Frame-relay, PSTN and Pathway
Light continues. We must be careful to ensure that the development work can be
achieved in the time remaining

. The issue of ‘tumnover’ training i.e. new’staff in Post Offices, has still to be
resolved with POCL.

° The clustering configuration design for the correspondence servers in the data
centres is-being re-evaluated to ensure that it can support NR2 volumes:and
recovery requirements and would not preclude the. interception of Riposte 6 if
this product was to emerge this year.

° The process for creating the source documentation (PPD’s) used for the
production of counter procedures and user: manuals has been ‘recently revised to
improve speed and quality. We must succeed in gaining sponsors support for
these changes.

COSTS

° The final management reviews of the System Directorate budgets have been
carried out and a few adjustments are necessary before they are baselined. I
expect our actual expenditure to be measured against these budgets from next
month onwards.

COMMERCIAL IN.CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 33
——
———
a

MN
I
ML

—__—
—EEE—
——

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

Commercial
and Financial
Report
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

Commerci. Financi rt Version: 1.0
ercial & tal Repo Date: 16/04/98

Commercial & Financial Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

. There has been no movement as yet on the Treasury review front.

e Meanwhile, the second order commercial issues around counter space and
training, etc. also remain unresolved.

° It is good to see Ric working well.
° NR2 is under pressure - not good.

e Hence, the risk profile on NR2+ is bound to be increasing..Since this is the
release which is tied to final Acceptance, any delay represents a significant
commercial concer.

° We have:been performing badly with respect to CR/CCN turnaround times. New
initiatives are now in-hand to improve these.

. Progress is now being made on A2As, but it remains frustratingly slow. Not
having these resolved still represents: programme risk.

e The forecast for programme spend is about to go up significantly for 1998 and
1999.

PROGRESS

e tc going well

e working relationships generally good despite the pressures

« A2As getting better

« Resolve to purge the CCN backlog

e New contractual baseline (CCN234) produced and with BA/POCL

© Preparation for Acceptance going on steadily in the background
EXTERNAL, COMMERCIAL FORUMS

CNT

. Limited agenda in the absence of an agreed sponsor brief to address the real
contractual/commercial issues

. Agreement in principle reached on resolution of outstanding CCN117 issues

° Lines of communication remain open
FINANCE AND COMMERCIAL FORUM:

e Some progress on second level issues and housekeeping

. We have kept the wheels turning and lines of communication open

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 33
ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report

Commercial & Financial Report

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

Ref; PA/REP/024
Version: 1.0
Date: _ 16/04/98

CONTRACT BASELINING AND ACCEPTANCE PROCESS

° CCN234 put forward (conforming Solutions to the SADDéetc.) - consistent with
CNT agreement in principle on outstanding CCN117 resolution, but several

iterations are to be expected.

rework until CCN234 is signed off.

° CCN234 represents the baseline for Acceptance scripts, so-there is risk of .

EXTERNAL, WITH SPONSORS.

° Stalled pending HMT review

e Interim-arrangement now agreed which will enable post office preparation to

move forward.

EXTERNAL, WITH SUPPLIERS

° Under control

. We are actively talking to suppliers about flat screens

INTERNAL TO ICL PATHWAY

° Departmental Forecast reviews have shown that spend will go up this year and

next.

° The. new intercompany trading rules will mitigate the impact but.not offset it.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

° None

ISSUES

° Pathway Business viability tied to HMT review
e —_BA’s will to make the programme work

° POCL’s strength to drive it

COSTS

° Controller’s report is contained in the annex.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page I of 33
ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024
Commercial & Financial Report Version: 1.0
Date: _ 16/04/98
KEY FINANCIAL DATA — MARCH 1998
PROJECT COST ANALYSIS (£000)
Month of March Year to Date
Variance Variance vs.
Actual Vs. F’cast Actual Mar F’cast Ic] Budget
Revenue 59 38 279 38 178
Direct Cost of Sales 1,485 7 4,419 7 (451)
Gross Margin (Deficit) (1,426) 44 (4,140) 44 (@74)
Opex:- Labour Related
Own Staff 677 (50) 1,762 (50) (189)
Freelancers 1,412 3 3,542 B 95
Travel & Sub. 34 22 103 22 48
ICL Subcontractors 1,659 (82) 3,833 (82) (376)
Other 979 n 2,312 7 113
Subcontractors
Depreciation 1,034 (e) 3,022 (2) (945)
Marketing 58 22 227 2 (20)
Professional 67 7 342 7 (62)
Other Costs 437 (84) 1,109 (84) (235)
Gross Project Opex 6,356 Q@7) 16,251 (27) (1,572)
Interest Costs 783 (36) 2,071 (36) 75
Cost before Capitalisation 8,565 (19) 22,462 (19) (1,770)
Declared PBT. Losses 406 (226) 686 (226) (446)
Capitalised into Project WIP 8,159 207 21,776 207 (1,324)

e Although overall project costs were very close to forecast in virtually all areas,

- there was a critical adverse variance in the one line item that has an impact on
group results, namely the level of International sales costs, which are taken
straight to profit and loss account. These were £0.4m in the month, which was
almost twice the level forecast. The full extent of the year to date costs of the
team that’has been supporting both the trials in Germany and the development of
generic banking applications (outside of the main DSS/POCL Contract) were
recognised in the period, with the element of catch-up from previous periods
coinciding with heavy charges from ICL Sorbus Gmbh, Fujitsu GmbH and

several other one-time charges.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 12 of 33

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref; PA/REP/024
Commerci. inancial Version: 1.0
ercial & Finan Report Dae 16/0498
HEADCOUNT

March Variance vs

Actual Mar. F’cast I ICL Budget
Permanent 124 1 0
Non-Permanent 153 (10) (30)

¢ — Itis currently proving far simpler to recruit freelance resources into the
programme, even into those areas where longer-term plans call for permanent
staff. The demands of the programme timetable, particularly in the delivery
chain of Design, Development and Test give rise to half of the month end
adverse non-permanent variances against forecast, with most of the rest in
International Sales.

BALANCE SHEETS (£000)

Mar, 98 Actual Split Total Mar. March ICL Budget
Actual Forecast
Op Co Asset Co
Net Fixed Assets 3,420 34,271 37,690 39,060 36,611
Project Work in Progress 88,545 25,986 114,534 114,738 1 13,992 .
Other Working Capital (15,435) (1,294) (16,729) (15,588) (10,653)
TOTAL 76,529 58,963 135,492 138,211 139,950
Share Capital 19,999 1 20,000 20,000 20,000 (
Retained Earnings (1,275) 0 (1,275) (1,048) (643) I
OpCo/AssetCo Balance 30,127 (30,127) i
Group Pooled Borrowings 27,678 7 27,695 5,188 53,779
External Loans 0 89,071 89,071 114,071 66,814
TOTAL BORROWINGS 116,766 119,259 120,592
TOTAL 70,592 58,963 135,492 138,211 139,950
. Total borrowings were again better than forecast, this month by £2.5m, and

again the main reasons were a combination of lower than. forecast fixed asset
additions and higher than forecast negative working capital, mainly accruals and
intercompany balances. Again repeating last month's comments on borrowing
mix, the forecast drawdown of £25m through Asset Co-was delayed until after
the "year end". This has now taken place in early April.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

"yoday
sjuswosimM bday
youlojsn’)

tA
ni

—
=a
———
——

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

F Version: 1.0
Customer Service Report Date: 16/04/98

Customer Requirements Report

SUMMARY

° The Acceptance Test output programme has progressed well with only six of the
21 plans now remaining and all specification due for completion during April.

° With the PDA now fading we are increasingly able to-deal with real customers
and relationships at the working level are proving positive.

PROGRESS

DETAILED PLAN ACTIVITIES

RELEASE 1/ NEW 2

° Dave C has finalised the Receipt and PUN design activity for Release 2 designs
completed. With Anna C’s guidance we have also proposed that much of the
original PUN text is removed to make the letter more readable-and less
intimidating to the public.

e We have supported the PPD workshops: The BES and PCDF PPDs for NR2
were reviewed in detail and numerous comments provided to Helen Pharoah.
Various suggestions.and corrections were also discussed at the follow up PPD
workshop looking at customer counter documentation. Much work remains to
be done.

. The CAPS Codes Files Definitions document has now been finalised for NR2.
There are:still holes but they can be worked around.

e Issued an updated Post Office Closures document NR2, which is circulated for
comment. This covers all outstanding contractual issues

RELEASE NEW 2/3

. Dave H and Tony H have maintained commentary on the Temporary Tokens
framework document. Tony H has kept up with the-flow of business framework
documents. These documents will provide useful when we get to the stage of
making general improvements Requirements and Solutions.

. CAPS liaison: one further meeting took place this month, good progress
continues at a working level. A proposition for NR2+/CAPS 4 is being
developed to update the interface to provide more efficient handling of card re-
issue after impound, which currently can only be progressed by telephone.call to
the help desk.

. Early work has started on CAPS Release 4. There will be an opportunity to
improve the main CAPS interface to handle Reconciliation better.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway — Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PAIREPION
ice Version:
Customer Service Report Dates 16/04/98

e Dave H attended a working review in Dublin with POCL and CFM to identify a
possible approach to the POCL TIP requirement. A realistic position was
eventually agreed, which provides Pathway / CFM with the opportunity to
undertake the TIP MIS work and to pre-process (aggregation and consistency
checking) part of the TIP. stream (that part‘which doesn’t require data matching
with POCL data sources). The overall approach would reduce significantly the
data volumes between Pathway and TIP and maximise the synergy between TIP
and DWH for MIS. A costing is being prepared for assessment by POCL as an
alternative to full TIP development. This is probably as far as the this hare can
run; if POCL are-still not interested and/or aspire to maintain al! ongoing
transaction data on their’side of the PFI fence there seems little point in
attempting further options to take on parts of TIP.

. John.D supported Graham King in finally getting to the bottom of what the-Soft
EVP requirement was. In fact they have turned the last proposal on its head:
each office will now be equipped with one of a small number of policies for soft
EVP and there will be.a default policy for the vast majority of offices.

CARS

. There:was only a small amount of CAR traffic associated with changing
personnel as the PDA disappeared. We have given no ground on the Reference
Data issue. This will self-limit provide the end March POCL delivery proves
acceptable.

A2AS

. Additional A2As were transferred to us this month. John D has produced a
paper.seeking additional performance measurement testing to be done to
progress these CARs

CCNS

° Dave C.reviewed the state of CCN 117 (On-Line payments:and Temporary
Tokens) with the PDA contracts representative. They have accepted made the
need for the various types of.agent with implications on different authorisation
and encashment rules relating to permanent, temporary-and casual customers of
temporary interest.

. However the major issue concerning interpretation of Card,. Payment Card and
Temporary Token was not resolved and will be taken back to.CNT. The
representative’s continued insistence on all requirements referencing “Card” to
apply:equally to payment cards and temporary tokens is wholly unacceptable
and if carried to extreme could jeopardise acceptance. CCN 117 is still not
approved.

© Two late CRs were progressed as CPs. CR P21a relates to.inclusion of
Temporary Agents in one class of MIS encashment reports; CR P36a relates to
the removal of clerk id from impound and nil receipts for clerk (physical)
security reasons.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref. PA/REP/024

Custome rvic: 101 Version: 1.0
stomer Service Report Date: 16/04/98

ACCEPTANCE

. This has been the primary activity this period. We are being well supported by
T&I with HLTP material as soon as they can output it. However we are now
more being paced in the EPOSS and Audit areas by HLTP availability.

. Dave C has output OBCS and APS and POCL Infrastructure is nearing
completion.

° John P has contributed immediately producing the TIP and RD test
specifications and is now stuck into the monumental EPOSS one.

. DC output the first version of the BES Acceptance Spec. A small number of
additional test conditions will be generated within T&I and a couple of
integration tests between BES/PAS and EPOSS/TIP will be completed.

° Tony H has similarly progressed the huge PAS/CMS and CAPS interface specs.
Some enhancements to test have been put in hand cover all acceptance criteria.

. John D has produced several of the more political/contractual specifications and
the Security and Reconciliation ones. To.support the latter a paper describing
the methods of PAS reconciliation to be used at NR2. These are less than ideal
but are heavily constrained by limitations in the main‘interface to CAPS.

MASONS

° Masons have gathered more information on issues likely to divide DSS and
POCL.

NEW BUSINESS SUPPORT

° LFS: There has been better quality progress this period. There are differences
between what the PDA intermediaries have been telling us and the real people
back at the POCL SAPADS project. Sweeping away the PDA will be positive
development.

e A complication is the arrival of the R2 EPOSS to with Systems team’and
understanding how it works. LFS is planned to derive all its data from EPOSS.

° Talexus: Dave C-has produced another iteration of the requirement spec with
the year 2000 rules included. This has been sent to POCL for sign off. We now
learn that Schlumberger are in discussion with their customers discussing a
possible change to the way replacement tokens are issued. In the meantime our
response to the CP is due.to be sent in the-next week or so.

OTHER TEAM ACTIVITIES

. Dave C attended the Newcastle City Smart Card initiative covering the-use of
Smartcard technologies to improve and harmonise citizen service provision.
This is an EC funded multi-country initiative with many good ideas. CITU are
aware:and supportive. No representative from Post Office.

. No significant activity of the German post office this month, although some
assistance was given on reviewing requirements relating to generic banking.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 33
ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024
Customer Service Report Version: 1.0 *
Date: 16/04/98

. DCH presented at the NIST workshop on process.architecture and
specifications.

° A-number of interviews have been held to fill the Bracknell role and an
appointment will be made at the end of April.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

e None

ISSUES

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 33

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170
I)

Ih
lity

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

Customer
Service
Report.
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref. PA/REP/024

Customer Service Report Version: 1.0
P Date: 16/04/98

Customer Service Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e Service performance in March was again very good, marred only by two isolated
incidents, both of which were caused by ‘human error’ and therefore avoidable.
The-first was caused by the loss of a correspondence server following a routine
engineering visit and the second by the accidental unscheduled instigation of a
down-load of fixes to the counters, Both incidents received appropriate levels of
attention and steps have been taken to ensure that they never recur.

° The number of paymentsireceived in March again rose:dramatically as BA
continue to roll-out payment cards. The Release Ic target of 40,000 cards should
be comfortably reached during early May.

° There has been a marked improvement in output from the MIS suite

° The principal focus of attention in April is the implementation of the CAPS Nile

. 1.0-release over the Easter weekend. This is primarily a CAPS activity with
Pathway making relatively minor adjustments to its work packages. The testing
phase has gone very well and I am confident that the upgrade will be conducted
without drama. A telephone number is available with recorded updates of

progréss.maintained by Rod Stocker (PDA) -!______ GRO

° The Release Authorisation Board unreservedly approved the
implementing the Nile 1.0 release on 6 April 1998.

PROGRESS

OPERATIONS

° There was a Correspondence Server failure on 23 March following’a routine
engineering visit. During the re-synchronisation of the-failing server, Riposte
contacted each of the post offices which caused further failures of counter
resources leading to the ‘blue screen’ symptom. Two actions have resulted - one
a workaround for the resource loss at the counter and the’second a procedural
change which will prevent the correspondence servers from re-synchronising
from the counters. This incident again gave CFM the opportunity ‘to test their
recovery process and we are now confident that they have the correct procedures
in place.

° A software distribution task was accidentally initiated on 25 March during the
afternoon. 283 post offices received the patch before the process was stopped by
the SMC. 11 offices experienced problems but all have subsequently
successfully completed their weekly cash account balances. There were no lost .
transactions. The SMC is investigating the cause and will report back in due
course.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref, PA/REP/024
Customer Service Report Version 104/98

e Since the start of Release 1c we have implemented 230 release notes of which
the main areas are :

93 Data Warehouse,
51 PAS/CMS,
~ 41 Counter

BUSINESS SUPPORT

° Although reconciliation incidents have increased in number from 40 in February
to 50 in March this represents’a significant reduction in the overall ratio of
incidents given the increase in payment authorisations.

° The number of lost transactions has continued to fall but we are still
investigating the cause of the occasionally reported printer problem.

. Richard Brunskill has been appointed Business Support Manager taking over
from Raj Aurora who is now focusing. his talents on sorting out the CS
Reference Data Management processes. Thanks to Raj for a job well-done - we
need him to be equally-successful in his new role.

BA & POCL SERVICES

° The service trial of the Pathway-defined process for RML/POCL card package
hand-overiis.under way.

. The IGL card migration exercise has come to an end.

° The service from De La Rue:has been generally good over the last couple of
months, since some teething problems.around the tum of the year, but just I
recently there have been some instances of PUNs being incorrectly folded such {
that the address was not in the envelope window. This issue has-been taken up {
with De La Rue management.

° PCHL undertook a contingency test during the month - some learning points,
especially in relation to the “messages” given to callers, were identified.

© The series of CS-facilitated helpdesk joint forums, aimed at improving their
inter-working, has been completed.

CUSTOMER SATISFACTION

° We have received initial feedback from POCL on the results of the interviews
held with 20 Postmasters to discover theif perception of Release 1C. These
results have been distributed to the Pathway management team and within CS.
We will now be working with POCL to determine the actions that need to be
taken as a result.

. An analysis and commentary relating to service visit reply cards is available.
The percentage of satisfied responses in March was 98%.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024
Customer Service Report Version: 1 0408

OPERATIONAL BUSINESS CHANGE

° The operational business change function has transferred into Customer Service.
David Fletcher continues in the role but now reports'to Peter Burden.

° Three changes were completed in March:- Ellington - relocated, Hewelsfield -
closed, Easton Rd - refurbished.

° POCL have been requested to raise a CR for the Change Catalogue.

° The inability of the current-counter configuration to. work with BT’s new ISDN
standard is of considerable concern. We are considering proposals’ for resolving
this but in the mean-time our ability to deliver operational business change is
significantly hampered.

SYSTEM SUPPORT

° Work by CFM to complete the build of the test rigs is still incomplete. I will
now escalate this to the new management team in CFM.

. Security restrictions are making it impossible for Oracle to provide effective
support online and we are required to use the SSC to provide diagnostic
evidence to them. I am considering a proposal to withdraw the online links and
formalise the indirect support route via the SSC.

e The Known Error Log (KEL) continues to grow and now holds more than 300
entries.

° In March there were 234 customer calls opened and 274 customer calls closed.

INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES pe
(MIS / PROCESS ENGINEERING / PERFORMANCE / IT) !

* There‘has been a'marked improvement in the MIS Suite - particularly with
SLAM butalso the Data Warehouse which is currently running up.to date.

° Reference Data-processes are progressing well and with the appointment of Raj
Aurora as Reference Data Service Manager this major piece of work should be
fully functional in time for Release 2 Model Office.

° Reconciliation (Incident Management and Resolution) is also making good
progress on the Release Ic process baseline. Enhancements have been
introduced and clarification of the many grey areas forced through via DSS
workshops. This is on track to be-“audit-proof” by the end-of April.

° Actual ISDN times obtained from the data warehouse for Release 1c BES
foreign encashments (mean time of 4.89 seconds for transactions up to
28/03/98) are close to the benchmark estimated value obtained from the video
exercise conducted in October (4.74 seconds).

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

e None

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

Customer Service Re} Version: 1.0
Port Date: 16/04/98

ISSUES

° Recruitment remains a problem with important roles across Customer Service
still vacant

. The Payment Card Help Line‘training system for NR2 will not be available in
time to train staff for Model Office.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

i i Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date: 16/04/98

Quality & Risk Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

° FRM progress. First reports for FRM have been produced. Considerable effort
has been put into defining the requirements for ‘soft EVP’ and agreement has
nearly been reached with PDA.

° Risk Management. Revisions are being made to the process in order to provide
more detailed identification and evaluation of programme risks.

° System Security. Initial discussions with CAPS:re DPA requirements indicate
that Pathway need not provide any additional information. Identification of
events for SEM has been completed. Admiral have completed the review of
security vulnerabilities, prioritised and produced test summaries for impact by
T&l.

° Quality. Logically, ISO 9001 registration cannot be an Acceptance i
operational experience is required. A gap analysis is underway - considerable
effort is required from all Pathway to develop and implement processes. Self
assessments with QRM and CS have been carried out.

. Audit. MSQA#2 (Development) - report completed, actions to be agreed.
MSQA#3 (PIT & SPTS) is underway. There is now evidence that lack of
adherence to process and focus on quality is resulting in additional rework
further down the lifecycle, additional cost and is contributing to programme
delays.

° Year. 2000 Conformance. Progress with suppliers continues. Joint testing issues
are beginning to emerge, particularly in availability of relevant EDS test service.
The first successful internal tests have been completed.

e Disaster Recovery. Consultants have been contracted to help with the
completion of these plans.

° Cross Government fraud. Pathway is now represented on this ‘One ICL’ group

PROGRESS

FRAUD RISK MANAGEMENT

RELEASE 1C

° Production of Fixed Reports. Development of the fixed reports has continued
and a second CD was dispatched to the Customer containing report information
plus ad hoc information requested by them.

. LosvStolen Cards Report. Corrections to these reports have been completed, and
Oracle fixes put in place. The report delivery mechanism has been formulated
and relevant work by CFM will be completed.in April.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report "Ref, PA/REP/024

i i Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date: _ 16/04/98

e Investigation Support. The rate of requests has not increased ‘as expected. Two
queries have been received from PDA and are being investigated - a repudiated
transaction and an expired card being used to encash a benefit.

. Impounded Cards.PUNs and Temporary Tokens. Another seven items were
received in March with the same problems - not sent individually or with a
covering letter. Several of were cut into:pieces - making accurate examination
impossible. A letter has been sent stating that agreement is required by 30 April
for the service to be included-in.NR2 timescales.

NEW RELEASE 2

° Fraud Incentive Reward Scheme. A letter from PDA has been received agreeing
that the NINO will be checked during encashment as part of the incentive
scheme, but no details as to how the scheme will operate.

° Develop Extended Verification Process. Following internal discussions and with
PDA, a number of changes have been made to the documentation. This has
required significant effort but is now nearing conclusion.

° FCMS Support. The FCMS Requirements Specification was reviewed and a
new version of the FCMS User Interface Specification was received.
Preparation for testing is now complete. :

RISK MANAGEMENT

° Revisions are being made to the way programme risks are reported. A number of
workshops are being held in April to identify risks in more detail in.order to
improve the identification of areas of concern and appropriate mitigation
actions.

. The NRO beat rate risk analysis. A ‘300 club’ has been formed consisting of key
individuals to identify the.critical-areas and plan mitigation actions. This is
expected to complete end of April.

° A review of the ICL Project Risk Model is underway, to understand if it can be
applied to Business Development.

. Disaster Recovery. Consultants have been contracted to bring the Disaster
Recovery plans up to date and to help with implementing and testing them.

SYSTEM SECURITY

° Data Protection Act. Initial discussions with CAPS to agree the.scope of
information Pathway need to provide to satisfy a Subject Access Request have
concluded that'we need.not provide any information in addition to.that available
from CAPS.

. A DPA awareness / training session was held with Customer Service. -
Potentially far-reaching actions were identified and. are being analysed.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

. Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date: 16/04/98

. Peritas security training material-has been reviewed. The objective is to create
security awareness materials for distribution to the counters to reinforce
fundamental security (and fraud) messages.

. The PDA reports on site physical security have’ been reviewed with Alliance &
Leicester, CFM (NI), TSC Crypto Development and CFM (DS). Formal
responses are being formulated to present to the. PDA.

° Customer Service, FRM and Audit are defining access requirements to MIS,
SLAM, FRM and audit workstations in order to address any changes that are
needed in the. ACP and scripts'etc.

X

RELEASE 1C

. A process has been agreed with the PDA FSG for authentication of telephone
callers to the HSH for use of the One Shot Password facility. It is being
impacted by the Sponsors and Pathway Design and Development teams.

NEW RELEASE 2

° Agréement has been reached with Landis & Gyr that our processes for the
receipt, storage and testing of their sensitive materials and that the Tom Parker
‘secure software’ design are adequate for the protection of L & G’s
cryptographic materials.

e Identification and categorisation of security events for all operating systems and
applications has been completed. These have been provided to Tivoli designers
for inclusion in the event management solution.

. Admiral'have completed their review-of potential security vulnerabilities. They
have classified them by likelihood and impact to arrive at an overall rating and
prioritisation..Penetration test script summaries and indications of resourcing
have been produced and are being: impacted by T&I.

e Requirements for third party service suppliers to conduct their own security
testing.have been drafted and discussed with TSC Secure Test and the PDA.

° Discussions have been held with the Network: Integrity & Fraud Programmes
Manager (BT) about telephone auttientication, PACE, customer security
advisories. He has agreed to meet with Jeremy Folkes to brief him on risk
scenarios and BT controls. BT co-operation in.fraud / security investigations and
the provision of ‘exception’ reports for the ICL Pathway ISDN estate were also
discussed.

NEW RELEASE 2+

. Discussion of the design for the Key Management Application and associated
database for Release 2+ is underway, and The Requirements for Key
Management document (RS /REQ/0007) has been-reviewed.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref; PA/REP/024

i i Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date. 16/04/98

QUALITY

° ISO 9001 Registration cannot be an Acceptance issue,.as operating experience is
needed. John-Dicks has stated this.in the Test Specification. A review of risks is
underway. There are significant gaps and Pathway is unlikely to achieve
Registration unless every Directorate becomes actively involved in process
definition and implementation.

° Self Assessment/BIP - 1998. Two departmental Self Assessments have been
facilitated. - QRM and CS. The QRM overall score (340) reflects concerns
about process implementation and differences in.perception at different levels
within the organisation, particularly in the areas of Policy-and Strategy and
People Management / Satisfaction. Preparation of a CS summary is in hand.

. Sub-Contractors. Feedback conceming failed units. returned from.R1c migration
reviewed with Implementation, PPC, Celestica and Exel. Links from hardware
suppliers to PPC are being established, although slowly.

° A Quality session is now being included in the new joiner induction
presentations.

PROCESS MANAGEMENT

. Support for the development of Implementation and Asset Data Collection
processes continues.

AUDIT

. Archive/Audit Design. The Internal Audit requirements, essentially those
Pathway business systems which are not part of the Horizon solution, have been
defined and are out for final review. Audit Data Retrieval requirements have
been defined.

. MSQA#?2 - Development. Final report has been issued, the main issues being:
Variable compliance with process
Lack of detail underpinning standards and processes
Ad hoc protection of critical assets
Very few compliance or performance metrics in place
High ‘repair’ costs
No process for:management of subcontractors

e MSQA#3 - PIT and SPTS has begun.

° Ric Post Implementation Review. The TOR has been issued and timetable
agreed. Full.briefing of in particular CS is planned for early April. Live
extractions from the RIc TMS journal have been made in support of the PIR and
HSH statistics provided.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE - Page 25 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

. 5 Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date: 16/04/98

YEAR 2000 CONFORMANCE

. Product Suppliers. Product compliance responsibility to named individuals
within Systems Directorate has been agreed.

° CFM/DSD have made good progress in-agreeing with Tivoli a Year 2000
compliant set of components. Subject to formal confirmation from IBM/Tivoli
they are available now.

. Internal Testing. The first tranche of Y2K confidence tests of standard products,
CISCO routers, has been completed successfully.

. POCL. RIC compliance will become-an issue if NR2 does go live in the first
half on 1999. It has been agreed with PDA that no action will be taken at this
time; actions on 1C compliance will be driven from the checkpoint reviews.

. DSS have indicated they will write to each Service Provider requesting
assurance on their compliance plans.

. Joint Testing (end to end). The DSS approach is to sign off at the specified
interfaces e.g. CAPS to Pathway. Provided DSS and POCL will share this
information and we have a process of testing by inspection, this mitigates risks
associated with data “before” and “after” year 2000. It is vulnerable to what
happens “during”. There is now an issue with EDS; only a 3 week window in
August for a test service with the System Clock set at a future date, and
primarily for EDS testing. The requifement in principle for better test services
in 1998 and 1999 is now lodged with DSS and PDA. A separate and later phase
of network/infrastructure testing is expected.

CROSS GOVERNMENT FRAUD

. Pathway is now represented on this ICL group, which has the objective of
developing and presenting a ‘One ICL’ proposition for reducing Government
fraud.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

° MSQA’s. There is now evidence that lack of adherence to process and focus.on
quality is resulting in additional rework further down the lifecycle, additional
cost and is contributing to programme delays.

ISSUES

. 2 resignations (Risk Analyst and Security Analyst): wil] create additional
pressure on an already stretched group.

° {SO 9001 Registration. There are significant gaps and Pathway is unlikely to
achieve Registration unless every Directorate becomes actively involved in
process definition and implementation.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 26 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

"10day
yusuIdojaaaq
ssouIsng

m
int

tt]

I

!
“uf

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

i Version: 1.0
in vel
Business Development Report Date: 16/04/98

Business Development Report

SUMMARY ‘

e Key focus on getting sign-off for Logistics Feeder Service and AP Smart. This is
good testing ground for the future as getting signatures on paper is a real
challenge. The criticality of the sign-off dates has now been communicated in
writing to POCL.and the impact ‘of not achieving the dates spelt-out, i.e. we miss
the targeted release.

° Activity is continuing on Social Budgeting. Our demonstration is nearing
completion and we will take this out as part of our standard demo suite. All
reaction from clients is particularly positive about social budgeting. The key
challenge-is to get POCL to be as positive!

. We are continuing to work more closely with the POCL account teams much to
the chagrin of the Account Development teams (the old Dave Waltho team).
Dealing through this team was proving too much a blocker and the direct
approach is'more effective.

° Major activity on the press front with Anna continuing to play a strong role and
take a robust position. This doesnot get any easier but in the face of the total
non-reaction from our sponsors, we are left holding the baby.

e All activities on the customer education front are proceeding to plan and to
budget.

° Continued good relations with the Federation of sub-postmasters. We presented
to the Executive Council and ensured that-they were up to speed on the
programme. They continue to be a very supportive group.

. Agreements to Agree work continues. We have given this more focus at a
management level with an update on the ‘Top 10” at the management meetings.

. Presentation/demonstration took place to David Clark, Chancellor of the Duchy
of Lancaster. This was a very effective forum for getting some key messages
played into the government arena: lan McCartney, DTI minister has now
confirmed a similar session on 21° April.

° More focus is being given as to how we play better into the Post Office Group.
Some of the initiatives being discussed, especially in the area of electronic
postal services have a much greater impact on areas other than POCL, e-g. Royal
Mail specifically. Kieran McGuirk and myself are dovetailing here to ensure we
don’t overlap but also make most effective use of resource.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 27 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

i velopment Report Version: 1.0
panini i Date: 16/04/98

PROGRESS

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

EFTPOS (DEBIT CARD. ACCEPTANCE)

e POCL have stated that they are, in principal, looking to migrate their stand alone
EFTPOS trial to the Horizon infrastructure. This will be dependant on a
commercial agreement being :reached towards the end of the trial when the
EFTPOS business rules have been agreed. In addition, they have appointed a
full time project manager for their EFTPOS project. Joint work will begin with
their project manager this month once he gets settled down into the role

° A spec. has been prepared to enhance the EFTPOS prototype so:that we can
demonstrate the end to end solution (counter & server) from one P.C. This will
help ‘with our credibility in. securing an EFTPOS migration to Horizon.

LOGISTICS FEEDER SERVICE :

e We have issued the senior management of POCL with a new commercial
proposal and final milestone dates for LFS. These:milestones must be achieved
if LFS is to be included as part of NR2+.

FAMILY BUDGETTING:

° Work has been completed on creating a prototype FBS, and the first
demonstration has been given to Girobank and POCL. There was a positive
response from all parties.

e In addition, joint work is underway with both POCL and Girobank’to progress
FBS as a first stage solution‘to Social Banking. Weare working with POCL to
put in place a plan for the creation and delivery of a solution for the short and
long term.

BILL PAYMENT:

° We have received our first ‘yellow card’ from POCL with respect to our work
directly with their account teams. However we have.demonstrated that all
normal channels:were achieving little, and in order to meet ROCL’s stated goals,
we had to go directly to their account teains.

° Work on moving,AP Smart forward continues. The goal remains to see AP
Smart in NR2+. Design cut off'is the end of May, and we have informed
POCL’s senior management in writing that inclusion is at risk. The key issue is
that while POCL have provided a lot of information, they have yet to provide
written sign-off for the requirements, which would mean ICL Pathway starting
development without a sign-off baseline, a position: which we will not accept

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O24

Business Development Report Version: 1.0
siness Development Rep Date: 16/04/98

THE MARKETING SUITE

. The Marketing Suite has been fully operational this month with 15 key events
including an external event with David Clarke MP (Cabinet Office) and internal
events with Chris Thompson (Chief Executive, SSA), the Inland Revenue, EDS,
and the Japanese Post Office. Reaction.and feed-back is still very positive from
all events.

ILN SHOWCASE

° ICL Pathway will be a principal exhibitor at this event and are developing a
presentation to demonstrate the world class solution being developed, and the
achievements made to date.

CUSTOMER EDUCATION
. Acceptance Test Specifications for customer education contractual requirements

submitted to PDA. Written comments to be provided to us by 3 April 1998.

° PDA devolution‘has resulted in the passing of all customer education
management to CAPS on behalf of both sponsors. CAPS are therefore, re-
evaluating management systems. POCL and CAPS are not easily working
together.

. Press-activity peaked at ICL’s annual results: coverage not good but as expected.

. Advertising activity for national roll-out is on track against agreed plans and
budget: special interest groups and proactive press work has stalled. Hopefully
new stewardship will reinvigorate the approach - the delays in this area are
irritating but not business critical.

° Budget spreadsheets completed for forecast and actual spend. Departmental
processes for management established.

° Date set for meeting:of all communications contacts in supplier organisations to
counter recent press. Industry analyst event also to be organised.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

° Continuing to hold the press at bay in the face of total quiet-from the sponsors.

e Getting sign-off to the key business-deliverables.

ISSUES

COSTS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 29 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

‘yoday
seg
jeuoneuIsUyT

myn
uifhi

\

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report
International Sales Report

Ref: PA/REP/O24
Version: 1.0
Date: 16/04/98

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

International Sales Report

SUMMARY

PROGRESS

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

ISSUE

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 30 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

Organisation
& Personnel
Report.
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Refi PAIREPIONS
Organisation and Personnel Version: ous

Organisation and Personnel

MONTHLY SUMMARY

° Tough month - heavy load administratively, but progress has been positive.
Have secured Personnel Operations Manager.

PROGRESS

° 1 am pleased to announce that we have secured a Personnel Operations Manager.
Pippa O’Brien is due to join the team at the end of April. Pippa has an extensive
track record in generalist personnel, gained at Syntegra and consequently has a
good knowledge of the programme type environment. So, this is excellent news
and will enable personnel to return to a more proactive position in due course.
The next few weeks however, will continue to be challenging as we remain lean
resourced

° Permanent resourcing activity continues to be a main feature as we achieve the
ramp up to roll-out and rebalancing contractor/permanent ratio. Jim Whelan,
Recruitment Account Manager, is heavily loaded and I am talking to Group
resourcing to establish greater support for ICL Pathway. This is something that
we have needed to do periodically and am confident that response will be
positive ,

° Higher Skills continue to have a presence at Fel01, three days a week through
Lewis Cohen. Now that we have been through a successful contract renewal
exercise it is important that there continues to be careful management of paybill
and contract renewal dates; i.e. these should be staggered to mitigate
commercial risk

° Recent appraisal activity has been very encouraging and the. good practice that
we are starting to develop needs to continue, to build a performance related
culture. Managers are being encouraged to use performance management
techniques and tools on an ongoing basis

. Preparation for the annual salary review has begun. During April all Directorate
will receive guidelines to achieve this review, with changes to salary being. made
in June

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

° We continue to run extremely lean and this has been a significant challenge. The
light is at the end of the tunnel however, and we look forward to Pippa O’Brien
joining in the coming few weeks

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 31 of 33
FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170

"yIoday
jusT[C)

soyO 0g BS

I
in

mu

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024
The Post Office - Client Director Version: 1.0
Date:_ 16/04/98

The Post Office - Client Director’s

MONTHLY SUMMARY

Excellent news this month with the win for Tplcas one of two desktop suppliers
to Post Office.

DESKTOP

Following the Post Office One-Stop-Shop Evaluation Team visit to Tple in
Warrington on Feb 9" the long silence has been rewarded with the excellent
news that. Tplc have been selected for desktop supply, for between 3 and 5 years.
Computacenter are the other supplier. Subject tosignature, the contract is
operational from Ist. May.

AST having. failed to gain renewal for their hardware, initially Compagq-are the
sole selected manufacturer. Fujitsu (and others) are bidding to become the
second preferred manufacturer. If successful this is likely to be effective from
August.

With around 40,000 desktops to be replaced before the millenium, there is scope
for substantial revenues. Further, there may be options to bid for associated
services work within the new contract.

CALL CENTRES

Final presentations were March 12". We fielded a strong team including good
representatives from key bid partners Lucent and Graham Technology. The third
reference visit, to Beneficial Bank in Birmingham on March 16", also went
well. The Project Board met April 2" , a decision is imminent.

BETTER GOVERNMENT

The CAFExpress material has been further used, at the Fabian Society
conference and in a personal briefing for the Chancellor of the Duchy of
Lancaster, David Clark, as well as (in'a separate session) his Perm Sec Robin
Mountfield. The ICL working group on Fraud, looking at the total govt benefits
fraud area including Housing Benefits, has been strengthened by Martyn Bennett
- I have handed over chairing this group to Byron Hopkins of ICL Government.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 32 of 33

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170
ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/024

The Post Office - Client Director Version: 1:0
Date: 16/04/98

INTERNET

Following 4 months adhoc consultancy work on POCL’s Intranet, Chris Whittell
of EBS has won a £50k consultancy contract to help dévelop their internal web
site. A small but important inroad into the non-Horizon areas of POCL.
Moreover Wendy Powney, Head of IS/IT for POCL has agreed that ICL should
be afforded the opportunity to bid for further non-Pathway work. Although the
available spend budgets are not large, POCL are not bound by WTO/GATT
procurement.and winning further contracts will widen our influence and reach in
the Post Office.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Sorbus have qualified out of a short term.HP mdintenarice contract owing to
unreasonable t+cs. 1 am aiming to position Sorbus for the larger pan-Post Office
procurement expected late 1998.

The OJEC RFI ad for supply of architecture and tools for Systems Management
has been handled by

CFM for Phase I and The Solution Centre for Phase 2. As. expected the Phase I
order will go to an encumbent to complete the HP ITO implementation started 3
years ago. We await news on Phase 2.

In response to a requirement for DCE middleware we have submitted a paper
recommending a revised, non-DCE approach. This will fail the immediate
procurement but has opened the door to a wider dialogue. We have involved the
DAIS team in HPS, assisted by John Bell.

With the old Enterprise Consulting (now part of A&TC), we have jointly
qualified out of a Royal Mail training bid.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 33 of 33

FUJ00058170
FUJ00058170
