FUJ00098168
FUJ00098168

To: Cochrane Vincef.
Debbie DB

Ce: Dodington Chrisf.
From: D'Alvarez Alan{[/ -XCHANGE/O!
Sent: Fri 2/19/2010 10:04:23 AM (UTC)
Subject: Note to management

aren Graham (BRA01)f-

Buits Geofff.

DMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/C! “ORGS REZAT

FYI — as it has been reported both by Mark and Will that Mike Young is extremely angry and running around looking for someone to
shoot I sent the note out below to management in case they get a call

Alan D' Alvarez
Associate P&PM Academy

‘ondon W1U 3BW
This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail

has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: D'Alvarez Alan

Sent: 19 February 2010 09:57

To: Tait Duncan; Bounds Gavin; Wood Mike; Keeling David; Kirkham Suzie
Cc: Butts Geoff; Dodington Chris

Subject: HNGX Migration Major Incident

I thought I would send a quick heads up on the status of a major incident we experienced with the HNGX migrations due to go live
today.

Overview of the issue:

* 19 Post Offices were scheduled to migrate to HNGX as part of the Medium Volume Pilot

* All 19 Post Offices failed to migrate

* Initial analyses shows the failure to be in the Systems Management toolset

* The failure appears to be linked to an operational change made yesterday to fix a different issue that was experienced at
one post office during the previous days migrations

* The current view is that by backing out the change made yesterday will fix the issue that caused today’s migrations to fail
* This will allow the migrations scheduled for tomorrow (21 branches) to go ahead with a high degree of confidence

Next steps:

* Root cause paper being produced — target 12 noon — to cover

a. Technical explanation of the cause of the issue

b. Overview of how this manifested itself in live

c. Proposed fix and timetable for implementing (assume today)

d. Confirmation that Medium Volume Pilot can continue

e. Additional monitoring controls that will be put in place as a consequence of this issue
* Root cause to be shared with Post Office at 12.30 war room

a. Decision to be made with regard to proceeding with Medium Volume Pilot

b. Decision to be made with regard to rescheduling branches due to migrate today

Impact to the Programme:
* Logistical impact to the programme will be minimal as we have options to reschedule the 19 failed branches next week
* The issue will cause reputation damage to our ability to successfully migrate post offices consistently

Impact to Post Office:
* Post Office Trainers lined up to support migrated offices booked and on-site
* Anumber of Post Offices migrating have taken on additional staff to assist with the migration
* Staff at 19 Branches mentally and emotionally geared up for HNGX ‘let down’
* Reputation damage of HNGX across the network
FUJ00098168
FUJ00098168

I have been advised by both Mark Burley, POL HNGX Programme Manager, and Will Russell, POL Deployment Manager, that Mike
Young is extremely “angry” at the news.

I will forward a copy of the Root Cause analyses paper when available.
Some statistics regarding HNGX to date

* 11,200 Post offices in Live Estate

* To date 54 Post Offices successfully migrated to HNGX

* Yesterday 21 of a scheduled 22 branches successfully migrated to HNGX. Cause of failed migration understood
* 4424 Branch Routers, key HNGX enabler, successfully deployed to Live Estate

Rgds

Alan D' Alvarez
Associate P&PM Academy
FUJITSU

services Limited, Registered in England no. 96056. Registered Office: 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW
This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail
has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

