FUJ00174721
FUJ00174721

From: Tait Duncan[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=TAITD]
Sent: Mon 08/07/2013 9

To: paula.vennells
Bec: Patterson Paull,
Phillips Mark

HaydnI
Subject: follow up

Paula,
Thank you for taking the time to meet with me on Thursday. I think progress continues to be positive.

When we met on Thursday you asked me about Horizon's ability to make pricing changes (known as reference data
changes) and about "opening up Horizon". I discussed these with our Horizon team and it's clear to me we have made
substantial progress on the two points.

Overnight pricing changes are now possible on some of your products and within six months you will have the same
functionality across the portfolio. I think this is a good example of our teams working really well together for Post
Office's benefit.

We have also made good progress "opening up Horizon". We have developed Horizon Business Services so that your
business partners can integrate Horizon directly into their trading systems. This is not only more open but enables
new services to get to market faster and makes sure Post Office's financials benefit earlier too. We are also
developing Horizon Anywhere which will enable your customers to complete transactions from any device rather than
be tied to the counter.

The latest developments to Horizon will also give you better customer insight which will enable you to cross-sell
products.

As I followed up on the questions you raised it became evident to me that close collaboration between our teams is
working well. Horizon is evolving at pace to better position the Post Office for enhanced agility and growth.
Therefore, it might be worth organising a briefing for your key executives on Horizon’s new capabilities and planned
enhancements.

Best Regards........Duncan

Duncan Tait
Chief Executive Officer
Fujitsu UK&!

Fujitsu
22

Web: Rip 7uc fujitsu: com

eile

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
