FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Author & Dept:

Contributors:

Internal Distribution:

External Distribution:

Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Interface Agreement
for Operational Business Change - Product

Interface Agreement

Network Banking

This Interface Agreement defines for the Network Banking release of
the Horizon System the requirement, the service solution and the
obligations of Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd for
delivering Operational Business Change — Product.

Approved

Peter Burden, Pathway Customer Service

Stephen Muchow Nick Embling

Martin Riddell David Anders

John Wright

David Wilcox Andy Corbett
Bernadette O’ Donnell
Rabia Cody
Mark Knight

Pathway RDT

Post Office Ltd Network Support
Post Office Ltd Sales and Marketing Product Deployment

Post Office Ltd Reference Data Operational Team
Post Office Ltd Horizon Commercial

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 1 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

Approval Authorities:

Name Position Signature Date
Martin Riddell Fujitsu Services (Pathway)

Ltd Customer Service

Director
Don Grey Post Office Ltd Head of

Network Support

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 2 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

0.0 Document Control

0.1 Document History

\Version (Date [Reason for Issue ssociated
INo. (CN No.
1 09/02/99 First Draft
.2 18/02/99 Second Draft — supersedes first draft
3 22/03/99 Third Draft — incorporates comments from Alison
Peacock and David Fletcher
4 23/03/99 Fourth Draft — incorporates changes from David
Wilcox
5 31/03/99 Fifth draft — correction to section numbering and
other comments
6 23/04/99 Sixth draft — following comments from PON as
discussed with Geoff Darby.
7 25/05/99 To include changes proposed in the PON/ICL
Pathway meeting of the 30/4/99 and the acceptance
review meeting of the 25/5/99. To include
comments following ICL Pathway commercial
review.
8 18/06/99 To include changes proposed in the PON/ICL
Pathway acceptance review meeting of 9/6/99.
1.0 25/06/99 Baseline version
1.1 07/07/99 Incorporate comments from PON and Pathway
2.0 08/07/99 Updated baseline CCN 496a
2.1 29/07/99 Incorporated comments from PON following
rejection of CCN 496a
2.2 23/08/99 Incorporated comments from PON / ICL Pathway
review meeting of 5/8/99.
2.3 27/08/99 Incorporated comments from PON (David Anders)
review of 25/8/99.
Amended elements in line with proposed method of
product removal
2.4 14/09/99 Identification that the maximum volume of change
could be agreed outside of this document.
[THIS DOCUMENT WAS FORMALLY WITHDRAWN BY ICL PATHWAY
2.5 03/12/99 __ Re-issued following significant ICL Pathway / PON

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
discussions.
2.6 22/12/99 Reviewed after PON / ICL Pathway meeting on
20/12/99.
2.7 05/01/00 Changed to include ICL Pathway commercial
comments.
2.8 11/01/00 Changes following PON /ICL Pathway review on
the 10/1/2000
2.9 13/01/00 Changes following PON.ICL Pathway review on
13/1/2000
3.0 20/01/00 Updated baseline. CCN 496b
3.1 09/05/00 Updated for CSR+
All references to POCL replaced by PON.
Cross-references to RDCC section numbers
deleted.
3.2 15/06/00 —_ Updated following comments from PON
B.3 02/07/00 Updated following meeting with PON
3.4 30/08/00 Updated following meeting with PON
B.S 28/11/00 Updated following meeting with PON
4.0 11/12/00 Updated baseline
5.0 9/1/2001 Updated baseline following comments from PON
5.1 1/3/2001 Removes reference to CSR plus addition of new
definitions
5.2 12/4/2001 Amendments following meeting with PON
5.3 14/6/2001 Further amendments following meeting with PON
6.0 13/7/2001 Updated baseline following final comments
\7.0 28/8/2001 Updated baseline following further essential change
of name from Postwatch to Postcomm
7.1 4/7/2002 Amendments to names of both Pathway and Post
Office, inclusion of Network Banking, amended
leadtime for Advanced Complex
7.2 6/08/2002 Updated following comments from Post Office Ltd
7.3 13/09/2002 Updated following meeting with Post Office Ltd
18.0 30/09/2002 Issued for approval (approval declined by Post
Office Ltd)
9/0 30/10/2002 Issued for approval
10.0 20/12/2002 Updated for Contract Amendment agreed by both
Parties
© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 1
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00232522
FUJ00232522

Date: 20 December 2002

0.2 Review Details

Review Comments by :

Review Comments to :

Mandatory Review Authority

Name

Pathway

Kevin McKeown
Aileen Davis
John Wright
Hilary Forrest

Post Office Ltd

IRabia Cody
Andy Corbett
IDavid Anders
Mark Knight
Mike Hannon

Optional Review / Issued for Information

Pathway

Peter Burden
John Shepherd

Post Office Ltd

INick Embling
Matt Warren

0.3 Associated Documents

Please see library for details of latest versions of documents.

[Reference \Vers [Date Title Source
1. /PRD/030 [Process for Operational Business Change - Pathway
Product
2. IICSAFS/001 [Reference Data Change Catalogue Pathway
+ +
ICS/IFS/010 Reference Data Change Catalogue Network
Banking Appendix
3. ICS/PRD/110 JAP Client Service Introduction and Change Pathway
Process
4. ICS/SER/001 ICS Services Catalogue Pathway
IS. IRDP/AIS/001 IAIS Reference Data to Pathway Type A Data _ [Post Office
(CSR) Ltd
© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 1
FUJ00232522
FUJ00232522

Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
IRDP/AIS/001 IAIS Reference Data to Pathway Type A Data _ [Post Office
(CSR+) Ltd
7. IRDP/AIS/008 IAIS Reference Data to Pathway Type B Data _ [Post Office
(CSR) Ltd
8. IRDP/AIS/008 IAIS Reference Data to Pathway Type B Data _ [Post Office
(CSR+) Ltd
9. 'S/PRD/048 hanging Reference Data to Tight Timescales Pathway
10. ICS/IFS/002 [Reference Data Change Class I Analysis Pathway
ll. (CS/IFS/003 Fujitsu Services / Post Office Ltd Operational I Pathway
Business Change — Network Interface Agreement
12. IRDS/OLA/001 [Reference Data — Post Office Ltd / Pathway Post Office
(Operational Level Agreement ILtd
13. IPON/OSG/OLA/0 IPON OSG / ICL Pathway Operational Level Post Office
lo1 Agreement ILtd
14. (OSG/OPS/001 (Operational Business Change Product Post Office
IVerification Procedures Ltd
15. IRD/TEC/951 [Reference Data Rules and Values Post Office
ILtd+
Pathway
16. ICS/POL/006 Service Management Framework Part A Pathway
17. ICS/OLA/022 (Counter News Review Process Pathway
18. ICS/PRD/077 [Reference Data Alert Process Pathway
19. ICS/PRD/028 Process for Changing Menu Hierarchies and I Pathway
Icons
20. ICS/PDN/018 [Horizon Icon Service Description Pathway
21. IRDP/TEC/977 Network Banking Reference Data Rules and [Post
\Values Office Ltd
[+ Pathway
22 ICS/PRD/108 (Conventions for naming of Operational [Pathway
[Business Change Reference Data

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

approved versions of the documents.

The text in the remainder of this document uses the abbreviations and definitions shown
below. They are not intended to be definitive in any other contractual context.

Abbreviation ee

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 6 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
IAdow IAny day of the week, as opposed to working weekdays.

[Advanced Change [Business changes available through the OBC processes that require a notice of

Ichange to be delivered to Pathway before implementation. They may or may not
e supported by Reference Data files from Post Office Ltd. Advanced Changes

can be subdivided into Complex, Standard, Simple or AP. [see sections 3.1 and 4].

[Advanced (Change that requires advance notice to be given to Pathway in order for Type C
(Complex Change [Reference Data to be created.

[Advanced (Change that requires advance notice to be given to Pathway in order for Type C
Complex [Reference Data to be created, also requires additional validation/verification above

[Extended Change Ithat needed for Advanced Complex Change

[Advanced Simple IChange that requires advanced notice to be given to Pathway, where the additional
Change lactivities required can be carried out after the OBC has been released and
therefore do not extend the lead-time for that OBC.

Advanced (Change that requires advanced notice to be given to Pathway, where the additional
Standard Change Iactivities required do extend the lead-time for that OBC, but the change does not
jrequire Type C Reference Data.

(After the event — IChanges which need to be made to complete an OBC, but are not needed before
changes the release of the OBC e.g. documentation updates.

[Agreed Date IWhere the Start Date or Required Date are invalid or cannot be met an alternative
date will be agreed between Post Office Ltd and Pathway.

\Agreed Release IFor each delivery of Reference Data that is to be released to the live
[Date lestate Post Office and Fujitsu Services shall agree a release date (the
‘Agreed Release Date”) which shall be at least one working day later
jthan the Authorisation Date and be the date on which Fujitsu Services
initiates the release of that Reference Data to the live estate.

[Amendment file _IA file containing records changing previously received Reference Data which is
istill being processed — must be released with the original file.

IAP IAutomated Payments

(Authorisation

Date Post Office shall be responsible for final validation and authorisation of Post OfficeI

supplied Reference Data, the date of such authorisation being referred to as the}
“Authorisation Date”_

(Authorisation IA document that is sent from Post Office Ltd to Pathway to say the following for
[Form jthe named OBC.

le The Verification Report has been checked.

le The Verification Counters have been tested and:

Vv

The Identity and Name of the Business Test performed to verify the
changes,

Vv

The Date and Time the Business Test was conducted,

v

The Name of the person who conducted the Business Test,

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

> The Conclusion of the Business Test, whether Pass or Fail,
le If Fail, the Failure Reason and Mitigating Action

le If Pass, indicate whether the Comparison Report had been checked Yes or
No.

IThe form provides the notice of authorisation.

(Authorisation IThe Authorisation process results in Pathway being directed by Post Office Ltd to
implement in the live estate those authorised Reference Data changes that are
covered by the notice of authorisation.

IAuthorisation is an assertion by Post Office Ltd that they have diligently and
conscientiously performed the specified [ref. 14] Business Tests, and that within
Ithe bounds of the specified tests the results indicate that the effects of the
authorised Reference Data change is the effect that Post Office Ltd intended

Pathway is responsible for ensuring that all other effects on the system are
consistent with the stated requirement.

IEach party accepts responsibility for those aspects of a change for which it has
responsibility to test.

IThe notice of authorisation shall be communicated via an Authorisation Form.
[Authorised IAn OBC which has passed through the Authorisation process and has been
(Change authorised.

[Basic Change (Changes available through the OBC processes that DO NOT require a notice of
Ichange to be delivered to Pathway. Currently Basic Changes always consist of
(Class 1 Reference Data.

IBAU [Business As Usual. Processes within Post Office Ltd that occur regardless of
‘hether the Horizon system is in use.
IBCR [Business Change Request (referred to in Post Office Ltd as “Change Control
lumber”). A unique identification number for an OBC.
[Branch ITerm used to refer to individual post offices. Replaces the formerly used term
“outlet”.

[Business Tests _ [Tests used by Post Office Ltd to ensure a change seen on the Verification Counter
land/or described in the Verification and Comparison reports meets the
equirement.

[Where Business Tests fail to identify problems that were apparent at the time the
tests were carried out, the specified tests will be improved by joint review and
hange control.

ICCD (Contract Controlled Document

ICCN (Change Control Note as defined in the Agreement.

ICCN (Change Control Number (referred to in Pathway as “Business Change Request”).
CIT IThe Change Implementation Team, Network Support, Post Office Ltd.

(formerly known as the Service Provision Team or OSG.)

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
Change Type IFor example, Basic Pure, Advanced Simple, Advanced Complex, AP etc.
(Class I (Class 1 Reference Data is the subset of data items which have no impact on any

jother part of the Horizon system and changes containing only Class 1 Reference
IData (Basic Changes) can be implemented by Pathway without advance notice
[see ref. 10]. Class 1 data is subsetted into HD, HR and Pure.

Comparison IThe output from Pathway’s software tool which is used for identifying the changes

[Report that have occurred on a Horizon counter. It provides information to Post Office
ILtd for verification purposes.

ICR (Change Request as defined in the Agreement.

ICSR (Core System Release — superseded by CSR+

ICSR+ (Core System Release Plus

CTO (Client Take-On (AP)

[Deviation to the _IA single instance of an agreed (by CR) variation to the workload which falls
service loutside of specified levels.

[Error IA part of a change that does not meet the requirement or specifications, whether
Reference Data definitions, file format, milestones, delivery route or other aspect
lof the OBC processes. (see also Rework)

[Error correction IA file containing records for the purpose of correcting errors to previously
file received Reference Data which is still being processed-must be released with the
joriginal file.

[Exception IA change that falls outside of the agreed levels e.g. to lead-times or volumes and isI
ot a ‘Deviation to the service’.
IHD (Basic) [Reference Data changes are ‘HD’ when the change is relevant in Pathway only to
[the HelpDesk e.g. telephone number.
IHFSO Horizon Field Support Officer
IHR (Basic) Reference Data changes are ‘HR — High Risk’ when verification is required by
[Post Office Ltd (but are not subject to advanced notification).
IHSH Pathway Horizon System Helpdesk.
[Interface IThis document (except where the Interface Agreement for Network is specifically
[Agreement referred to, then see [ref. 11]).
Live Fix IA change to Reference Data to correct a Live Incident
Live Incident IThe occurrence of an incident, which relates to the live environment and is
jrecorded on the Pathway HSH and / or the Post Office Ltd NBSC help desks.
CWP aximum Counter Wait Period
IMAAWP aximum Authorising Agent Wait Period
[Migration Special ISee section 4.6.2 for the definition.
TS anagement Information System
INBSC [Post Office Ltd Network Business Support Centre.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
Ss INetwork Support, Post Office Ltd.

(formerly known as Business Service Management. It includes the Change
[Implementation Team, formerly known as the Service Provision Team or OSG.)

WB INetwork Banking
(OBC (Operational Business Change.

IAny change, usually supported by Reference Data changes, that is implemented
{through the OBC process e.g. Advance and Basic Changes, excluding changes
specifically required to implement software changes.

OBC forms [Electronic Forms used to interchange information relating to OBCs between Post
(Office Ltd and Pathway e.g. OBC 2.

(OLA (Operational Level Agreement

Outlet {Term formerly used to refer to individual post offices. Now replaced by the term
“branch”.

[Pathway [Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd

[PLU [Product Look Up

[PM [Postmaster

POCL Post Office Counters Limited — the former name of PON

[PON [Post Office Network - name which supersedes POCL but is now replaced by Post
Office Ltd

[Postcomm IThe Postal Services Commission, that is the Government appointed regulator for

ostal services

[Pre-authorised _IA pre-authorised change is a Reference Data change that by agreement [see
change section 4] does not require verification by Post Office Ltd and can be released by
IPathway without additional notification from Post Office Ltd over and above the
delivery of a conformant file.

[re-live Incident [The occurrence of an incident, which is observed during Reference Data
processing and validation before release to the live environment, and is recorded
jon an Incident Management System (PinICL) operated by Pathway.

[Product Changes IChanges to the products or appearance of products available through the Horizon
system implemented wholly or in part, through changes to Reference Data.

[Pure (Basic) [When used in reference to a Reference Data Change ‘Pure’ indicates Reference
IData which is considered to be of low risk to business integrity.

IRDCC [Reference Data Change Catalogue

IRDMC [Pathway Reference Data Management Centre

IRDORF [Reference Data Operational Review Forum

IRDOT Post Office Ltd Reference Data Operational Team (Chesterfield)

IRDP Post Office Ltd Reference Data Project

IRDS [Post Office Ltd Reference Data System

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

IRDT [Pathway Reference Data Team
[Release Day IThe day on which Reference Data is Released to the live system.
[Released to the [Reference Data released by Pathway into the TMS agent. The end point for the
ive system process defined in this document. The SLA [see section 3.3] covers the delivery off

[Reference Data to the branches
IREM [Remittance

[Required Date _ [The date on the OBC form (Advanced Changes) that specifies when the change
eeds to be available at the branches. Normally this is the same as, or earlier than,
the Start Date. (see also, Agreed Date.)

Rework IActivity required to progress a change when an Error Correction File or
IAmendment File is provided

IRM [Pathway Release Management

Start Date IThe earliest date specified within any record within any file of Reference Data for

la particular OBC. The Start Date is used by the Horizon counters to determine
hen the functionality comes into effect. This date should always be a future date
hen taking into account lead times.

(see also Agreed Date & Required Date.)

[TMS \Transaction Management Service.

[Type A \Data transmitted electronically from RDS to RDMC over an automated interface.

[Type B IData transmitted electronically from Post Office Ltd to Pathway over a non-
lautomated interface.

[Type C [Data prepared by Pathway.

[Unauthorised IAn OBC that has been released to the live environment but has not been

change authorised.

nit of Release —_IA combination of files which are intended to be released together. The smallest isI
la single file. Where Amendment or Error Correction files are applied to a change}
lin progress, the unit of release will be all files associated with the original OBC.

\Verification (Confirming that the observed result of the change implemented is the same as that
Verify) expected and fulfils the requirements of the business.
\Verification IA non-live Horizon counter provided to Post Office Ltd to which OBCs are
(Counter applied in order for Post Office Ltd to verify the change, before its release to the
llive estate
\Verification IA report produced from the RDMC to show which Reference Data records have
[Report hanged.
Vorking (9am to Spm, Monday to Friday, excluding English Public Holidays.
eekdays

[Terms defined in the Agreement shall have the same meaning where used in this CCD]

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

0.5 Changes in this Version

\Version (Changes

7.1 le Change of name from ICL Pathway to Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd
le Change of name from PON to Post Office Ltd
@ Inclusion of Network Banking entities within timescale examples

Amendments to lead time for Advanced Complex category andI
introduction of Advanced Complex Extended

le Remove SLA level of detail at end of each change type (SLA is not}
relevant to this document)

\7.2 le A number of minor wording changes based on comments received from}
Post Office Ltd

7.3 ¢ Control section of document updated to conform to latest Pathwa
standard

e All Reference to POLtd changed to Post Office Ltd

le SLA delivery table re-introduced in section 3.3 with cross reference fro
other models

Je End-to-end leadtime included in leadtime models
le Additional examples shown for NWB in Appendix B
le References to Counter News changed to Operational Focus

Je A number of minor wording changes as agreed with Post Office Ltd

8.0 le Further (mainly typographical) amendments following comments from}
Post Office Ltd

9.0 le Further (minor) amendments following Post Office Ltd non-approval off
version 8.0

ie Amended some specific references to Branch Reference Data in 0.6, 2.1]
3.2 and 9.3

10 je Drop down of relevant provisions from N01 from the old Codified Agreement,
Also changes to introduce new & replacement terminology (eg. Agreement
instead of Codified Agreement) have been made. Inclusion of new definitions}
from Schedule 15 (Agreed Release Date & Authorisation Date) into the}
document. Introduction of volumetric limits in accordance with Heads of
Agreement and agreement to move towards work index system as agreed
between Post office & Fujitsu Services (cf para 6.2). Planned capabilit
volumetrics in relation to Network Reinvention activity (cf para 6.3).

0.6 Changes Expected

IChanges

le Full inclusion of Branch Reference Data. [DN Is Branch reference data the same meaning

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522

Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
as ref. data in relation to Branch Change. ]
le Section 3.4: Further amendment to process for the production and communication of
Operational Focus articles that relate to Reference Data changes.
le Appendix A: volumes amended to include impact of LFS/SAPADS and Network Banking
le Appendix B: ability to change a core product to non-core. It is anticipated that this will be}
included in the version of this document following sign-off of the NWB version (currentl.
V9.0)
le Debit Card Service
le Structure of document to better reflect the current service following discussions with Post}
Office Ltd
0.7 Table of Contents
21 INTENT OF INTERFACE AGREEMENT........ oe . 19
2.2 MAINTENANCE OF THIS INTERFACE AGREEMENT. 19
2.3 FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS. ....c.000 esses sestntnnnnnentinisnaninnienananenenananennanisineneneneeneenissse DO
2.4 SERVICE MANAGEMENT POLICY. ....sonnoronstonnnnnnnnne . . suninneinnnnenenennneneneee 20
2.5 ALERTING WHEN DATA IS AT RISK OF LATE DELIVERY ...0.000onsnnennennnnn son 20
2.6 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS WITH RESPECT TO NBBS....
2.6.1 Extensibility...
INTERFACES 22
BRANCH REFERENCE DATA CHANGES.....cccccsoecnsnnennnen . . oe oe . 22
SLA...

4

OPERATIONAL BUSINESS CHANGE PROCESSES.
Process Diagram.
Process Step

ICON CHANGE...

TYPES OF CHANGE...

4.1 INTRODUCTION.

STANDARD CHANGES.
Basic - Pure.
Basic — High Ris
Advanced Simple.
Advanced Standara
Advanced Complex.
Advanced Complex Extended.

AP...

SYSTEM PARAMETERS - PURE.

ICON CHANGE,

FAST-TRACK CHANGES.
Basic Express....
Migration Special.
Tight Timescales.
Live Fix...
Business Critical Advanced Change.

LEAD-TIME FOR CHANGES...

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
5.1 INTRODUCTION... .ososnnnnmnnnnninnninninnnnnininnninnnnnsnininnninnninnnnnnnnnnninnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn 35
35.2 BASIC = PURE... 36
53 Basic — HIGH RIsK, 37
54 ADVANCED SIMPLE....... 38
3.5 ADVANCED STANDARD... 39
5.6 ADVANCED COMPLEX. 40
5.7 ADVANCED COMPLEX EXTENDED. 41
5.8 AP CLIENT TAKE-ON... wn 42
5.9 BASIC EXPRESS... 42
5.10 MIGRATION SPECIAL, 43
SAL SYSTEM PARAMETERS - PURE. 44
6 VOLUME OF CHANGE........cc00000
6.1 INTRODUCTION. 45
6.2 COMMITTED VOLUMES. 45
6.3 NETWORK REINVENTION... 46
71 Post OFFICE LtD TO PATHWAY, 46
7.2 PATHWAY TO POST OFFICE LYD..0.:o:ooneonnnninnnnnnntnnnnnnnnnnininuninninntinninnnnnninnsnnnnninnsinsnnsnnssnsnni 46

73 FUTURE DATING ....ocsonnne
8 ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES...

8.1 POST OFFICE LTD — GENERAL...
8.1.1 Administration and Control.
8.1.2 Implementation.
8.1.3 Files & Reference Data...

8.2 Post OFFICE LTD - REFERENCE DATA OPERATIONAL TEAM...

8.3 Post OrFicE Lb NETWORK BUSINESS SUPPORT CENTRE (NBSC).

84 PATHWAY RESPONSIBILITIES.
8.4.1 Administration and Control.
8.4.2. Implementation.........
8.4.3 Files & Reference Data.

8.5 HORIZON SERVICE HELPDESK (HSH)..

8.6 VERIFICATION, AUTHORISATION & RELEASE.
9 ORDERS AND EXCEPTIONS...

91 ORDERS.

9.2 EXCEPTIONS..... sos

9.3 ERRORS AND REWORK...

9.3.1 Recording Pre-Live Incidents.

9.3.2. Rework categorisation and thresholds.
94 ESCALATION.
9.5 CHARGING.......

10 APPENDIX A: OBC VOLUMES FOR YEAR 2002.

11. APPENDIX B: STANDARD CHANGES - DETAILB...........064

TLDL Basic ~ Pures:

11.1.2 Basic ~ High Risk.
11.1.3 Advanced Simpl
11.1.4 Advanced Standard.
11.1.5 Advanced Comple.
11.1.6 Advanced Complex Extended.
111.7 System Parameters — Pure...

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 14 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

1 SUMMARY SHEET

This section summarises the content of this Interface Agreement as a “quick reference” guide
to change types. It does not replace the detail contained in the following chapters (should

there be differences.

, the latter shall prevail).

Note: the Lead-time includes processing within both Post Office Ltd and Pathway, but not
distribution to the Horizon counters.

Change Category I Definition Lead-time
(see section 4) (working weekdays)
. JPost [Pathway [Total
Standard: Ome ee
[Ltd
Basic Change - Type A Reference Data only (no Post Office Ltd 4 1 5
Pure verification required)
[Basic Change — [Type A Reference Data only (Post Office Ltd verification I6 4 10
High Risk _ is required)
(Advanced [Type A Reference Data, plus after-the-event changes 6 4 10
Simple Change
(Advanced [Type A & Type B Reference Data, MIS change & 9 IS 14
Standard Change _‘ [Pathway testing required
Advanced Complex(Change that requires Type C Reference Data from 14 ll 25
(Change [Pathway
[Advanced Complex(Change that may require Type C Reference Data from 14 16 =O
[Extended Change _ [Pathway or may need longer validation/verification times
than Advanced Complex

AP Change Change required for AP Client Take-On and Token [see refs. 3&4]

verification.

Icon Change Introduction of new/amended Icon [see ref 20]
‘System Parameters Amend specified Horizon system parameters within 1 2 3
Pure jefined limits

Fast-track:

[Basic Express IA subset of Basic HR, for a specific requirement to 15 j05 2
change specific Reference Data quickly.
igration Special —_IAn addition to the non-core product mappings for a 0.75 (0.25 I1
branch, normally where the product is already being sold
prior to migration.
(Tight Timescales IA change under contractual requirement 539/3, to make [Agreed when
any kind of Reference Data change quickly, in specified [requested

circumstances.

[Business Critical]

IAn advanced change which requires shorter lead time thanI

Agreed when

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 15 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
(Advanced Change ould normally be required for such a change requested
Live Fix IA change to correct a live incident. (ref. section 4.6.4 and [Defined in OLAs

b.3).

(refs. 12 & 13)

N.B. The breakdown of the leadtimes shown above are indicative only of the time taken within
each organisation. The overall leadtime should always be taken as the true indication of the
time required to effect a change. When considering the date by which data is to be delivered
to Horizon counters and the total amount of time required to implement a change, in addition
to the leadtime shown above consideration must also be given to distribution time to the
Horizon counters (see section 3.3) following authorisation.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 16 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

2 Introduction

This document is a Contract-Controlled Document (CCD).

2.1 Intent of Interface Agreement

The intent of this Interface Agreement is to establish effective co-operation between Fujitsu
Services(Pathway) Ltd and Post Office Ltd for the timely efficient and cost effective delivery
of Operational Business Change — Product using Reference Data to Horizon enabled post
office counters.

[DN In the context of rework aspects of this Interface Agreement are also relevant to Branch
Reference Data.]

This Interface Agreement identifies:

e Post Office Ltd and Pathway’s requirement for Product changes introduced via Reference
Data,

e the agreed end-to-end service solution for Pathway and Post Office Ltd, both separately
and jointly, for implementing such changes and

e the obligations of both parties, both separately and jointly, that must be met in order to
deliver the solution.

There are a number of documents (which are not CCDs) that describe the interfaces and
agreements made between Pathway and Post Office Ltd for the management of
Operational Business Changes. This document provides an “umbrella” agreement for
those others and they will comply with the agreements made within this Interface
Agreement.

Whilst this Interface Agreement serves as an umbrella for other documentation it cannot
supersede any contractual obligations defined within the Agreement. The timescales
shown later in this document are those which are agreed by both parties to be
operationally viable and as such form the basis of normal business practice when
implementing changes to Reference Data.

2.2 Maintenance of this Interface Agreement
This Interface Agreement is applicable to the Network Banking Horizon release. It will be

reviewed for any future major software release and on an on-going basis. It is maintained by
Pathway on behalf of both parties.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

2.3 Future Developments

Post Office Ltd and Pathway agree to work jointly to improve the quality and effectiveness of
the Reference Data interface as follows:

e Review the functionality, scope and effectiveness of the Reference Data test environment
and enhance where appropriate.

e Continuously monitor the toolset available in the test environment, in particular the
Reference Data comparison tool for identifying impact of planned Reference Data changes
with the possibility of enhancement where appropriate.

e Continuously monitor and where necessary improve the Reference Data Change Catalogue
(RDCC) relating to Reference Data requirements.

e Review the consolidated set of Business Rules and procedures which have been jointly
developed and implemented.

© Continuously improve the scope and effectiveness of Business and System tests.

The programme for delivery of each of the above will be overseen by the RDORF.

2.4 Service Management Policy

Service Management Policy is described in [ref 16]

2.5 Alerting when data is at risk of late delivery

When it is known that Reference Data may be at risk of non delivery by the time it is required
at branches an Alert may be required. The detail of the Alert Process is described in [ref 18].

The principles of the Alert Process with respect to data being delivered overnight to become
active at branches the following day are:

© to provide warning to relevant parties in Post Office Ltd and Pathway, that there is
risk of critical reference data not being available at branches the following day

© to allow appropriate contingency to be invoked against that risk where lack of the
data would cause critical problems

The process may similarly be invoked if the final milestone is known to be at risk (see section
9.3)

The process is initially invoked by Post Office Ltd setting the Alert Flag on the Release
Authorisation Form. If the Release Day is the day prior to the Start Date, and the Alert Flag
is set, RDT will initiate the warning process.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 18 of 1
FUJ00232522
FUJ00232522

Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

2.6 Contractual obligations with respect to NBS

The contract for supply of the Network Banking Service included a number of
contractual obligations which have been carried forward into this document.

2.6.1 Extensibility

The NBS shall support, through changes to or the introduction of appropriate
Reference Data, the introduction and removal of new instances of and changes to
each of the items (marked as suffix NWB) shown in Appendix B: Standard Changes
— Details. The parties may agree to vary the allocation of the items form time to time,
such variation to be documented by Fujitsu Services in the working document
entitled “Reference Data Change Catalogue” (CS/IFS/001).

2.6.1.1 Introduction and Change
The introduction of changes to and new instances of items specified above in 2.6.1

(a) _ shall be effected using only the agreed functions and processes used for
introduction of and changes to reference data for those Post Office
Services existing at the time of introduction of the NBS into this
Agreement.

(d) shall not cause to be exceeded:

(i) any limit or range in respect of any such item (including, withour
limitation, limits or ranges on the number of IINs) where such limit
or range is specified in the CCD entitled “Horizon Capacity
Management and Business Volumes” (PA/PER/033); [DN Note that
this replaces PA/PER/031 which was referenced in N01] and/or

(ii) if no such limit or range is specified in that CCD then a reasonable
limit or range [NBR0O25]

2.6.1.2 Verification of NBS Reference Data

Post Office Ltd shall be responsible for verifying all NBS related Post Office
Reference Data for use in End to End Banking, save to the extent that Fujitsu
Services is obliged to do so (for the purposes for the use of such Post Office
Reference Data within the Post Office Service Infrastructure) in accordance with
paragraph 2.6.1.1 above. For the avoidance of doubt, the Change Control
Procedure shall be used if Post Office Ltd requires, in connection with the
introduction of any of the items referred to in paragraph 2.6.1 above, Reference
Data validation or testing of the NBS (or any element thereof) outside the scope of
this Interface Agreement.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
3 Scope

3.1 Interfaces

This Interface Agreement covers all the interfaces between Pathway and Post Office Ltd that
support the Operational Business Change process for pre-defined product changes. In this
version it has been extended to encompass the Network Banking release of the Horizon
system.

Interface Interface Interface

Post Office Pathway Post Office Pathway
Ltd processI lai I Ltd processI sie

* this step is not
needed if change is
pre-authorised

The start is the point where an OBC form has been completed and issued within Post Office
Ltd, and the end point is where the Reference Data has been released within Pathway for
delivery to the live counters.

The delivery of the Reference Data to counters, following release authorisation, is covered by
the SLA [see section 3.3].

This Interface Agreement applies to both Advanced and Basic Product Changes where:

e a Basic Change is a change which consists solely of Reference Data which requires no
additional Pathway actions and may be submitted to Pathway without notice

e an Advanced Change is a change which requires additional Pathway activity and is subject
to advanced notification.

3.2 Branch Reference Data Changes

This Interface Agreement does not cover Reference Data for Branch Change.

[DN.: Refer to statement in section 2. land see section 0.6]

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 20 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
3.3 SLA

The contractual provisions relating to the distribution of Reference Data to Branches are
defined in Annex 2 Schedule 15.

3.4 Operational Business Change processes

The Operational Business Change (OBC) process for product change is defined in [ref. 1] and
the types of change that qualify for the OBC process are defined in the Reference Data
Change Catalogue (RDCC) [ref. 2,]. Changes not found in the RDCC must be requested via
the normal Change Control mechanism (CR/CCN).

A summary of the process is given below.

Note:

Not every Change Type follows every step of the process [see section 5].
The timescales for each stage of the process are defined in [section 5].
The types of change that the process applies to are defined in [section 4].
The responsibilities of each party are defined in [section 8].

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

3.4.1 Process Diagram

Note: feedback loops exist at all stages for error correction, but are not shown,

OBC OBC
request request
PO Ltd

Operational Fdcus
& Physical
stock etc

Operational Focus
etc

Unauthorised

“Pre-live”

Authorised
“Live”

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

3.4.2. Process Steps

Step [Taken by [Description

IA IEvent A — [Post Office Ltd IThe relevant unit in Post Office Ltd identify the business
Identify eed to change details for or to introduce or to withdraw a
change product.

1 [Take actions [Post Office Ltd [The relevant unit in Post Office Ltd identify if the change is
[to implement la Basic Reference Data change, or an Advanced OBC
Ithe changes change.

[The relevant unit raise the required OBC forms to:

le Request Post Office Ltd Reference Data Operations
Team (RDOT) to change the Reference Data (for both
Basic and Advanced Changes)

le and request an OBC —Product Change from Pathway
(for Advanced Changes).

Post Office Ltd NS CIT confirm the change requested is anI
Advanced OBC change and request Pathway to make the
change.

Post Office Ltd NS CIT supply any required additional
information to support the Advanced OBC change.

Post Office Ltd ensure that all necessary communications
and supporting actions for the OBC are complete.

2 Update Ref. [Post Office Ltd [Post Office Ltd RDOT changes the Reference Data in RDS

[Data system &IRDOT ito meet the OBC requested and send it to Pathway and
send to ther users within Post Office Ltd.
[Pathway -B. This step is not used where no RDS data is required
3 Generate Pathway Pathway receives the Reference Data from RDOT (for all
(Change and changes) and receives the OBC form and necessary
test where dditional information from Post Office Ltd NS CIT (for
ecessary [Advanced Changes).

[Pathway initiates any required internal actions e.g. ensure
[Reference Data is appropriate for the OBC requested as
defined in the RDCC [ref. 2], generate Type C Reference
Data, test changes. Changes are tested and validated by
[Pathway where necessary.

[Pathway generates and delivers the RDMC Verification
[Report and the Comparison Report to Post Office Ltd NS

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 23 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

(CIT and delivers the actual Reference Data change to the
verification counters, as appropriate.

ote: Pathway does not send Pure Basic and Migration
Special Changes to Post Office Ltd NS CIT for
authorisation, as they are pre-authorised by Post Office LtdI

\Verify & Post Office Ltd
authorise iS CIT
completed
change

Post Office Ltd NS CIT undertake OBC counter and report
erification (as appropriate) and confirm the change as

\delivered is the change required, and authorises the release
f the OBC to the live estate.

Post Office Ltd NS CIT also sets the Alert flag on the

[Authorisation Form, when appropriate. (see section 2.5)

.B. Some changes are Pre-Authorised — please refer to
ref 22]

B. The following steps may start after step 1 and run in parallel

5 IReview Pathway IPathway reviews, and responds to, all relevant Operational
\Operational [Focus or other Horizon update articles before publication
[Focus articles ind distribution (when required) to confirm that the

contents correctly reflect the system and will not have an
innecessary impact on Helpdesk resources. Post Office

[Ltd shall accept all amendments reasonably requested by

[Pathway in pursuit of the delivery of contractual services.

[The process is described in [ref 17]

IDN: this process is still under discussion

6 IChange Pathway [Pathway releases Reference Data for all authorised OBCs
delivered to ito the live estate.
counters [Pathway will raise Delivery Alert on the Release Day, if the

Alert Flag is set and the change is to be effective next day.
see section 2.5)

Vhere agreed with Post Office Ltd, the release may be held
jpending communication to the Branches e.g. via
(Operational Focus. (However if release delay risks the Start
Date, there may need to be another change processed to

lamend the start date of the change).

3.5 Icon Change

Whilst the introduction of Icons

(the pictures which appear on buttons) on the Horizon

desktop is not contractually a part of the OBC process, the scope of this document has been

extended to include the process

for introducing new, or amending existing, Icons. The

process and agreed timescales for Icon change are described in [ref 20].

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 24 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

4 Types of Change

4.1 Introduction

Change types are pre-defined for inclusion into the OBC — product process. This definition
can be found in the Reference Data Change Catalogue (RDCC) [ref. 2]. Each pre-defined
change type is grouped as shown in the table in section 1.

The RDCC Product Change categories that apply to these changes are listed in sections 4.2
and 4.6 below. The assumptions listed in the RDCC must be adhered to, in order to apply
these categorisations.

4.2 Standard Changes

The order of the change types in this section is significant and is an indication of the level of
risk with each type and therefore the amount of checking that is deemed to be necessary. The
change types are in order of increasing risk from those which need little or no checking, as the
effect of an error would be minimal on the Live estate, to those which need extensive
checking, as the effect of an error may be significant on the Live estate. Those changes, which
are deemed to require minimal or no checking, are classified as Basic - Pure. Those changes,
which are deemed to require most checking, are classified as Advanced — Complex or
Advanced Complex Extended.

A complete list of changes applicable to each type is held within the RDCC. Should Post
Office Ltd decide that additional checking is required, a change may be submitted in a type
with a higher risk position in this section. However the converse is not true, in that a change
can never be requested with a lower risk position than the type shown in the RDCC.

Appendix B: Standard Changes - Details, shows a representative list of the changes for each
type.
4.2.1 Basic - Pure

Basic Changes do not require advanced notification from Post Office Ltd to Pathway (OBC
form). The delivery of the Reference Data file using agreed mechanisms is the request for
change. The file must identify that its contents are Basic Pure changes. The file may contain
more than one change of the same type. All Basic files contain only Class 1 Reference Data
items. Pathway checks the contents of the file are appropriate for the type of change. Pure
changes do not require verification and are pre-authorised for release.

4.2.2 Basic — High Risk

Basic Changes do not require advanced notification from Post Office Ltd to Pathway (OBC
form). The delivery of the Reference Data file using agreed mechanisms is the request for
change. The file must identify that its contents are a Basic High Risk change. The file may
contain more than one change of the same type. All Basic files contain only Class I Reference
Data items. Pathway checks the contents of the file are appropriate for the type of change.
High Risk changes require a Verification and a Comparison report and authorisation by Post
Office Ltd before release.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 25 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

4.2.3, Advanced Simple

Advanced Simple changes require advanced notification from Post Office Ltd to Pathway (an
OBC form) to request the change. Associated Reference Data files must be identifiable as such
through the BCR number. Pathway checks the contents of the file are appropriate for this
type of change. Pathway has actions to take to implement the change (in addition to
processing the Type A Reference Data file from Post Office Ltd) e.g. update documentation,
but these actions can occur after the change has been released and therefore do not extend the
lead-time for the change. These changes require a Verification and a Comparison report and
authorisation by Post Office Ltd before release.

4.2.4 Advanced Standard

Advanced Standard changes require advanced notification from Post Office Ltd to Pathway
(an OBC form) to request the change. Associated Reference Data files must be identifiable as
such through the BCR number. Pathway checks the contents of the file are appropriate for
this type of change. Pathway has actions to take to implement the change (in addition to
processing the Type A Reference Data file from Post Office Ltd) e.g. process Type B files,
and these actions must occur before the change has been released, therefore the lead-times are
longer than for Simple or Basic changes. These changes require a Verification and a
Comparison report and authorisation by Post Office Ltd before release.

4.2.5 Advanced Complex

Advanced Complex changes require advanced notification from Post Office Ltd to Pathway
(an OBC form) to request the change. Associated Reference Data files must be identifiable as
such through the BCR number. Pathway checks the contents of the file are appropriate for
this type of change. Pathway must generate Type C Reference Data to implement the change
and test that the change works as requested in the OBC form. These changes require a
Verification and a Comparison report and authorisation by Post Office Ltd before release

4.2.6 Advanced Complex Extended

This category of change has been introduced to differentiate from ordinary Advanced
Complex changes as the leadtime is longer to allow for additional validation/verification. In all
other respects this category is identical to Advanced Complex.

4.3 AP

AP changes are similar to Advanced Complex changes and require notification from Post
Office Ltd to Pathway (an OBC form) to request the change. Associated Reference Data files
must be identifiable as such through the BCR number. Pathway checks the contents of the file
are appropriate for this type of change. Pathway has actions to take to implement the change
e.g. test Tokens and supply test files to the appropriate Post Office Ltd Client for Post Office
Ltd End to End testing of changes. These changes require a Verification and a Comparison
report, additional testing and authorisation by Post Office Ltd before release.

(as described in relevant AP documentation)

Introduce new AP client, service or token
Change client name (new token data)

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 26 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

Cease AP Client, product or token
Introduce new Smart Card

Notes on AP change:

© Changing AP product details when an end-to-end test file is not required falls outside the
category of AP change and is to be treated in the same way as any other product change.

e Ceasing AP Client, product or token when the service is Live, ie. it is not being
withdrawn from a current CTO cycle, is to be implemented as an Advanced Simple
change, with the client service list being amended after the event.

4.4 System Parameters - Pure

With the introduction of Network Banking there is the need to provide a relatively speedy
method of changing some specific system parameters within defined limits. This new category
provides the mechanisms by which Post Office Ltd can request such changes. Provided that
the requested change falls within the limits specified within the Agreement Pathway will
process the request and deliver the change directly to the Live estate as there is no verification
possible for such changes.

4.5 Icon Change

Changes to Icons are processed in a similar way to other OBC changes however, in most cases
Icons are produced in batches rather than individually. Full details of the process for Icon
changes are described in [ref 20]

4.6 Fast-track changes

4.6.1 Basic Express

A Basic Express change is a subset of Basic High Risk changes and must comply with the
definitions in [section 4.2.1]. However, the lead-times [see section 5] specified for a Basic
Express change can only be achieved where verification can be performed on the basis of the
Verification Report and not a Comparison Report. The type of change must be such that there
is minimal risk of error occurring elsewhere within the system as a result of applying the
change and is therefore limited to:

Change price of non-value stock
Change price of revaluable value stock *
Change min/max quantity/value

Change Long/ Medium / Short name

The limits for use are:

only for the categories of change which conform to the above e.g. ‘Ticket and
Travel’ products or to meet the requirement for Tight Timescales

© only OBCs that must be active on completion of the change within 48hrs &

% OBCs must be received by Post Office Ltd Change Implementation Team by 10am
on a working weekday and

© only normal volumes of change as defined in [section 5.11]

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 27 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

the Change Number must start with defined prefixes [ref. 15 and 22]. If a Change is
delivered to Pathway with this prefix but the contents do not meet the specified
criteria it will be processed according to the normal lead-times. Pathway will
inform Post Office Ltd using the incident process.

* Note: When a Basic High Risk change is to change the price of revaluable value stock,
Horizon counters will prompt counter staff on each of the three calendar days prior to
when revaluation will need to be performed, provided that the Reference Data is already at
the counter. Should a similar change be put through the Basic Express mechanism, this
prompting period may be for less than three calendar days. It is Post Office Ltd’s
responsibility to provide any additional notification required to users.

o Where the change is as described above, the requirement for completion within 48hrs may
be extended, if required, to allow for this 3 calendar day period.

4.6.2 Migration Special

A Migration Special change is a specific subset of Basic Pure changes and must comply
with the definitions in [section 4.2.1]. Migration Specials are pre-authorised for release
and no verification is required.

Migration Special changes are additions only to the Reference Data defining which non-
core products a particular branch can sell, normally where the branch has been selling the
item but the Reference Data does not reflect this. This Reference Data is needed so that
the Cash Account can record those sales, when it is migrated to the Horizon system.

The limits for use are:

© additions to Non-core Product to Branch mappings only

® Reference Data must be received by Pathway by 10am for release to be actioned
on the day of receipt or a phone call is required requesting a later file to be released

Reference Data files must be identifiable as Migration Specials

Migration Specials differ from the standard Basic Pure change for adding non-core
associations to an branch by virtue of:

© the urgency with which the data needs to be delivered to the branch.
Migration Specials refer to one branch or one product — the normal Basic Pure
change may have any combination of products and branches.

Where possible Post Office Ltd should use the Basic Pure change for addition of non-core
association records.

Once Pathway has confirmed that the Reference Data is of the required type it will be
released to the ‘Live’ environment.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 28 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

4.6.3 Tight Timescales

4.6.3.1 Requirement

Requirement 539/3 states there is a need to “implement changes to Reference Data to tight
timescales. As an example of such timescales, it shall be possible to implement Reference Data
changes consequent on a [Treasury] Budget by start of business on the following day”.

4.6.3.2 Definition

A Tight Timescale change is caused by either:

© an emergency situation where normal lead-times cannot be adhered to because of legal
circumstances outside of Post Office Ltd control, or

© to allow Post Office Ltd to exploit commercial opportunities.

Each instance of such change must be notified in writing by Post Office Ltd to Pathway and
agreed between Post Office Ltd Head of Network Support and the Pathway Customer
Service Director or their nominated authorised deputies.

4.6.3.3 Types

Analysis by Post Office Ltd of the business requirements indicates that the types of change that
require to be actioned in Tight Timescales are:

e Price changes

e Emergency cessation of a product

e Product introduction or change where the product has been created in advance with
interim details.

a Price Change

The most frequent Tight Timescale changes are price changes. These may be processed via the
fast-track Basic Express route.

b) Emergency cessation

From the CSR+ version of Horizon the ability to transact a product is controlled by the use of
Item Transaction Modes and therefore these type of changes may be processed via the fast-
track Basic Express route.

fa) Product introduction or change (with interim details)

A new product (or product change) can be introduced in advance of all details being available

e.g. to meet a late-breaking business opportunity. Mandatory details should be provided

initially, although some will have interim values

eg.

© product name may be set to “test name” or other identifiably interim name.

e the cash account mapping may be to a lixne marked as “temporary” .

e the button for the product may not be introduced until a later date, with the product only
available to be sold by PLU initially.

The “interim” product should be verified using standard processes for product change [see
sections 3.4 and 5.6].

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 29 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

To set up the interim product the normal lead-times should be adhered to. When the interim

product cannot be set up with the normal lead-times, it will be dealt with as a high priority

exception [see section 9.2].

The interim details will be later replaced using:

¢ a Basic Express change for the final information relating to price and name. This must be
identifiable as part of the Tight Timescale change, and will be verified via the Verification
Report for Basic Express, before the change is released

¢ standard changes that occur after the go live of the product e.g. the introduction of the
button, or the change of the Cash Account mapping.

An example of the timeline is shown below:

6 5 I 4 3 2 I 1 oI aa +2 I

rr ttt fF —
Interim product Interim product Price / name Button
introduced as introduced as details introduced or c/a
standard change high priority introduced as_re-mapped at a
with interim exceptional Basic Express later date as a
values change with standard change

interim values

4.0.0.4 Limitauons wnen information is available at a very late stage

Whilst acknowledging that Post Office Ltd may not have control over legal or governmental
changes it must be recognised that the ability of the end to end process to produce, check,
authorise and release Reference Data takes a finite time and therefore it may not be possible in
all circumstances to meet the requirements. To this end the following are guidelines to the
limitations for Tight Timescales changes where the information is only made available at a
very late stage (e.g. 4 p.m. on a budget day).

e The time to key the data into the RDS system, extract and transmit to Pathway must be
considered (probably a minimum of I hour)

e The time that RDMC takes to process the incoming data must be considered
(approximately 30 minutes)

e If counter checks at Post Office Ltd are required an absolute minimum of 2 hours is
required for RDT system processing. It is therefore likely that this time will not be
available and therefore checking of the data can only be by review of reports — minimum of
30 minutes to produce and transmit to OSG

e The time that Post Office Ltd will take to validate reports, or view data on counters should
time be available for extract, needs to be considered (estimated as a minimum of 30
minutes)

e In order to meet normal operational schedules, authorisation to release a Tight Timescales
change should be received by Pathway by 7:30 p.m.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 30 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

e The introduction of new items is impossible overnight. If there is a possibility that new
items will be needed their skeleton data must be set up in advance, as described above in
section 4.6.3.3.¢

© Changes to Menu Hierarchy can only be achieved within Tight Timescales when sufficient
time is available — under normal circumstances, where the normal leadtime is not available,
a Business Critical Advanced Change may be appropriate

e An overnight change should therefore only be of the type which amends the price or name
of items

On the basis of the above timings, the latest time for commencement for an overnight Tight
Timescales change, such as Budget announcements, to be with RDOT for keying is 5 p.m. for
a change to be checked by report and 3 p.m. for a change to be checked by counter. Whilst
these timings are theoretically possible any error which occurs in data preparation or is
discovered during checking may affect the ability of all parties to complete the exercise.
Therefore, wherever possible more time should be given.

4.6.4 Live Fix

The time scale for incident correction is driven by the impact of the incident, the complexity of
the solution and the Start Date (or Agreed Date) for the change to be live at the branches. (see
section 9.3)

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 31 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

4.6.5 Business Critical Advanced Change

It has been recognised that the Pathway and Post Office Ltd operational units have the ability,
in some circumstances, to shorten the OBC lead time without adversely impacting the success
of the change, or any other change in the system.

A Business Critical Advanced Change category has been introduced to permit operational
units to decide, where possible, to deliver change within a shorter time than the specified
leadtime. I BCAC does not replace Tight Timescales but rather offers an alternative,
operational, method (similar to Basic Express) of progressing Advanced changes.

= Each instance of a Business Critical Advanced Change must be agreed by each the groups
involved in the processing of the change (normally Post Office Ltd Change
Implementation Team, RDOT and RDT) before the change is submitted to Pathway for
action. This must include agreement on the effective date for the Reference Data

= The leadtime requirement for such a change must be shorter than that which would
normally be required to complete the change

= The agreed leadtime requirement must be achievable

= Any errors or modifications which occur in the delivery of such a change are likely to
cause failure to achieve the agreed leadtime

= Only minimal changes to the Menu Hierarchy are possible within shortened leadtimes. If
the introduction of a new item is required in short timescales this should be considered via
the PLU in the first instance with buttons to follow

= A maximum of I such change is permitted within any single week and 2 such changes in
any rolling 4 week period

= RDORF may, by agreement, modify the maximum quoted above

=  RDORF will review each instance of such a change to establish why it was necessary to
invoke this process (without prejudice to any business confidentiality)

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 32 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

5 Lead-time for changes

5.1 Introduction

The lead-times quoted in this section are the end-to-end times covering both Post Office Ltd
and Pathway activities. Each party must meet each milestone applicable to it in order that the
subsequent milestones and the end-to-end lead-times are achieved. The types of change that
relate to each category are defined in [section 4].

These lead-times apply for the volumes given in [section 5.11].

The lead-time runs from initiating a change until the change is Released to the live system.
Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3

Notes:

For simplicity, the models used do not show activities that occur in parallel.

day = working weekday (Mon-Fri, excluding English Public Holidays)
adow = any day of the week, includes non working weekdays (Mon-Sun)
times = latest time action can occur to meet the schedule

Where a time is given next to a milestone, the time is critical to achieving that milestone.
Where the time is not given, the default is for the handover between organisations to be
complete by 8am. Failure to achieve a milestone by the given (or default) time potentially
extends the lead-time of the change.

Whilst there are indications of the time taken at each stage of the processing these cannot be
taken to be definitive, i.e. the overall leadtime should be taken as the most significant
information.

N.B. The leadtime should be used in relation to when data is required to be delivered to
counters on the Live estate, which may be earlier than the start date on the data.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 33 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
5.2 Basic - Pure
Changes that involve changing Type A Reference Data only and do not require verification.
End-to-End lead time = 5 days
Action Duration I Result Milestone Owner
Business generates change 1 day Deliver OBC to Post Office Day I (6pm) Post Office
Lid Ltd
Post Office Ltd processes 1 day Deliver Reference Data to Day 2 (6pm) Post Office
change RDOT Ltd
RDOT input Reference Data 2 days Send to Pathway Day 4 (8pm) Post Office
Ltd
Pathway System processes Available to Pathway Day 5 (8am) *
Pathway process change 1 day Release change Day 5 (8pm) Pathway
(release day)

Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3

* Note:
Basic — Pure Reference Data files (identifiable as such by virtue of the OBC prefix
used) arriving by 10am, on a working weekday, will be released that night by Pathway,
for distribution.

Basic — Pure Reference Data files received by Pathway by 4pm and accompanied by a
notifying ‘phone call’, on a working weekday, will be released that night by Pathway,
for distribution.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 34 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
5.3 Basic — High Risk
Changes that involve changing Type A Reference Data only and required verification.
End-to-End lead time = 10 days
Action Duration Result Milestone Owner I
Business generates change 1 day Deliver OBC to Post Office Ltd Day 1 (6pm) Post Office
Lid
Post Office Ltd processes 1 day Deliver Reference Data to Day 2 (6pm) Post Office
change RDOT Ltd
RDOT input Reference Data 2 days Send to Pathway Day 4 (8pm) Post Office
Ltd
Pathway System processes Available to Pathway Day 5 (8am)
Pathway process change 2 days Deliver Reference Data to Post Day 6 (6pm) Pathway
Office Lid
Pathway generate RDMC 2 days Deliver Reports to Post Office — Day 8 (6pm) Pathway
verification & comparison Ltd
reports
Post Office Ltd check 2 days Notifies Pathway of Day 10 (8pm) Post Office
reports authorisation Lid
Pathway process Immediate Release change Day 10 (8pm) Pathway
authorisation (release day)

Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 35 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
5.4 Advanced Simple
Changes requiring advanced notification that involve Type A Reference Data changes only
before release.
End-to-End lead time = 10 days
Action Duration Result Milestone Owner
Business generates change 1 day Deliver OBC to Post Office Day I (6pm) Post Office
Lid Lid
Post Office Ltd processes 1 day Deliver notification to Day 2 I Post Office
change Pathway (6pm) Ltd
Post Office Ltd processes 1 day Deliver Reference Data to Day 2 Post Office
Reference Data RDOT (6pm) Ltd
RDOT input Reference Data 2 days Send to Pathway Day 4 Post Office
(8pm) Lid
Pathway System processes Available to Pathway Day 5
(Sam)
Pathway process request for 2 days Preparations complete Day 4 Pathway
change (6pm)
Pathway processes 2 days Deliver Reference Data to Post Day 6 Pathway
Reference Data Office Lid (6pm)
Pathway generate RDMC 2 day Deliver Reports to Post Office Day 8 Pathway
verification & comparison Ltd (6pm).
reports
Post Office Ltd check 2 days Notifies Pathway of Day 10 Post Office
reports authorisation (8 pm) Ltd
Pathway process Immediate Release change Day 10 Pathway
authorisation (release day) (8 pm)
Update systems & Varies Day 11+ Pathway
documentation

Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 36 of 1
FUJ00232522
FUJ00232522

Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

5.5 Advanced Standard
Changes that, in addition to Type A Reference Data, require activities such as loading Type B
(scales and discount indicator) Reference Data, managing additional information, MIS updates

or testing.

End-to-End lead time = 14 days

Action Duration Result Milestone Owner
Business generates change 1 day Deliver OBC to Post Office Day 1 (6pm) Post Office
Lid Ltd
Post Office Ltd processes 1 day Deliver notification to Day 2 Post Office
change Pathway (6pm) Lid
Post Office Ltd processes 2 days Deliver Reference Data to Day 4 Post Office
Reference Data RDOT (6pm) Ltd
RDOT input Reference Data 3 days Send to Pathway Day 7 Post Office
(8pm) Ltd
Pathway System processes Available to Pathway Day 8
(8am)
Pathway process request for 2 days Preparations complete Day 4 Pathway
change (6pm)
Pathway process Reference 2 days Ready for testing Day 9 Pathway
Data (6pm)
RDT test change 1 days Deliver Reference Data to Day 10 Pathway
Post Office Ltd (6pm)
Pathway generate RDMC 2 day Deliver Reports to Post Day 12 Pathway
verification & comparison Office Ltd (6pm)
reports
Post Office Ltd check 2 days Notifies Pathway of Day 14 Post Office
reports authorisation (8 pm) Ltd
Pathway process Immediate Release change Day 14 Pathway
authorisation (release day) (8 pm)
Amend MIS mapping 1 day Day 14 Pathway
(6pm)
Update documentation Varies Day 12+ Pathway

Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 37 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
5.6 anced Complex
Changes that require update Type C Reference Data.
End-to-End lead time = 25 days
Action Duration Result Milestone Owner
Business generates change 2 days Deliver OBC to Post Office Day 2 (6pm) IPost Office Ltd
Lid
Post Office Ltd processes 2 days Deliver notification to Day 4 __ [Post Office LtdI
change Pathway (6pm)
Post Office Ltd processes 2 days Deliver Reference Data to Day 6 Post Office Ltd]
Reference Data RDOT (6pm)
RDOT input Reference Data 5 days Send to Pathway Day 11 Post Office LtdI
(8pm)
Pathway System processes Available to Pathway Day 12
(8am)
Pathway process request for 2 days. Preparations complete & Day 7 Pathway
change notify CD (6pm)
Pathway processes 2 days RDT handover to CD Day 13 Pathway
Reference Data (6pm).
Create Type C Reference 5 days Ready for testing Day 18 Pathway
Data (6pm)
RDT Validate changes 2 days Deliver Reference Data to Day 20 Pathway
Post Office Ltd (6pm)
Pathway generate RDMC 2 day Deliver Reports to Post Day 22 Pathway
verification & comparison Office Ltd (6pm)
reports
Post Office Ltd check 3 days Notifies Pathway of Day 25 IPost Office LtdI
reports authorisation (8 pm)
Pathway process Immediate Release change Day 25
authorisation (release day) (8 pm)
Amend MIS mapping 1 day Day 25 Pathway
(6pm)
Update documentation Varies Day 25+ Pathway
Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3
© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 38 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
5.7 Advanced Complex Extended
Changes that may require updated Type C Reference Data and/or extended
validation/verification.
End-to-End lead time = 30 days
Action Duration Result Milestone wher
Business generates change 2 days Deliver OBC to Post Office Day 2 (6pm) IPost Office LtdI
Lid
Post Office Ltd processes 2 days Deliver notification to Day 4 [Post Office LtdI
change Pathway (6pm)
Post Office Ltd processes 2 days Deliver Reference Data to Day 6 Post Office Ltd]
Reference Data RDOT (6pm)
RDOT input Reference Data 5 days Send to Pathway Day 11 Post Office LtdI
(8pm)
Pathway System processes Available to Pathway Day 12
(8am)
Pathway process request for 2 days Preparations complete & Day 7 Pathway
change notify CD (6pm)
Pathway processes 2 days RDT handover to CD Day 13 Pathway
Reference Data (6pm)
Create Type C Reference 10 days Ready for testing Day 23 Pathway
Data (6pm)
RDT Validate changes 2 days Deliver Reference Data to Day 25 Pathway
Post Office Ltd (6pm)
Pathway generate RDMC 2 day Deliver Reports to Post Day 27 Pathway
verification & comparison Office Lid (6pm)
reports
Post Office Ltd check 3 days Notifies Pathway of Day 30 Post Office Ltd]
reports authorisation (8 pm)
Pathway process Immediate Release change Day 30
authorisation (release day) (8 pm)
Amend MIS mapping I day Day 30 Pathway
(6pm)
Update documentation Varies Day 30+ Pathway
Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3
© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 39 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522

Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

5.8 AP Client Take-On
As described in AP Client Service Introduction and Change Processes & CS Services

Catalogue documents [ref. 3 & 4].

5.9 Basic Express

Changes that involve only Type A Reference Data and are one of the named change types in
[section 4.6.1].

End-to-End lead time = 2 days

Action Duration Result Milestone Owner
Business generates change 2 hours Deliver OBC to Post Office Day I (10am) Post Office
Ltd Lid
Post Office Ltd processes 3 hours Deliver Reference Data to Day I (Ipm) Post Office
change RDOT Lid
RDOT input Reference Data 7 hours Send to Pathway Day 1 (8pm) Post Office
Lid
Pathway System processes Available to Pathway Day 2 (8am)
Pathway process change 1 hour Deliver Reference Data to Day 2 (10am) Pathway
Post Office Ltd
Pathway generate 2 hours Deliver Reports to Post Day 2 (noon) Pathway
verification reports Office Lid
Post Office Ltd check 4 hours Notifies Pathway of Day 2 (4pm) * Post Office
reports authorisation Lid
Pathway process 2 hours Release change Day 2 (6pm) Pathway
authorisation (release day)

Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3

* Note: As Basic Express is a form of Fast Track change and therefore outside the norm
it is a Pathway requirement that authorisation is received by 4 pm.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 40 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522

Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

5.10 Migration Special
To meet the need to apply a quick change to the Product to Branch mappings for an branch

End-to-End lead time = 1 day

Action _ I Result Milestone Owner

required change identified Notify RDOT * Post Office

RDOT input Reference Data Send to Pathway * Post ttce

Pathway process change Release change * Cu
(release day)

Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3

* Note:

Migration Special Reference Data files (identifiable as such by virtue of the OBC prefix
used) arriving by 10am on a working weekday, will be released that night by Pathway,
for distribution.

Migration Special Reference Data files received by Pathway by 4pm and accompanied
by a notifying ‘phone’ call, on a working weekday, will be released that night by
Pathway, for distribution.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 41 of 1
FUJ00232522
FUJ00232522

Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

5.11 System Parameters - Pure

Changes that involve changing system parameters and do not require verification (i.e. are pre-
authorised).

End-to-End lead time = 3 days

Action Duration I Result Milestone Owner

Business generates change 1 day Deliver OBC to Post Office Day I (6pm) Post Office
Lid Ltd

Post Office Ltd processes 1 day Deliver information to Day 2 (10am) _ I Post Office

change Pathway Lid

Pathway process change 2 days Release change Day 3 (8pm) Pathway

Delivery to Counters following release is as described in section 3.3

* Note:
System Parameters — Pure requests arriving by 10am, on a working weekday, will be
processed and the data released by Pathway for distribution on the night following.

At the Network Banking release of the Horizon system the only System Parameters
that may be amended using this category are:

MCWP.
MAAWP.

Amendments will be within limits defined within theAgreement.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 42 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

6 Volume of change

6.1 Introduction

The Post Office Ltd forecast volume of Operational Business Change is shown in Appendix A:
OBC Volumes for Year 2002

On a 3 monthly basis the RDORF will review actual and forecast volumes to estimate the
impact on future capacity and lead-times.

6.2 Committed volumes

The service provided by Fujitsu Services as specified within this document is

constructed as follows

a) it has the capability to handle an overall maximum of 300 changes within one
month with the following limits within each of the categories

- Branch Changes 140 per month
- Pre-Authorised Product Change 40 per month
- High Risk Product Change 50 per month

- Advanced Product Change 100 per month

- Automated Payment Change 120 per month

N.B. This maximum includes rework, which is expected to be a maximum of 30 files
in any month.

b) to enable Post Office Ltd to manage the volume and categorisation of changes
that are supplied into this service a Work Index system will be agreed (within 2
calendar months of the sign-off of the extended contract). The Work Index
system will specify in units an indication of the amount of work required for each
file or associated activity.

c) The monthly Work Index limit will be 5000 units which will be equivalent to the
workflow represented by the 300 changes and the identified constraints as
specified in a) above

The Reference Data Operational Review Forum will oversee the introduction of the
Work Index system and will review the effectiveness of the process and any issues
which arise from these limits

The baseline for Reference Data record changes is given in the AIS [ref. 5].
Data, which is required specifically for the implementation of a new system release

(e.g. NWB), is exceptional to these committed volumes and as such will not be
counted within any measurement against this Interface Agreement.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 43 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

6.3 Network Reinvention

For the period March 2003 to January 2006, to support Post Office Ltd's Network
Reinvention programme, in addition to the volumes stated above the service will
handle, on a rolling 3-month average, an additional 130 Branch Changes and 20 Pre-
authorised or High Risk Product Changes per month. The maximum volumes that
can be handled in any one month are 150 Branch Changes and 23 Pre-authorised

or High Risk Product Changes. A separate naming convention will be agreed for
such changes so that they may be shown independently in RDORF reports. Should
the plans for the Network Reinvention programme change to the extent that the
change volumes in this paragraph need adjustment Post Office shall give at least 6
months notice in order that Fujitsu Services can adjust its resource plans.

7 Deliverables
To ensure milestones are not put at risk all deliverables must be:

Complete and identifiable e.g. cross referencing change numbers

Error free [see section 9.3 for managing errors]

Correctly dated (see section 7.3)

Delivered by the relevant deadlines set out in the Interface Agreement [see section 5 for
required milestones]

© Delivered through the agreed mechanisms.

eocee

7.1 Post Office Ltd to Pathway
Post Office Ltd shall deliver to Pathway:

1) Reference Data for Advanced and Basic changes

2) Operational Business Change forms for Advanced changes and System Parameter Pure

3) Supporting items and/or information appropriate for changes e.g. AP tokens, Operational
Focus

4) Authorisation for Advanced and High Risk Basic changes

5) Volumetric forecasts of changes, including peaks

7.2 Pathway to Post Office Ltd
Pathway shall deliver to Post Office Ltd:

1) Reference Data direct to Live Counters, for OBCs that are pre-authorised by Post Office
Ltd.

2) Reference Data to Verification Counters, for OBCs to be verified, and that:

e include Type C Reference Data for Advanced changes when necessary

e has been validated to ensure changes work as requested on the OBC forms.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 44 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

3) Verification and Comparison Reports (as appropriate) that identify exactly what changes
to the counter have been implemented
4) Reports to RDORF on volumetrics, including observed peaks.

7.3 Future Dating

Reference Data records contain a ‘Start Date’ which is the date on which the change is to
become effective on the Horizon counters. This date should always be in the future when the
data is created and remain a ‘future date’ throughout processing and distribution so that it is
still a future date when it arrives at the counters.

There is a risk to Post Office Ltd if the OBC process is not initiated sufficiently in advance of

the Start Date to allow for:

e the IFA lead-time for processing, validation, authorisation and release to the Live system
for that particular type of change

© the distribution time to branches

e additional contingency where Post Office Ltd consider the Reference Data to have
business critical importance

Where, for whatever reason, Post Office Ltd are unable to initiate the OBC process
sufficiently in advance, then Post Office Ltd and Pathway would establish an Agreed Date to
supersede the Start Date.

Pathway reserves the right to log as a pre-live incident, the receipt of any Reference Data
which is not future dated. This is because data which has an immediate start date (i.e. any date
in the past at the time when the data reaches the Horizon counter) may have an adverse effect
and may create additional calls to HelpDesks.

The scheduling of non-future dated data by Post Office Ltd delaying authorisation of the
release of Reference Data is not an approved method.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 45 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

8 Roles & Responsibilities

8.1 Post Office Ltd — General

Post Office Ltd shall, without limitation:

8.1.1 Administration and Control

a) Appoint and communicate to Pathway the name of an owner for this Interface Agreement.
The owner shall maintain and communicate to Pathway the list of change authorisers for
Product Reference Data.

b) Measure & report on the performance of processes carried out by Post Office Ltd under
this Interface Agreement.

c) Participate in the Service Review process, to cover all aspects of the process and its
operation, including the provision of regular forecasts of volumes, at least annually.

d) Review the OBC process, documentation and forms to identify and implement
improvements jointly with Pathway.

e) Maintain details of the Post Office Ltd contacts relevant to these processes within the
change contacts list in the OLAs [ref. 12 & 13].

f) Ensure that all staff involved in the OBC process are aware of their role and
responsibilities

8.1.2 Implementation

a) Ensure Post Office staff and clients are aware of changes in time to make the necessary
preparations

b) Resolve queries from Pathway that are material to an OBC

c) Communicate issues and exception information to Pathway, as reasonably necessary to
assist them, to enable them to manage and control all their relevant change activity on the
Pathway side of the change interface.

d) Provide the Postmaster communication (e.g. Operational Focus, Memo View) to
Pathway for comment before release and make any amendments reasonably required by
Pathway

e) Identify potential variations to the service as soon as known e.g. peak activity

f) Process and communicate advanced product changes, in accordance with timescales in
[section 5], to Pathway ensuring, where necessary, that changes are submitted separately
in units of release.

g) Verify changes and provide authorisation ready for release [in accordance with section
8.6]

h) Ensure that the Post Office Ltd copy of reference documents, e.g. copy of the Menu
Hierarchy, is available to Post Office Ltd staff who require it

i) Maintain and ensure the security of the OBC Product and Reference Data verification
mailboxes on Post Office Ltd servers.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 46 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

8.1.3 Files & Reference Data

a) Ensure the date contained in the Reference Data is in accordance with the required lead-
times [see section 5]

b) Where possible, all Reference Data which should be applied as a unit, as defined by
business rules or the OBC, should be supplied in a single file. Where this is not possible,
subsequent files must be identifiable as the same unit of release.

c) Recognise that the file is the unit of release and all changes within one file are constrained
by the longest lead-time.

d) Allocate unique Business Change Request number (Change Control Number).

e) Ensure all required change information and data is submitted to Pathway e.g. menu
hierarchy information [ref. 14] AP CTO packs etc.

f) Ensure the accuracy and integrity of the change information and Reference Data provided
to Pathway

8.2 Post Office Ltd - Reference Data Operational Team
Post Office Ltd RDOT shall, without limitation:

a) Process and transmit basic Reference Data changes to Pathway over routes & timetables,
as specified in the OLA [ref. 12].

b) Supply Reference Data to support advanced change in accordance with specified
standards [see section 0.3].

c) Allocate unique Business Change Request number (Change Control Number) where
necessary.

d) Ensure that the content of any file is consistent with the change identifier.

8.3 Post Office Ltd Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

NBSC shall, without limitation:

a) Provide an interface to log Post Office Ltd Live incidents raised by Post Office Ltd or
Pathway.
b) Monitor, track and provide updates on Post Office Ltd Live incidents, to resolution.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 47 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

8.4 Pathway responsibilities

Pathway shall, without limitation:

8.4.1 Administration and Control

a) Appoint and communicate to Post Office Ltd the name of an owner for this Interface
Agreement.

b) Measure & report to RDORF the performance of Pathway processes carried out under
this Interface Agreement.

c) Participate in the Service Review process, to cover all aspects of the process and its
operation, including the provision of 3 monthly reports on the volume of change received
over the previous year.

d) Review the OBC process, documents and forms to identify and implement improvements
jointly with Post Office Ltd.

e) Maintain the details of the Pathway contacts relevant to these processes within the OBC
Product Change contacts list in the OLAs [ref. 12 and 13].

f) Ensure that all staff involved in the OBC process are aware of their role and
responsibilities

8.4.2 Implementation

a) Ensure Pathway staff and suppliers are aware of changes in time to make the appropriate
preparations, where necessary

b) Review the Postmaster communication/instructions and notify Post Office Ltd of any
amendments reasonably required, before issue.

c) Communicate issues and exception information to Post Office Ltd, as reasonably
necessary to assist Post Office Ltd, to enable them to manage and control all their relevant
change activity on the Post Office Ltd side of the change interface.

d) Receive and progress basic Reference Data change requests through the Reference Data
change procedures

e) Receive and progress advanced Reference Data change requests. These may be sent
electronically by Post Office Ltd to the OBC Product Change Mailbox or via fallback
routes (e.g. fax)

f) Assess advanced changes and identify and deliver the change services needed to satisfy
specific changes

g) Ensure that supporting Pathway processes are implemented to manage the delivery of
change services

h) Ensure that appropriate updates to Menu Hierarchy are forwarded to Post Office Ltd
librarian for onward distribution within Post Office Ltd

i) Provide invoices for the completion of work, when appropriate [see section 9.5]

j) Release correctly authorised changes to meet the Agreed Date [see section 9.3]

8.4.3 Files & Reference Data

a) Provide changed Reference Data, Verification and Comparison Reports in accordance
with agreed procedures [see section 0.3]

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 48 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

8.5 Horizon Service Helpdesk (HSH)

HSH shall, without limitation:

a) Provide an interface to log Pathway Live incidents raised by Post Office Ltd or
Pathway.
b) Monitor, track and provide updates on Pathway Live incidents, to resolution.

8.6 Verification, authorisation & release
Note: for details of the process [see section 3.4].

1) Post Office Ltd shall

Verify the OBC form before keying the Reference Data.

Use the RDS system built in validation rules on the Reference Data keyed in.
Verify the Reference Data once it has been keyed, before it is sent to Pathway.

vVVV

2) Pathway shall

Check that all the Reference Data required for an OBC has been received.

Check that the contents of a file are appropriate for that file / change type.

Confirm that the Postmaster communication/instruction is appropriate

Raise any queries with Post Office Ltd relevant to the progression of an OBC

Produce a Verification and Comparison Report (where necessary) for changes
delivered to the verification counters.

Confirm that the change works technically, before sending data and reports to Post
Office Ltd for verification.

VVVVV

Vv

3) Post Office Ltd shall

Perform Authorisation

Gain the agreement of Pathway, where Post Office Ltd wish to release a change that
contains a known deviation from the original intention (including an inappropriate
communication).

Vv

4) Pathway shall

> Explain to Post Office Ltd’s reasonable satisfaction any queries which Post Office Ltd
have arising from the validations carried out, or, where the change is part of the
technical implementation, accept responsibility for that element of the change.
Not unreasonably withhold its agreement to release changes which Post Office Ltd
approve as acceptable deviations from the original intention.
Release the Reference Data for authorised changes to the live system provided Post
Office Ltd has complied with it obligations set out in [section 8.6 para 3].

v

Vv

Each party accepts responsibility for those aspects of a change for which it has responsibility
to test.

Business tests for the purpose of verifying changes to Reference Data are conducted by Post
Office Ltd and are described in [ref. 14]. These tests include, where appropriate, review of

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 49 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

Verification and Comparison Reports and the functional testing of Reference Data on test
counters supplied by Pathway. Authorisation from Post Office Ltd to Pathway to release
Reference Data is made on the basis of these tests.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 50 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

9 Orders and exceptions

9.1 Orders

e The receipt in the CS Reference Data team mailbox of the OBC form is the confirmed
request from Post Office Ltd to Pathway, for Advanced and System Parameter Pure
Changes.

© The receipt of a Reference Data file containing only Basic (Class 1 Reference Data) in the
RDMC, is the confirmed request for change from Post Office Ltd to Pathway.

e The receipt of a correctly completed Authorisation Form from Post Office Ltd is the
confirmed authorisation to release the change.

e The receipt of pre-authorised change files (e.g. Migration Special, Pure Basic or System
Parameter Pure) clearly identified as such and containing that type of change, is the
authorisation for release of the changes.

e Requests for non-OBC changes (i.e. those not defined in the RDCC [ref. 2]) will not be
accepted and need to be submitted as a Change Request. However, the change request
may also initiate an update to the RDCC so that new changes are introduced to the OBC
process, where agreed. In many cases once a CR has been approved the delivery
mechanisms will be the same as, or similar to, those used for OBC.

9.2 Exceptions

Exceptions, e.g. to volumes or lead-times, will be processed using available resources without
any guarantee of service delivery. Both Post Office Ltd and Pathway shall notify the other
party when a request is recognised to be an exception.

Note: An agreed Deviation to the Service (e.g. Reference Data necessary for the
implementation of a new system release such as CSR+) is not an exception.

Post Office Ltd may wish to change the priority of an exceptional change so that it is given
preference over normal changes. In this instance the agreed lead-times may be extended pro
rata for displaced activities.

9.3 Errors and Rework

This section relates to errors or rework for both Product and Branch Reference Data, where
appropriate.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 51 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

9.3.1 Recording Pre-Live Incidents

All observed errors will be recorded as pre-live incidents in accordance with the OLAs (refs.
12 & 13). The change will be suspended awaiting corrective action, potentially delaying the
achievement of that milestone for all changes affected by the error. For example, a file
containing records that are rejected will not be processed until the rejected records are
corrected and any other change which is in any way associated with the rejections may also be
delayed. Where the achievement of a milestone is at risk, corrective action will be taken by the
appropriate party or parties, by agreement, in order to achieve the final milestone, where
possible.

A pre-live incident will be raised for late deliverables.

If the Start Date contained within Reference Data record is not future dated or is set to a date
prior to the Required Date a pre-live incident will be raised i.e. the Start Date is either prior to
the date on the OBC form, or is not consistent with the overall lead-times (see section 7.3).

If it is known that the final milestone will not be achieved, or an alert has been requested and
the data is being released and will become active on the following day an Alert may be
necessary as described in section 2.5.

9.3.2 Rework categorisation and thresholds

Rework files are files which are, or appear to be, either Amendment files or Error Corrections
files to a change that is currently being progressed. They necessitate additional activity by all
parties and as such may have an impact on lead-times.

Appropriate steps shall always be taken to establish and eliminate the root cause of Rework.
This will be monitored by the RDORF

9.4 Escalation

Disagreements about the service e.g. whether a change is exceptional, will be raised, and
wherever possible resolved, at the RDORF. If agreement cannot be reached at the RDORF,
either party may invoke formal escalation mechanisms.

9.5 Charging

e AP Client Take-On is charged as specified [see ref. 4].
e Deviations to the service will be charged as per the CCN.
¢ Invoices will be raised and paid in accordance with the Agreement.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 52 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

10 Appendix A: OBC Volumes for Year 2002

The volume of change estimated by Post Office Ltd for the year 2002 is as follows
The values were provided initially in December 1999, and subsequently amended.

{Change and Category joBC
Volume
[Basic Change
(Change price & min/max price/volume (660
[Increase non core product availability in branches 432
(Change MOP for product (existing MOPs) 86
(Change customer sales rules 27
(Change product name 22
(Change voidable / reversable 5

Subtotall1232

[Advanced Simple
(Change additional fields 18
Subtotall18

(Advanced Standard
(Change accounting calendar 1

Subtotalll
Advanced Complex
Add EPOSS product 516
[Permanent cessation of product B63
(Change mapping to c/a 24
(Change Menus 13

hange picklist ordering:

Cash Declaration/ONCH

Cash Rem Out - Notes

Cash Rem Out - Coin Full Bags

Cash Rem Out - Coin Partial Bags

Cash Rem Out - Unusable Coin
. Rem Out - Other Postage Stamps
(Change Royal Mail tariff
Change Advice Notes Product Group Ordering (add or remove
(Group, alter order)
(Change Parcelforce tariff (limited range) 1
(Change Non-Value Stock Product Group Ordering (add or remove [8
(Group, alter order)
(Change Non- Value Stock Item Ordering within Product Group 1
(Change Advice Notes Item Ordering within Product Group i

TENS

SRS SS

Subtotall952
[Advanced AP
IAdd AP client 251
IAdd AP service M1
[Remove AP service HI

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 53 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002
(Change client name 37
[Remove AP client 26
Subtotal466
(Change requiring Change Request
(Change printed forms B32
(Change stock reconciliation 15
(Change VAT k
ew VAT k
ew currency LE
(Change currency E
Subtotal47
(Other (processed via ITMs in CSR+, interim arrangements in
(CSR)
(Change product start date 77
[Temporary cessation of product 32
(Change product between core & local 18
Subtotalj127
Grand Total]2843

DN: volumes yet to be amended to include impact of LF:

/SAPADS. e.g. increase in “Add

EPOSS product”. Also Refresh Cash Account details (usually to amend text on Cash

Account lines)

DN: volumes for NWB change to be supplied — may affect some existing entries such as

change product name

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 54 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

11 Appendix B: Standard Changes - Details

Section 4.2 gives details of the hierarchy of changes which are Standard Changes. The
complete list of changes applicable to each type can be found in the RDCC [ref 2]. Below is a
representative sample of the changes for each type.

N.B. It should be noted that whilst a change may fall into a specific category if there is an
associated change which falls into a different category with a longer lead time on which the
first change is dependent, both changes will adopt the category of the second change.

11.1.1 Basic - Pure

Increase product availability (non-core)
Change clerk instructions

11.1.2 Basic — High Risk

Change product price

Revaluation

Change min/max quantity/value

Change whether voidable or reversible
Change between existing methods of payment
Change product names

Cease Item Transaction Mode for a product
Restart Item Transaction Mode for a product
Change ability to print receipt

Add routing gateway (NWB) +
Change name only — in routing gateway (NWB) +
Change Bank name only - in Issuer Scheme (NWB) +
Add Banking Operation (when associated item already exists) (NWB) +
Change presentation sequence override only - in Banking Operation (NWB) +
Add method of entry (NWB) +
Change method of entry (NWB) +
Add TIN range for existing bank card (NWB) +
Change IIN range for existing bank card (NWB) +
+ Items introduced for Network Banking

11.1.3. Advanced Simple

Non core product becomes core
Change use of additional fields

11.1.4 Advanced Standard

Change discount indicator (not used)
Change value to non-value stock
Change client name — non AP
Change calendar

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 55 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

ILLS

Remove AP client
Change pick-list for existing product

Advanced Complex

Add new product - non value stock

Add new product - make value stock available to rem-in
(up to 6 weeks prior to it being made available for sale)

Change screen layout (Menu Hierarchy)

Change accounting node

Change Best Fit screens

Add Item Transaction Mode with Item Transaction Mode Code

Change Picklist ordering: 7
Add/Change/Remove non-value stock product group ordering +
Change non-value stock item ordering within product groupt
Add/Change/Remove advice notes product group ordering +
Change advice notes item ordering within product group = +

+ These items are to be included in the next version of the RDCC.

11.1.6

Advanced Complex Extended

Change scales matrix/tariff change

Changes to Horizon reports text fields or content which can be achieved directly using
Pathway Reference Data.

[DN: The majority of changes to Horizon reports can only be achieved by code
changes and are therefore subject to CR. This mechanism within the OBC processes
is limited to those changes which can be made through Reference Data only and
requests for such changes not currently listed in the Reference Data Change
Catalogue must be confirmed with Pathway prior to raising the OBC. As changes of
this nature are identified they will be added to the Reference Data Change
Catalogue]

Network Banking changes other than those listed in Basic High Risk and System
Parameter — Pure.

Change routing gateway — physical (name only change is categorised as HR)
Add Issuer Scheme

Change Issuer Scheme (change to Bank name only is categorised as HR)
Add Banking Operation (when associated item does not exist)

Add NWB Card

Change NWB Card

Add NWB Token Element

Change NWB Token Element

[DN: The introduction of all Network Banking entities and amendments to them, with
the exception of those noted in Basic — High Risk and System Parameters — Pure, will

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 56 of 1
FUJ00232522

FUJ00232522
Fujitsu Fujitsu Services ( Pathway) Ltd / Post Office Ltd Ref: CS/PRD/058
Services Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change - Product Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20 December 2002

be Advanced Complex Extended It should be noted that in the future additional
checking of Network Banking Reference Data may be deemed to be necessary, in a
similar fashion to that currently used for AP, in which case leadtimes will need
Surther consideration.

Please note that Network Banking Contract Schedule NOI defines the leadtime for
changes in this category to be Advanced Complex. At the time that Contract Schedule
NO1 was agreed the overall leadtime for Advanced Complex changes was 30 days
however the leadtime for Advanced Complex has since been reduced to 25 days. The
overall leadtime for Advanced Complex Extended changes is 30 days and is therefore
consistent with the leadtime agreed within Contract Schedule NO1.]

11.1.7 System Parameters — Pure

At the Network Banking release of the Horizon system the only System Parameters
that may be amended using this category are:

MCWP
MAAWP

Amendments will be within limits defined within the Agreement.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 57 of 1
