FUJ00194686
FUJ00194686

20/02/2019 View WI3649S - Data Correction

WI approved

Data Correction

The DPA requires that access to personal data remains within the European Union
and PCI data security standards mandate physical security restrictions must be
applied where update access is allowed to user data. Currently the only units which
fulfil all these requirements for data access are the SSC and ISD Unix. The
responsibility for data correction is vested with the SSC although ISD sometimes act
under SSC authorisation.

Corrections to live system data must be authorised and auditable.

Data corrections

Support investigation may indicate the need for a data correction. If any correction
is required then a clear audit trail must exist in the form of narrative on a Peak
incident and an approved Account change control entry (e.g. TFSNow). This should
include the reason for the change and technical detail showing how the change is
being carried out.

Financial data

Changes to financial data are rarely required. Where a requirement exists such
changes must be made via contra journal entries to maintain audit trail and the
change must be made using the two man rule. The "two man rule" (sometimes
called the "four eyes rule" in security circles) specifies that there must be two
individuals that must act in concert in order to perform some action. Further, each
individual should have comparable knowledge and skill in order to detect attempts of
subversion initiated by the other.

Within the SSC, one member of the SSC will perform the data correction while a
second member of the SSC will witness the change being made. Both names must
be recorded on the change control for audit purposes.

See the Host Branch Database Support Guide for details of the transaction correction
tool used by SSC to correct transactions by inserting balancing records to
transactional / accounting / stock tables in the BRDB system.

References:

Reference Type Value Description

DOC DESAPPSPG0001 Host Branch Database Support Guide Del
DOC DESAPPHLD0020 Branch Database HLD Del I
Wi WI3028L Transaction Correction Tool / Appsup role, Del __

New Reference:

Reference Type Value Description

Peak Incident v - Add
Find I

FUJ00194686
FUJ00194686

20/02/2019 View WI3649S - Data Correction

+ More det

https://ssc.fs.fujitsu.com/SSC3/SSC_MI/MIView,jsp?MIRef=WI3649S &mode=view&ReturnMesssage=WI%20approved 2/2
