FUJ00098258

FUJ00098258
ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

Document Title: PinICL Reference Data Guide
Document Type: Manual
Release: N/A
Abstract: This document will assist the usage of the PinICL system by

explaining what the key fields are and how they should be used.
Document Status: APPROVED
Originator & Dept: John Newitt / Programme Office
Contributors: Lionel Higman
Reviewed By: Martin Bailey, Lionel Higman

Comments By:
Comments To:

Distribution: ICL Pathway Document Management

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: I of 12
ICL Pathway Ltd

PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref:
Version:
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date:

CM/MAN/005

2.0

18-Feb-2002

0.0 Document Control

0.1. Document History

0.1 15/02/00 First Draft for review N/A
0.2 08/06/00 Second draft for review N/A
0.3 18/08/00 Third draft for review N/A
1.0 17/11/00 Approved version following email review I N/A
of 0.3
Ll 21/01/02 Annual review N/A
1.2 07/02/02 Addition of sample Call Types N/A
2.0 18/02/02 Approved version following email review I N/A
of 1.2

0.2 Approval Authorities

Graham Chatten

Programme Office Manager

0.3 Associated Documents

DE/PRO/015 ICL Pathway Development PVCS
Directorate Incident/Defect
Management

CM/MAN/009 PinICL Training Manual PVCS

Unless a specific version is referred to

approved versions of the documents.

above, reference should be made to the current

© 2002 ICL Pathway

Limited

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 2 of 12

FUJ00098258
FUJ00098258

FUJ00098258

FUJ00098258
ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

BTC Business & Technical Conformance; now known as PTU (Pathway
Testing Unit)

cP Change Proposal

EDSC PinICL name for team now known as SSC.

HSH Horizon System Helpdesk

KEL Known Error Log

PTU Pathway Testing Unit

QFP Quality Filtering Process ( a group containing representation from the
Delivery Units, PTU and Customer Services)

RMF Release Management Forum

SMC Systems Maintenance Centre (First line unit support for Live Calls)

SSC System Support Centre (Second line support unit for Live Calls)

Known as EDSC within the PinICL system

0.5 Changes in this Version

2.0 Minor changes from review of version 1.2

0.6 Changes Expected

This document may be changed to reflect feed back or changes in working practice.

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 12
FUJ00098258
FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

0.7 Table of Contents

1.0 INTRODUCTION

2.0

3.0 TARGET RELEASES...

4.0 PRODUCT GROUPS...

5.0 REFERENCE VALUE

6.0 PRIORITY...

7.0 CALL TYPES.

8.0 RESPONSE CATEGORIES.

9.0 ACTION....

10.0 (CONTACT) DETAILS

11.0 CALL EFFORT

12.0 ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS....

13.0 CLONE CALLBS......

14.0 SUMMARY LINE...

15.0 KNOWN ERROR LOG

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 12
FUJ00098258
FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

1.0 Introduction

This document will assist the usage of the PinICL system by explaining what the key fields
are and how they should be used.

PinICL is the incident logging system for ICL Pathway Ltd. It is available for access by
Pathway members of staff and must be used accurately and professionally. PinICL is a tool to
enable incidents to be raised, progress to be monitored and resolutions to be documented; it is
NOT to be used as a forum to air disagreements, to have discussions or to promote
viewpoints. PinICL content is available to all PinICL users including Senior Management,
and once sent the contents of a Call update cannot be erased from the audit record.

As a PinICL user, it is important that you are aware of the status of the Calls raised either by
yourself or within your team, and that you monitor their progress at least daily. If you feel a
Call is not receiving the attention it warrants then escalate the issue, either by telephoning or
emailing the department concerned whom you feel should be doing something about it, or
speaking to your Team Leader for them to raise awareness. Be aware of those Calls that have
a fix available, as you may be able to take the fix onto the rig and re-test.

Statistics are drawn from the PinICL system from which a quality status is inferred. It is
important that this is not misleading in any way.

Additional information is available in CM/MAN/009 (PinICL Training Manual)

2.0 Scope
This document sets out to describe the following:
Target Releases
Product Groups
Reference Values
Priority

Call Types
Response Categories
Action

(Contact) Details
Call Effort

Root Cause Analysis
Clone PinICLs
Summary line

Known Error Logs

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 12
FUJ00098258

FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

3.0 Target Releases

For the current available set of Target Release values, scroll through the Target Release
Drop Down field in any Call Details window.

For Live Calls, the Target Release field is provisionally set by a member of the SSC to the
release on which the incident occurred. For all other Call types it is set to the system default
of “Unknown”. The field may only be changed by people with Local Administrative
capability (or greater). It is normally set to a value agreed between the members of the QFP
or RMF as appropriate.

As the project moves forward, old Target Release values are removed and new values are
introduced.

4.0 Product Groups

When you open a new PinICL Call, the system will make you select a Product Group Value.
For preference, you should also select a product.

For the current available set of Product Group values, click the Product button on any
Call details window then scroll through the Product Group Drop Down field in the
Product Information window.

For the current available set of Product values, click the Product button on any Call
details window then scroll through the Product Drop Down field in the Product
Information window.

Each product is unique and is a member of one product group only. If you select a product
group, the product drop down list will be reduced to those products that are members of the
selected product group.

If you cannot find the product you believe to be in error in the product dropdown list, use the
most appropriate product containing the word “unknown”, and ask the PinICL database
administrator to consider including the product name you searched for and failed to find. He
will either include it or explain why it will not be included.

Many products may be associated with a Call. Only one (the subject product) can be viewed
from the Call Details screen. You can set the subject product from the list of associated
products.

If the problem described in the Call causes Delivery Unit staff to fix an error in one of their
products, then Delivery Unit staff member must add this product (if it is not in the list) and
set it as the subject product.

Within the same window as Product Groups, there are other non-mandatory fields:
Operating System — The operating system for which this Call relates.

Platform — Hardware on which products run.

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 12
FUJ00098258
FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

5.0 Reference Value

Reference fields are used for any key information that can be used for searching at a later
date.

Using the Reference button, select an appropriate Reference Type and Reference Value.

For each Reference Type, an expected format will be shown where applicable for the
reference value.

More than one reference can be added. Ensure that the one most relevant to the Call’s current
position in its lifecycle is marked as the Top Reference (and is therefore the reference shown
in the Call Details window).

6.0 Priority

Priority Description Days to Fix
A Programme Stopped 1
B Progress Stopped 3
Cc Progress Restricted 5
D Non-urgent 10

The Priority of the Call indicates its importance to the Programme.
These are generally interpreted as:

A-— Critical error which is stopping any progress on that particular rig, it cannot be
worked around and will cause the test windows not to be met. It is only possible for
there to be one priority ‘A’ Call on a rig at any time.

B-— Highly significant error that is stopping any further progress either on the rig or with
the script being executed on the rig, e.g. the overnight schedule cannot run due to data
errors.

C-— An error which affects how one aspect is working. This can be either a data problem
where invalid data is being written to the database or a code error where the user is
unable to use a particular client.

D-—_ Insignificant and usually cosmetic error, either a documentation error or spelling error
on the system, which always has a work around.

The priority to be chosen is very dependent upon the IMPACT being caused by the problem
to the current test cycle and testing window. If in doubt about the priority then speak to the
team leader, but don’t delay raising the Call and expediting it if it is of a critical nature.

During particular cycles, e.g. Integration Testing, Calls will tend to be raised with the highest
priority they can warrant, as their quick resolution is critical. A Call priority may also be

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 12
FUJ00098258

FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

lowered if an acceptable circumvention has been supplied. It would not be closed however,
until the full fix has been re-tested.

Selection of priority tends to be subjective. Over use of the higher priorities negates the
value of the priority system. Testing Team Leaders must therefore ensure a realistic Priority
is allocated to the Call before it is progressed further.

7.0 Call Types

For the current available set of Call Type values, scroll through the Call Type Drop
Down field in any Call Details window.

When opening a new Call, you are responsible for ensuring that the Call Type is correct.
When you were set up as a PinICL user, you were given a default Call Type appropriate to
the team(s) you were a member of. As long as you remain with that team, the default will
probably be correct. If you need to change the default, select Options from the main menu,
then “Call Details Defaults”.

Select an appropriate Call Type from the pull-down list if your default is not appropriate.
The Call Type is used to determine the phase of the product lifecycle in which the incident
was found. E.g. Call Type ‘L’ is for Live Calls, and may only be used by SSC.

Currently, the main types that we use creating a new call are:

Call type I Team

BTC Bus. Int.

Cloned calls — not used when logging new calls
BTC Rel Mig

EDSC (SSC)

Any other team not covered by this list

RelMngmntForum

Any System Test team
BTC IntgrtyVol

SecurityPolicy

NI <I <}) @] w) tl cl al al a

Problem Mgt

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 12
FUJ00098258
FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

8.0 Response Categories

Response categories available for use vary depending on the Call Type currently set for
a given Call. For the Response Categories available for a particular Call Type, open a
Call of that type, click on the Add Text/Response button and scroll through the
Response Category Drop Down field in the Add Text/Response window.

The Response Category is a mandatory field which denotes the Call status within the
lifecycle, split between four stages Open (new Call), Pending (work in progress), Final and
Closed; it identifies the type of response given to the contact for a Call.

The essential difference between a Pending response and a Final response is that a Final
Response is routed back to the originator by the system; a Pending Response leaves the Call
with the currently Assigned Team/Assignee.

9.0 Action

Use of the Action functionality in PinICL is not required or defined by the Incident/Defect
Management process [ref. DE/PRO/015]. It is nevertheless available for use within the
system and occasionally used.

The most frequent reason for using the Action facility is to make a Call visible to another
team while keeping it assigned to your own team. If you are a member of the Actioned Team
and can see no further value in its being visible to your team, remove the action.

10.0 (Contact) Details

Contact details are maintained centrally for every registered user of the PinICL system. The
contact details of the person raising a new Call are linked to the Call when it is created.
Subsequently, the contact details may be changed either to make a different user the first
point of contact for the Call or to amend the details (e.g. telephone number) of the current
user. Note that amending the details for the Contact from within a Call details screen does
not change the centrally held details.

When a final response is logged, the system automatically routes the Call to the currently
named contact in the Call details screen.

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 12
FUJ00098258

FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

11.0 Call Effort

You are asked to input the Call Effort field when you route a call to another user or team, or
when you close a call.

You need to input a specific value only if you are the team/individual involved in resolving
the fault detailed in the Call; generally this will be either Development or Design. The effort
is required in hours (to one decimal place), e.g. if one and a half hours was the time taken to
fix, then 1.5 should be entered.

When you are asked for the Call Effort at other stages of the call life cycle, it is sufficient to
enter 0 (zero); in particular, this applies for Release Management Forum and Problem
Management calls (call types R and Z).

Here are a few other guidelines:

e We recognise that there may be other Calls or CPs involved; sensible and practical
management judgement should be applied in apportioning the time.

e If you are working on a call assigned to another user, you need to provide your effort to
the person who moves the call on; similarly, if you are routing a call on to another team,
try to find out the effort used by other team members.

e If you are working on a call assigned to another team (which may be sensible to avoid
“pingponging” calls backwards and forwards), then you should report your effort to the
assigned team as above.

e We expect users to apply reasonable endeavours; we recognise there will be some
difficulties and that users will be working under pressure.

e If you are routing a call to a team member without doing work, entering 0 hours may be
reasonable.

e If you make a major error, e.g. enter 100 hours rather than 10 hours, please notify
Pathway PinICL Helpdesk with details of the call number, date and time, and the wrong
and corrected effort; the extracted data will be adjusted.

12.0 Root Cause Analysis

The main concept of Root Cause Analysis is to ensure the same errors do not occur twice.

The Route Cause is specified on the same popup as Call Effort. When the Call logger first
routes the Call to another person or team, the system will insist on being supplied with a
value. At this point, the most frequently used value will be “99 General - Unknown”. As the
call is analysed, the value should be refined; often the most appropriate person to do this is
the one who finds the reason for the Call. When the Call is closed, the system will not accept
“99 General — Unknown” as a valid value. (Note that currently, this check is not applied
when live calls are closed via PowerHelp.)

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 12
FUJ00098258

FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

13.0 Clone Calls

A Clone Call is a copy of an original Call, used to manage the delivery of equivalent fixes
into multiple baselines or for workaround solutions.

To create a Clone Call, open the Call you want to clone, then from the menu options select:
Call, Clone. This prompts you to confirm that you want the original Call to be cloned and
tells you what the new number will be. The clone Call is then displayed on screen. The
Clone Call is a precise copy of the original in all respects except that:

e The summary line contains “Copy PCnnnnnnn” preceding as much of the original text as
can be fitted into the text box.

e The Target Release is set to Unknown

e An additional reference exists identifying the original Call.

You can modify the clone Call as necessary to reflect its purpose for example:
¢ Set Target Release to that required

e Change Priority based on urgency with which a fix needs to be made

e Add any additional required References

e Add progress text/response.

14.0 Summary Line
The summary line is there to provide a succinct textual identifier for a Call.

Some teams use short conventional prefixes to any descriptive free format text, to maximise
information provided and/or aid searching for and grouping of Calls. For example testing
teams might use MP1, MP2 etc. to denote and/or differentiate between calls raised in Main
Pass 1, Main Pass 2 etc.

These conventions cannot be systematically enforced, but users are asked to respect them
when they see them by not changing them.

15.0 Known Error Log

The KEL - Known Error Log, is not part of the PinICL system, but is closely allied to it. It is
a database (owned by SSC) containing descriptions of problems (and solutions where known)
which have arisen in the past, thereby giving access to readily available fixes at any time.

Why Raise a KEL entry

The KEL is searched on every Call raised to the SSC - it is part of the HSH/SMC procedures
that the KEL MUST be checked prior to passing a Call from Powerhelp into PinICL. The

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 12
FUJ00098258
FUJ00098258

ICL Pathway Ltd PinICL Reference Data Guide Ref: CM/MAN/005
Version: 2.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Feb-2002

SMC have filtration targets placed on them which includes negative points for Calls passed to
the SSC which are subsequently closed as Known Error.

How to Access SSC Web Site
Log onto the ICL Intranet.

Access web site:

Enter your allocated username and password (obtainable via SSC).
How to search KEL Database

From the main menu list-box, highlight ‘Searches’.

Select ‘KEL Database Search’.

Using specific keywords, enter a brief description of the problem.

Tailor the list-boxes to narrow the search. (For detailed information on how to search for
KEL entries, select the instructions option at the top of the screen.)

Press Execute Query button.

You will be given a list of previous KEL entries related to your query.
Select the blue text (a KEL) to view in more detail.

How to create KEL

From the main menu list-box highlight ‘Searches’. From the submenu select ‘Create KEL
Online’.

Then it is simply a case of completing the boxes. (For more information on how to create
KEL entries and the type of data required in the fields, select the help option at the top of the
screen.)

When completed, select the Create KEL button.

Update Existing KEL

Find the KEL you want to update (this is done by following the ‘How to Search KEL
Database’ instructions above).

With the KEL in full view, go to the bottom of the screen and select the KEL Reference.

This will bring you to the Update KEL screen, where you can type over the contents of the
original KEL. (For more information on type of data required in the fields, select the help
option at the top of the screen.)

When all updates are complete, press Update KEL.
Process of approval for KEL entries by SSC

A member of the SSC vets KEL entries created or updated by members of staff who are not
members of the SSC before they are made visible to the whole audience.

© 2002 ICL Pathway Limited COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 12
