FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327

shaping tomorrow with you

ES FUJITSU
To me, business strategy is about more than making a plan stand up. Its
about following through on the challenges and opportunities you see around
you. You determine what kind of world those forces are creating, and you
draw up your possible responses. The best strategy offers you the widest
range of positive options.

We believe that to make the Post Office successful in a very different world,
you need a partner that is both informed by your strategy and enabling of
your strategic plans. Technology can no longer be a constraint on action or a
distraction from your focus.

Fujitsu has been a key delivery partner of the Post Office for more than fifteen years, and I'm
keen that we continue to develop our productive and innovative relationship.

Last summer Fujitsu presented a brief paper outlining a way to exploit your existing investment
in IT to reduce operational costs while at the same time transforming your business operations in
readiness for separation - and for flexibility and growth. This received an encouraging response

As a result I appointed Charles Matcham as the Fujitsu Executive responsible for strategic
engagements. Charles is a board-level specialist with extensive experience in advising,
developing, and leading innovative commercial business-critical solutions in private and public
sector organisations. His forte is working with clients to enable and support their business
strategy for achieving optimal growth in both top and bottom lines.

I asked Charles to lead the development of a more detailed proposal. This proposal outlines a
step change in the way we do business together.

This is an exciting time for our companies. We have the opportunity to take the best of our
organisations heritage and fuse it with cross sector knowledge and experience

I want Fujitsu's expertise to be a core part of our joint transformation. I hope this will lead to an
agreed period of exclusivity and joint working towards a new agreement

Charles will be making personal contact with you soon to update you on our thinking. If you want
to discuss anything in the meantime, do call me

Yours sincerely

Duncan Tait

Contents

Flash forward

Together we can do it
m bie The challenges ahead
Managing Director
Private Sector Business services portfolio
Fujitsu UK & Evolving Horizon Online

Qurcommercial approach
Enabling the portfolio

Driving business outcomes.
Fujitsu's stance

Flash Forward

It's 2014. (That's just 33
months from now).

We see post offices, in a range of sizes and formats, as
the anchor sites of every high street, shopping centre and

village in the UK. Back at the heart of British daily life, the
Post Office touches the lives of everyone in the community.
it's where people go to get things done

Post Office customers don't queue. Staff know who their
customers are, how they prefer to be served, and what they
‘most commonly buy. Flexible work allocation enables staff
to work to customer needs as they occur, rather than to
rigid timetables.

For the first time, management has a meaningful view of
basket values. They know what effect promotions have on
sales. They can offer discounts and loyalty schemes. Best
ofall, they beginning to take business away from their
competitors by making targeted trials and following up on
the successes.

The business is real time, real life. Commitment from
central, local and devolved government ensures that the
Post Office is the community gateway to public services. Its
the natural place to go to make a planning application,
get involved in a Big Society initiative, or query a tax credit

FUJ00117327

assessment. No one has to navigate a mass of front line
agencies any more: you can do everything at the Post Office

The Post Office? My Post Office. Embedded at the core of
their communications, retail and citizenship activities, the
Post Office has regained its position as an admired, even
envied, institution: an organisation that manages to be both
business and social enterprise, to be national and local, for
the big things in life (loans and life insurance) and the small
(stamps and string)

Though technology keeps everything running, and gives
you absolute second-by-second control of the organisation,
you wouldn't know it was there. Technology has melted
into the background. It's become frictionless. You pay for
the IT you use, as you use it. No more lock-in, no more
complicated integration ~ no more constraints on the
adaptability of the business.

2014's Post Office is a smart business with efficient, effective
technology that massively multiplies its power, but which
requires less and less in the way of resources. Technology
gets better and cheaper, and the benefits stream directly to
the business without compromise or delay.

Thirty three months isn't very long - but it's more than we
need to make this vision a reality
Together we can do it

What is the future for the Post
Office? What you choose to
make it.

You want a Post Office business that can adapt to
whatever is thrown at it, and whatever opportunities it
finds. You want to manage a business that adapts itself to
new circumstances, and where your IT faithfully responds
to change without upheaval and delay. You need to
control the business at macro and micro level with equal
ease and confidence. Above all, you want to be sure

that every penny directed to operations is multiplied in
stakeholder value.

This isn'ta dream, It's a reality for our big customers in
government, retail and financial services. We work with
large, complex organisations to simplify their IT provision

~ to domesticate it; technology that works for you and your
customers, and that knows its place.

This is also a great opportunity for you to inject into your
business some of the proven breakthrough techniques
that have enabled growth and agility for our other clients,
Technologies like re-usable business services and on-
demand IT service relationships that offer simplicity,
adaptability, transparency and openness rather than the
frozen constraints of traditional contracts.

The current chapter in our long relationship with the Post
Office is due to close in 2015. Now is the time to exploit
the experience weve built together to create a realistic,
deliverable vision for your future IT provision. Let’s get
ahead of the coming wave of change

A group of Fujitsu colleagues came together to share our
thoughts on how we can help the Post Office move ahead
confidently. We gave ourselves free licence to range widely,
to look for parallels in other industries, and not to censor
ourselves.

We can't know your business as well as you do, and
we don't pretend to. But we know our business - and
‘our business is all about changing organisations into
“organisations that change

We work closely with many successful retailers and
understand what makes them better than their competition,
‘We won't get all the answers on our own, but we think we'll
raise the right questions, and point to some compelling
routes to success,

This paper articulates our thinking to date. It's meant to
spark conversation - within the Post Office, and with us.

As you read through this
document you'll understand
how powerful the enabling
platform we can deliver will be.

PEL ECCEEEL

FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327

We will deliver a modular, re-usable set of business services
that are at the heart of an enabling platform. We will evolve
the existing Horizon Online assets, but deploy on a modern
cloud infrastructure. We will create a portfolio where Post Office
retains control, built on flexibility from multiple providers,
enabling you to gain time to market advantages through
re-use and Fujitsu's industry experience.

408

Ssmarphone Kiosk Network “Dect. =a

Multi-Suppier Eco-SystemI B Services Portfolio. Products and Services

Fujitsu

We'll enable you to respond to

customer needs and changes iw

government policy

We'll transform you from

Me

transactional IT to utility (T ow

I demand. You'll pay for the services

[as you use then

(2) we'll create and manage a dunamic.

I marketplace of multiple suppliers

[oy tT will respond to business

1 opportunities quickly and

efficiently to allow you to test

vaaviest comcents

To maize this happen wow, we'll

invest upfront, evolving the proven.

investment made in Horizon Online

Capgemini Telephon
>
oa
BT

ur initial work suggests that we can realise significant
top-line benefits as well as bottom-line savings against
the TCO of 28%. We believe these remarkable results are « SelfService
realistic and achievable and we can drive more benefits
by acting as your prime partner. We would like to explore
with you the possibility of expanding this approach to
your other IT spend to see what benefits would accrue.

Some of the current and future
initiatives we could examine would include:

Royal Mail Separation

Queue Management

Print On-Demand

Fujitsu can apply the new world principles to areas
outside its curtent portfolio. Lets seize the opportunity

to work together and with your suppliers to see what
potential there is for further savings in other areas of Post
Office's IT spend.

Unified Communications Strategy
= RM
Data Commercialisation

Identity Management
= Other Front Office of Government services
The challenges &
opportunities ahead

The Government has confirmed its commitment to the
Post Office's unique status as both commercial and

social enterprise. It wants to see expansion of the Post
Office's services, and expects the Post Office to act as the
“Front Office of Government’. The Post Office is poised to
transform itself into a modein, trusted provider of services,
toall parts of the community

The promise also brings challenges. Tansformation is
never easy. But the Post Office invented this business. You
can reinvent it too - and reinvent it every day.

You ate already well positioned to take advantage of the
new investment heading your way. The Forward 2 Eleven
plan is on track and delivering value. Financial services and
telephony are both growth areas. The Horizon IT platform
has transitioned to Horizon Online and you are seeing
efficiencies and savings from that move.

But competition is increasing, Moreover, customers
increasingly compare the Post Office experience with
that of other retail environments. Their expectations

for service and flexibility have been recalibrated by the
raised standards of etail leaders, The Post Office isn’t a
supermarket - but your customers expect the same quality
of service, speed and professionalism. Itsn't a bank ~ but
people use it that way. It isn't a government department ~
but it’s the face of government.

Returning to profitability will also require that the Post
Office continuously assesses the value for money of all its
operations. With IT playing such a vital role in the business,
the pressure to do more with less won't go away.

New business models will require re-alignment of values,
culture and operational expectations. Fujitsu's experience
gained across our global customer base can help the Post
Office navigate these complex issues and assist in creating
and applying robust outcome measures to understand
progress achieved

= Enabling the Big Society

= Delivering central government programmes
with local flexibility

+ Managing back office relationships

Fujitsu will invest in making the
Post Office great again; we see
the potential that lies ahead.

When customers interact with the Post Office, they have a
lasting experience which affects their perception of your
brand. You know from your own experience, that when you
are a loyal customer, itis not just because of the company’s
products or services, its about how you feel about the
experiences you have with them.

Everywhere a customer comes into contact with Post Office
is a touch point. Customers expect a consistent brand
experience regardless of where, how or when they chose
to interact, in person, online, at a kiosk. A good customer
experience will mean they will be happy to do business
with you again.

Supplying retail IT services to some of the largest and most.
demanding retail estates in the world (48 out of the top
100 global retailers worldwide) Fujitsu has an unparalleled,
knowledge of retailing and retail services - this is our
lifeblood, we know how retailers operate and understand
their key business drivers. We know how they exploit their
IT infrastructure to deliver innovative business growth. This
background provides Fujitsu with unrivalled insight that we
will bring to Post Office.

We will devote knowledge, skills, time and resources
to provide you with flexible modein If, opening up
opportunities for the Post Office to become a world class
mutualised business. Studies from organisations like the
John Lewis Partnership prove that employees who have a
stake in the company they work for are more committed
to delivering quality service and are more adaptable in
responding to the requirements of the business.

We will provide the ability to drive down costs and the
flexibility to select business packages that match the
community requirements. This model will attract business
innovators who will develop new solutions that will make the
Post Office more resilient and more successful in the future.

FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327

How would a major retailer view
the Post Office's opportunities?

Utilising the insight gleaned
from 15 million Clubcard
households over 16 years, Tesco
has grown to be the largest UK
retailer. Speaking soon after
the launch Lord MacLaurin

said “What scares me about
this is that I know more about
my customers after 3 months
than I know after 30 years”. If
the Post office could harness
the shopping data of their

20 million customers a week,
imagine where this could lead...

What makes the Customer Experience?

nab Customer sights
‘Customer Journey

‘aiming he kay touch pins
‘Multiple Service points ful ands

Sing view ofthe custamer sabi

oss-chanel tarsacbors
* Loyaty programme

‘Flexible working

‘Performance Management
‘Branch Manager Workbench
‘Taningtesming

‘Time & fiendance
‘Empojee Sat Service

Yet the Post Office Branch network is five times the size of
Tesco and you are represented in markets that “big box’
stores fight to enter.

No-one launches a protest when a Post Office opens, or
regrets its impact on the surrounding community; indeed
there are often protests when a Post Office closes, A
convenience store brand would love this.

Your brand is known by everyone and, despite many
customers’ poor experiences, commands affection and
even pride. Customers expect personal, knowledgeable
service across a very wide range of complex products. A
mobile phone network provider would love this.

Your footfall and dwell time are large and untapped.
Many people have no choice but to use your services, and
while they're on your premises, they'e inclined to cover
multiple purchases if they can. A bank would love this.

Your staff are committed, well tained, and stay with the
business for long periods. They are keen to improve service,
to restore the Post Office to its rightful place at the heart of
community life, and to tepay the patience of their custorners.
Any retailer - actually, any organisation - would love this.

‘Extended hours
Payment processing
‘Government and Loca Government
* wte faba prodets
‘Lass Prevention
' Backroom Operations
(eas, pay)
Lea
‘New Aiances
‘Now Commerc Models

amenity ‘Extended tours

Branch TechologyRosémap
Catalogue of Business Sevices
Contactless Payments
Consumer device Mobi nteracton
Se Sovice
‘Hobie POS
Kiosks
‘Digital Signage
‘ln-baneh wireless tecnology/ hotspots
‘Biometric recognition

Business services portfolio

At the core of our vision for

the Post Office is a Business
Services Portfolio approach to
IT provision. The technology
enables you to pay for services
as they are consumed. Services
are reused across channels and
touch-points. You can’ pick and
mix’ services to create different
formats for agents, branch
outlets or business streams.
You're also free to pick what mix
of fixed services and charging
mechanisms you need.

The Portfolio approach builds on your curfent investment in
Horizon Online. Portfolio services will be designed with Post
Office colleaques. They will be cheaper to run than dedicated
applications, and reusable, They will be value-engineered to
business requirements. This means the usage charges will
relate directly to business outcomes. You'll be able to see
exactly how each service contributes to the business.

services available in this branci

Government
Front Office

Business
Zone

My Post Office
Secure Zone

The Portfolio will replace

the current collection of
disparate systems, many of
which duplicate functionality,
and challenge successful
integration.

We will follow a disciplined migration path that transitions,
the business to the portfolio without causing service
distuption. By combining the best services across multiple
suppliers, Fujitsu will manage a dynamic marketplace that
delivers the best outcomes for Post Office, Products and
services will be simple to create by combining business
services to deliver solutions quickly

Common business policies will be implemented once only,
and then used by the components that need them. This
‘means you will have greater control over your business
processes, both from the strategic and the security points
of view. Different front-end components will use common
back-end components, so that you can implement different
levels of service at different touch-points,

IT provision will become a matter of selecting service
combinations from a catalogue. This is exactly what it
sounds like: a defined set of allowed services that can be
allocated to a role, site, or even named staff member.
The catalogue will contain clear and unambiguous

eons

Level of Business Aggregation
—

FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327

charging details, Since we will only charge by consumption,
youll get automatic internal cost centee billing as a by-
product, should you wish to implement it.

The Portfolio approach makes new service provision simple
and transparent. It also simplifies service withdrawal.
Rather than undertaking expensive decommissioning costs,
or foregoing paid-up licence fees, you simply stop using the
relevant services. Much of the cost of traditional change
lies in undoing infrastructure; with this approach, there's no
infrastructure to undo and therefore, no charge for these
elements,

Effectively, the Post Office will materialise as a fully-
functional operational business as and when you need it.
We look after the necessary capabilities for you, but we only
charge you for what you use

The economics of IT delivery are changing

The emergence of new technologies and techniques
such as service-orientation, cloud computing and mobile
ubiquity are completely changing the delivery model and
economics of IT. World class business and IT services are
increasingly available to companies of all sizes over the
network, removing the need for IT ownership and driving
the adoption of altemative models such as Software as a
Service.

As businesses evolve toward a new value-web structure, IT
outsource companies must reflect the New World of High:
Value, Low-Cost service provision,

ee)

FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327

Evolving Horizon Online

Horizon is the work-horse of the Post Office, processing more > The Journey starts now
than 50m transactions every week. The upgiade to Horizon ; j

Online in 2010 cut response times at the counter, provided
an improved user interface that makes the counter clerks
life easier, and dramatically reduced costs.

Horizon Online offers scale, performance and resilience.
Its also a platform that can be used to deliver the
Portfolio into the business. We've both made a significant
investment in this platform, so let's exploit it and make it
work for tomorrow.

Dynamic Marketplace

+ Service Catalogue
+= Mult-Suppler
Pay as you Use

In 3 Years Time
You need to be piloting new types of branch within the next

18 months. In particular, “Front Office of Government”
deliverables need to be at the forefront of any new branch
concepts you trial in this period. Changes to operating
models need to utilise technologies that free space in your
partners’ retail outlets, and improvements in customer
convenience will demand cross-channel integration where
transactions can flow freely between web and branch, We
need to work together on a rapid, safe evolution of Horizon
Online to ensure you can meet these immediate goals while
simultaneously creating a long-term Portfolio.

Horizon Online is a proven platform that has
demonstrated scale, performance and resilience.

Outcome Based Contracts
* Service contracts move to outcomes not

‘measurements of input Profitable & Sustainable.
+ Gold, Sve, Bronze service packages

FT on Demand

+ AnlaaS platform enable new services to
be depioyes quickly

+ As dala- con technology i reteshed use Service Enhancement
‘of laaS reduces operating costs .@ New Branch Models

©. Established Front office of Government

+= Exonsion of Business Services
*= Development of Front Office of Government

Service Development

* Business Services available to other
devices / channels.

* Introduce Mult-Suppler Services

Horizon Online can be evolved to deliver a
business service portfolio engine

Enablement
+= Horizon Onine evolved as Service Patform

* Extract business logic from counter

Today * Core functions exposed as Business Services

Horizon Online will deliver appreciably faster,
and with significantly less investment than any
replacement solution.

Proof of Concept
+ Exposing Hozon Online Services
+ Thin Gent Counters

Evolution to a "base platform” Addition of New Enhancement of + Reta itegration

to provide greater Flexibility Business Services Business Services + Gross Channel

= Based on Horizon Online 10 Sew = Extended Feature

from Horizon Online "= Simplified Mail effective alternative:

anaged Print etc Yuli Supplier ecosystem
Our commercial approach

We have spent some time looking at the financials that
underpin our vision and see a compelling story. In this
section we illustrate how the story could look and the
assumptions we have made.

In the first graph we have plotted what you are
currently spending with us for Horizon Online. On top of
this, the blue line illustrates how projected spend might
look as you strive to deliver your business goals. This
line reflects the current organic model of change and
the timing of available funding,

Lets then look at how we can deliver a very
different future - the red line on the graph
A capital injection through a funding
solution kick-starts the process of
transformation and delivers the platform
that enables future change. We help you
to deliver business change earlier and
our platform gives you variable charging
based on the services you actually
consume.

The upfront capital injection will also
enable us to pass on significant bottom
line cost savings by moving toa new

model of service delivery. The table shows 4. Net

the assumed saving levels that have been
used as part of calculating the profile of
the red line

The blue line includes the following expenditure:

Ongoing Horizon Online support

Pin-Pads replacement

Solutions for new Branches

Front Office of Government

Counter Refresh

Data Centre Refresh

Ongoing Horizon Online Development/Releases

Procurement costs associated with tendering for new services

Illustration of Future IT Spend

Potential Through Initiatives
Savings

Engineering

otk

ce Desk Ost

mpler ental system, shared

Working together we can establish a more accurate and
informed picture of your TCO. With this agreed baseline
‘we can jointly develop compelling Business Cases to
deliver real business benefits,

In addition to the reduced operating charges, the lifetime
savings of 28% against your TCO assumes

= Avery different approach in the future to developing new
business services through the dynamic marketplace of
service suppliers

+ You can eliminate the cost of carrying out major
re-tendering exercises

= We work together to design best-fit services and support
models for the future world

FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327

We can apply a mix of charging models. We have
‘emphasised a model that is variable based on
consumption, but we can apply a mixed model - fixed and
variable charging ~ if required

We can tailor a funding solution to support the vision.
We can wrap a payment stream into the total service
agreement. In this way the cost of equipment purchase,
design, set up and build will be spread over the contract
life without requiting Post Office to make a large initial
outlay.

The picture below illustrates the impact of a funding solution.

Funding Solution Illustration

Our proposal is much more than cost saving, It delivers you real top line benefits and positions you to maximise your

advantages in the digital age

Del

d

= Acommodity utility-based model underpinning ous delivery

Business Services Portfolio gives you everything you get today in Horizon Online plus new services but through

re-usable components that can be consumed by other point of sale systems and channels

Refreshed Counters

‘Supports Cross Channel Integration

Data Centre Refresh

‘A Multi Supplier Ecosystem for provision and support of new Business Services

Supports the key Business Plan objectives of New Branch Models and Front Office of Government services
Enabling the portfolio

What will the Post Office's catalogue of IT services look like?
We expect the services to be organised by major lines of
business, complemented by services to help manage the
enterprise, such as management information tools. Each
business line will contain services designed to enable
‘outcome focused delivery in that area.

Each service willbe clearly assigned to the channels and
branch types with which it can be used. You may choose to
further structure your retail network within the catalogue
by defining outlet classes such as Basics+ and Premier

‘Any dependencies on other services will be highlighted
Usage cost and time-to-deploy will also be shown as
standard items for each service

Think of services being packaged like satellite TV channels
You get to create the packages of services that are
attractive to your agents and partners. These could map
to the current thinking for the new branch network, but
changing a package is simple, fast and flexible. Should
you wish, you could even allow postmasters to select their
choice of services or packages.

Mut Channels

Business Services Portola

ack fice Logistic

Usage Monitoring and Consumption Charging

iil =

We have used this strategy in a range of complex delivery situations, and at a variety of scales. We can reference current
Portfolio-style installations at clients in the retail, government and financial services sectors.

This service-led approach to IT provision builds on technology developments in the areas of component-based software,
security management and cloud computing, as well as developments in the discipline and practice of IT service
management. We marry these developments with our own innovations in the industrialisation of IT through hardware
and software component development, and our evolution of lean IT service principles. This makes us a world leader in the

delivery of “Software as a Service’

‘Branch Network

Fuso

Our reference Architecture

Our portfolio approach for the Post Office is underpinned by
a new reference architecture that meets the needs of your
business, your customer's needs and your client's needs -
now and into the future

These are the key benefits that
you get from the reference
architecture

I

Smartphone Kiosk High Street Internet. Retail

Multi-Channel Presentation

Thin Client, Thick Client, Web Services

Technical Services

Transaction, Sen

delivering ne
iit

FUJ00117327
10117327
Driving business outcomes

The future revolves around a life cycle for Business
Service Delivery. New business services will be provided
by key suppliers and made available as packages from
the Business Services Portfolio. New services can be
introduced, old services can be quickly retited

Raising the bar
in service delivery

We need to deliver service in a new way in the future.
We will develop an agile madel which puts you in

contol thought a Self Sevvice Portal Services are defined in terms of function, price,

performance and compliance requirements. Service
definitions and changes to definitions are strictly controlled
through configuration management.

Request / Retire service

Self Service
Portal

Automated
Service Request
Management
a Orchestration &
po RP. Provisioning

Configuration

aay Management
Managem

Operations &
Governance

We put our Service Management wrapper around the whole service and manage the delivery of Business Services to
their service definitions.

FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327

This is an opportunity to review the roles and responsibilities
of both organisations to free Post Office to focus on delivering
business outcomes; let your IT partner worry about the details of

the best solution, whilst you retain control and fully participate in
decision making.

Development

@

FUJITSU

Rapid Service Development
ew ain rice py re,
oes, eh-demand and fexbe plots

Post Office will ows

= ITstrategy

Fujitsu will provide:

+ Initial development investment
+ Enterprise architecture = Detailed solution design

= Business unit representation = Overall service delivery responsibility

= Service management roles = Continuous innovation
We have been your IT
partner for many years,
through good and bad
times. We now believe the
time is right to become a
true business partner. This
means we want to share
risk with you, and take

full responsibility for your
IT provision. But let's be
honest, we also want to
share in your success.

tie 1313 131

‘Separation

Current Plan

DDBDDDVVIYD

The Portfolio will be built using leading industry standards, open
source, and off-the-shelf solutions wherever appropriate. Fujitsu
will ensure the availability and compatibility of every service in
the catalogue, regardless of its source. This will allow us to evolve
service provision to take advantage of new components without
impacting the business.

‘We will invest up-front in developing the service components
for your Portfolio, We will provide the technical and commercial
platforms needed to deliver these services throughout the
organisation; services that enable you to achieve more, and achieve
it faster. To make this investment feasible, Fujitsu would need an
extension to the term ofits current contract; a new partnership
where we help you reach your potential and have a share in the
rewards that result,

Now is the time to break the cycle. Together we can move from an
TT cost overhead to an enabling infrastructure; mature simplicity
that drives business growth

‘We would also be happy to look at alternative commercial
structures to exploit the investment proposed within this
document in other markets

4 14ns 18/16

‘x Mutalsation

&)

‘m1 On-Demand
1m Device Rex

How Desktop Sorvcos
'm Cross Chanel integration

1m chatc Mult Supplier
Management

pid) —) =) —) =e:

‘Business Soricos, am Mut:
Portola F208
1m Device Fexity

1 Coss Chanel nteration

Supplier m Dynamic
tem Marketplace

Mature Simply
Driving Business Growth

1m Cbovd IT On-Demand

PNG

Fujitsu's stance

The traditional business
of IT outsourcing is coming
to an end

The emergence of open technologies, reductions in
technology costs, increases in computing power and the
ubiquity of communications networks create a perfect
storm that leave many companies in difficulty.

At Fujitsu, we've been privileged to work in long and close
relationships with some of the worlds largest and most
challenging organisations, so weve been able to

Going forward

In this document we have deliberately
concentrated on the business level imperatives,
drivers and aspirations. Our intention is to
convey a clear commitment to a new way

of joint working, Fujitsu has been proactive
in this respect. Itis our belief that through
collaboration with Fujitsu, Post Office Nn fai
the bar in terms of business performance and
thereby realise the full potential of our working
partnership. To support this we have an array
of supporting facts and collateral that we
would like to tell you about, and even better
demonstrate in action,

Time is of the essence. To move forward we
urgently need to engage with you to define a
compelling business transformation plan that

FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327

appreciate our clients! perspectives more keenly, perhaps,
than some of our competitors. Our ethos is not to resist
change, but to follow its logic. This means that as the
industry changes, we change too

Networks can deliver excellent services with high reliability
‘and low cost ~ so there's no point in trying to impose
installation licences on people. IT has become a cost of
doing business, and a potential source of business growth
~ ots got to play by the same business case rules as
every other business area. We will make our living in the
future by making sure that you survive and thrive

identifies your key drivers and goals, where the
enabling technology allows you to achieve new
growth and bottom line improvement.

Fujitsu is prepared to invest now in a three
month exclusive, collaborative programme.
During this period we would share perspectives
and test the principles outlined in this
document. By acting now we can have agreed
terms of reference and joint critical success
factors by the end of March 2011 enabling our
respective businesses to efficiently and quickly
proceed to contract.

We look forward to working with you. Please
contact Charles Matcham on

or email charles.matcham qggNCT CANIM
FUJ00117327
FUJ00117327
