FUJ00095095
FUJ00095095

To: Allen Graham (BRA01)[Graham.All i - a
Ce: Spurgeon Adam[Adam.Spurgeo! ¥ Cadman James[James.Cadmani GRO 5 Williams
Andy[Andy.Williams 3 * ~

From: Jenkins Garéth GI”
Sent: Tue 06/04/2010 2:12:04 PM (UTC)
Subject: I RE: BIMs process

Graham,
In response to Alan's 2 questions:

1. As we discussed, there are at least 2 problems with Banking Recovery:

a. Some HNG-X Reversals that are generated as part of the recovery process following a
Comms failure are ignored until a "sweep up" session just before End of day. This
means that there are a number of cases where a failed withdrawal can result in the
customer being unable to get funds until the following day. As far as we can tell
this issue affects HNG-X only.

b. There is a separate (as yet unknown) issue with recovery of Horizon Banking
Transactions resulting in Reconciliation errors due to late reversals. This is what
is giving rise to a large number of BIMS. Note that as these are late reversals this
is probably also affecting members of the public (ie unable to obtain funds), but at
this stage we have no clear handle on what is happening.

I can't make any comments about fixes and timescales, but presumably the programme can.

We probably need to emphasise that this is exacerbated by Network issues!

2. Mark probably got to know about this as a result of Ian Trundell phoning me up and asking me
about the issues from Wednesday / Thursday last week. I probably said more than I should, but
I'm used to working openly with POL and not keeping them in the dark. I did say we were still
investigating what was happening, but described the symptoms (as above and in the earlier
email to you)

Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Ro
Tel:

Mobil
email: Gareth. Jenki.
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street,
London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of
confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not
been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

----- Original Message-----

From: Allen Graham (BRAO1)

Sent: 06 April 2010 14:49

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Spurgeon Adam; Cadman James; Williams Andy
Subject: FW: BIMs process

Questions from Mark

Graham Allen
Application Services - Post Office Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire. RG12 8SN.
FUJ00095095
FUJ00095095

Tel:

Mob: GRO
E-mail? graham-aile# GRO
Web: http://uk. fujitsuvcom™

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office: 22 Baker Street,
London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of

confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not
been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

----- Original Message-----
From: D'Alvarez Alan

Sent: 06 April 2010 14:03

To: Wood Mike; Butts Geoff; Allen Graham (BRAO1); Van Achte Gaetan
Subject: RE: BIMs process

All,
Two things here:

1. We need to respond to Mark Burley's questions - is this the same subject regarding the
questions I have been asking over the weekend/earlier today?

2. How did Mark get to know this - is it a case of our people having open conversations with POL
over system issues? If so, we need to be able to get some order within the account to ensure we
control our communications with POL.

Rgds

Alan D'Alvarez

Programme Director, RMG BU

Associate P&PM Academy

FUJITSU

Mob E-mail: alan.d'alvare,

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no. 96056. Registered Office: 22 Baker Street,
London W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty
of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has
not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

----- Original Message-----

From: Wood Mike

Sent: 06 April 2010 13:59

To: Butts Geoff; Allen Graham (BRAO1)
Ce: D'Alvarez Alan

Subject: FW: BIMs process

Geoff/Graham
Just seen this, can you respond on behalf of Alan as he's probable off line

Regards
Mike

Mike Wood, Programme Director

Programme & Project Management

Practirioner of the P&PM Academy
f ER “}

email: mike.wood

FUJITSU

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street,
FUJ00095095
FUJ00095095

London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of
confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not
been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Original Message _ .
From: mark.burley GRO } [mailto:mark.burle:
Sent: 06 April 2010 T3?5a" a
To: D'Alvarez Alan _
Cc: Wood Mike; will.russell}
Subject: BIMs process

Alan

It has come to light that there is currently a bug in the BIMs process for
HNG in comparison to Horizon. Whilst I do not fully understand the detail
(Gareth Jenkins does), I believe the result is that it can take longer for
a customers account to be re-credited in the event of a ‘system fault /
crash' at the time of the transaction.

Can you please clarify:

a) what the difference is?
b) why there is a difference?
c) how FS will correct the position and timescales?

Given the incidence of failure, this is urgent and will be a definite
barrier to migrating any additional branches.

Mark Burley
IT - Post Office Ltd

Programme Manager HNG
Post Office Ltd
Operations

2nd Floor

148 Old Street
London

ECIV 9HQ

Postline: Mobex{ GRO.
External Email: mark.burl

GRO in

FOI III III III III III ICI IIIT IIT IIIT IK

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
oH

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system.
JE IOS ISSO SGI IOC IGG IO ISOC G CIOS IGSCSICIOG ICCC ICICI IOI IA I tek
