FUJ00169083
FUJ00169083

From: Moran, Regina[/O=FUJITSU EXCHANGE ORGANIZATION/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=C576144C207A4679B706AC9E1FB]

Sent: Wed 11/05/2016 3:21

To: Alisdair Cameron

Ce: Bell, Gavinj ; Rob
Houghtonf_

Subject: Re: Update

Hi Al

We are doing a full investigation and are working with Oracle.
When I have the answers I will personally come and take you through it.
We are taking this very seriously I assure you.

Regards

Regina

Sent from my iPhone

On 11 May 2016, at 07:56, Alisdair Cameron 4

Thanks Regina. I am not in London today but let's talk soon.

There really is something I don't understand about this incident. I suppose in lay man's terms, my
discomfort is, that we knew we had to make a specific change and re-boot to fix it because we
had done something similar before... But we also seem to feel it was unavoidable. I struggle to
reconcile these things and when you are together with our team on the answers, I need to be
taken through it face to face.

For context, the Fed stuff is really neither here nor there, just life. The issue is locking branches
and not serving our customers...

Al
Sent from my iPad

On II May 2016, at 07:36, "Regina. Moran(,__
wrote:

Dear Al,

Thank you for your email and I understand how you feel. I would start by restating, my own
personal commitment, Fujitsu’s commitment at every level and the account teams
commitment to making our relationship a successful strategic partnership. This new phase
of our relationship is extremely important to both companies and we want to have a long
term relationship.

With regards to the ‘tone and quality’ items being discussed Gavin has raised what I
believe are called ‘the ways of working items’ he and Chris had been engaging on. I believe
there is a plan of action they have agreed including the reset meeting we discussed during
the Trinity negotiations. It is important that we as leaders set the tone of our relationship
into the future.

We are recruiting a new CTO and CE to work alongside the team and rotating a few faces
and Gavin is due to respond by the end of the month on these changes.

On the agents pay item the team absolutely understood the severity of the issue and it is
disappointing the effort the team put into resolving and recreating the data was not visible
to you. We had to ensure and document the process we followed would survive a Sparrow
scrutiny and export all the data to a test system and roll forward though the trading days.
This took significant effort and the team worked through the nights and weekend to get
the data created on the day they promised. This all occurred following an issue not of
Fujitsu’s making and highlights the need to manage the end to end reference data process
flowing in from Atos and Post Office.

I agree the outage yesterday was the worst outage for a number of years and is being
taken extremely seriously by Fujitsu. From our monitoring which picked up the issue on the
morning, the team acted quickly to identify a plan of action with options, raise these with
your appropriate teams. Gavin was in communication with Chris. All of this enabled the
service to be restored quickly and prove itself reliable for the rest of the day.

What we do not understand yet is that the primary system has been running for a year
without incident and yet on fail back from the secondary system we had to make new
setting changes not used on the primary before to restore service under load. We are
investigating the route cause and have raised incidents with Oracle.

I and the team also recognise the timing of this incident was poor given Paula’s speech at
the NFSP, but we did ensure our representatives at the NFSP had the same briefing as
Paula to ensure consistency of message. I regret the problems caused to Paula and your
organisation.

When the similar incident happened earlier this year on the weekend and Gavin had to
make the hard decision to call Chris on the Sunday to say we needed to fail back to protect
the Monday trading, while it impacted the Sunday, it was the right call and one you would
want us to make again. The issue that caught the team on the primary system yesterday
was that a stable platform for over a year developed similar memory symptoms despite no
changes to that platform.

Please be assured that as soon as we have the root cause we will share and be transparent
in the processes we followed and issues we find. I will also ensure we pick up on our
commitment to have the ‘culture’ reset sessions as soon as we can to ensure that from the
executives down both companies and the respective teams have an engagement, trust and
mutual respect that delivers our aligned outcomes and goals.

I am in London today and can, as I mentioned today, call to see you in person.

You know you can pick up the phone to me at any time.

Kind Regards,

Regina.

FUJ00169083
FUJ00169083
FUJ00169083
FUJ00169083

Regina Moran
CEO, Fujitsu UK and Ireland

Fujitsu
22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW.

<image001.png —<image002.png—<image003.png_—<image004,png

> > > >

wv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu (Ireland) Limited,
"Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a
duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email
has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Fujitsu (Ireland) Limited, registered in Ireland No 473572, registered office Airside
Business Park, Swords Co Dublin.

AEC ICISISIOIOICIOISICICIC ICI ISIC ICICI I 3 031 18 9 C311 8 FCA A CC of FC AR A CC of FCC A CAC a Ca

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

AICI ICICI SIC ICCC AC IC IC ICRA ICCC A ECAR A ICC oR ECAR A ICC oR FC AOR A COO oR CC ORR CACO oR CE
