FUJ00158227
FUJ00158227

From: Amy Prime},
Sent: Thur 01/03/2018 10:28:25 AM (UTC)
To: i

Ce: Andrew ParsonsI
Subject: FW: 5pm call: Agenda [BD-4A.FID26896945]
All

Further to the below, the purpose of this call is limited to discussing the technical issues and commercial concerns with
providing access to the KEL and unfiltered transaction and event data. Please during the call bear in mind that the
purpose is not to discuss whether these documents should be provided, but how access could be provided. We have
already provided Freeths with an explanation of your concerns and this call should be limited to a broader discussion
of these topics.

Please also note this is not an off the record or without prejudice call and there is a chance that Freeths and/or Jason
may try to broaden the call to discuss other matters. It would be appreciated if you could :(1) stay within the scope of
the meeting; (2) only answer the questions asked and not offer additional explanations or stray into other areas of
Horizon; and (3) not mention Deloitte or the work which they have undertaken.

If you have any questions about the call, please feel free to contact us.

Kind regards

Amy

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

womblebonddickinson.com

le)
DICKINSON v ©
From: Amy Prime

Sent: 01 March 2018 10:08
To: 'Legal.Defenc

7 Imogen Randall’;

.

Andrew Parsons; ‘jcoyn

3

‘pete.newsomeé..
Subject: 5pm call: Agenda [BD-4A.FID26896945]

Dear All
Please find below an agenda for our call at 5pm today:

1. Known Error Log — technical issues and commercial concerns with providing access

2. Unfiltered transaction and event data - technical issues and commercial concerns with providing access
If there any further items to be discussed on the call, please let me know.

Kind regards
FUJ00158227
FUJ00158227

Amy

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law. pete.newsome{” “Jonly is authorised to access
this e-mail and any attachments, If you are not pete.newsomd GRO. >, please notify amy primd s soon as possibie and deicte any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful,

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing,
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
