FUJ00086810

FUJ00086810

Reconciliation Controls

Ref: — Reconciliation Controls
Author: Gareth I Jenkins

Version: 2

Date: 09/08/2016 08:53:00

1. Introduction

This paper was prepared by Gareth Jenkins to document for Post Office Ltd aspects of
reporting and settlement where reports could be improved.

It has been updated following a discussion with Pete Newsome and Torstein Godeseth
in Fujitsu as to how these proposed changes should be progressed.

2. Overview of Processes Investigated

The following processes were investigated:

1.
2.
3.
4

5.

Cash Reconciliation between Horizon and POL SAP
CTS Reports and Settlement

NB101 / NB102 Reports for Banking Settlement
MoneyGram Reconciliation and Settlement

Camelot Reconciliation and Settlement

These are explored in more detail below.

241 Cash Reconciliation between Horizon and POL SAP

This is what was looked at last week.

The requirement is for a new report to be delivered by HORIce that is similar to the
current “Estate Cash and Bureau Balance” Report. The changes required are as
follows:

1.

Initially, only Cash is required.

The current report provides levels for all currency and also Currency in
Pouches. Although initially these are not required, it is likely that a
reconciliation of Currency holdings would also be beneficial, so it is proposed
that the calculation of Currency Balances is retained. It is straightforward to
filter them out if not required.

Cash (and currency) levels should be calculated at the end of the Trading Date
rather than the end of the Journal Date

The current report is constructed by joining the Opening Balances to the
Cumulative Summary data which is calculated at midnight GMT. POL SAP
data is based on data calculated at the end of the Trading Day (ie 19:00 Local

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

c:\users\newsomep \appdata\local\microsoft\windows\temporary internet files\content.outlook\nvddoaaj\old

horizon.docx

Page I of 5

FI1539/1
FUJ00086810

FUJ00086810

time). This means that there is a mismatch for those Branches that trade in the
evening.

It is proposed that the report is calculated by joining the Opening Balances and
the Daily Summaries which are separated out by Trading date as well as
Journal date.

Care is needed to ensure that the correct TP / BP is used in the case that a SU
is rolled over after 7pm.

3. Pending Transfers need to be taken into account

A separate report was produced “GIJ - Outstanding Transfers 2” which
calculated the value of Pending Transfers per Branch at End of Day. Post
Office Ltd would still like this report, but would also like the value of the
Pending Transfers to be included in the Horizon Cash Levels.

Also if calculating currency levels, then Pending Transfers should also be
included.

Should the Outstanding Transfers Report be extended to also include Currencies?

Th

e expectation is that the Cash Levels in Horizon and POL SAP would match up and
Post Office Ltd would expect to check this periodically (eg once per month).

If the values don’t match then this will require investigation by POL.

I'm concerned about introducing a further level of reconciliation and any implications that
may but on Fujitsu to investigate them. I suspect that there are differences in some branches
going back to operational issues in the very early days of POL SAP and its predecessors.
There has been not attempt at full reconciliation since the initial levels were loaded back in
2004.

We need to be able to define how far back such a report can be produced.

Opening Balances are held for 3 TPs and a min of 62 days and Daily Summaries are held for
84 days so I would guess that we could guarantee data for 60 days (ie 2 months)

David Jordan of Post Office Ltd has indicated that he would like to extend the amount
of data held in Horizon. However Horizon was never designed to retain data for any

lon;

ger than is required to pass it through to Post Office Ltd back end systems and to

enable Fujitsu to support operational issues. The auditing of transactions is a separate
function and is done outside the online Horizon database and is not designed for
producing such queries.

If Horizon is really required to support more historical reporting, then a significant re-

des

ign is required.

2.2 CTS Reports and Settlement

I now understand what Post Office Ltd do with the CTS Report that we send them

eacl

h day. The process is as follows:

1. The report is pulled down from PODG as a text file and loaded into an Excel
Spreadsheet

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

c:\users\newsomep \appdata\local\microsoft\windows\temporary internet files\content.outlook\nvddoaaj\old

horizon.docx

Page 2 of 5

FI1539/2
2.3

FU,

2. A new copy is made of a Master Spreadsheet (which has been set up based on
Reference Data and maps all the products that might appear in the CTS file to
tabs aligned to the clients that Post Office Ltd need to settle with). The Data
from Horizon is pasted into the first tab

3. The control total from the bottom of the CTS Report is pasted into a control
total field

4. This results in a spreadsheet with a detailed tab for each Client with which
settlement is required and the data from the CTS file is reflected in the
appropriate tab. There is also a control tab which shows totals from each
Client tab and adds them up and compares the totals with the total from the
original CTS file. Should these control totals not match, then this is
highlighted.

5. Different members of the team then use the data from the individual client tabs
on the appropriate day (settlement may be 2 or 3 days later — dependent on the
client) and use that to set up the settlement payments.

6. One Member of the team maintains a paper list of all the clients and ensures
that all the client settlements have been made at the appropriate time.

David Jordan is concerned about the need to paste the data between spreadsheets, but
it seems hard to come up with anything much simpler.

I propose that nothing is changed here.

NB101 / NB102 Reports for Banking Settlement

Horizon’s DRS system generates NBS 101 / 102 reports for reconciliation with
Banking clients. There are a number of such reports:

1. Link

2. Santander

3. Card Account
4. E-Pay

5. Global Pay

6. Global Pay - AMEX

The settlement team seem to only be concerned with the first 3.

It would appear that e-pay is ignored and settlement is done purely on e-pay data received.
This seems unlikely and perhaps this needs further investigation with other teams that are
perhaps out of scope.

Plastic settlement is handled by a different team and appears to be out of scope.

The main complaint is about the NB102 reports. The issue is that these reports do not
break the information down by Client. As the Settlement figure on the NB101 is
aligned to the LREC files, which are calculated according to the LINK cut-off
(approx. 20:00 rather than 19:00 which is when data is posted to POL SAP), exact
matching in POL SAP is not possible. POL SAP has separate accounts for each

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

c:\users\newsomep \appdata\local\microsoft\windows\temporary internet files\content.outlook\nvddoaaj\old
horizon.docx Page 3 of 5

FUJ00086810
}J00086810

FI1539/3
FUJ00086810
FUJ00086810

Client bank and so since the exceptions don’t indicate which client they relate to it is
difficult to account for the exceptions.

The reason that separate accounts are needed for each client relate to the fees that the
clients pay Post Office Ltd for providing banking services. These are client specific.
However Settlement of money paid out is all done through Link.

This issue is also relevant to Santander.

2.4 MoneyGram Reconciliation and Settlement

The process here is complicated! In summary:

1. MoneyGram send a daily settlement file to Torstein Godeseth in Fujitsu. This
is a password encrypted .zip file

2. He then decrypts the file and emails it to Chesterfield

Apparently there is a problem in decrypting the file that can’t be resolved! In the past, then
POL had a password and could do it, but for some reason they don’t fully understand this is
no longer possible.

After discussions with Torstein, this appears to be a consequence of the standard Laptop Build
used by Post Office staff which doesn’t support Password encrypted zip files

3. In Chesterfield, they then run a macro (provided by Torstein) which generates
2 output files

There were complaints that this macro now takes 10 to 15 mins to run each day when in the
past it used to just take a few seconds. It isn’t clear why Torstein ended up writing a macro to
assist in this process!

4. The first of these is a .csv file which is then renamed and loaded up into
PODG where it is sent to POL SAP for overnight processing

On a Monday, there will be 3 files generated, so the POL SAP support team have to manually
load 2 of them. Similarly after Bank Holidays!

5. The other is an .xlsx file which is used by the reconciliation team to compare
with a daily file received from Fujitsu of MoneyGram transactions.

A simple solution to the issue is for a PODG transformation to be commissioned
whereby PODG delivers the two files that are required directly to Chesterfield.

Apparently, that was what was originally requested, but there was an issue with the timescales
and costs thus resulting in the present mess.

Should we be looking at pushing MoneyGram transactions through DRS so as to get
NBIOI and NB102 reports? Post Office appear to be attempting to duplicate the
reconciliation in POL SAP.

This needs some further investigation.

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

c:\users\newsomep \appdata\local\microsoft\windows\temporary internet files\content.outlook\nvddoaaj\old
horizon.docx Page 4 of 5

FI1539/4
FUJ00086810
FUJ00086810

2.5 Camelot Reconciliation and Settlement

It would appear that PING has gone live for Camelot (at last). However it would
appear that the Horizon postings for Camelot don’t come through until 2 or 3 days
late. This seems to imply that the TA is used to handle the Camelot posting not just
the cash associated with it.

I need to find out more about exactly how PING for Camelot works.

Perhaps we could process the Camelot file in BRDB (as we do for PayStation) rather than it
being processed in Credence. That would probably also remove the TA feed from Credence to
Horizon.

This needs further investigation.

3. Further areas of Investigation

More work is required to investigate the process with MoneyGram and Camelot
before any firm proposals can be made. It is proposed that CRs are raised with
Fujitsu so that these investigations can be carried out.

4. Suggested Horizon Changes

As outlined above, there are two areas where firm changes can be described and be
introduced to the formal Change systems:

1. Enhance the “Estate Cash and Bureau Balance” Report in HORIce as
described in section 2.2.

2. Enhance the NB102 reports to break them down by Client as outlined in
section 2.3. Detailed report layouts will need to be agreed between Post
Office Ltd and Fujitsu as part of the design of this change.

It is proposed that CRs are raised with Fujitsu requesting that these changes are made.

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

c:\users\newsomep \appdata\local\microsoft\windows\temporary internet files\content.outlook\nvddoaaj\old
horizon.docx Page 5 of 5

FI1539/5
