FUJ00171970

FUJ00171970
Sl
From: Holmes Jan R[/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FEL01/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HOLMESJ]

Sent: Wed 13/02/2002 1:15:59 PM (UTC)

To: Lenton-Smith Colin,

Subject: FW: Subject to Legal Professional Privilege - in contemplation of Legal proceedings - RE: Audit
Report

Attachment: Masons.zip

Colin,

Marcia rang yesterday evening and asked for chapter and verse about the 'report' that was referred to in one of your
emails to me. This is what I sent her.

regards,
Jan

-----Original Message-----
From: Holmes Jan R
Sent: 13 February 201
To: ‘marcia.jennings¢ }
Subject: Subject to Li I Privilege - in contemplation of
Legal proceedings - RE: Audit Report

Marcia,

attached to this are the various documents and emails that you requested. It's probably easiest to set the context by
presenting the history with attachments at the appropriate place.

We notified the broken audit trail to Sue Kinghorn, Consignia Internal Audit and primary owner of the audit data) in May
2001. You have the letter already.

On June 18th, at the Pathway/POL Audit & Security Panel, she requested that Gary Potts (predecessor to Rashpal Dhesi)
attend the forthcoming Data Centre audit to check on tape handling procedures. We agreed and confirmed at the next
ASP held on October 12th. See point 5 in both Minutes.

Rashpal Dhesi attended at the Data Centre audit in October and we had an exchange of emails about scope and
reporting. (Reporting Email).

Following the audit, and after agreeing with key ISD and Pathway that elements of the final report could be issued, a
subset of the final report was issued to Rashpal on 26th November. (Report Issue Email & IA/REP/036).

Nothing more was heard until January 31st when I received a document from Rashpal that he was proposing to issue to a
very senior distribution list within POL. (Consignia Report).

There followed an exchange of emails, the current position being that I'm waiting for Rashpal's reply to my compromise
proposal. (Report Scope Email).

Arguably I have been caught out by my willingness to share outcomes at the working level. I do not believe that Rashpal
is being underhand but to distribute his report at this particular time, without context and to that distribution list, is just
going to pour petrol on the flames. At worst he is not working in the spirit of our pre-audit agreement and I shall be
interested to see his response to my proposal.

If there is anything else please give me a call.

Regards,

Jan.
