FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Document Title: ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Management
Operations Manual

Document Type: Operations Manual

Abstract: Details of the Service Management processes and
procedures performed to provide the Pathway solution

Status: Approved

Distribution: Peter Burden Stephen Muchow
Paul Curley Nam Pandher
Ann-Marie Dick Mik Peach
David Fletcher Martin Riddell
Jeremy Lindegaard-Stewart Paul Westfield
Martin Molloy John Wright

ICL Pathway Library

Author: John Russell/Helen Pharoah

Comments to: Helen Pharoah

© 1998 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 54
ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service

Management Operations Manual

FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

Ref: CS/MAN/004
Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

0.1

0.2

0.3

Document control

Document history

Version Date Reason

0.1 1/5/98 Working draft

0.2 1/7/98 New material incorporated suggested
0.3 22/7/98 New material incorporated.

0.4 30/7/98 New material incorporated.

1.0 24/08/98 For approval

Approval authorities
Name Position Signature

Peter Burden — Service Management
Manager

Associated documents

Reference Vers Title
BP/CON/22 7.3 Authorities Schedule A06 Charging
Mechanism

0.3 Horizon Service Review Forum

CR/FSP/008 7 Post Office Not Available for Benefit
Encashment

by P Burden.

Date

Source

POCL Service
Management

ICL Pathway

CS/FSP/0003 2.0 PAS/CMS Helpdesk Call Enquiry Matrix ICL Pathway

CS/MAN/002 1.0 ICL Pathway Customer Service: Sys'
Support Centre (SSC) Operations M:

CS/MAN/003 1.0 ICL Pathway Customer Service:
Operations Unit Operations Manual

CS/MAN/005 0.3 ICL Pathway Customer Service:
Information Systems and Process
Operations Manual

tem ICL Pathway
janual

ICL Pathway

ICL Pathway

CS/MAN/006 1.0 ICL Pathway Customer Service: General ICL Pathway

Information Operations Manual
CS/PRD/0010 0.1 Horizon User Satisfaction Surveys
CS/PRD/0011 0.1 Service Visit Record Process

CS/PRD/0013 0.1 BPS Card and PUN Production and
Distribution Process

ICL Pathway
ICL Pathway
ICL Pathway

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

CS/PRD/0014 0.1 BPS Temporary Token Production and ICL Pathway
Distribution Process

CS/PRD/0015 0.1 BPS Card Receipt and Issue at Post ICL Pathway
Office
CS/PRO/0019 2.0 Release 1c Helpdesk Operations: ICL Pathway

Processes and Procedures

CS/PRD/024 0.5 Process for Managing PO Outlet changes ICL Pathway
during 1¢

CS/PRO/0033 0.2 Management Care Visits ICL Pathway

CS/PRO/0047 0.4 NR2 Payment Card Helpline Processes ICL Pathway
and Procedures Description

CS/PRO/0048 0.3 NR2 Horizon System Helpdesk Processes ICL Pathway
and Procedures Description

CS/PRO/057 0.14 Reference Data Delivery - Interim Loading ICL Pathway
Process

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 54
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98
0.4 Abbreviations

POCL
PUN
RDT
RHL
RML
RPOI

Automated Payment

Benefits Agency

Change Advice Note

Customer Accounting and Payment Strategy
Card Management Service

CAPS Operations

Customer Service

De La Rue Card Systems

Department of Social Security
Electronic Point of Sale System
Extended Verification Procedure
Financial Accounting Division (of the Post Office)
Foreign encashment

Horizon System Helpdesk
International Computers Limited
Identity

Information Technology
Information Technology Services Agency
Management Care Visit Process
Management Information Statistics
Nominated post office

Operational Business Change
One Shot Password

Payment Authorisation Service
Payment Card Helpline

Personal Identity Number
Postmaster

PostMaster’s Memory Card

Post Office

Post Office Counters Limited

Pick Up Notice

Reference Data Team

Regional Helpline

Royal Mail Ltd

Restricted Post Office Indicator

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 4 of 54
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

SMC Service Management Centre

SVR Service Visit Record

TBA To be agreed

UKSS ICL UK System Support
0.5 Changes in this version

Addition of new information: Overview, Reference data delivery - interim process,
and Change to the list of 1500 post offices.

Terminology corrected: ‘Customer Service’ to ‘Service Management’ (when referring
to the unit within Customer Service), ‘Post Office’ to ‘post office’ (when referring to
an outlet), ‘CFM’ to ‘ICL Outsourcing’, ‘PDA’ to ‘POCL Service Management’ and
‘Sorbus’ to ‘ICL System Service’.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 5 of 54
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

0.6

4 Customer management.

5 Customer satisfaction

Table of content

4.1 Horizon Service Review Forum

4.1.1 Horizon Service Review Forum.

4.1.2 Context of meetings.

4.1.3 Frequency of meetings.
4.1.4 Attendees.

4.1.5 Current constitutions.

4.1.6 Relationship between the Horizon Service Review Forum and contract
management groups.... .

4.1.7 Preliminary activities...............
4.2 Subject access request process

5.1 Service Visit Records (SVR) cards.
5.1.1 SVR production
5.1.2 SVR distributior
5.1.3 SVR Analysis.
5.1.4 Review meetings...

5.1.5 Back-up of historical data.
5.1.6 Charitable donations.
5.2 Satisfaction surveys.
5.2.1 Initial preparation

5.2.2 Project plan
5.2.3 Focus events

5.2.4 Telephone SUIVeYS.........--.0:seeseeeees

5.2.5 Areas covered by surveys.
5.2.6 Survey results.

5.3 Management care visits.
5.3.1 Purpose.
5.3.2 Trainin
5.3.3 Preparations and documentation.
5.3.4 Arranging appointments......
5.3.5 The interview.

5.3.6 Follow up letters..............

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.3.7 Feedback reports.

5.3.8 Analysis.

5.3.9 Interviewer’s summary guide
5.4 Notification of changes to sites.

6 Horizon System Helpdestk...........

7 Payment Card Helpline.
8 System Management Centre.

9 Cards, PUN and temporary tokens.

10 Operational Readiness Reviews.

11 Operational Service Reviews.
12 Operational business change - outlets.

12.1 Change types.

12.2 Card and payment management
12.2.1 Temporary closures:

12.2.2 Permanent closures (require 2 weeks notice).
12.3 Change to the list of 1500 post offices.
12.4 Top level processes - outlet...
12.5 Change Advice Note (CAN) details.
12.6 Release 1c...
12.7 Second level processes - outlet.

12.7.1 Emergency outlet closure & simple re-opening processes.

12.7.2 Standard outlet closure process...........
12.7.3 Outlet refurbishment process (same counter configuration)............. 48
12.7.4 Outlet open / relocation / refurbishment processes................0.00 50
12.7.5 Office details change.
12.7.6 Planned outlet reference data change.

12.7.7 Outlet data only change.
12.8 Release data delivery - interim process.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Introduction

The objective of this manual is to provide details of the operations performed by ICL
Pathway Customer Service - Service Management in support of the Customer.

2 Scope
Operations described in this manual apply only to the Service Management unit of
Customer Service, as follows:
« Customer management
* Customer satisfaction
« Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH)
« Payment Card Helpline (PCHL)
« System Management Centre (SMC)
« Cards, PUNs and temporary tokens
* Operational Readiness Reviews
« Operational Service Reviews
* Operational business change - outlets

The operations performed by the other units in Customer Service are described in
the following manuals:

ICL Pathway Customer Service: System Support Centre (SSC) Operations Manual
(Ref. CS/MAN/002)

ICL Pathway Customer Service: Operations Unit Operations Manual (Ref.
CS/MAN/003)

ICL Pathway Customer Service: Information Systems and Process Operations
Manual (Ref. CS/MAN/005)

Directorate-wide operations, such as booking leave, are described in:

ICL Pathway Customer Service: General Information Operations Manual (Ref.
CS/MAN/006)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Overview

The Service Management unit has the prime responsibility within Customer Service
for the Pathway operational services that interact most directly with our customers -
our customers in this context being POCL staff, DSS staff and DSS beneficiaries.
Thus the responsibilities include:

« Services provided to Postmasters in terms of helpdesk and engineering
assistance in the operation of the Horizon solution and equipment.

« Production and delivery services relating to benefit cards, PUNs and temporary
tokens.

« Helpdesk services to DSS and POCL staff (as well as DSS beneficiaries) in
terms of answering queries in relation to benefit cards, PUNs and temporary
tokens.

All these services are delivered by suppliers to ICL Pathway and, working with these
suppliers, it is the objective of the Service Management unit to ensure that all such
services are delivered in line with their relevant Service Level Agreements.

Additionally, the perception of the services delivered is monitored to ensure that all
aspects of customer satisfaction are kept at a high level.

Finally, the Service Management unit has responsibility for managing outlet change -
that is, for managing relocations, refurbishments and so on in the live Post Office
estate.

The prime customer interfaces for the Service Management team are the
corresponding service management teams within POCL and DSS.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

41

4.1.2

Customer management

Horizon Service Review Forum

This section outlines the agreed terms of reference for the Horizon Service Review
Forum.

The nature, extent and associated performance of the services provided by ICL
Pathway are specified in the Related Agreements. These contracts must always be
used as the definitive source of information and interpretation of the contracted
service.

At a lower level, the DSS, POCL and ICL Pathway have jointly developed a Service
Management Framework to support working level co-operation and day to day
control of the live service environment. The framework establishes a structure of
core functions and control mechanisms to underpin the effective management of an
end to end service.

The Horizon Service Review Forum is a key element of the overall Service
Management Framework.

Horizon Service Review Forum

The Horizon Service Review Forum provides a regular opportunity for senior
managers from the DSS, POCL and ICL Pathway to meet, review and discuss the
overall performance of ICL Pathway’s systems and services in the live environment.

The forum is a tripartite event to provide focus upon the mutual interests of the
DSS, POCL and ICL Pathway. However, from time to time there may be separate
review meetings between the DSS or POCL and ICL Pathway to review and discuss
matters of exclusive interest, for example, AP and EPOSS services.

The Horizon Service Review Forum is concerned with maintaining satisfactory levels
of service at an operational and practical level. Separate forums exist to consider,
decide upon and escalate matters of a contractual/commercial nature, that is, the
Contract Administration Groups and Contracts Steering Group. If any contractual or
commercial issues do arise at the Horizon Service Review Forum, the details are
noted and referred on to the appropriate forum for consideration, discussion and
determination.

Context of meetings

The Horizon Service Review Forum addresses all facets of the ICL Pathway
contracted services, primarily focusing upon:

4. Review of Performance Reports and relevant Management Information Statistics
(MIS).

. Quantitative and qualitative assessment of the services.
Review of major incidents and/or significant outstanding problems.
Matters escalated from the DSS or POCL internal Service Review processes.

1
4
1
1. Review of impending changes or enhancements to the live service environment.
1. Development and monitoring of service improvement initiatives.

1

Implementation Requirements (non Roll-Out).

A typical agenda for the Horizon Service Review Forum appears in the DSS Agreement

Schedules D5 & E5 and POCL Agreement Schedules D5, E5, F5, G7, H5.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

4.1.3 Frequency of meetings

4.1.3.1 Each month

It is recognised that the Related Agreements formally provide for quarterly Service
Review meetings. However, for the time being it is anticipated that the Horizon
Service Review Forum will meet on a monthly basis. This reflects the early and
evolving state of the live environment. The monthly meeting will normally be within
10 working days of ICL Pathway publishing their Performance Reports and MIS
data. Other meetings may be arranged on an ad-hoc basis.

4.1.3.2 Every third month

Prior to each third monthly meeting, ICL Pathway will also provide information about
the level of any remedies applicable during the preceding service period. The
circumstances which have given rise to the performance deficiencies will be
considered at the Horizon Service Review Forum and output in the form of a report
to the Contract Administration Group(s).

4.1.4 Attendees

4.1.41 DSS and POCL

Both the DSS and POCL have each appointed/empowered a Business Manager
and Liaison Manager to undertake Service Management functions. The respective
roles and responsibilities of these individuals are detailed in the DSS Agreement
Schedules D5 & E5 and POCL Agreement Schedules D5, E5, F5, G7, H5. The
Business Manager(s) will attend the Horizon Service Review Forum and may be
accompanied by other DSS/POCL personnel as necessary.

4.1.4.2 ICL Pathway

ICL Pathway will appoint/empower an Operational Service Manager, Service
Manager and Service Helpdesk Manager to undertake Service Management
functions. The respective roles and responsibilities of these individuals are detailed
in the DSS Agreement Schedules D5 & E5 and POCL Agreement Schedules D5,
E5, F5, G7, H5. The Operational Service Manager will attend the Horizon Service
Review Forum and may be accompanied by other ICL Pathway personnel as
necessary.

4.1.5 Current constitutions

The present constitution of the Horizon Service Review Forum is as shown in the
block diagram that follows.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

HORIZON SERVICE REVIEW FORUM

Operational Business Manager [Business ManagerI
Service Manager Dss
(Chairman)
‘Stephen Muchow Graham Beck Paul Hanson
PRESCRIBED
ATTENDEES Secretariat
POTENTIAL a Liaison Manager Liaison Manager
ATTENDEES. Service Manager POCL
Peter Burden Dave McLaughlin Jacki Patterson
Incident Problem
Manager Manager
Others Others
Phi Margi
Lewis Wilson

4.1.6 Relationship between the Horizon Service Review Forum and contract
management groups

The Horizon Service Review Forum supports and informs the Contract Management
function. The forum has no authority to take decisions of a contractual or
commercial nature. The associated Contract Management function is outlined in
Schedules A4 to the Authorities Agreement, DSS Agreement and POCL
Agreement.

The Horizon Service Review Forum provides reports to the Contract Administration
and Contracts Steering Groups for contract monitoring purposes and the
consideration or determination of any contractual issues. In particular, the Contract
Administration Groups considers the overall performance of ICL Pathway services
for the purpose of invoice authorisation and the application of remedies where
appropriate.

4.1.7 Preliminary activities

Following receipt of the ICL Pathway monthly Performance and MIS reporting pack
both the DSS and POCL conduct their own internal Service Review meetings.
Separate terms of reference exist within each organisation for these forums. In
general, the meetings provide an opportunity for representatives from a variety of
business units and working groups in the DSS and POCL to:

41. Review the ICL Pathway performance and MIS reports.

1. Discuss the prioritisation, progress and resolution of outstanding problems.
1. Facilitate operational feedback about the contracted services.

1. Review Service Management processes and procedures.

1. Identify improvement opportunities.

The internal Service Review meetings are normally chaired by the respective
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 54

FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Liaison Managers and the ICL Pathway Service Manager is usually invited to attend.
Counterparts from the other organisations’ Service Management team may also be
invited on a regular or ad hoc basis. The full Horizon Service Review Forum
provides a primary route for the escalation of matters that cannot be resolved at the
DSS and POCL internal Service Review meetings.

Following the internal Service Review meetings ,the DSS and POCL Business
Managers are briefed by their respective Liaison Managers. Subsequently, the two
Business Managers will meet in advance of the full Horizon Service Review Forum
to highlight and discuss matters of mutual interest or concern.

The target timeframe for preliminary activities leading up to the Horizon Service
Review Forum is shown in the following diagram.

A = Submission of Performance & MIS Reports by ICL Pathway
B = Analysis of Performance & MIS Reports

C = DSS and POCL internal Service Review meetings

D ~ DSS and POCL Business Managers meet

E = Horizon Service Review Forum

B
Cc
D
E
>

0 4 9 10 Working Days

4.2 Subject access request process

DPA Subject Access
Request letter received
at Feltham

Subject Access Request
DATE STAMPED by
Customer Service and
redirected to CAPS
Operations (COPS) at
Longbenton

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

In the unlikely event that a written inquiry is received from a member of the public
pertaining to Subject Access Requests under the Data Protection Act, it must be
taken immediately to a member of the Service Management unit in Customer

Service.

The CS staff member must stamp the letter as RECEIVED, with the current date
and forward it to BA CAPS COPS, Longbenton.

No acknowledgement, or other contact with the subject is required.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 54
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.1

Customer satisfaction

The customer satisfaction functions of Customer Support are concerned with the
following:

« Service Visit Record (SVR) cards.
« Satisfaction surveys.

« Management care visits.

Service Visit Records (SVR) cards

This section defines the procedure by which Service Visit Records (SVRs) are
distributed to Horizon users, that is, Postmasters or Sub-Postmasters. The feedback
card allows the Postmaster to comment briefly on the quality of the service provided
by an engineer during his visit, including any related contact through the Horizon
System Helpdesk (HSH). The card is then received, analysed and action is then
taken by ICL Pathway according to the content of the card.

The process is illustrated in the block diagram and described in the text that follows.

SVR production

ICL Pathway are responsible for the initial design and production of the SVR, plus
any subsequent updates or amendments. A sample SVR is given at the end of this
section.

The feedback section of the SVR is reply-paid. The Royal Mail invoice Pathway for
the cost of the reply-paid service.

5.1.2. SVR distribution

5.1.2.1

Within ICL

ICL Pathway arrange for batches of SVRs to be printed and then provide them to
the ICL System Service SVR Co-ordinator for distribution to their engineers.

ICL Pathway process new orders for batches of SVRs on request by the ICL System
Service SVR Co-ordinator.

5.1.2.2 Within post offices

Each time a ICL System Service engineer visits a post office, he completes the front
sheet of the SVR and obtain a signature from the Postmaster verifying its content.
The engineer then retains the top copy, leaving a copy of the SVR and attached
Feedback Card with the Postmaster. The Postmaster should keep the SVR copy for
his records and then complete the feedback card and return it to ICL Pathway.

ICL System Service and ICL Outsourcing have a similar internal procedure for
handling the SVRs that complements the ICL Pathway procedure described here
(see document Reference ICLS/PATHWAYUKSS).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Produce SVR
cards
(ICL Pathway)

Extract data from
Feedback Cards with
>1 No Responses o1
adverse comments
(CS Manager)

Distribute SVR
cards to ICL
System Service
(ICL Pathway)

Convert data into a
single Word document
and distribute to HSH
&ICL System Service

(CS Manager)
Distribute SVR
cards to ICL
System Service
(ICL Pathway)
Investigate and Investigate and
take appropriate take appropriate
corrective action corrective action
(ICL System (HSH Manager)
Service)
Engineer fills
front sheet of
SVR cards upon
visit to PO
(ICL Sys. Serv.)
Update SVR with Update SVR with
results of results of
investigation and investigation and
corrective action corrective action
(ICL Sys. Serv.) (HSH Manager)
Engineer retains
top sheet of SVR
Leaves copy and
Feedback Card
(ICL Sys. Serv.)

——_——

Update database
with results of
investigation and

Postmaster fills

corrective action
in Feedback Card
and returns it to (CS Manager)
ICL Pathway
(Post Office)

Issue monthly analysi
to ICL Sys.Serv. SVR

Data from Co-ordinator & HSH
Feedback Card Manager
entered into (CS Manager)
database

(CS Manager)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.1.3, SVR Analysis

The Feedback Card asks seven brief questions about the service provided by ICL
System Service or ICL Outsourcing. Against each question the Postmaster need
only tick a box for Yes, No or, where relevant, N/A. There is also space for brief
comments. Each card has a unique serial number.

When returned to ICL, the card is received in the central mail room of the ICL
Pathway office in Feltham (FELO1). It is then delivered to the Service Management
department and passed to the Customer Satisfaction Manager for entry into a
database, which is updated daily.

The database holds all the information from the feedback cards, as follows:
Unique serial number

Date Call No.
Contact Name Position
Post Office FAD Code
Postcode Tel No
Service Provided by Service Unit
Arrival Completion

Yes, No or N/A response against each of the seven questions
Free text comments or suggestions
The free text comments may relate to ICL System Service engineers or the HSH.

There is a field in the database for ICL System Service or HSH responses, for
actions taken by them, plus a date column for when the response was received from
them.

A field entitled Action Required is also available to help the ICL Pathway Customer
Satisfaction Manager note any additional actions required.

5.1.3.1 Individual card analysis

Immediately after entering the data from each feedback card into the database,
those which show one or more No responses to any of the questions, or have
negative comments/ suggestions, are electronically extracted and converted to a
Word document as a single SVR. These are sent to the ICL System Service SVR
Co-ordinator, or the ICL Outsourcing Horizon System Helpdesk Manager, according
to who the particular issue relates.

ICL System Service or ICL Outsourcing then investigates the issue and takes
appropriate corrective action, in accordance with their own internal procedure. This
includes contacting the Postmaster directly to obtain further details. Once resolved,
ICL System Service or ICL Outsourcing should contact the Postmaster to confirm
resolution of the issue.

Details of the cause of the issue and the action taken are entered on the electronic
SVR, and noted as complete. The completed SVR is then returned electronically to
ICL Pathway Customer Satisfaction by the ICL System Service SVR Co-ordinator, or
the ICL Outsourcing Horizon System Helpdesk Manager, within 10 working days of
receipt. For issues of a more serious nature, reasonable endeavours must be made
to return the completed electronic SVR within five working days.

The ICL Pathway Customer Satisfaction Manager then updates the database with
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 54

FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

details of the returned, completed SVRs.

The ICL Pathway Customer Satisfaction Manager must contact either the ICL
System Service SVR Co-ordinator or the ICL Outsourcing Horizon System Helpdesk
Manager immediately if an SVR is not completed within 10 working days, to
establish the reason for the delay and to agree a satisfactory method of resolution.

5.1.3.2 Top level analysis

Routine, monthly analysis is performed giving basic statistics, as follows:

1. Percentage of feedback cards returned compared with total visits made. A figure
for the total number of visits made in the month is obtained from ICL System
Service and entered onto the spreadsheet.

1. Percentage of positive and negative responses by question.

1. Comments on key areas of satisfaction, or dissatisfaction.

The ICL System Service SVR Co-ordinator and the ICL Outsourcing Helpdesk
Manager receive a copy of the report every month.

Review meetings

Review meetings are held monthly between the ICL Pathway Customer Satisfaction
Manager, ICL System Service SVR Co-ordinator and ICL Outsourcing Helpdesk
Manager.

These meetings are part of a general ‘satisfaction’ review, but specific to the SVR
procedure. They ensure that correct procedures are adhered to, that statistics are
analysed, that all necessary actions have been taken, that outstanding issues have
been dealt with, or that a plan of action is agreed.

Back-up of historical data

Hard copies of the Feedback Cards are filed in numerical order by ICL Pathway and
held for a period of six months before they are destroyed.

The electronic data (database) is held on hard disk and backed-up onto diskette.
The data is held for three years before being destroyed.

Charitable donations

ICL Pathway make a donation to charity for every feedback card returned. The
amount and charity chosen by ICL Pathway may change from time to time.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 54
FU.

ICL Pathway _ ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0

Date: 24/08/98

1. Top Sheet

SAMPLE SVR

Service Visit Record

2. Bottom Sheet
Feedback Card

FUJ00058496
IJ00058496

Date Call No, Call No,
Contact Name Position Contact Name Position
Post Office FAD Code Post Office FAD Code
Postcode Tel No Postcode Tel No
Service Provided by Service Unit Service Provided by Service Unit
Arrival Completion Arrival Completion

Service required/fault details

Action taken

Equipment detail

Type/Bar/Serial (old)

‘Type/Bar/Serial (new)

Signature.

(for and on behalf of the customer)

Name.

(in block capitals please)

Horizon Customer Service

5.2

TOP COPY - ENGINEER
MIDDLE COPY - CUSTOMER

BOTTOM COPY - ICL COPY

Tam committed to providing you with the best service possible
but to do this I need your help. Please take the time to
complete this form and in recognition of your reply we will
make a donation to charity.

Stephen Muchow

Director - Horizon Customer Service

YES NO NIA

Overall were you satisfied with
the service provided in response

to your call?

v

When you placed your call was__

adequate help provided?

»

. Were you given an expected
time of arrival for the

Representative?

S

Was the estimated time of

arrival achieved?

eo

Were you kept informed of the

progress of your service call?

>

Was the service provided ina

courteous and efficient manner?

s

Did the service avoid disrupting

your business?

Comments or suggestions (especially where you have
answered No).

= coo

TOP COPY - ENGINEER,
MIDDLE COPY - CUSTOMER,

Horizon Customer Service _ sorromcopy-ict. copy

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.2.1

Satisfaction surveys

This section defines the procedure by which Post Office Counters Limited (POCL)
Research Department prepare for and carry out User Satisfaction Surveys during
the implementation of releases 1b and ‘1c of the Horizon system. This section also
explains how the survey results are documented and reported back to ICL Pathway
for action, as appropriate.

The process is illustrated in the block diagram and described in the text that follows.

Prepare project plan
for all activities
including dates

(POCL Research)

Maintain plan which
shows start, fieldwork
and resuit dates
(POCL Research)

Organise and run
Focus events. Use
results to generate new
questionnaire
(POCL Research)

Run telephone survey
on 100 post offices
(Independent Agency)

Analyse results and
instigate/co-ordinate required

action
(Cust. Satisfaction Manager)

Initial preparation

The basic actions consist of preparing a project plan for all activities, including dates
for each task; also performing initial Focus events, targeting a small cross section of
Users to help compile questionnaires for broader telephone surveys.

POCL Research Services and ICL Pathway meet whenever required during the
course of the project to communicate progress or resolve issues. No set dates are
established, and the meetings occur as and when necessary. However, results from
the Focus Events are presented at the Satisfaction Forum.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.2.2

5.2.3

5.2.4

5.2.5

5.2.6

Project plan

A colour-coded plan is produced and maintained by POCL Research Services. It
indicates when Go Ahead for the activity is to be approved by POCL Service
Management, when the fieldwork is to be expedited and when the results are due.

The above details apply to each release stage of 1c of the Horizon implementation.

Focus events

A Focus event is a meeting chaired by POCL Research Services. It is attended by a
small number of Postmasters, picked by POCL Research Services, who are at an
appropriate stage in the implementation of Horizon. There are normally eight
Postmasters at each event. Four Focus events are held in quick succession in
towns located within the chosen geographical implementation areas, for example,
Bristol and Newcastle.

With input from ICL Pathway a discussion document is assembled by POCL
Research Services which is used as an informal script to help ensure all relevant
topics are covered during the event. However, the events are designed to allow the
Postmasters to air their views on any aspect of the implementation or services of
Horizon if they feel it is relevant. It is the Chairman’s responsibility to ensure that all
the topics are covered and the meeting keeps to the agenda.

The results of the Focus events will be used to develop a more specific
questionnaire which will form a telephone survey of a further 100 post office sites.
Telephone surveys

Using the data gathered during the Focus events, a telephone questionnaire was
generated by POCL Research Services. This questionnaire is much more formal,
and is performed by an independent, outside agency. The telephone surveys were
timed to be carried out once the planned 190 sites for Release 1b had been
implemented. The whole procedure, from Focus event to telephone survey, was
started from scratch for Release 1c.

Areas covered by surveys

The initial Focus events are designed to be informal, but the event should address
the following areas:

Communication
User Awareness Event
Training
Survey
Installation and Modifications
Follow up Visits
General: Helpdesks/Documentation/Using the System
These topics will again be used to compile the more scripted telephone surveys.

Survey results

The results of the Focus events may themselves indicate problem areas that require
immediate and specific corrective action, or areas where customer satisfaction has
been particularly positive.

The results of the telephone surveys give a more comprehensive and specific
analysis of a much larger cross section of Horizon users. Again these results enable

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.3

5.3.1

5.3.2

ICL Pathway to pinpoint specific areas of concern or satisfaction and take relevant
action.

The ICL Pathway Customer Satisfaction Manager receives the reports of both the
Focus event and telephone surveys, and instigates and co-ordinates any required
actions.

The Horizon users are contacted with regard to the general results of the surveys
and the sort of actions that will be taken, when appropriate.

The appropriate methods of communication with users, suppliers and internally, will
be considered on receipt of the survey results.

Management care visits

In order to monitor the user’s perception of ICL Pathway’s Post Implementation
Customer Service, Service Management manage the Management Care Visit
Programme (MCVP). The MCVP involves senior ICL Pathway representatives
visiting selected post offices and collecting feedback using a predefined interview
pack.

The process is illustrated in the block diagram and described in the text that follows.

Purpose

The purpose of the MCVP is to monitor the user's perception of ICL Pathway’s Post
Implementation Customer Service. The interviews allow ICL Pathway to gain an
understanding of the user’s (Postmaster's) problems, concerns, suggestions and
good news. Where and when relevant, ICL Pathway can act upon this information
as an aid to resolving problems, taking pre-emptive action and learning from good
news and positive feedback.

This programme is non-contractual, and is managed within the Service Management
department of ICL Pathway.

The MCVP is performed annually, with visits around 500 post offices per year after
full roll out of the programme (1999 onwards). Until that time a small number of post
Offices were visited in Q4 of 1997 and around 200 will be visited in 1998.
Cumulative analysis is carried out internally on a monthly basis, and results
published quarterly.

A number of relevant senior ICL Pathway representatives have been selected to
carry out the interviews, hereafter known as the interviewers.

Training
The Customer Satisfaction Manager presents the details of the procedure to the
interviewers before they have contact with any post offices regarding the interviews.

The purpose and the goals of the MCVP are presented. The interview procedure
and questionnaire are explained in detail and the interview process is established.
All other relevant documentation is presented, and any questions or concerns raised
by the interviewers are addressed.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 54
ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service
Management Operations Manual

Ref:
Version:
Date:

FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
CS/MAN/004
1.0
24/08/98

Train interviewers
(CS Manager)

Receive

interview

packs + electronic
copies + list of POs
to conduct interviews
(Interviewer)

Prepare fo!

of POs to

F interviews

by examining pack,
checking HSH status

be visited

(Interviewer)

Arrange appointments

and inform Customer

Satisfaction Manager
(Interviewer)

Perform

interview

(interviewer)

Confirm main points of
interview with
interviewees by follow-
up letter
(Interviewer)

interview

(Cust. Sat.

Enter results of

into Data

Analysis Spreadsheet

Manager)

reports
(Cust. Sat.

Analyse data from
analysis spreadsheet
and produce monthly

for ICL
Manager)

(Cust. Sat.

Produce quarterly
reports. Present to
POCL Service.
Management

Manager)

Section 5.3.9 of this document is the Interviewer’s Summary Guide, which is

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 23 of 54
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.3.3

5.3.4

5.3.5

designed to be copied and used as a reference guide during the interviews.

It is important for the interviewers to understand why each interview must follow a
standard procedure, to ensure all results can be fairly compared and a true analysis
obtained.

Preparations and documentation

The interviewers are sent electronic copies of relevant documentation, plus hard
copy ‘Interview Packs’ containing all relevant reference documentation, which
should be maintained by the interviewers. These packs must be taken to the
interviews.

The Interview Packs contain the Procedure document (including Interviewer’s
Summary Guide), Phone Script, sample forms and documents (referred to in the
questionnaire), the Questionnaire and the list of post offices to be contacted.

Before contacting the post offices, the interviewers must familiarise themselves with
recent Horizon System Helpdesk call history. The call history should be assessed to
check that there is no reason why the post offices should not be contacted now to
arrange a visit. The decision not to visit a particular post office will be made by the
Customer Satisfaction Manager (or nominated representative).

Arranging appointments

Once the list of post offices has been received by each interviewer, he or she can
start to arrange the visits, after first requesting and having the Horizon System call
history checked by the Customer Satisfaction Manager.

Details of the post offices, FAD Code, Address, Phone Number and Contact Name
are supplied to the interviewers. Each list is personalised for each interviewer, only
containing the post offices to be visited by that interviewer.

The interviewers should first familiarise themselves with the Phone Script (Ref:
MCVP 97/script.doc) and then telephone the post offices, using the script, to
arrange the appointments.

As each visit is arranged details of the post office and appointment must be sent to
the Customer Satisfaction Manager for entry onto an Appointments Database.

The interviewers must ensure the post offices have a contact number and the
interviewer's name so that they can contact the interviewer should a problem arise
with the arranged appointment. If an interviewer is, in general, difficult to contact
they should leave the contact number for the Customer Satisfaction Manager as an
alternative.

The interviews should always be arranged at a time to suit the post office. This may
involve a lunch time, or in some cases an evening meeting. The interviewers should
also stress that the interviews need take no more than half an hour, but that there is
No time limit applied.

If the interviews are arranged significantly in advance (more than 10 days) the
interviewer should contact the post office nearer the visit (no more than 2 days
before) to confirm it can still go ahead.

It is up to the interviewers to obtain directions to the post offices.

The interview

Before going to the post offices the interviewers must familiarise themselves with
the questionnaire.

The questionnaire has eleven sections. Before commencing with Section 1 onwards

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

the interviewers should explain a little more about the purpose and objectives of the
visit, as stated in the notes on the front sheet of the questionnaire.

Section 1

This section can be pre-filled, where possible, before the interview, to save time.
However, all information must be checked with the interviewees before moving on to
the next section.

Section 2

The interviewers should gain a very brief understanding of how the implementation
of the post office went in general. This will not form part of the statistics, but it will
help ICL Pathway understand if any implementation experiences have influenced
the subsequent views of the interviewees, either positively or negatively.

Sections 3 to 10

All the answers to the questions in these sections are analysed. There is an ‘N/A’
(Not Applicable) option for each question, but it should be avoided if at all possible.
When asking each question the interviewers should read out the positive and
negative answer options, and only then offer ‘N/A’ if it appears unavoidable.

Where ‘N/A’s are recorded the number of post offices that can be analysed against
that question is reduced, thus giving a smaller sample of post offices’ views.

The interviewers must mark the boxes appropriate to the answers given. The
interviewers must not suggest answers or influence answers in any way, other than
to try to avoid ‘N/A’ answers where possible. The interviewer must ensure the
interviewees understand the questions fully before they answer.

There is an opportunity for the interviewees to comment further on the response
given to each question. The interviewers should ask if there are any comments after
each question is answered

It is especially important to get comments when the questions have a negative
answer. This helps ICL Pathway to understand the reasons behind the negative
comments, and thus enables them to take any possible corrective action, either
generically or for a single post office, if relevant.

Section 11

This section gives the interviewees a chance to express any concerns, problems or
suggestions for improvement to the Horizon system or services. The interviewers
should also encourage any positive comments or experiences the interviewees can
share. This helps to keep this section balanced.

At this point the interviewers should try to engage general conversation in order to
get opinions free flowing and less ‘closed’ than those given during the
questionnaire, but remembering to keep the conversation relevant to the purpose of
the interviews, that is, about the service provided after implementation.

Questions such as:
‘What else would you want ICL Pathway to do to improve services?

What sort of things do we do well and what sort of things do we need to improve
on?’

If the interviewees ask any questions, the interviewers should note them down and
explain that they are not in a position to answer any specific questions as part of the
interview process. If required an ICL Pathway representative could contact the
interviewees at a later time to respond to any specific questions. These questions
should be noted down in Section 11 or in the additional notes area.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 25 of 54

FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.3.6

5.3.7

5.3.8

At the end of Section 11 the interviewers must ask whether the interviewees are
willing to be contacted again, if necessary, after the interview results are analysed.
The interviewers must delete either the ‘willing’ or ‘unwilling’ part of the statement
accordingly.

The interviews can then be terminated. The interviewers should remember to thank
the interviewees for their time and co-operation, and then leave the premises.

Follow up letters

As soon after the visit as possible the interviewers should write to the interviewees
confirming the main points of the interview, to ensure there is no future controversy
or misunderstanding about the information provided by the interviewees.

The first and last paragraphs of the letter are supplied as a standard. The middle
section of the letter is a summary of the interview, as compiled by the interviewers.
This does not need to include details about sections 3 to 10 of the questionnaire,
but should cover the information provided for sections 1, 11 and any additional
notes made.

Feedback reports

The completed questionnaires and reports must be treated as confidential within ICL
Pathway. They must be kept securely until they can be passed on to the Customer
Satisfaction Manager, as quickly as possible.

The results of the questionnaires are entered on to an analysis spreadsheet (see
document reference MCVP 97/analysis97.xls). The FAD code is used as the unique
reference for each completed questionnaire. The hard copies are filed securely in
numerical order by FAD code. Any questions, concerns or required actions logged
are recorded against the FAD code.

Analysis

Pre-designed graphs reflect Positive, Very Positive, Negative, Very Negative results
for each section, from 3 to 10.

A report is produced monthly showing graphs with the cumulative results to date and
a brief summary on each section’s results. Relevant information from Section 11,
and any additional notes, is also summarised. This report is for limited distribution
within ICL Pathway.

A quarterly report is produced, similar to the monthly reports, which reflects the
cumulative, quarterly results. There will also be further recommendations for action
on feedback of note.

Results are formally published internally each quarter. The most appropriate method
of publication is decided at the relevant time.

The quarterly report is presented to POCL Service Management, via the Satisfaction
Forum.

General publication to all post offices is expected to be a brief write-up, using the
most appropriate method of publication, which is decided at the relevant time.

Concerns, suggestions or comments which require further action are recorded
separately on the spreadsheet as a log for action. The FAD code, name of the post
office, and details of the comments are noted, and any actions taken can be
recorded. The record is kept open until a satisfactory conclusion is reached. The
action can then be marked as closed. The Customer Satisfaction Manager
maintains and manages the log.

The post offices are only contacted to follow up any feedback if they agreed at the

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 26 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.3.9

interview to further contact and then, only when considered necessary by ICL
Pathway.

Interviewer’s summary guide
Preparation

If there are any outstanding questions or concerns regarding the visits or the
procedure, contact the Customer Satisfaction Manager before contacting any post
Offices.

You should have received electronically the Phone Script (ref: MCVP 97/script.doc),
Questionnaire (ref: MCVP 97/Quest&Report.doc), standard follow up letter (ref:
MCVP 97/letter.doc) and MCVP Procedure document (ref: CS/PRO/033). A new
questionnaire should be printed for each post office visit (always have a spare
questionnaire in your Interviewer’s Pack just in case).

You will have received an ‘Interviewer’s Pack’. This should contain:
e Phone Script
¢ Questionnaire
e¢ Sample documents
e Interviewer’s Summary Guide
¢ Post office list.
Arranging appointments

First check the Horizon System Helpdesk call history, which will be supplied by the
Customer Satisfaction Manager on request. Contact only the post offices on your
list. Arrange a time to visit using the phone script. Make sure you cover all the
information on the phone script.

Get directions to the post office.
Feed back immediately all appointments made to Customer Satisfaction Manager,
giving:

« FAD Code

« POName

¢ PO Contact

¢ Phone Number

« Date

« Time.
If any appointment details change, notify Customer Satisfaction Manager asap.
The interviews

Section 1 can be completed before the interviews, where possible. You must check
this information with the interviewees before moving on to Section 2. Make sure
your handwriting is always legible.

Just get any points of note regarding the implementation work, as it may have a
bearing on how the interviewees respond to the questionnaire. If nothing out of the
ordinary happened during implementation and the interviewees appear fine about it,
just enter OK in Section 2.

Do not rush the questions. Make sure the interviewees understand each question

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 27 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

5.4

before giving an answer. Read out the four positive and negative options available
as answers. Only volunteer the N/A option if you see no alternative.

The small italic print in brackets under some questions is for your information only, do
not repeat it at the interview. Some reference the sample documents you have in
your Interview Packs. These can be shown to help identify the documents referred
to in the question.

Make sure you ask for any other comments after each question is answered,
especially where negatives have been given.

When you get to Section 11 try to contain the responses to relevant issues,
concerns and always ask if there are any good news stories the interviewees can
share with us. Encourage discussion about their views. Use the additional notes
section if needed.

Delete the ‘willing/unwilling to be contacted again’ statement as appropriate.
Thank the interviewee for their time, shake hands, and leave the premises.
Follow Up Letters

A standard letter should be completed. The middle section should be your summary
of the interviewee’s views, questions, concerns, etc, but not the responses to
Sections 3 to 10 of the questionnaire.

Feedback Reports

Keep the completed questionnaires and reports confidential and secure. Return
them to the Customer Satisfaction Manager as soon as possible.

Reprint the questionnaire and add it to the Interview Pack ready for your next
Interview. If you are doing more than one a day make sure you take enough copies
of the questionnaire with you.

Notification of changes to sites

The Service Management unit has the responsibility for keeping the POCL Service
Management team aware of any changes to the sites used by key suppliers of
service to POCL/DSS. Thus any change to the delivery sites used by GiroBank for
the PCHL service, by De La Rue for card, PUN and temporary token production and
despatch, by ICL Outsourcing for HSH and SMC services and for the operation of
the central suite of servers is notified to the manager of the POCL Service
Management team.

Horizon System Helpdesk

The Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) provides Post Office Counters Ltd counter
staff with a single point of contact for dealing with all problems relating to the
Horizon IT equipment installed on the counter. Additionally it provides a single point
of contact for technical interface queries from DSS (CAPS) staff via the ITSA
Service Helpdesk. Any calls received that are inappropriate to this helpdesk are re-
directed to the appropriate service point, if sufficient information is available.

The relationship of the Service Management business unit with the HSH is that of
manager. The everyday running of the HSH is performed by ICL Outsourcing, but
should the need arise where management decisions are necessary, Service
Management should be consulted. For full details of the operation of the HSH,
reference should be made to:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

« For Release 1c: Release 1c Helpdesk Operations: Processes and Procedures
(Ref. CS/PRO/0019).

« For NR2: NR2 Horizon System Helpdesk Processes and Procedures Description
(Ref. CS/PRO/0048).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 29 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Payment Card Helpline

Girobank are the supplier of the Payment Card Helpline (PCHL) for ICL Pathway.
This service provides a 24 hour, 365 days a year, bi-lingual (Welsh and English
language) helpdesk facility for enquiries on matters relating to payment cards and
temporary tokens. There are two different helpdesk facilities provided within the
PCHL, the first being a Card Management Service (CMS) which deals with all
enquiries regarding cards, Pick Up Notices (PUNs) and temporary tokens. The
second facility is a Payment Authorisation Service (PAS) which deals with calls
relating to the status of automated benefit payments.

The Card Management Service (CMS) Helpdesk provides a single point of contact
for all enquiries relating to benefit payment cards, PUNs and temporary tokens. The
majority of calls are from customers, although some are from Post Office Counters
Ltd staff and DSS Office staff.

The Payment Authorisation Service (PAS) Helpdesk provides Post Office Counters
Ltd staff and DSS Office staff with a single point of contact for dealing with all
enquiries relating to the status of automated benefit payments. It does not deal with
enquiries from the public, with the specific exception of a customer payment error
call.

Call types are defined in the Call Enquiry Matrix as follows:
« For Release 1c: PAS/CMS Helpdesk Call Enquiry Matrix (Ref. CS/FSP/0003).
e For NR2: NR2 - PCHL Call Enquiry Matrix (Ref. CS/FSP/009).

The relationship of the Service Management business unit with the PCHL is that of
manager. The everyday running of the PCHL is performed by Girobank, but should
the need arise where management decisions are necessary, Service Management
should be consulted. For full details of the operation of the PCHL, reference should
be made to:

« For Release 1c: Release 1c Helpdesk Operations: Processes and Procedures
(Ref. CS/PRO/0019).

¢ For NR2: Payment Card Helpline Processes and Procedures Description (Ref.
CS/PRO/0047).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 30 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

System Management Centre

The Systems Management Centre (SMC) is responsible for the overall management
of the end-to-end Pathway solution. It has the following key objectives:

1. To monitor the system effectively, to ensure the effective running of the end-to-
end operational workflow, through pro-active monitoring of system events and
either directly, or through liaison with other suppliers, ensure appropriate action
is taken on all events.

1. To ensure all calls, either voice or generated through above events are logged in
a Call logging system and managed through to resolution.

1. To monitor performance of all aspects of the end-to-end system and providing
recommendations for the optimisation of performance.

1. To provide a software distribution function to all specified target systems as
specified in Appendix 1 of the Pathway/ICL System Service Service Agreement
SBOO1.

1. To control the hardware and software asset information.

For steady state, the SMC operates 24 hours per day 365 days per year and
assumes the role of the Horizon System Helpdesk outside of the Horizon System
Helpdesk normal hours of operation. (For release 1c, the service is provided 0800 to
2100 Monday to Saturday.)

The relationship of Service Management business unit with the System
Management Centre (SMC) is that of manager. The everyday running of the SMC is
performed by ICL Outsourcing, but should the need arise where management
decisions are necessary, Service Management should be consulted. For full details
of the operation of the SMC, reference should be made to SMC Operations Manual
SM/OPS/001.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 31 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Cards, PUN and temporary tokens

The Service Management Unit has the responsibility of managing the production
and distribution of benefit cards, PUNs and temporary tokens.

10

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 32 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Operational Readiness Reviews

Prior to the implementation of new Horizon Releases, ICL Pathway must ensure that
its service suppliers are ready to deliver their services for the new environment. A
key element in this activity is to hold an Operational Readiness Review (ORR) with
each relevant supplier.

The responsibility for organising ORRs lies with those Service Managers within ICL
Pathway Customer Service who have supplier management responsibility.

ORRs are held whenever a major new Horizon Release is to be implemented. The
review itself is held at a convenient time between the Monday of the final week of
Model Office Rehearsal 2 and the Friday of the first week of Model Office Test.

The ORR provides the opportunity for suppliers to demonstrate to Pathway their
readiness to deliver service for the forthcoming Horizon release.

The ORR procedure is illustrated in the following diagram and described in the text
that follows.

Invite
participants to
review

Supplier gives
presentation to
review

Review examines
the case advanced
by supplier

Minutes generated
and distributed

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 33 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

The Service Manager invites the following people to the review:
« Pathway: MD - John Bennett.

Finance Director - Tony Oppenheim.

Customer Service Director - Stephen Muchow.

Quality Manager - David Groom.

Other Customer Service staff as appropriate.

e Supplier: The people invited will vary from supplier to supplier but should include
management up to Director level.

The format of the review is a presentation by the supplier, with opportunities for ICL
Pathway to examine the case put forward by the supplier.

The presentation should include the following topics:
1. Management organisation and responsibilities.

1. Service structure - what/how/when - should be primarily related to the
forthcoming release but can look forward to subsequent releases. An overview
of the services to be provided should be included.

1. Progress against the suppliers Project Management Plan.
1. Service delivery process:
(a) Preparation -

e Staffing.

e Training.

¢ Equipment, for example, telephony.

¢ IT hardware/software.

¢ Services.

¢ Procedural documentation (including Quality Assurance Manual) - this
documentation should be brought to the Review.

¢ Escalation process.
(b) Execution -
¢ Performance/capacity.
e Location(s).
(c) Contingency -
e Problem management.
¢ Alerts/escalation management.
« Recovery.
(d) Service Levels -
e Reporting.
e Analysis.
e Control mechanisms/problem management.

« Performance measures.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 34 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Version: 1.0

Management Operations Manual
Date: 24/08/98

11

1.

Experience of current service - lessons learned.

Compliance with security requirements, for example, staff vetting, IT
infrastructure access, physical security.

Status on suppliers subcontractors.
Dependencies - on Pathway, on others.

Issues - focus on forthcoming release but look forward to succeeding release(s)
and also cover any generic relationship issues.

Outstanding actions.

The supplier may optionally rehearse the presentation to the Pathway Service
Manager in advance of the ORR.

The ORR is chaired by the Pathway Customer Service Director, or his nominee.

Minutes are taken by the relevant Pathway Service Manager and distributed to
attendees.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 35 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Operational Service Reviews

The purpose of an Operational Service Review is to provide a regular opportunity
for reviewing the service provided to ICL Pathway by each of its suppliers.

The review includes assessment against the contracted performance measures and
consideration of financial remedies.

The responsibility for holding Operational Service Reviews lies with the Service
Manager within ICL Pathway Customer Service who has supplier management
responsibility for the relevant supplier.

Operational Service Reviews are held on a monthly basis. This is normally within
two working days of ICL Pathway publishing Performance Reports and MIS Data.
Typically, publication is on the eighth working day of the month.

Operational Service Reviews are part of a broader set of service performance
review activities that take place each month.

Performance Reports and MIS Data, which are generated by the Information
Systems and Process unit within ICL Pathway Customer Service, are initially
reviewed within CS and then despatched to suppliers. Additionally, each quarter,
ICL Pathway provide information about the level of any remedies applicable during
the relevant service period.

Following Operational Service Reviews with suppliers, the Performance Reports and
MIS data and, quarterly, remedies, are reviewed with ICL Pathway’s sponsors.

The Operational Service Review procedure is illustrated in the following diagram
and described in the text that follows.

Call Operational Service
Review meeting

Review any facets of
service that gives reason
for concern

Generate minutes and
distribute to attendees

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 36 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

12

Call Operational Service Review meeting. Attendees are as follows:
« Pathway: Service Manager (every meeting).
Customer Service Director (Quarterly meetings).
Finance Director (Quarterly meetings).
Customer Satisfaction Manager (as required).
e Supplier: Operational Service Managers (every meeting).
Service Director (Quarterly meetings).
Commercial Manager/Director (Quarterly meetings).

The Operational Service Review may address any facet of the service provided by
the supplier, but primarily focuses upon the following agenda:

1. Review of Performance Reports and Management Information Statistics.

1. Quantitative and qualitative assessment of the services.

1. Review of significant outstanding problems and of plans to address them.

1. Review of inhibitors to service provision and/or quality of service.

1. Review of impending changes or enhancements to the service environment.
1. Development and monitoring of service cost/process improvement initiatives.
1. Consideration of Remedies (Quarterly intervals).

Minutes from the Review are produced by the ICL Pathway Service Manager and
distributed to attendees.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 37 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

12.1

Operational business change - outlets

ICL Pathway provides services to implement standard changes, as defined in the
contractual change service matrix. Standard changes are those that can be
identified and prepared for in advance, and that do not require software code
changes. Many of these changes are supported by changes to reference data.
Standard changes are either related to POCL Outlets, for example, relocating an
office, or to the Products sold at POCL Outlets, for example, changing the price of
stamps. Information relating to Operational Business Change - Products can be
found in the Customer Service: Operations Unit Operations Manual (Ref.
CS/MAN/003).

A Change Proposal/Request is raised to include the change service matrix as a
contractual document, together with the mechanism for using these processes to by-
pass the Change Request process for standard steady state changes.

The volume of change covered by the contract is declared in the Authorities
Schedule A06 (Ref. BP/CON/022). Thereafter, all outlet changes are chargeable.

Change types

Outlet changes are categorised into the following types:

« Delayed opening

Closed for less than one day and Pathway are not informed.

Note: The postmaster MUST complete the End of Day procedures.

« Emergency closure

Minimal notice is given of closure and it can only be temporary arrangement.

The closure may last from less than one day, up to the point that an alternative
Nominated Post Office is available or the office re-opens or permanently closes.

e Simple re-opening

It only applies following an emergency closure when no site visit or data change is
needed before re-opening.

« Standard closure

All non-emergency closures. Notice is given. All permanent closures are standard.
« Refurbishment (same counter configuration)

Office closes, Pathway remove & relocate same equipment.

e¢ Open/relocation/ refurbishment (new counter configuration)

Re-opening where site visit (including refurbishment) or data change required.
New opening.

Relocation: move equipment etc from one site to another, with same FAD code.

° Office details

Details about the office change and Pathway need notice to implement the change
successfully (not FAD code).

¢ Planned outlet reference data
Data that supports changes to the information about the PO retail network.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 38 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

12.2

« Outlet data only

Data that supports changes to the information about the PO retail network and does
not impact Pathway, can be implemented with no manual intervention by
Pathway.

Card and payment management

Emergency and standard closures, refurbishment and relocation all require
processes for managing benefit cards and payments during outlet closures. The
closure types are as follows.

12.2.1 Temporary closures:

4. Short term Any duration when there is no alternative NPO
notified to Pathway.
2. Medium Term Requires 1 days notice & expected for a

- no card re-issue closure of at least 3 days.

3. Medium Term Requires 3 days notice & expected for a
- with card re-issue closure of 7 days or more.

12.2.2 Permanent closures (require 2 weeks notice)

12.3

12.4

The result of a permanent closure is the permanent transfer of all beneficiaries from
the closing office to the alternative one and the removal of all equipment from site. If
a temporary closure lasts for a significant period of time, POCL may initiate
permanent closure procedures, or a subset of those procedures, for example,
transfer the beneficiaries and remove the counter terminal but do not remove the
ISDN connection.

These timescales are not restrictive, the availability of other information, for
example, alternative NPO is the defining factor. The times are indicative and POCL
may select whichever closure type is appropriate and in line with their agreement
with DSS. Pathway will implement the change as requested. (see CR/PRD/024 for
further details of payment methods during office closure).

Change to the list of 1500 post offices

lf POCL request a change to the list of non-Horizon-automated 1500 post offices
authorised to make foreign encashments, they raise a Change Request which
Pathway impact and cost. If accepted, Service Management manage the generation
of a new spreadsheet which they pass on to CSRM for subsequent implementation
by the SSC.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 39 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Top level processes - outlet

The table below gives the top level view of the processes for outlet change. The
four elements of each change are as follows:

1. Management

1. Notification

1. Implementation

1. Acceptance.

The services that make up each element are given, for the different change types.

The last column gives the assumptions that have been made during the creation of
these processes. Pathway can manage changes that do not meet these
assumptions as exceptions to the process. They are managed by the OBC Service
Manager as part of the service so-ordination task and may require different notice
periods.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 40 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

[ Management ] Assumptions:

vy (NB deviation from these assumptions
[E_ Netification [Implementation _}-p{_Acceptance_] I will be managed through the
Senice Co-ordination activity)

Emergency Closures —_ Helpdesk call Senice co-ordination Call closure * CANs and Authenticated helpdesk calls
Card & Payment mgt remove the need for explicit purchase orders
Equipment change
* Pathway are not notified of closures
& Simple Re-opening — Helpdesk call Senice co-ordination Call closure _—_I lasting < 1 day
Card & Payment mgt

* Pathway are told of closures and openings

Standard Closures Change Advice Form © Senice co-ordination Sign off immediately, therefore, do not monitor closures
Card & Payment mgt
Equipment change * Estimates are based on offices
Infrastructure change having 2 counter positions

Ref Data management

* All offices are closed during

Refurbishment Change Advice Form — Service co-ordination Sign off refurbishment
= no change in Card & Payment mgt
counter configuration Infrastructure change * Adayis 8hrs of a working day

Equipment change

* POCL provide a compliant counter

Openi Relocation Change Advise Form Senice co-ordination Sign off where possible - including provision of
JRefurbishment Card & Payment mgt electical circuitry
- for change in Infrastructure change
counter configuration Equipment change * Only Pathway equipment is moved -
Ref Data management e.g. not scales, APPU or fixtures & fittings
Training
Office details Change Advise Form — Service co-ordination Acceptance * tba
Ref Data management
Details Change
Planned Outlet Qhange Advise Form Service co-ordination Acceptance
Reference Data Transfer data Release to live
Change Control

Error management

Outlet Data only Transfer data Release to live
Change Control

12.5

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 41 of 54
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version:

1.0
Date: 24/08/98

12.6

Change Advice Note (CAN) details

The Change Advice Note from POCL to ICL Pathway that requests the
implementation of change should contain the following information. If the
information is not provided in the CAN, the assumptions made will be given in the
CAN Response Form (ICL Pathway’s acceptance of the request for change).

All

Closures

For all
site visits

- opening
only

Data

FAD

Reason for change

Contact name & numbers / addresses
Due date & time of completion
Automated office

Authorised signature

Duration

Payment instructions e.g. short term Suspend FE or medium
term

Alternative NPO & card re-order (medium term)
Security of equipment / Equipment removal
Confirmation of cards’ status i.e. secured, destroyed, transferred

PO Name

PO Address

Outlet phone number

Number of counters

Date and Time of access to site

New PO Name

New PO Address

New PO phone number

Staff to be trained

ISDN line install/move/removal
Configuration changes

Unique CAN Number (to be copied onto ref data file)
Contact details for data queries
Data start date

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 42 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

12.7

Release 1c

These processes supersede the release 1c processes for outlet change (Ref.
CS/PRD/024).

However the following points must be noted:

1. There is no medium term temporary closure process for card & payment
management at Release 1c.

1. Pathway can only install equipment for new openings or relocations if there is a
compliant counter, at Release 1c.

1. Reference data is sent manually from POCL to Pathway at Release 1c, only for
details about those offices involved in Release 1c, and is updated manually by
Pathway.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 43 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Second level processes - outlet

12.7.1 Emergency outlet closure & simple re-opening processes

Note: It is assumed that POCL do not amend Reference Data with details of
emergency closures.

Emergency closure

Process Diagram

Card & Payment mgt
[Notification } [Service Co-ordination I
Equipment change
Process Step Actors Activities
Notification PocL, Inform beneficiaries of actions to be taken
POCL Inform Altemative Post Office about closure & expected increase in business volumes
POCL Notifly DSS of emergency closure
pss Prepare regional offices for increase in workload
POCL RHL call HSH to inform Pathway of emergency closure & its duration
(NB all other callers reporting closures are directed to the RHL)
HSH Carry out caller authentication [method tb a see PNPRD/O04]
HSH Raise Powerhelp call, confirm POCL contacts & give RHL call reference number
(HSH If office is non-automated, notify Rollout of closure)
RHL Phone HSH weekly with status report, if duration of closure is not initially known
(NB closure status may go from short term to medium term)
RHL If medium term, provide Alternative NPO and state whether cards should be re-ordered
RHL Confirm PM has secured benefit, PMMC cards & PIN at office until re-opening
RHL Confirm security of Horizon equipment with HSH, or request its removal
RHL Confirm access times if equipment removal required

HSH Arrange for engineer to visit site, if equipment is at risk
HSH Inform PCHL of short term/ medium term emergency closure & details
HSH Cancel other, pre-arranged visits to site, if necessary

HSH Notify SMC

SMC Disable counters [method tba]

TBA Manage notification of TPS, APS, MIS [method tba]

HSH Escalate, if necessary [see CS/PRDIO21]

HSH Report number & type of incidents to CS OBC [method tba]

CS.OBC — Manage commercial aspects of closures
[Card & Payment Mat
(short term) PCHL Suspend Foreign Encashment count
(medium term) PCHL Re-direct payments to Alternative NPO & re-order cards if requested (not RPOls)

(if a card re-order has been requested, the unissued cards in the original NPO will be stopped by PCHL)

(both) POcL PM/RNM secure un-issued benefit cards until office re-opens

RML Secure undelivered cards until collected, or retum to PCHL after 14 days

PCHL If cards are returned by RML, [Wo confirm action]

HSH/PCHL Direct all office opening queries to POCL Helpline

HSH/PCHL Direct all customer payment queries to DSS (e.g. for RPOls)

cont/...
cont/....

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 44 of 54
FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Equipment change
(if equipment is at risk) POOL FW RNM complete system shutdown [method tba] & secure RAVIMC card & FIN
UKSS. Following system shutdown: remove Pathway equipment
UKSS. Obtain AV sign off on engineer site visit form
UKSS Conduct basic check/clean & secure equipment for re-installation
UKSS Manage inventory changes of Pathway equipment
UKSS Notify HSH that the job is complete
HSH Confirm all actions complete & close call
(NB If this dosure becomes permanent, POOL will invoke the Standard Closure Process)
Simple re-opening
(NB this can only follow an emergency closure and if no site visit is required )
POL Inform beneficiaries of re-opening
Poo. Inform Altemative NPOof re-opening
Poo. Inform DSS temporarily closed office has re-opened
POOL RHL call HSH provide HSH calll ref number & request re-opening activities
HSH Cany out caller authentication [method tb: a see PNPRD/004]
(HSH If office is non-automated, raise call & notify Rollout)
HSH themise, confirm no site visit is required (else, invoke Standard Qpening Process) & raise calll
HSH Inform POHL of re-opening
HSH Notify SVC
SMC Run s/w catch up and prepare system for use & confirm with HSH
TRA Manage notification of TPS, APS, MIS [method tba]
HSH Escalate, if necessary [see CS/PRD/021]
HSH Report number & type of incidents [method tba]
‘Card & Payment Mat
(short term) POHL Unsuspend FE count (there is one-day's grace for beneficiaries who do not know the office has re-opened)
(medium term) POHL Re-direct payments back to orignal NPOand re-order cards if required
(if card re-order has been requested, the unissued cardsin the Atemative NFOwill be stopped by POHL)
Poo. FWRNM collect undelivered benefit cards (if less than 14 days) for issue as normal
Pool Direct all customer payment queries to DSS
Dss Call POHL to issue new cards when required
HSH Confirm all activities are complete & close call

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 45 of 54
ICL Pathway

ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0

Date: 24/08/98

12.7.2 Standard outlet closure process

Standard closure
(includes permanent closure)
Process Diagra
_Gxrd & Payment mat
« Equipment change
[Retification p[Senice Co-ordination]
/
“Refidata management
Process Step Actor Activities
Poo. Inform beneficiaries of actions to be taken
Poo. Inform Atemative Post Office about closure & expected increase in business volumes
Poo. Inform DSS of temporary closures
Dss Prepare regional offices for increase in workload
Poo. POOL Authoriser sends Pathway a Change Advice Note (CAN)
cscec Impact change & send CAN Response form detailing Pathway services & assumptions
CSCC thee charges
csasc Ensure all parties are aware of closure [method tba}
(PCH, HSH, UKSS, SMC, SSC, ICL Outsourcing Networks, ICL Qutsourcing N.I., CSRD and Rollout)
Poo. FH_to contact HSHif agreed time of visit to be changed [tba]
cscec Manage delivery of change, including variations to standard services
TBA Manage notification of APS [method tba]
cscec Escalate, if necessary [see CS/PRO021]]
cscec Report number & type of changes for invoicing [method tha]
cscec Manage update of Dispatch Che, Auto config tool, ‘Live Notification Report’ & Active Outlets Table
(Card & Payment Mgt
(temporary closure):
- (short term) POL Suspend Foreign Encashment count
= (medium term) PCH Re-direct payments to Attemative NFO & re-order cards if requested
(if card re-order has been requested, the unissued cards in the orignal NROwil be stopped by POH.)
- (both) Poo. FRNM secure un-issued benefit cards until office re-opens
RML ‘Secure undelivered cards until collected, or retum to POHL after 14 days.
POHL If cards are retumed by RML, [WVto confirm action]
HSHPCHL Direct all office opening queries to POOL Helpline
HSHPCH. _Direct all customer payment queries to DSS

(permanent / long term closures *)

* requires 2 weeks notice

(NB may have started as temporary closure)

Send closure & altemative office details to DSS CAPS
Update payment records & send to PAS/CMS

Update beneficiary records & to order new cards & payments for At NPO
Update POHL & DLR

F/RNM destroy old benefit cards from permanently closed office

cont/...

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 46 of 54

FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

cont/...

Gite visit required)
Po. FRWRNM to complete system shutdown [method tba]
HSH ‘Schedule engneer to site, if permanent closure or kit at risk during temp dosure
UKSS Remove Pathway equipment, once shutdown is complete (i.e. not scales/AFPU etc)
uKss Manage inventory changes of Pathway equipement

= (temp closure only) = POOL RWRNM secure RVIMC card & PIN
uKss Conduct basic clean/check & secure equipment waiting for re-installation
SVC Disable counters [method tba]

- (permanent only) UKSS (tba) Retain RVIMC cards, or instruct postmaster to send them to Pathway FREEROST address
UKSS Remove re-useable LAN components
uKss Retum equipment for rework/refurbishment [method tba]

ing Networks — Manage cessation of ISDN
ccc Manage system and data purging [method tba]

- (both) uss Qbtain FWRNM sign off on engineer site visit form
uss Notify HSH when job is complete, to close call
HSH Excalate, if necessary[sce ref 9]

POCL/Quner ~— Manage removal of Pathway electric circuitry & other fittings (permanent closure only)

Ref Data Management*
* for futher details see ref data change processes

(temp & permclosures) POOL ROP send closure details to Pathway, via PODL Authoriser (with CAN Number)
CSRORM Raise Ref Data Release Note
CSROT Manage update of data in RDMC & feeds to MIS & counters
CSRORM —Ekalate, as necessary [sce ref 9]

(permanent oniy) Poo FOP send closure data to DSS CAPS
Dss Send closure details to Pathway to update PASIOMS

csaec Confirms FODL have signed off engineers site \isit form
CSRORV Ref Data Release Manager signs off Ref Data Release Note

cac Manages submission of ‘invoice’ for call-off against blanket purchase order (method tba)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 47 of 54
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0

Date: 24/08/98

12.7.3 Outlet refurbishment process (same counter configuration)

Refurbishment

(no change in counter configuration - assumes office closure)

Process Diagram Card & Payment mgt
Equipment change
[Notification }+—— > [Senice Oo- ordination
Infrastructure change
Process Step Actor Activities
POL Inform beneficiaries of actions to be taken
Poo. Inform Aternative Post Cifice of closure/ re-opening during refurbishments & relocations
Poo. Inform DSS of closure/ re-opening during refurbishments & relocations
Dss Prepare regional offices for temporary increase in workload
Poo. POCL Authoriser sends Pathway CS a Change Advice Note
cscBc Impact change & send CAN Response form detailing Pathway services & assumptions
csasc Schedule Changes
cscBc Ensure all parties are aware of closure (method tha) (POHL, HSH, UKSS, WIL,
‘SSC, ICL Outsourcing Networks, ICL Cutsourcing N.I., CSRD and Rollout)
Poo. REL to contact HSH if agreed time of visit to be changed (tba)
cscBc Manage delivery of change, including variations to standard senices
SMC Disable counters during temporary closure (method tba)
TRA Manage notification of TPS, APS, MIS (method tha)
cs.cBc Escalate, if necessary (see CS/PRO021)
cscec Report number & type of changes for invoicing (method tha)
[Card & Payment Mgt
Temporary dosure
- (short term) POL ‘Suspend Foreign Encashment count
- (medium term) POL Re-direct payments to Atemative NFO & re-order cards if requested
(if a card re-order has been requested, the unissued cards in the orignal NPOwill be stopped by PCHL)
- (both) POOL FWIRNM secure un-issued benefit cards until office re-opens
RML Secure undelivered cards until collected, or retum to POHL after 14 days
POL If cards are returned by RML, [JWto confirm action}
HSHPCH. —_Direct all office opening queries to POOL Helpline
HSHPCH. Direct all customer payment queries to DSS
Re-opening
= (short term) POHL Unsuspend FE count (there is one-day’s grace for beneficiaries who do not know the office has re-opened)
- (medium term) POL Re-direct payments back to original NPO and re-order cards if required
(if a card re-order has been requested, the unissued cards in the Altemative NPOwill be stopped by PCHL)
- (both) Poo. FMIRNM collect undelivered benefit cards (if less than 14 days) for issue as normal
Poo Direct all customer payment queries to DSS
Dss Call FCHL to issue new cards when required

cont/...

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 48 of 54

FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98
cont/...
Infrastructure Change Po. Provide compliant counter
Refubisher Conduct survey & provide basic modifications for compliant counter
cscec if non-compliant counter, manage re-suney and quote [CP required]
Refubisher Maintain site survey plans [method tba]
[Equipment change
(Closure) HSH Raise call & schedule engneer to site
Poo. FWRNM to complete system shutdown [method tba] & secure AVIMC card & PIN
uss Qree shutdown complete, remove Pathway equipment, including LAN components if required
uss Conduct basic check/clean & secure equipment waiting for re-installation
ICL Qutsoure-
ing Networks Manage changes to ISDN, as required
uss Manage Pathway inventory changes, as required
(epening) Poo. Confirm site is ready for re-installation (method tba)
uss Install equipment & LAN components
uss Request (\ia HSH) SMC to prepare counter software
svc Run urgent s/w catch up and prepare system for use
svc Confirm system is ready for use
Poo. ‘Swipe PVIMC card with PIN, under engineer instruction
uss ‘Test reinstallation
uss itain RWRNM sign off on engineer site visit form & inform HSH install complete
HSH Inform FCH_ of re-opening
HSH Excalate, as necessary [sce CSFRDO21]
HSH Confirm all opening actions are complete & close call
svc Run non-urgent sw catch up
HSH Confirm POOL have signed off engineer's site \isit form to CS CBC [method tha]
cscec Manages subrrission of ‘invoice! for call-off against blanket purchase order [method tha]

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 49 of 54
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
ICL Pathway _ ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

12.7.4 Outlet open / relocation / refurbishment processes

Open/Relocation-/Refurbishment*
* (if FAD code changes, relocation is standard closure & new opening)
‘* (when refurbishment requires change in counter configuration - assumes office closes)

Process Diagram Card & Payment mg

Equipment change .

Notification

Infrastructure change
Ref Data management

Training

Process Step Actor Activities
POcL Inform beneficiaries of actions to be taken during closure/ re-opening

POCL Inform Alternative Post Office of closure/ re-opening during refurbishments

POCL Inform DSS of closure/ re-opening during refurbishments

Dss Notify regional offices of temporary increase in workload during closures

POCL POCL Authoriser sends Pathway CS a Change Advice Note

cS OBC Impact change & send CAN Response form detailing Pathway services & assumptions
cs oBC Schedule Changes

cs OBC Ensure all parties are aware of closure & co-ordinate tasks [method toa] (PCHL, HSH, UKSS,

WIL, SMC, SSC, ICL Outsourcing Networks, ICL Outsourcing N.1., CSRD and Rollout)

Poct RHL to contact HSH if agreed time of visit to be changes [tba]

cS OBC Manage delivery of change, including variations to standard services

cS OBC Co-ordinate card & payment and ref data management tasks with the physical opening

(if office not ready to open on expected date, temporary closure card & payment processes should be inftiated)

cs 0BC Identify whether Relocation moves outlet from ‘Local’ to ‘Remote’ categorisation

TBA If change of category, amend look-up table in MIS system

TBA Manage notification of TPS {method tba]

cs oBc Escalate, if necessary [see CS/PRDIO21]

cs oBc Report number & type of changes for invoicing [method tba}

TBA Confirm ISDN availability at new site

cs oBC Manage update of Dispatch One, Auto config tool, ‘Live Notification Report’ & Active Outlets Table
Relocation Pock PM/RNM securely transfer benefit cards to new office

(if neither the old nor the new office is open during relocation, temporary closure is initiated - see refurbishment)
Closure during refurbishment

= (short term) PCHL Suspend Foreign Encashment count
- (medium term) PCHL Re-direct payments to Altemative NPO & re-order cards if requested
(ita card re-order has been requested, the unissued cards in the original NPO willbe stopped by PCHL)

- (both) PocL, PM/RNM secure un-issued benefit cards until office re-opens

RML Secure undelivered cards until collected, or retum to PCHL after 14 days

PCHL f cards are retuned by RML, [JW to confirm action}

HSHIPCHL Direct all office opening queries to POCL Helpline

HSH/PCHL —_Direct all customer payment queries to DSS

Re-opening after closure for refurbishment

~ (short term) PCHL Unsuspend FE count (there is one-day's gace for beneficiaries who do not know the office has re-opened)
- (medium term) PCHL Re-direct payments back to original NPO and re-order cards if required
(ita card re-order has been requested, the unissued cards in the Altemative NPO willbe stopped by PCHL)

- (both) PocL, PM/RNM collect undelivered benefit cards (if less than 14 days) for issue as normal

PocL, Direct all customer payment queries to DSS

Dss Call PCHL to issue new cards when required
New opening PocL, Send new office details to DSS CAPS

Dss Update records & send to PAS/CMS

PAS/CMS Change record to show office as open. Awaiting payments from DSS

Beneficiary May request to change NPO to new office

cont/...

cont/.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 50 of 54

ICL Pathway

FUJ00058496
FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0

Date: 24/08/98

12.7.5

Poo.
Refurbisher
cscec
Refurbisher
Refurbisher
Refurbisher
Refurbisher
Refurbisher

[Equipment change HSH

UKSS

Refurb/ Relocat (closure) POOL

Refurb (temp closure) POOL

Relocat - old office Poo.
(perm closure) UuKss
CFM Networks

Refurb & Relocat - new POOL
office (opening) & ICL Qutsoure-
New Qpenings ing Networks

Provide compliant counter

Conduct survey & provide basic modifications for installation, if compliant counter
If non-compliant counter, manage re-suney & quotation [requires a CP}
Configuration/network design

Capacity management

Installation planning

Management & co-ordination

Maintain site suney plans [method tba]

Raise call & schedule engineer to site
Manage inventory changes of Pathway equipment

PMIRNM to complete system shutdown [method tba)
hoe shutdown complete, remove Pathway equipment, including LAN as required
Conduct basic check/clean & secure equipment waiting for re-installation

PMIRNM secure PMMC card & PIN

PM/RNM securely transfer PMIMC & Fin to new site
Remove re-useable LAN components

Manage cessation of ISDN

Manage system and data purging [method tba]

Confirm site is ready for re-installation (method tba)

Manage installation’ move of ISDN
der & receive new equipment, if required

Install equipment & LAN components

Request (via HSH) SMC to prepare counter software
Run urgent s/w catch up and prepare system for use
Confirm system is ready for use

Swipe FMC card with PIN, under engineer instruction
Test re-installation

Obtain FIRNM sign off on engineer site visit form
Notify HSH when job is complete

Escalate, if necessary [sce re 9]

Run non-urgent sw catch up

Ref Data Management® I forfuther detais see ref data change processes

Refurb (temp closure) POOL

& New openings CS RORM
CSROT
New opening only POL
DSS
peo.
New opening POOL
POL
HSH
cane
CSROD
cac

RDP send closure details to Pathway, via POCL Authoriser (with CAN Number)
Raise Ref Data Release Note
Manage update of data in RDMC & feeds to MIS & counters

ROP send new details to DSS CAPS
Send new details to Pathway to update PAS/OMS

Provide (or transfer between offices) counter operations manuals and training guides
Complete postmaster training in time for installation, if required

Confirm postmaster training to Pathway [method tba]

Mark office as using new staff, for information

Confirms POOL have signed off engineers site visit form
Ref Data Release Manager signs off Ref Data Release Note
Manages submission of ‘invoice' for call-off against blanket purchase order {method tha}

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 51 of 54
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004

Management Operations Manual Version:

1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Office details change

Details of Postcode (no relocation) / Telephone numbers / Opening times changes

Process Diagram

(Rees I > ie eamraion

Change to office Details

Process Step Aetor Activities
Poo. POOL Authoriser sends Pathway CS a Change Ackice Note
csc Impact change & send CAN Response form detailing Pathway senices & assumptions
csaac Manage delivery of change, including variations to standard services
csc Excalate, if necessary [see CS/FRO021]
csc Report number & type of changes [method tha]
(Change to Cffice Details
Postoode TRA Identify if change affects contract
TA If yes, update MIS look-up table for local / remote identifiers
TRA And update contractual documentation
ering times TRA Update Dispatch Qhe
Telephone number TRA Update PAS/CMS for POHL

Ref Data Management* I * for further details see ref data change processes

POL

CSRO

CSRD
cso

ROP send details to Pathway, via POOL Authoriser (with CAN Number)
Raise Ref Data Release Note
Manage update of data in RDMC & feeds

ef Data Release Manager signs off Ref Data Release Note

12.7.6

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 52 of 54
FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
ICL Pathway ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98
Planned outlet reference data change
Planned Outlet Reference Data Change
= This process supports other outlet change processes that require amendments to reference data
[ ‘Service co-ordination
[Notification be Transfer data }[Change Control }B{_ Acceptance I [Release to live I
Process Step Act Activities
Notification POCL Authoriser Submit CAN to CS OBC (with unique CAN No., contact detais, & start dates)
(see outlet process for detals of other activities)
cs cBC Notify CS RDT of requirement for ref data change
CS ROT Notify CS RDRM of requirement for ref data change
CS RORM Raise Ref Data Release Note with all CAN details
CSRDORM/ RMF Schedule activities
CS RORM Monitor activities against schedule, start date of data & escalate as necessary [see ref 9]
POCL RD Send Type A data over AIS
ROMC Load Type A data & retum format errors over AIS to POCL RD [incident]
POCL RD Resolve Pathway & TIP errors, send correction file & inform Authoriser
POCL Authoriser Confirm to CS RDTall data has been successfully sent to Pathway & TIP
ROMC Archive all input files & transform data
(Change Control CS ROT Create "System Label" from CAN, with unique CAN Number
CS ROT Identify all files required for each CAN change
CS ROT Check all files & raise queries with POCL Authoriser [Incident] - {requirements tba]
CS ROT Associate data and error files to correct "System Label”
& sign off Ref Data Release Note that data is ready for release
POCL Resolve error & submit correction file with new CAN & Number to CS RDT
CS ROT Associate correction file with "System Label" for orignal CAN Number
CS RDRM Release successful changes for POCL Authoriser to review, if required [requirements tba]
CS ROT Either notify POCL Authoriser change is available for review, or certify success to them [method tba]
POCL Authoriser Receive notification or certification from CS ROT
POCL Authoriser Review change, if required [requirements tba}
POCL Authoriser Sign off change & confirm to CS ROT
POCL Authoriser Reject change & report errors to CS ROT [incident]
CS ROT Sign Ref Data Rel Note to confirm POCL acceptance of change
CS ROT Raise PinICL for errors [incident]
CS RORM Confirm change is complete & free from error & sign off Ref Data Release Note
CS RORM Inform CS OBC & wait for confirmation to release
CS RORM Release change to live counters, MIS, other
TRA Non- delivery reports [method tba #f possibi] - [incident]
CS RORM Inform Support of release [tba]
SMC Monitor calls for problems with release [incident]
(problems may arse from counter staff, MIS reports, POCL TP, Accounting. other)
POCL PM Report address errors to RHL [incident] - {method of resolution tba}

12.7.7

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 53 of 54
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058496

FUJ00058496
ICL Pathway Customer Service: Service Ref: CS/MAN/004
Management Operations Manual Version: 1.0
Date: 24/08/98

Outlet data only change

Outlet Data Only change
~ The use of this process has not been agreed in principle, but would support changes to OCL organisational information
that required no Pathway intervention, other than to process the data

Process Diagram
[Transfer data] {Change Control} pf{Releasetolive I
Process Step Actors Activities
POOL RD Send Type Adata over AS
ROMC Load Type Adata & retum format errors over AIS to POOL RD [incident]
POOLRD Resolve Pathway & TIP errors, send correction file
FOMC Archive all input files & transform data
CSROT software Check all files & raise queries with POOL RD [Incident] - [requirements tba}
CSROT Notify CS RORM of change
CSRORV Release change to live counters, MIS, other
CS RORM Record release & notify CS CBC [method tba]
CSRORM Notify support
TBA Non- delivery reports [method tha if possible] - [incident]

12.8 Release data delivery - interim process

Until the reference data for NR2 is baselined, the RDT use an interim process to
obtain data drops as follows:

1. Receive notification from POCL of a new delivery on the Gateway.

. Copy the file from POCL to Pathway.
. Unzip the file.
. Load the file to RDMC (Live Pilot only).

. File and notify the relevant people that the file is available.

1. Copy the Loader Report Files back to POCL.

For full work instructions see Reference Data Delivery - Interim Loading Process
(CS/PRO/057).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 54 of 54
