FUJ00152138
FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010
Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

Document Title: Pathway Security Solution Summary
Document Type: Management Summary
Abstract: A summary of the Pathway security approach, policy,

strategy and implementation.

Status: Issued
Distribution:

Author: Martyn Bennett
Comments to: Martyn Bennett

Comments by:

© 1998 ICL Pathway Ltd

itmS COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138
ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010
Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

0 Document control
0.1 Document history

Version Date Reason

0.1 19/5/98 — Draft for review

0.2 21/5/98 Draft for review

1.0 22/5/98 Issued

0.2 Approval authorities

Name Position Signature Date
0.3 Associated documents

Reference Vers Date Title Source
[1] Authorities’ 8.1 9/3/98 Requirements Schedule DSS/POC

Agreement (A)B04 L
[2] I Authorities’ 8.1 9/3/98 Solutions Schedule Pathway

Agreement (A)BO5
[3] DSS 8.1 9/3/98 Requirements Schedule DSS

Agreement (D)A15
[4] DSS 8.1 9/3/98 Solutions Schedule Pathway

Agreement (D)A16
[5] POCL 8.0 13/11/97 Requirements Schedule POCL

Agreement (P)A15
[6] POCL 8.1 9/3/98 Solutions Schedule Pathway

Agreement (P)A16
[7] RS/ACS/002 1.1 30/3/98 Security Acceptance Test Pathway

Specification
[8] 01 30/11/95 BPS Security Statement - Pathway BA/POCL
[9] 1.0 21/12/95 Benefit Payment Service - Security I Pathway
Proposal

[10] TSC/TAP/01 8/7/96 Pathway Security Report Pathway
[11] RS/POL/0002 3.0 8/10/96 Pathway Security Policy Pathway

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 1
FUJ00152138
FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010
Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

[12] RS/FSP/0001 1.1 4/11/97 Security Functional Specification Pathway

3.0 3/12/97
[13] RS/POL/0003 1.0 17/4/97 Access Control Policy Pathway
2.0 24/2/98
[14] RS/SPE/0001 3.0 09/02/98 Fraud Risk Management Service Pathway
Design
[15] DW/REQ/017 1.5 10/03/98 FRMS System Requirements Pathway
Specification
[16] RS/SPE/0003 2.0 08/04/98 Extended Verification Process Pathway
Requirement
[17] 7074A/T/1 1.0 Septemb Security Review Admiral
er 1997
[18] 7074A/T/2 1.0 March Penetration Testing Admiral
1998
[19] VI/STR/0001 2.0 30/9/96 Testing & Integration Strategy Pathway

[20] TD/ARC/001 3.3 5/5/98 Technical Environment Description Pathway
[21] TD/DES/0031 1.3 3/4/98 Resilience and Recovery Strategy Pathway

[22] VI/TSC/105 2.0 28/1/98 Technical Integrity and Networking Pathway
High Level Test Plan

[23] To be Security Management Procedures Pathway
completed
[24] PA/STR/0006 5.0 31/10/97 Release 1c Release Contents Pathway
Description
[25] RS/RES/002 3.0 5/9/97 Security Exclusions from Release 1c Pathway
[26] PA/STR/O09 2.0 24/2/98 Release 2 Release Contents Pathway
Description

0.4 Abbreviations

ACP Access Control Policy

CAPS Customer Accounting Processing Strategy
CNT Core Negotiating Team

EvPp Extended Verification Procedures.

FCMS Fraud Case Management System

FRMS Fraud Risk Management Service

FSG Fraud and Security Group
PDA Programme Delivery Authority
SFS Security Functional Specification

itmS COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 1
FUJ00152138
FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010
Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

0.5 Changes in this version

itmS COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138
ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010
Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98
0.6 Table of content
V WntrOdUuction.............eeccceceescececescecseeeeeescecscsseeeseesscseeeescesecesseensescesieeeeeeteeneets 7

2 Pathway Approach
2.1 Requirements...
2.1.1 Contractual Requirements

2.2 Definition and Development of the Security Solution........................ 10
2.2.1 Pre Award of Contract... cccecceseceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeneees 11
2.2.2 Post Award of Contract - Security............ cee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 11
2.2.3 Post Award of Contract - Resilience and Recovery................... 14

2.3 Security Document Structure.............cececceceeceeceseeeeeeeseeeeeeeseeseeeeneeeees 15

2.4 Security Acceptance.....
2.5 Independent Evaluation
3 System Security Components..
3.1 Data Security.

3.1.1 Security of data on individual communications links................. 16
3.1.2 Message protection............cecceeeceeeeeceeceeeeeesceeeeeeeeereneeeeeeates 17
3.1.3 Filestore encryption in Post Offices..........0.0.0..eeeeeeeeeeeees 17

3.1.4 Key generation, distribution and management...................0. 17
3.2 Access Control ...........ecececcesecesecceceeseseseeeececseeeeneneacscececensesenceeeeerenease 17
3.2.1 Logical access control
3.2.2 Identification and authentication...

3.2.3 Physical access COMtIOI............:ccccccecceceeeeseeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeee
3.3 Audit and Alarms.
3.4 Technical Administration of Security... eee ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 19
3.5 Security Processes and Procedures. .............:c.:cecceceseeceeeeseeseeeeeeeseeeee 19
3.5.1 Responsibilities for Security... ccc eeeeeeeeeeeerereeeeeeeeees 19
3.5.2 Security processes... eee ee eeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeseeeeneeeees 20

3.5.3 Fraud Risk Management.
3.5.4 Extended Verificatio
3.5.5 Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery.

4 Phasing of the Security SOlUtiON...........eeeeeeeeseeseeeeeeseeeeeeeeeereeeterereeeeeeee 22
4.1 Release RAC... ee eececceces eee cece eeeeeeeeeeeesseeeeeaeeseseseeeenesesesseeesesetisiteree 23
4.2 Release NR2........ 0. eccccccece eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeseneenenseeessseseeneseresesesensesetatenees 24
4 3 Release NR2+ 24

itmS COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 1
FUJ00152138
FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010
Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

itmS COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

Introduction

The overall Security objective of Pathway has been agreed with the
Contracting Authorities:

‘It is the policy of ICL Pathway Limited to protect its investment in IT assets,
and to ensure the security of all information conveyed, processed or stored
by the services’

This involves designing and implementing a system infrastructure that
provides:

e Protection of the integrity, availability and confidentiality of information
used by the services

e Business Continuity, ie resilience and recovery
e Fraud Risk Management (FRM)
e Compliance with legislative requirements

The system security has been developed to include technical, managerial,
procedural and personnel controls to achieve these objectives. The approach
has been to provide mitigation that is appropriate to the level of identified and
evaluated threats and meets contractual and legislative requirements. The
representatives of the Authorities, Fraud and Security Group (FSG), have
been involved to a high degree of detail not only in the implementation of the
solution, but in its definition as well.

The system security infrastructure can be considered to be composed of a number

of components which integrate to achieve these objectives. The development
of these and a summary of the components are described in this paper.

2 Pathway Approach
2.1 Requirements
The requirements for security within the Pathway solution fall into three
categories:
Contractual:
Those requirements expressed in the contract and schedules which mandate
certain security elements of the solution.
Legislative:
Pathways legal obligations to comply with certain Acts: Data Protection Act,
Computer Misuse Act, Police & Criminal Evidence Act etc.
Derived:
The security requirements identified internally to mitigate program risks
(cryptographic key management, firewalls, one-time passcode generators,
security event management, etc.)
All these requirements and their solutions are embodied in the baselined
itm5 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

security documentation set: Security Policy, Security Functional Specification,
and the Access Control Policy.

Contractual Requirements

The Authorities requirements, and Pathway’s associated solutions are
embodied in the contract in Requirements Schedules (A)B04 [1] and (A)BO5
[2], (D)A15 [3] and (D)A16 [4], and (P)A15 [5] and (P)A16 [6]. Those that are
relevant for Security are quoted below, as agreed and described in the
Security Acceptance Test Specification [7]. Solutions summaries for each of
these requirements have been produced, extensively discussed and agreed
with the PDA prior to completion of the ‘drop down’ process post award of
contract.

Requirement 698:

e The contractor shall minimise and control liabilities to itself and the
AUTHORITIES.

« The CONTRACTOR shall, by a date consistent with the project plan
agreed by the parties, such that the date does not adversely impact
contractual milestones as defined in Clause 605.1 of the Authorities
Agreement, set up an organised security infrastructure covering:

the agreement of a security policy;
allocation of security responsibilities;
security education and training;
reporting security incidents;
physical security control;
virus control;
business continuity;
control of Software;
safeguarding DSS and POCL records;
information classification;
compliance with data protection and other legislation;
information exchange control;
CONTRACTOR's sub-contractors and suppliers;
compliance with security policy;
(a) the management of fraud and risk during Service operation.
« The CONTRACTOR shall be compliant with BS7799.

Requirement 722

a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a

e Card Authentication Methods shall be positive rather than negative,
resistant to forgery or other unauthorised manipulation and shall include
the mechanism set out in the solution to this requirement for identifying the
attempted use of non genuine and / or invalid Cards and Temporary
Tokens.

Requirement 723

e Cardholder Verification Methods shall be resistant to impersonation and
shall include the mechanism specified in the solution to this requirement
for identifying the attempted use of a Card or Temporary Token by a

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

person other than an Authorised Person.
Requirement 747

« All aspects of Card Management including production, storage, delivery
and destruction of Cards shall be secure, auditable and allow the
production of audit trails of all Cards and collateral material.

Requirement 828

« The confidentiality, integrity, validity and completeness of data shall be
maintained throughout all storage, processes and transmissions, including
during periods of Service Failure and recovery from Service Failure.

« The CONTRACTOR shall ensure that all data passed from PAS and CMS
to CAPS adhere to the current DSS Business Data Standards Document
and any future amendments.

Requirement 829

e The CONTRACTOR shall ensure that all relevant information produced by
the Service Infrastructure at the request of the AUTHORITIES shall be
evidentially admissible and capable of certification in accordance with the
Police and Criminal Evidence Act (PACE) 1984, the Police and Criminal
Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 and equivalent legislation
covering Scotland.

e At the direction of the AUTHORITIES, audit trail and other information
necessary to support live investigations and prosecutions shall be retained
for the duration of the investigation and prosecution irrespective of the
normal retention period of that information.

Requirement 830

« The CONTRACTOR shall ensure that all Services are supported by
contingency plans including fallback Transactions that minimise or negate
the impact of failure in any of the Services.

e The CONTRACTOR shall ensure that the contingency plans for each
Service are compatible with an overall service continuity framework.

« The contingency plans shall be based on impact and risk assessments and
agreed between the CONTRACTOR and the AUTHORITIES by a date
consistent with the project plan agreed by the parties, such that the date
does not adversely impact contractual milestones as defined in Clause
605.1 of the Authorities Agreement.

«© Ownership of all contingency actions shall be identified in the contingency
plans.

e The contingency plans shall include activation procedures and time
periods within which the contingency measures shall be activated.

« The contingency plans shall include a testing strategy with two distinct
parts:

Initial testing before commencement of Roll Out of Services;
e Regular testing.
e The contingency plan shall include without limitation the following:

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

2.2

« Prevention measures.

« Preparedness measures.

« Contingency measures.

e Recovery of normal Service.
e Contact lists.

« The contingency plans shall be subject to joint periodic review by the
CONTRACTOR and AUTHORITIES by a process to be agreed by a date
consistent with the project plan agreed by the parties, such that the date
does not adversely impact contractual milestones as defined in Clause
605.1 of the Authorities Agreement, to ensure that they meet the
AUTHORITIES’ aims.

e When contingency operation is invoked as a result of a fault of the
Services provided by the CONTRACTOR, then the provisions of Schedule
BO3 [Service Level Agreement Schedules] of the AUTHORITIES’
Agreement shall continue to apply.

Requirement 872

e Information marked as Nationally Sensitive shall be handled in accordance
with the Departmental IT Security Standards (reference
DITSG/ITSS/0001.04, version 6.2 dated March 1996) [Version 6.3.1,
15/4/97].

Requirement 897

e The security policies of the CONTRACTOR in providing the Services shall
be consistent with the security objectives and policies stated in the BPS
Security Statement.

e The CONTRACTOR shall provide an appropriate countermeasure to each
threat identified in the BPS Security Statement.

Schedule B08

In addition, Schedule B08 - Benefit Encashment Fraud, defines Pathway’s
responsibilities and liabilities in the event of a successful fraud attack on the
Benefit Payment Service. It introduces the requirement for Extended
Verification Procedures (included as part of the solution to Requirement 723).

Definition and Development of the Security Solution

The requirements were essentially very high level and broad in nature. For
that reason, a considerable amount of effort was expended in clarifying them
and understanding the Authorities concerns and true requirements both
before and after the award of contract. The Authorities representatives, in the
guise of the Fraud and Security Group (FSG) were involved in, and reviewed
extensively, the development of the security solution.

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

2.2.1 Pre Award of Contract

2.2.1.1

Risk Responses

Prior to award of contract, Pathway provided responses to Risks raised by the
PDA regarding the security of our proposed solution. The solution was
clarified and discussed in depth with representatives of the Authorities (CNT).
In all cases resolution was obtained such that the risks were either removed
or represented no impediment to Pathway being asked to bid.

2.2.1.2 Benefit Payment Service Proposal

During the same period as Pathway was discussing the security risks with
CNT, we were requested to respond to a BPS Security Statement - Pathway
[8]. A full response was provided, the Benefit Payment Service - Security
Proposal [9], which provided details of Pathway’s approach in the areas of:

« Card Characteristics

e Card production and Personalisation
e Card and Pick Up Notice Distribution
« Card Usage

« Card Support Services

« Contingency

e Interfaces

e Service Development

e Service Transfer

e Fraud and Risk Management

This was subject to comprehensive review and demonstration, prior to
Pathway being invited to bid.

2.2.2 Post Award of Contract - Security

2.2.2.1

Definition of the Security Solution

Immediately following the award of contract, Pathway commissioned a
comprehensive internal threat analysis [10] by a senior ICL security architect.
This was made available to the PDA Fraud and Security Group, and acted as
a check for the detailed solution development.

The definition of the Pathway security solution has at all stages been
extensively reviewed, commented on fully by the PDA Fraud and Security
Group.

The high level Pathway security solution is defined by three key documents
(see section 2.3):

e Security Policy [11]. This went through 3 versions and was finally signed
off by the PDA on 8/10/96. It is currently undergoing an audit and review.

e Security Functional Specification [12]. This went through prolonged review

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

and revision and version 1.1 was signed off by the PDA on 4/11/96. Since
then it has been updated, version 3.0 (3/12/97) being agreed, subject to
minor caveats on 9/2/98.

« Access Control Policy [13]. This also went through prolonged review, with
version 1.0 not being signed off until 17/4/97. Since then it has been
updated, version 2.0(24/2/98) being agreed, subject to minor caveats, on
6/4/98.

The Fraud Risk Management Service is defined by three key documents (see
section 2.3):

e Fraud Risk Management Service Design [14]. Version 3.0 (23/4/97) was
agreed (3/7/97) after about 18 months of discussion.

« FRMS System Requirements Specification [15], is an internal document.

e Extended Verification Process Requirement [16]. Version 2.0 (8/4/98) is
subject to a Change Control Note, and has evolved after extensive
discussion of rule based EVP.

2.2.2.2 Design and Development

Architecture

Every element of the technical architecture from Data Centre hardware,
operating systems and networks to individual workstations is capable of
enforcing security and the entire technical environment is used to enforce the
security of the Horizon solution.

Design

Pathways Technical Design Authorities devise secure solutions to support the
identification, authentication, access controls, audit and cryptography
necessary to safeguard the integrity and confidentiality of the data held in the
system. Their High Level Designs are created with direct reference to the
security documentation set.

Development

All software development is bound by the security documentation set which
specifies the standards for identification and authentication, and the roles and
functionality allowed for each user. Developers write their lower level
specifications from High Level Design Specifications to ensure that consistent
application of security standards is achieved during the development
lifecycle.

Where development is undertaken on Pathways behalf by a third party,
exactly the same security standards apply. In all cases, conformance to
requirements is assured during the testing process.

2.2.2.3 Testing

A dedicated ‘Secure Test’ team has been appointed and operates from a
dedicated facility in Bracknell. The team is made up of ICL staff and
Consultants who represent the interests of the two sponsor organisations. In
this way the scope and results of security tests are visible to all relevant
parties.

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

High Level Test Plans and Low Level Test Specifications map directly onto
the security requirements and are designed to ensure that the identification,
authentication, access controls, audit and cryptography described in the
security documentation set are present, complete and accurate. The
complete approach is described in the Testing & Integration Strategy [19].

2.2.2.4 Implementation

Pathway Implementation Team are responsible for the configuration, building
and installation of all hardware in the Pathway solution except networks which
are managed by another division of ICL (CFM). Configuration scripts are
created to ensure that the identification, authentication, access controls, audit
and security functionality described in the security documentation set are
implemented.

Many sub-contractors are employed in the distribution and installation of
Horizon equipment within the POCL estate. The Pathway Security function
with the Horizon Service Management ensure that all staff requiring access to
POCL outlets are stringently vetted before issuing an identity card which is
required to gain access. Pathway administer the database of authorised staff
which controls all aspects of the identity cards.

2.2.2.5 Operation

Pathway has established an infrastructure to minimise and control liabilities to
itself and its suppliers, the DSS and POCL. This infrastructure enables
Pathway to protect the integrity, availability and confidentiality of information
used by the services. This includes making adequate provision for:

eBusiness Continuity, including resilience and recovery
eAudit,

«Compliance,

eSecurity Management

«Fraud Risk Management.

In the Security Policy, Pathway states its commitment to ensuring that it
encompasses the very best commercial practices for security. Pathway’s aim
is to be compliant with BS7799, A Code of Practice for Information Security
Management.

The manual operation of the Pathway systems is provided by ICL CFM as a
managed service. Again, the hardware and networks for which they have
responsibility are built and configured strictly in accordance with the security
policies and functional specifications. A programme of security audits enables
Pathway and sponsors representatives to satisfy themselves that technical,
management and operational processes are in place and functioning
correctly. All operational sites were visited prior to Release 1c authorisation,
and all sites are scheduled to be visited at least once more during 1998 (prior
to New Release 2).

A dedicated team of Pathway Customer Service Managers ensure that those
third parties who operate managed service on Pathways behalf do so within
the limits imposed by Pathway security policies.

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010
Version: 1.0

Date: 22/5/98

The Pathway Fraud and Security functions have contributed to the ICL
Peritas training programme to ensure that fundamental security messages
are included in all training events for users of the Horizon system. Work is in
progress to initiate a programme to ensure that counter staff remain informed
of their responsibilities for fraud prevention and security awareness.

2.2.3, Post Award of Contract - Resilience and Recovery

2.2.3.1 Definition of Solution
The Pathway solution is defined in the Technical Environment Description
[20]
and the overall strategy is documented in the Resilience and Recovery
Strategy [21].

2.2.3.2 Architecture

The Pathway architecture is based on the principal of providing a totally
resilient solution based on dual site implementation with every platform
duplicated at each site. The Data Centres are connected by resilient high
bandwidth communications links which are used to support the replication of
all critical data between sites.

2.2.3.3 Design and Development

High Level Designs exploit the resilience within the architecture.
Applications are designed to produce event messages for exception
conditions, these events are reported to the System Management software
which then in turn alerts the Support Centre. Where recovery time is critical
then automatic procedures have been developed that detect failures, perform
recovery scripts and alerts operations staff that a failure has occurred.

2.2.3.4 Testing

The testing of all aspects of resilience and recovery are covered in the
Technical Integrity and Networking High Level Test Plan [22]. Testing covers
all Data Centre platforms, remote platforms, counter platforms and
communications links. Full System Management is enabled to test correct
reporting of events.

A scaled down version the target live configuration has been built with EMC
disks to enable the testing of fail over after host failure and complete Data
Centre failure.

2.2.3.5 Operation

A number of operational manuals are being produced to cover the operational
recovery/failover processes which will be employed in NR2. ICL Outsourcing
(formerly CFM) are the major (but not the only providers) of this
documentation. They will be produced through analysis of the individual
recovery/failover design documents produced and by involvement in the
testing process. This includes Bootle/Wigan site failure failure of supplier
sites eg DLR, HSHD.

The above consider the technical aspects of failover and recovery. Another
aspect which is being addressed is business continuity ie when a specific unit

itmS COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 1

FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

2.3

fails, what is the effect this has on the service (if any) and what specific
actions have to be carried out. This will be presented as the Contingency
Map, and the approach is being discussed with the Authorities.

In addition, plans for Disaster Recovery are being produced, which address
the actions required to cope with and recover form a major incident to the non:
operational areas of the business for example loss of an administration site
(eg Feltham), terrorist threat or major fraud.

Security Document Structure

There is a set of four documents which describes the security infrastructure
and functionality and on which the detailed solution design is based. These
are:

« Pathway Security Policy. The purpose of this document is to lay the
foundation that enables Pathway to protect the integrity, availability and
confidentiality of all assets associated with the services. It also enables
Pathway to comply with legislative and commercial requirements. Its
structure is based on the recommendations of BS7799.

e Security Functional Specification. This document defines the security
functionality that will be incorporated into the operational ICL Pathway
system. It is primarily concerned with the technical features rather than the
surrounding management or operational controls.

« Access Control Policy. This document defines the policy for controlling
access to resources in the operational ICL Pathway system. Effective
control depends on having a clear definition of the roles and
responsibilities of all personnel who need some form of access to the
system. It defines the operational, management and support roles required
in the Pathway system, and the main functions which people in those roles
carry out. It then defines how the security functionality described in the
Security Functional Specification will be used to enforce the required
controls in the Pathway environment.

e Security Management Procedures [23]. The ICL Pathway Security
Management Procedures are for use as a reference document by
managers and employees who are responsible for initiating, implementing
and maintaining information security within ICL Pathway. They are based
upon British Standard BS7799, “A code of Practice for Information Security
Management.”

In addition, three documents describe the FRM and EVP high level solution
on which detailed design was based:

e Fraud Risk Management Service Design [14], describes the ICL Pathway
Fraud Risk Management Service including: Service functionality,
availability and Contracting Authorities requirements.

e FRMS System Requirements Specification [15] details the functional
specification of the Fraud Case database.

e Extended Verification Process Requirement [16] describes the EVP
requirement for the ICL Pathway solution including the definitions of class

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

2.4

2.5

3.1

of Customer and Transaction type upon which EVP may be invoked. The
document also outlines the method by which the Contracting Authorities
inform ICL Pathway of the class of Customer or Transaction type on which
they require the EVP process to be carried out.

Security Acceptance

This is achieved by a number of test types as described in the Security
Acceptance Test Specification [7], which refers directly back to individual
requirements. This is currently under review. The acceptance methods
include physical tests, document reviews and site visits.

Independent Evaluation

Two independent security reviews of the system have been carried out by
Admiral Management Services Limited:

e Release 1c, September 1997 [17]. This consisted of an examination of the
documentation, supplemented by discussions with Pathway staff. The
objectives were to compare Horizon with current best practice in financial
sector and government systems of comparable size. It concluded that ‘We
have no reasons to doubt that the Horizon development is comparable to
current best practice’, with some reservations regarding technical design
and implementation activities. These have since been addressed.

« Penetration Testing, March 1998 [18]. The objectives of this review were to
identify the most vulnerable areas of the security architecture and to
recommend how best to employ penetration testing resources. It concluded
that ‘No vulnerabilities with a ‘high’ potential likelihood of exploitation have
been found’. It recommended a series of penetration test scenarios, which
are currently being impacted for Release 2 / 2+.

System Security Components

Data Security

Appropriate security measures have been designed in to ensure
confidentiality, integrity and availability of data, whether in transit or in
storage. A number of approaches have been used to tackle the identified
threats to the links, Customer requirements and Pathway’s internal exposure.
Security of data on individual communications links

This involves cryptographic protection on eg:

« CAPS links; using Red Pike encrypted secure hash initially, subsequently
moving to hardware encryption.

e CMS links for card production data and PUN information to De La Rue;
encryption using Red Pike algorithm.

e POCL TIP link; integrity of data will be protected in the same way as

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

3.2

3.2.1

CAPS; AP records will be digitally signed to provide end-to-end integrity
protection.

e HSH Help Desk and System Management Workstations; integrity
protection and one-time passwords; in particular all remote operational
access require encrypted links and one-time passcode generators eg
CFM Belfast.

e Post Office ISDN/PSTN/GSM links; CHAP initial connection
authentication, supplemented by CLI authentication of the Post Offices to
the ICL Pathway campus. No link encryption can be provided.

e Post Office LAN’s; no link level protection. Some exchanged data is be
protected using Red Pike and Escher native CRC’s.

Message protection

In addition, protection is provided by the encryption of individual messages
from creation to use (end to end). All message protection will be performed
using DSA. Standard public key technology will be used.

e BES payment authorisations are digitally signed on leaving the PMS/CMS
machine. Signatures are verified prior to use by the BES application in
individual workstations at Post Offices.

e AP will be signed at the Post Office for ultimate verification by a receiving
agent at the POCL TIP site.

Filestore encryption in Post Offices

There is a threat to confidentiality of data stored on hard disks at the counter,
resulting from theft of PC’s. Red Pike is used to protect this information and
the filestore is automatically encrypted at disk access level. The workstations
do not have operable floppy disk drives.

Key generation, distribution and management

The use of cryptography requires that Keys are generated, distributed
securely to relevant sites, and renewed regularly. Relevant procedures to
manage this are being developed. This applies in particular at the Post
Offices, where a number of keys are required (eg filestore encryption,
communications, AP signature).

Access Control

Logical access control.

To provide effective control of system resources, an Access Control Policy
has been defined and implemented. This identifies all roles authorised to
access any part of the system and the access rights to be permitted. Users
are associated with one or more roles so that persons are individually
accountable for their actions. It includes access to files, directories and
databases. Roles include:

© Operational eg BA, PAS/CMS Help Desk, De La Rue, Postmaster and
Counter Clerks

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

3.2.2

3.2.3

3.3

e Systems Management eg Manager (CFM/Sorbus), Database
Administrator (CFM/Oracle), Network Manager (CFM) and Encryption Key
Custodians (Pathway and CFM)

e Support Roles eg Manager, Help Desk and Installation Engineer

Identification and authentication

Mechanisms are required to ensure that all users are uniquely identified, with
only authorised users being granted access to the system. Identification is
based on a combination of what the user knows (eg password) and what the
user possesses (eg smart card). Authentication is concerned with
establishing the validity of the user’s claimed identity; eg human users will be
allowed a predetermined number of attempts to logon, failure being recorded
and alarm messages being raised. Tokens will be used when protection
provided by passwords alone is not considered to be sufficient. Identification
and Authentication includes the following users:

e Logon at Post Offices (Postmasters and Counter Clerks) uses Riposte
desktop facilities.

« Oracle is used to authenticate all database users.

e Help desk users are named individuals in a user group associated with a
database role, permitted to access the database by running an
application.

e Mechanisms are provided for authentication of DSS/BA and POCL staff.

Physical access control

This is tightly defined for all aspects of the system, and restricted to staff
(both Pathway and subcontractor) on a strictly need to access basis. Physical
security audits are conducted regularly at relevant sites that include for
example:

¢ Central sites (Wigan & Bootle)

e Feltham

e Support sites (CFM Belfast, Sorbus, Oracle)
e DeLa Rue (Tewkesbury)

Audit and Alarms

Audit mechanisms are included to monitor and detect events that might threaten the

security of the Pathway services or any service(s) to which it is connected.
Regular analysis of audit trails is essential to facilitate the identification and
investigation of security breaches.

Alarm mechanisms alert security personnel of the occurrence of security violations

and will be used to trigger prompt investigation and remedial action in order
to minimise the impact of any security breach.

Auditable events include:

e authentication actions,

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010
Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

exception conditions,
system start-up,
change of user rights,
write access to selected files,
e system management activities
Audit and alarm facilities use a combination of application level transaction logs and
operating system audit logs:

eceee

e Riposte for logging of all transactions

e Patrol to monitor all Sequent systems and Oracle applications
e Oracle database for CMS and PAS

e Windows NT

3.4 Technical Administration of Security

Maintaining the integrity of the services and software components is also an
essential part of the Pathway security. Systems management includes:

e Cryptographic Key Management - using CESG approved bespoke Crypto
applications

Software Distribution - using Tivoli Courier,

Event Management- using Tivoli Event Console and Patrol,

Network Management - using HP OpenView,

Resource Monitoring - using Tivoli Sentry, and

Inventory Management - using Tivoli Inventory.

eeceee

3.5 Security Processes and Procedures

3.5.1 Responsibilities for Security

Figure 1 illustrates the security organisation used within Pathway and the
activities subcontracted to Girobank. Senior management is supported by
experienced specialists and technical staff with specific expertise in the areas
of IT, security, fraud prevention and risk management.

itmS COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

3.5.2

3.5.3

Exte Ht Path : °

xteral atnway Manaaing Director
Director
Pathwav Quality and Risk
Security Board Management
Security Advisors
Fraud Risk Security
Manager. Manager
Girobank Investiaation Security
FRM Services Team Administration

Fraud and Risk Management

Figure 1 Pathway’s Security Management Structure

Security processes

Processes have been developed, within Pathway, with BA/DSS and
subcontractors, which encompass:

e Incident reporting, of potential security breaches in the systems either
raised through system alarms or by human users

e Investigation of potential security breaches including co-operation with BA
and POCL to identify liability

e Legislation compliance is monitored on an ongoing basis, including in
particular Data Protection Act (1984) and Computer Misuse Act (1990).
Pathway also complies with appropriate sections of the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act.

e Pathway and subcontractor staff security. All Pathway staff are subject to
a security vetting process that includes id, reference and credit checks
and criminal record self declaration. All subcontractors are requested to
conduct equivalent staff checks.

Fraud Risk Management

The Fraud Risk Management Service (FRMS) deals with the identification,
monitoring and management of all fraud associated with / relevant to the ICL
Pathway system and service via appropriate and effective controls (technical,
managerial, procedural and personnel). Additionally FRMS_ provides
information to support the investigation of individual fraudulent Benefit
encashment transactions when informed that an investigation is in progress.

The FRMS comprises three core elements:

« A management information system, to analyse trends, fraud losses and to
profile data patterns. This is part of MIS.

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

3.5.4

3.5.5

e A fraud monitoring system, to profile abnormal or irregular activity and
identify potential or actual fraud incidents.

e Organisation, infrastructure and procedures to operate the service
effectively and provide support for Contracting Authorities fraud control.

The FRMS incorporates a database that has the following functionality:

e Transaction data identified as representing real or suspected fraud is
copied from the Data Warehouse to the Fraud Case Management System
(FCMS).

e It accesses and retrieves information relating to actual and suspected
fraud, identified by the Contracting Authorities.

e When investigations into actual and suspected fraud have been
completed, flags attached to these transactions are altered to allocate the
transaction to a loss category. This system allows full accounting, fraud
analysis and assists in the determination of liability.

e It accesses and retrieves additional data required to support Fraud Risk
Management from other ICL Pathway systems.

« It provides for ad hoc trawls of the FCMS to monitor emerging trends and
patterns of criminal activity.

e It provides for the production of a range of standard and exception reports.

Extended Verification

This is a key process as additional authentication of benefit claimants. The
majority of Benefit Encashment Transactions will be genuine and therefore
the risk involved in simple identity verification is small. However, some types
of transactions carry a higher level of risk and therefore require a more robust
verification procedure. The Extended Verification Process is designed to
deal with these transaction types. The process is applied in two forms:

e Basic EVP - under which the additional verification is applied, at all outlets,
to a generic set of transaction types considered to be either critical to the
integrity of the service or carrying a higher risk of fraud, to Payment Card
issue and activation, and transactions in fallback.

e Rule-Based EVP - under which the process is targeted to, at the BA’s
discretion, to those transaction profiles identified as higher risk. This
provides for targeting by transaction type, customer type by benefit.

In combination with the objective to minimise fraud risk EVP is also used to
transfer fraud risk from the contracting authorities to ICL Pathway in return for
an increased transaction charge.

EVP is based on a multiple choice question and answer process at the Post
Office. Questions are formulated from personal data provided from BA via
CAPS. The system only allows the transaction to proceed on satisfactory
completion of EVP.

Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
The system is designed to be inherently robust:

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

e NT Platform failure : - All platforms are designed to be resilient with
multiple network routes and back up systems.

« TMS Hosts :- Copies of the TMS journal are kept at each site and are
reliably synchronised to ensure that there is always a consistent view of
the data at each Data Centre.

e Networks: - There are multiple network routes to all remote sites that need
to communicate with the Pathway Data Centre. The network is designed in
such a way that failure of routers and links are reported to Network support
staff and any connection is automatically re-routed without operator
intervention.

e Sequent Host Failure:- All possible single points of failure have been
removed. All data is mirrored both locally and remotely using EMC disk
technology. Disk updates are synchronously copied to the remote disk
array giving a guarantee that all data is secured before committing any
transactions.

e Site Failure:- Because all platforms are duplicated at both sites and copies
of the data are replicated it is possible to recover from a site failure without
the loss of any transaction data. The architecture is sized to ensure that
there is sufficient capacity at a single site to run the complete workload.

« Counter Platforms :- The Riposte message store is reliably replicated to all
PCs in multi counter Outlets. Failed base units are replaced by new
systems and the message store is copied from one of its neighbours. At
single counter Outlets there is a second exchangeable disk that “mirrors”
the message store. This disk is used to recover the system in the event of
a unrecoverable error on the hard disk.

« The Gateway PC in the Outlets will automatically retry the communications
link using a different target router if the normal route is not available. If the
second attempt fails then it will try a third route to a router at the alternative
Data Centre.

Business continuity processes are being developed to contain the potential SLA

penalties for performance shortfall in the eventuality of partial system
breakdown, and provide for recovery actions.

A Disaster Recovery management structure and processes (including media

communications) are being developed for events that could potentially
significantly impact Pathway’s survival, eg:

e Feltham non-availability; a stand-by site has been established

e Significant security breach or major fraud event; communication with
Contracting Authorities, investigation and impact analysis.

e Terrorist threat; how to deal with, communications.

4 Phasing of the Security Solution
The implementation of the security solution has involved phasing by release
according to:
e business functionality, and
« risks associated with the nature of the release
itm5 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

41

Release Ric

The components included in the Release 1c BPS and OBCS end-to-end
systems, as identified in the Release Contents Description [24], are:

« CAPS Access Service Software running in a secure user partition on the
BA VME environment at Livingstone ACC, protected by a ‘firewall’ system;

« CAPS Link protection utilising Red Pike encrypted secure hash produced
using SHA implemented in software at each end of the link;

« OBCS Access Service Software running in a secure user partition on the
BA VME environment at Washington ACC;

e 2 Mbit communications connections between the Livingstone and
Washington ACCs and the Pathway Release 1c host system running at the
Wigan Data;

e PAS/CMS , OBCS and Reference Data Oracle Databases running on a
Sequent processor under the control of the Dynix operating system;

e Dynix and Oracle RDBMS standard access control facilities;

* central layer of the TMS message store (correspondence server) running
Riposte software under the Windows NT 4.0 operating system and utilising
the Riposte and NT 4.0 security and access control functionality and the
Riposte secure message replication facilities;

e entropy servers running under NT4.0 and utilising NT4.0 security and
access control functionality;

* communications gateway PCs for access to the Card Management
facilities operated by De La Rue via Red-Pike encrypted ISDN links,
running under NT4.0 and utilising NT4.0 security and access control
functionality;

e TMS ‘Agent’ software running on an NT 4.0 platform and utilising NT4.0
security and access control functionality;

« ISDN communications links connecting the central TMS message store
with the local ‘gateway’ PC located at each Post Office outlet, utilising
CISCO routers configured using CISCO Works and implementing
Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) and Call Line
Identity Protocol (CLIP);

e ISDN Terminal Adaptors at each Post Office Outlet ‘gateway’ PC, utilising
EICON software to implement CHAP and CLIP;

e Post Office outlet PCs (‘gateway’ and non-’gateway’) running Riposte and
NT4.0 and utilising the Riposte (including implementation of ‘roles’) and NT
4.0 security and access control functionality and the Riposte secure
message replication facilities;

e filestore encryption on the Post Office outlet PCs;

e smart token authentication of the PostMaster logon, including
authentication to ‘unlock’ the filestore encryption.

The exclusions (against the full solution defined in the SFS and ACP) were

itmS

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 1
FUJ00152138

FUJ00152138

ICL Pathway Pathway Security Objectives & Principles Ref: RS/REQ/010

Version: 1.0
Date: 22/5/98

also originally identified and described in the Release Contents Description.

In addition, as a result of testing, a number of additional, more detailed
exclusions were identified. Mitigation actions were identified by Pathway to
minimise the associated risks [17]. These were discussed in detail with the
PDA and agreed, before Release Authorisation was given. During Release
1c there have been no fraud incidents.

4.2 Release NR2
Developments that are on target for Release 2 include:
« Acommon NT Secure build including bespoke developments which restrict
the attributes of privileged NT users.
e Robust NT user and resource domain definitions to further control access;
e A secure Sequent build to provide strong access controls and a
comprehensive audit capability, and bespoke developments to ensure
quality user identification and authentication checks.
« SecurlD - one time passcode generators to enhance access controls for
remote users with authorised access.
« Security Administration functions
These developments will address the majority of the exclusions in Release
1c.
The exclusions for Release 2 are described in the Release Contents
Description [18], which has not yet been signed off by the Authorities. The
major items include;
e Signing of Automated Payments
e Full Key Management System
e Some authentication and password control mechanisms
4.3 Release NR2+
It is intended that the full security functionality will be included in this release.
itmS COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 1
