FUJ00078572
FUJ00078572

Model Office Testing Progress Report Final Pass

Progress Report for Model Office Testing - Day 6
Monday 22"! February 1999

Management Summary

¢ Data Centre migration completed successfully over days 4 & 5

¢ Some problems encountered with network connectivity between CAPS and
Pathway. The problem (which also affected the End to End environment),
was resolved by early afternoon. Online and Batch processing schedules
were not affected.

¢ The foreign BES encashment that failed on Friday was reattempted on a R2
counter attached to a R2 data centre. The encashment was successfully
made, confirming that the problem was only evident during the interim
period between counter and data centre migration

¢ MiMan migration was completed successfully.

e MiECCO migration was delayed due to problems connecting to the
Migration Agent Server. This was resolved by 8pm, and the 7 Stock Units
were successfully migrated in approximately 40 minutes. Some issues were
identified with the Office Balance Snapshot, which are currently being
investigated.

e Allday 6 activity was complete by 10:15pm

Overall status of MOT testing: GREEN
The management summary status indicators are defined as follows;

Green No major issues which require escalation outside of the testing arena
Amber _ Testing have serious concerns over quality
Red Major system difficulties have prevented progress

Planned ‘Key’ Counter Activity

e First day of activity on a Rel 2.0 Data Centre.

¢ One 2 terminal office installed and migrated via Miman.

¢ One 4 terminal outlet installed and migrated via MiECCO

e Various items of legacy equipment (ECCO+ and APT) decommissioned

Actual ‘Key’ Counter Activity

e¢ MiMan migration was completed at Omagh. Due to operator error, two
discrepancy items were not migrated as part of the Suspense Account.
This may result in an imbalanced Cash Account at Omagh on day 9.
Further investigation will be required prior to an incident being raised

¢ MiECCO migration commenced and completed, however the End of Day
markers had already been applied, therefore transmission of the
transaction detail will be delayed by 1 day. All Stock Unit reports

c:\testing\ mot\ mo0990222.doc 23/02/99 Page 1 of 4
Model Office Testing Progress Report Final Pass

produced after migration were correct. The Office Balance Snapshot
report (which is used for confirmation of the migration process) was
missing a number of products. Although the report still balanced, and it is
expected that the missing transactions would be displayed correctly on
the Office Cash Account produced on day 9, an incident was raised.
The following BES issues were identified;
¢ The foreign encashment problem noted on day 3 was no longer
evident. This confirms that the issue is restricted to the interim
period between counter migration and data centre migration,
which may reduce the impact if the incident were still outstanding
during Live Implementation. The encashment can still be
performed via the Helpdesk as a workaround measure.
e¢ We were still unable to complete a carded Casual Agent
encashment.

Overnight Processing

Overnight processes ran without incident

Planned Interface Activity

TIP - First receipt of Horizon generated transaction feed.

CAPS - Change of Circs., Payment, Batch Stop files and Automatic card
requests from CAPS to Pathway. Encashments and card request
confirmations from Pathway to CAPS

OBCS - transaction files delivered from Pathway for 5 outlets

POCL RDP - No activity planned

HAPS - transactions polled from 2 APT terminals. First collection of
Horizon generated AP transactions

Actual Interface Activity

TIP - Files received but not yet checked. 1 transaction file that covered
three outlets was rejected due to a negative session sequence number. The
file will require correction and resending.

CAPS - CAPS Batch files processed. An issue was identified with the
delivery timescales of encashments confirmations following migration to
the R2 data centre. Further investigation is underway.

OBCS - OBCS transactions received successfully. Further investigation
required

POCL RDP - No activity

HAPS - Files have not yet been received. An incident has been raised. The
failure was due to a security violation. The file is expected to be resent
today.

c:\testing\ mot\ mo0990222.doc 23/02/99 Page 2 of 4

FUJ00078572
FUJ00078572
FUJ00078572
FUJ00078572

Model Office Testing Progress Report Final Pass

Test Metrics

Test Conditions for day Test Conditions for the Cycle
Conditions Passed 364 Conditions Passed 1116
Conditions Failed 4 Conditions Failed 14
Conditions Not Run 1 Conditions Not Run 56
Total 369 Total 1186

Failed test conditions are reflected by Incidents raised, i.e;

¢ OBCS services not running affected a number of planned receipt, issue and
encashment tests

e A procedural issue regarding the manual entry of PIN details during the
POLO process (this issue is awaiting validation with Product Management
review comments, and will be raised on day 7)

Test conditions not run were due to;
¢ Ascript error (i.e. attempting a shared stock unit balance on an individual
stock unit)

Incidents Retested

Horizon Incident re-tests are derived from those outstanding at the
conclusion of Model Office Rehearsal Cycle 3 and the two preproval test
phases. Incidents raised by TIP are not included on this summary, and will be
reported seperately;

High Medium Low Total
Re-tests planned in cycle 5 49 43 97
Re-tests planned to date
Re-tests actual to date
Unable to re-test
Re-tests failed

Incidents closed
Outstanding Re-tests

Re-tests planned for tomorrow.
High: Medium: 1 Low: 1

Details of Failed Re-Tests
None

Incidents Raised Today

High 0
Medium 3

c:\testing\ mot\ mo0990222.doc 23/02/99 Page 3 of 4
Model Office Testing Progress Report Final Pass

Low
*These categories are an initial testing impact, and are subject to Product
Management confirmation

Details of High and Medium Incidents raised today

Further details are available on the Incidents Report which is sent as an
appendix under separate cover.

¢ OBCS - a reoccurrence of the ‘Unable to contact HQ’ message. Raised
as a medium as the call had previously been raised and closed in
MOT.

¢ Migration - No data entry line available for ‘Counters Revenue’ which
is a core item that should be available at every outlet. The issue was
raised and closed during MOR3, on the proviso that a ‘Customer
Merchandise’ product would be available

e Training Mode - At a three terminal configuration, only able to log on
to training mode at two terminals - third terminal reports an error
message.

Summary status of new Horizon incidents

High I Medium I Low I Total

Raised during MOT 0 21 11 32
New Incidents Closed 4 2 6
Outstanding new incidents o* 17 9 26

Summary of the above

Closed :

¢ Operation/Set-up problem 1 1

e Fixed for Live Trial 3 3

¢ No fault 1 1

¢ Procedural 1 1

Under Investigation with :

e Pathway 15 9 24

¢ Horizon 2 2
0 21 11 32

*The high priority incident previously reported has been downgraded to a
medium pending further investigation.

c:\testing\ mot\ mo0990222.doc 23/02/99 Page 4 of 4

FUJ00078572
FUJ00078572
