FUJ00116743
FUJ00116743

Fe)
FUJITSU PBU Bid Review Actions

UKR&RMG-JRU-55315,

Not currently

Globe (Current Account /
Internet Banking)

Post Office Ltd

Andy Startin

Please reference the
Actions.

RRMT

Suzie Kirkham

Clive Bailey

BNB 01/06/09

6t July 2009

Neil Andrew; Clive Bailey; Pippa Cow; Caroline Dabrowska; Robert Devien; Steve Godson;
Tim Jones; Matt Mann; Gareth Pugh; David Roberts; Andy Startin; Nick Tetley; Wendy
Warham; Guy Wilkerson; Jeremy Worrell; Kate Wratten

Business Assurance; Amanda Craib; Andrew Hall; Suzie Kirkham; Maz Kostuch; Peter Rowley;
Nigel Sheath

Info I David Roberts had Peter Rowley's delegated authority.

We will not be able to meet the latest request from the Post Office
to provide a breakdown of previously discussed indicative pricing.

Acall is planned with Dave Smith, Head of IS, Post Office, and
1. subsequent to this a letter is to be drafted to the Post Office to Andy Startin Wic July 6
clarify our current position with regards to our input to their
Business Case, and our suggested plan for working together to
achieve the required outcomes.

We should suggest to the Post Office that we have a weekly
meeting with them.

RRMT BU Management to review developments by the end of next
week (July 17). If there are any major changes to the current
2. position these should be communicated to Divisional Management. I Andy Startin As applicable.

A Divisional Update Review should be scheduled by the end of
July, subject to developments. Updates to pricing should be
approved at an applicable BAR.

a

Amanda Craib had the delegated authority for David Roberts.
Steve Godson deputised for Wendy Warham.
Kate Wratten to update Gareth Pugh as required.

Info

Version July 2008 Fujitsu Services Eyes Only Page 1 of 2
FUJITSU

FUJ00116743
FUJ00116743

PBU Bid Review Actions

Info

There is a workshop planned for this Wednesday with Fujitsu
members of the HNG-X Development Team to review any potential
implications that the Globe opportunity may have for HNG-X, and to
start the planning for Globe on the basis that the HNG-X migration
testing and stable running, with the appropriate contingency, will be
essential before any Globe implementation activities could take
place.

Andy Startin to discuss the current plan with Mike Wood.

Andy Startin

Ongoing

Andy Startin to discuss the opportunity with Mark Phillips, as we are
currently in dialogue with Bank of Ireland, who would be a partner
with the Post Office on Globe.

Discussion ongoing ~ POL. & Bol relationship under strict NDA.

Andy Startin

Ongoing

A Bid Budget of £61,200 was approved for the period to July 10;
however Jeremy Worrell to work with Andy Startin to define the Bid
Budget that would be required to get to contract. This requirement
should be forwarded to Clive Bailey and Kate Wratten in the first
instance.

Andy Startin

Complete

An Update Review should be scheduled for 3 weeks time to review
where we are at that time.

Andy Startin

Complete

August 31, 2009.

From BNB/BAR Update Review on July 6 please reference the Actions.

Also, Increase of Bid Budget from £61K to £92K approved for Code 141356, to

The following Bid Budget amounts are approved, where applicable:

Task 10 — Sales £ Start: dd/mm/yy
Task 20 — Initial RFl - PQQ £ Start: dd/mm/yy
Task 30 — RFP - ITT +£31K Start:

Task 40 - BAFO £ Start: dd/mm/yy
Task 50 — Negotiation £ Start: dd/mm/yy

Please confirm completion of actions to PSD.Bid.Reviews@:

End:
End:

dd/mm/yy
dd/mm/yy

id/mm/yy
id/mm/yy

Version July 2008 Fujitsu Services Eyes Only

Page 2 of 2
