FUJ00171983
FUJ00171983

From: Holmes Jan R[/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FEL01/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HOLMESJ]
Sent: Wed 06/02/2002 2:24:03 PM (UTC)
To: 'Rashpali...

Ce: Lenton-Smith Colin: Hooper Graham J:
Subject: Data Centre Report - POL Distribution

Attachment: Consignia Report-Horizon-v1e JH.doc

Rashpal,

I have had the opportunity to discuss your draft report with Graham Hooper and Colin Lenton-Smith, our Commercial
Director, and have the following comments and observations to make.

I have to say that I’m personally very disappointed with this outcome. Your attendance at the Data Centres was as an
observer, agreed on an informal basis and had its basis in the tape handling issues that we had already discussed with
you. Had we formalised the visit through the Joint Working Framework (see [A/MAN/005) we would have been aware
of your reporting intentions and structured the shared element of information differently. While we did discuss a
report I was certainly under the impression that this was to be an internal report to your Audit Community in respect
of the broken audit trail, since this was the prime purpose of your attendance.

The distribution list is impressive; are these people members of your Audit Committee and if not would they form a
normal distribution for your audit reports? Would you normally distribute a report of this granularity to this level of
Director/Manager in Consignia? What do you anticipate these people will do with this report once they have read it?

I question your right to make use of the findings of a Pathway audit in a POL context, especially given the proposed
distribution and do not agree to your including anything beyond Section 1.2 in your report.

It is perhaps inevitable that shortcomings will be found during an audit. You will recall the very open and
straightforward responses of the ISD personnel during the audit - they had nothing to hide and everything to learn -
and this has continued with their aggressive closing of many of the recommendations made.

Given that you have our report in your possession, and have prepared your version of it ready for distribution, I fear
that much of the content may already be common currency within POL. That said I would not want this report
distributed until such time as I can:

1. Understand the composition of the distribution list and their ‘roles’ with regard to the report content.
2. See that you have formed an audit opinion, expressed that and provided a context for the readers of the
report.

3. See that you have restricted the report to matters germane to the DLT problems.

Historically, Graham and I have always maintained an open and consultative approach to our work with POL auditors and
investigation staff and believe this to be in the spirit of the partnership model espoused by Alan Barrie.

I'm attaching the report abbreviated at the point that I consider is relevant to your attendance at the Data Centre. Please
feel free to call me to discuss the matter.

Jan Holmes

Quality & Audit Manager, ICL Pathway
KIDO1 :
FELO1
Mob :

