FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Hos
FUJITSU

shaping tomorrow with you

Communicating the Changes

POA Improvements

Steve Browell
Updates from 17. 08.2021:
Updated 21.09.2021 "DR oversghtof the Lie.

Incident management (slide 10)
* Clarification of which Peak

updates are visible or not with
bonded Incidents (slide 21)

© 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Operational Improvements — Update le FUJITSU

Stream 1 — Incident & Stream 3 — Live Defect
Problem Management Stream 5 - Security Improvements
(TfSNow, ServiceNow) Cross-functional process (PAM, MSCF, EBMS)

Horizon Defects Review (HDR)

Stream 2 - Peak

(Incident, Defect) Stream 7 - Various

(Investigations, Peripheral
Logger, Documentation,

Stream 4 - Key Meetings

(BIE, CBIF, HDR) Stream 6 - Elevated Governance)
, , Processes
>» Work OUR way , (APPSUP, TC Tool, Interface
> System & Process Driven Interactions)

>» Management Reporting (Command & Control)

Fulitsu-Restricted intemal:

Only 2 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Streams 1-4 : : : ee FURITSL

Stream 1 — Incident & Stream 3 — Live Defect
Problem Management
(TfSNow, ServiceNow) Cross-functional process

Horizon Defects Review (HDR)

Stream 2 - Peak
(Incident, Defect)

Stream 4 - Key Meetings
(BIF, CBIF, HDR)

> Work OUR way
> System & Process Driven
» Management Reporting (Command & Control)

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

POA Improvements document FUJITSU

Latest version “POA Improvements List - v1.1 - Streams 1-4 - 23.07.2021”

& This will become a Live Defect Management document along with parts
embedded into your own local process document

Co nly DD 4 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743

FUJ00232743
Emphasis iI
p FUJITSU
@ Process agreement and consistency — working
our way, working better
. itream 1 - Incident stream 3 - Live Defect
™ Use of TfSNow and Peak systems — using the 9 ““"msién""* clase
Horizon Defects Review (HDR)
tools ra)
@ Data reliability — to enable tracking and vt
validation I :

m@ Enhanced management reporting — command _ sm2- rea
and control

@ Identify areas for improvement — making us
better

Stream /4 - Key Meetings
(BIF, CBIF, HDR)

© 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Path of a Live Incident FUJITSU

@ Belfast HNG-X Focus

NOTE - we are looking to amend our ways of using Peak/TfSNow as evolution as revolution is impractical for us right now

Potential Investiga Confirme
Live & Live )
Defect Qualify Defect

* TfSNow Incident +Noactionneeded + Defect Peak + Identify solution(s) + Approve solution * Target toa Release +Code/build solution + Confirm it works + Deploy to Live
*Investigation Peak + Raise Change + Take to CBIF if
+ Initiate Fix needed

6 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Live Defect definition FUJITSU

BLive Defect

= Is present on a LIVE system

& Is, or appears to be, inconsistent with
. . TfSNow — add the LiveAffectingDefect Cl
the agreed design or service I Peak — add the ##LiveAffectingDefect
“¢: . Collection
specification

& Is, therefore, a fault that is likely to
need fixing

mThere may be a workaround,
but the underlying issue still
—=meets:the criteria above, aU

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

HDR Defect definition FUJITSU

® The Horizon Defects Review (HDR) scope will be those Live
Defects that also have at least 1 of the following attributes
(HDR Defects):

= Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add the
“HDR-Fin” Collection)

= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required to TfSNow — add the relevant HDR-* Cl
use the system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp” Peak — add the relevant HDR-*
Collection) Collection

= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office
customer or client (add the “HDR-Exp” Collection)

@ There may be a workaround, but the underlying issue still
meets the criteria above

@ The HDR Defect may be under investigation and is not
confirmed to meet the criteria above but has attributes that
meet the criteria above (a potential HDR Defect)

—-Fliteu Restricted Let

Only ») 8 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Live Defect & HDR Defect definition FUJITSU

@ Live Defect

TfSNow — add the LiveAffectingDefect Cl

— Peak — add the ##LiveAffectingDefect
m= Is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design or service Collection

specification

® Is present on a LIVE system

® Is, therefore, a fault that is likely to need fixing

@ The Horizon Defects Review (HDR) scope will be those Live Defects
that also have at least 1 of the following attributes (HDR Defects):

= Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add
the “HDR-Fin” Collection)

& Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required _ TfSNow — add the relevant HDR-* Cl
to use the system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR- Peak — add the relevant HDR-* Collection
Exp” Collection)

= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office L
customer or client (add the “HDR-Exp” Collection)

@ There may be a workaround, but the underlying issue still meets the
criteria above

@ The HDR Defect may be under investigation and is not confirmed to
_.dmeet.the criteria above but has attributes that meet the criteria above

C (a potential HDR Defect) 9 © 2021 FUJITSU

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

HDR Live Defect reporting FUJITSU I

@ HDR - tracks the whole lifecycle of HDR Defects

J
[

Potentia

Investiga Confirme®
Live & Live ,
Defect Qualify Defect

* TFSNow Incident +No action needed + Defect Peak + Identify solution(s)

+ Approve solution + Target toa Release +Code/build solution + Confirm it works
-Investigation Peak + Raise Change
+ Initiate Fix

+ Deploy to Live
+ Take to CBIF if

needed

10 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

New terms FUJITSU

@ Horizon Defect Review (HDR) — a weekly meeting with POL to review HDR Defects. POL need to know
the HDR Defects and their status. They share this with postmasters. This is a very important meeting that
sees Fujitsu and POL aligned on the HDR Defects

& Investigation Peak — is an Incident that is being investigated where the cause and required action are not
yet confirmed. A linked TfSNow Incident may well exist - and MUST exist if POL need to be aware. The
Peak Call Type should be “L’ if this is a Live Incident

@ Defect Peak — is a Peak that is not linked to a TfSNow Incident and that describes the confirmed Live
Defect that will be progressed through the SDLC (BIF, PTF, Dev, Test, Release) to live deployment

@ Potential Live Defect (Peak) — is a Live Defect that we are still looking into. There will likely be an
investigation Peak open and probably a TfSNow Investigation Incident too. The Peak Call Type should be

& Confirmed Live Defect (Peak) — is a Live Defect where the cause and required action to fix are known.
The investigation has concluded. A defect Peak will exist with Call Type “#”

= KBA - Knowledge Base Article. The term KEL is no longer to be used

C must ~ pet Only a 4 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

New terms FUJITSU

Live Defect — is a logged Incident that is present on the Live system that is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design or service specification

HDR Defect — Live Defects that affect, or have the potential to affect, branch operations (financial, experience, or end customer)

@ Horizon Defect Review (HDR) — a weekly meeting with POL to review HDR Defects. POL need to know the HDR Defects and their status. They share this with
postmasters. This is a very important meeting that sees Fujitsu and POL aligned on the HDR Defects

® Investigation Peak — is an Incident that is being investigated where the cause and required action are not yet confirmed. A linked TfSNow Incident may well exist —
and MUST exist if POL need to be aware. The Peak Call Type should be “L” if this is a Live Defect

® Defect Peak — is a Peak that is not linked to a TfSNow Incident and that describes the confirmed Live Defect that will be progressed through the SDLC (BIF, PTF,
Dev, Test, Release) to live deployment

& Investigation Incident (TfSNow) — is an Incident that is being investigated where the cause and required action are not yet confirmed. The Incident MUST be
bonded if POL need to be aware

® Defect Incident (TfSNow) — is a TfSNow Incident that describes the confirmed Live Defect that will be progressed by a Resolver Group that does not use Peak
(e.g. Networks, Security, Unix)

= Potential Live Defect (Peak) — is a Live Defect that we are still looking into. There will likely be an investigation Peak open and probably a TfSNow Investigation
Incident too. The Peak Call Type should be “L”

& Confirmed Live Defect (Peak) — is a Live Defect where the cause and required action to fix are known. The investigation has concluded. A defect Peak will exist
with Call Type “#”

= Potential Live Defect (TfSNow) — is a Live Defect that we are still looking into that is logged as a TfSNow Investigation Incident. The State will be “Acknowledged,
Work in Progress, or Researching”

® Confirmed Live Defect (TfSNow) — is a Live Defect where the cause and required action to fix are known. The investigation has concluded. A TfSNow Defect
Incident will exist with the State field set to “Fix in Progress”

@ OTI — is the interface between Peak and TfSNow that allows Incidents to be transferred between the systems and updates to Incidents to replicate

Fujijou Restrcted—lnternal-)
&KBA—Kagyyiedge Base Ayticle. The term KEL is no longer to be used 12 © 2021 FUJITSU

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Incident — Peak — Defect FUJITSU

Potential Defect Investigation Confirmed
Peak Defect
Fujitsu Internal Eujitsu Internal

POL Incident Live Defect Peak
[ServiceNow] {Call Type “#]

Cloned th create Defect Peak once
confirms, Defect Peak reference
added td investigation Peak which will

+ Updates auto replicate

+ Updates do not show
Faas investigation Peak Fujiteu Incident + The Defect Peak will be
numbers [TfSNow} : managed internally

through BIF, CBIF, PTF

+ POL rely on ServiceNow 4 andthe SDLC

Not like to TISNow oF ServiceNow so no need Updates to the Defect

to clone nce confirmed. Change Call Type to “#” Peak are NOT linked to a

TfSNow Incident so are

internal only

replicate
Peak

no replication from Defect,

Live Defect Peak
[Call Type “#”]

13 © 2021 FUJITSU

Incident — Peak — Defect — HDR — CBIF

Ifitis a Live Defect then add
the LiveAffectingDefect Cl
Ifitis a HDR Incident then
add relevant Cl

Updates auto replicate

POL rely on ServiceNow

Investigation Peak

Fujitsu Incident

[TISNow]

POL Incident
[ServiceNow]

If POL noti
needed

fication

Fujitsu Internal

Confirmed
Defect

Eujitsa internal

Fujitsu Reports
HDRICBIF, or
Continuous Improvement

Live Defect Peak

Internal Live Defect
Peak

{Call Type changed
to]

CBIF Peak

Deferred Live Peak

FUJ00232743

FUJ00232743

FUJITSU

All should be Call Type “#”
All should have the Collection ##LiveAffectingDefect
if HDR then relevant Collection should be added
Updates do not auto replicate

Updates are system driven by reports:

1.

2.

3.

Live Defects with the HDR Collection — for
the HDR meeting

CBIF qualifying Peaks — for the HDR
meeting

Live Defects excluding the HDR Collection —
reported (TBC) under Continuous
Improvement

Deferred Defect Peaks — for information and
tracking

14

© 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Stream 1 — Incident & Problem (TfSNow) — 1/2 FUJITSU

@ Any Incident that POL need to be notified of, or be aware of,
must be logged in TfSNow and bonded. Raising a Peak only is

not correct
Stream 1 - Incident & . .
Problem @ We do not reference KBAs, Peaks or internal content in TTSNow

(TfSNow, ServiceNow) bonded Incidents. The TfSNow Incident must contain all relevant
content and be a comprehensive self-contained reference to the
status of an Incident. The only Peak reference that should be added
is for defect Peaks (if applicable)

™ The Summary field needs to be well worded and understandable by
most readers as it will be used in reports for management and POL
and will affect the description fed to POL and into our own Peak
system

@ We should not using separate emails to share progress that is not
embedded into the Incident updates

@ Less qualified individuals may read Incident content so it must be well

> Work OUR way worded and should use language that is understandable to most

> System & Process Driven readers
> Management Reporting (Command & Control) @ Anyone should be able to quickly determine the current status and

Fulitsu-Restricted —intermalt

nn aD) the né&t action on an Incident so as to be in no doubt that éfg21 FusiTsu
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Stream 1 — Incident & Problem (TfSNow) — 2/2 FUJITSU

® Category/Sub-category must not be changed on bonded Incidents or
it will break the replication link

Stream 4 — Incident & ™@ We should use the relevant open and close categories when handling
Problem Incidents — applying additional caution with bonded Incidents to use
(TfSNow, ServiceNow) the mutually agreed settings

@ The LiveAffectingDefect Cl is needed for Live Defects

@ The HDR* Cls are needed for special category Incidents and this
will be set by Fujitsu management — and will trigger a new
Fujitsu MAC alerting process

@ The State field is important as it is now used to report status

@ When an Incident is placed into Suspend as no further Fujitsu action
is applicable then the text of “Please be aware that the incident will
automatically be closed after 10 days if no response is received from
you.” Is to be added. After 10 days, these Incidents should be closed

@ We need any local Work Instructions or process documents updating
» Work OUR way ; to reflect these changes
> System & Process Driven
>» Management Reporting (Command & Control)

Fulitsu-Restricted —intermalt

Co nly DD 16 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

oream 2 — Fe€aKk — OUPPOIT & Kelease
Management FUJITSU
Stream 3 — Live Defect Management

Stream 3 - Live Defect New fields in Peak
Management
Cross-functional process = POL Problem reference — using the prefix “POLPRB-“ so it is
Horizon Defects Review (HDR) obvious and also searchable. Most likely only required when the
Peak is declared to be a HDR Defect (see screenshot later in the
document)

@ Fujitsu Problem reference — using the prefix “FJPRB-“ so it is
obvious and also searchable. Most likely to be updated by the
Fujitsu Problem Manager to ensure the link is clear (see
screenshot later in the document)

@ Workaround — to state “Yes/No” state if an accepted workaround
has been implemented. If the field is blank or contains “No” then
no workaround has been identified (see screenshot later in the
document)

Stream 2 - Peak
(Incident, Defect)
= Release Mgt tab — Initial and Completed dates and text box - We

need to know the stage we are at in the fixing process, the date it
> Work OUR way initially entered the stage and when the stage was completed and
> System & Process Driven the notes from the meetings at which it was discussed (see
> Management Reporting (Command & Control) screenshot later in the document)

17 © 2021 FUJITSU
fest CIF progress

Test PIP progress

Only

N

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

© 2021 FUJITSU

18
Points to note for Peak users — 2

New field values in Peak

= Call Type — must be set to “#” Defect Identified when a
Live Defect is confirmed. Prior to this Live Defects ought
to be Call Type “L” Live Incident but can have other Call
Types provided they carry the ##LiveAffectingDefect
Collection

= Collection ##LiveAffectingDefect (formerly
##LiveAffectingSoftwareFault). This Collection must be
set when the Peak meets the criteria for a Live Defect at
the earliest possible opportunity. It is likely that Call Type
“L’ will frequently carry this ##tag but it will not always be
the case so needs selectively applying

™ Collections of “HDR-Fin” or “HDR-Exp” for HDR
Defects

DETAILS

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

FUJITSU

Peak In

SEFEPENCES pronucts ERENCE

[quia

[Pcorssza

[Release

[Reported In — HNG-X Rel Ind
‘0 Operational (SSO) cil

38 FON DEY

Pending —- Incident Under Inveztigation

[Add incident ts Coltection’

~~] Ada to Collection

™ Target Release — the values of “Requested For” and

“Released at” will cease to be used

i Add to Coliection

© 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Points to note for Peak users — 3 FUJITSU

Renewed importance for Peak fields

Call Type — must be set to “#” Defect Identified when a Live Defect is confirmed. Prior to this Live Defects ought to be Call Type “L”
Live Incident but can have other Call Types provided they carry the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection

Summary — must be written so as to be understandable by most readers. This will need more thought when Peaks are raised.
Management should amend this during weekly clean-ups (careful to preserve links where raised in another system)

Impact — tab and free form field to articulate impact, status and next steps so it is easy to understand for anyone. This will be
maintained for HDR Peaks weekly. For other Peaks it can be as needed

™ Business impact: [as used currently, mention how many branches are affected if helpful]

= Status update: [description of current status — succinct] per

. . Business impact: Prev and Cancel buttons are incorrectly made available to the Postmaster during the End-Of-
@ Next action: [next action to be taken and expected date for next UPCalsessicn script Resulted in a Bureau Pre Order transaction being duplicated upon next login, eausine a branch
accounts discrepancy. The discrepancy was raised by the Postmaster to Post Office for investigation. Fujitsu
have put monitoring in place which is checked on a weekly basis, and reported to Post Office if any further
‘occurrences are identified. A single instance of the issue has been identified over the last year.

Status update: Fujitsu have put monitoring in place which is checked on a weekly basis. The Defect has been
qualified, and Targeted At R71.20

‘Next action: Awaiting R71 20 counter release.

Priority — which must be validated at all times so it is accurately shown as this will affect reporting and decision making

Assigned Team — must show which team is currently responsible for taking the next action or ensuring action is taken

@ _ Product Group and Product - We need to know the part of the system that the Live Defect relates to for reporting and quality

purposes _ 20 © 2021 FUJITSU

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Points to note for Peak users — 4 FUJITSU

Edited

@ When adding Progress to a ‘bonded’ Peak, the
default response option is ‘- Progress Only’ and
this does NOT flow back to TfSNow —>

= NOTE - but it would be visible if we were asked to

provide a copy of the Peak as the PDF feature takes
ALL content

Progress Text

@ If you select a Response Category then any text
you add at the same time WILL flow back to
TfSNow if the Peak is ‘bonded’

I~

patel be eet to ie OTT Coneue

2

® No References are sent to TfSNow for ‘bonded’
Peak, so all Documents, Baselines, KBs, and
Peak references can be added for Fujitsu only
access

Co only 24 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

HDR reporting — directly from Peak/TfSNow FUJITSU

'PCO291532 I INC5S41788 : Failed Recoveries (AP cient data > 4,000 characters) - FULL I Yes, Business impact: Clerk will be unable to transact certain AP products, eg. National
FX Express, Drop n Go Open Account, MoneyGram, Bureau Pre-Order. The issue has
potential to occur due to APADC scripting caused by excessive length of exported AP
ent data > 4,000 characters.

‘Status update: Testing has been completed successfully.

Next action: Awaiting deployment in release 71.10.

00284005 I INCT712618 - FAD: 159405 St Annes 1598052 Bureau Pre Order Yes Business impact: Prev and Cancel buttons are incorrectly made available to the
‘Transaction ~node 2 Postmaster during the End-Of-Session script. Resulted in @ Bureau Pre Order

transaction being duplicated upon next login, causing a branch accounts
discrepancy. The discrepancy was raised by the Postmaster to Post Office for
investigation. Fujitsu have put monitoring in place which is checked on a weekly
basis, and reported to Post Office if any further occurrences are identified. A single
instance of the issue has been identified over the last year.

‘Status update: Fujitsu have put monitoring in place which is checked on a weekly
basis. The Defect has been qualified, and Targeted At R7i.20

Next action: Awaiting R73.20 counter release.
POORSEISS I INCEDE7IOT Inactivity logout for End-OF-Session scripts ms Business impact: Inactivity timeout during the End-Of Session script for 8
‘transaction where payment was being made by a cash withdrawal in the basket,
Fesulted in the transaction auto-setting to cash as per Business Rule BRU-327, but
‘outstanding recovery data resulted in a duplicate transaction being written,
‘resulting n'a branch accounts discrepancy. Fujtsu have put monitoring in place
‘which is checked on a weekly basis, and reported to Post Office if any further
‘occurrences are identified, A single instance of the issue has been identified over
the last year

‘Status update: Fujitsu have put monitoring in place which is checked on a weekly
basis. The options to remediate this defect were discussed with POL 21/07/2021
_and Fujitsu will also be sharing @ summary paper to heip POL.

‘Next action: POL to decide on its preferred course of action.
PRB0087806 I Help Screen Freezing on the Counters in Branches No Weekly problem update for the 19/07 that will be provided to Lorna Owens (POL)

Update: 19/07/2021: Matthew Hatch: Awaiting an update from POL with refer
103 POLactions.

nce

22 © 2021 FUJITSU

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Points to note for Peak users — 4 FUJITSU

Renewed importance for Peak fields

= Root Cause — we need to know what type of fix was needed, which when matched to the part of the system affected, gives us further quality
data. Some Root Cause options will also lead to Live Defects being qualified out and not reported on. We will exclude the following Root
Cause values from Live Defects so these need to be applied with caution:

= “39 General — User Knowledge” — caused by lack of knowledge with the user
= “40 General — User” — caused by an action performed by the user which was outside expected use
= “41 General — in Procedure” — caused by not following defined procedure
= Response Category — specific values have been identified to enable clarity and to spot exclusions. Although there are many values for this
field, the following have important meanings — mostly is qualifying Live Defects as not defects and hence allowing their exclusion from
reporting:
& “63 -- Final -- Programme approved - No fix required” — for Peaks rejected at CBIF

= = “66 -- Final - Enhancement Request” — for Peaks tagged with the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection that were subsequently qualified as not being Live Defects
but enhancement requests

& “68 -- Final -- Administrative Response” — for Peaks tagged with the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection that were subsequently qualified as not being Live
Defects

= “9 -- Final — Advice after Investigation” — for Peaks tagged with the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection that were subsequently qualified as not being Live
Defects

= “100 — Final -- Route call to TfS” — for Peaks tagged with the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection that were subsequently qualified as not being Live Defects
within Peak

© 2021 FUJITSU

Points to note for Peak users — 5

Renewed importance for Peak processes

®@ Cloning

FUJ00232743

FUJ00232743

oO
FUJITSU

@ when clones are created you will be asked for a reason and this will be captured in the cloned Peak. Selecting “Create
a Defect Peak” will auto set the Call Type on the clone to “#”

= Clones now carry forward many more fields (such as Collections, Reference, Workaround, and Release Mgt meeting

fields)

Select Clone Reason

(Ceente a Detect Peak
Spat into muttipie streams

associate trom TisNow ticker
st sig reasons
ar

Cancel II Confien

Date:11-Aug-2021 9:00:38 User: John Simpkins
ICALL PCO25@898 opened

Details entered are:-

Summary:test mb problem

Call Type:#

call Priority:D

Target Release:HNG-X 12.11

Routed to:EDSC - John Simpkins

(Date: 11-Aug-2021 @9:00:38 User: John Simpkins
Clone Reason: Create a Defect Peak
Date:14-Dec-2015 15:52:55 User: Customer Call_
CALL PC@244669 opened

Details entered are:-

Summary:test mb problem

24

© 2021 FUJITSU
Points to note for Peak users — 5 — No Fault

Found

FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

oO
FUJITSU

These Peak field values mean No Fault Found and will cause Peaks to be excluded when

counts are done of defects and progress on investigations into defects (see

SVM/SDM/PRO/0875):

Response Category — 62 -- Final — No fault in product

Response Category — 63 -- Final -- Programme Approved — No Fix Required
Response Category — 66 -- Final -- Enhancement Request
Response Category — 68 - Final - Administrative Response
Response Category — 94 -- Final - Advice and guidance given
Response Category — 95 -- Final -- Advice after Investigation
Response Category — 96 -- Final -- Insufficient evidence

Response Category — 97 -- Final -- Unspecified insufficient evidence
Response Category — 98 -- Final -- User error

Response Category — 100 -- Final -- Route call to TS

Response Category — 120 -- Final -- Goned to create Defect Peak

Response Category — 200 -- Final -- Call withdrawn by user

TfSNow may well
then show a defect
assigned toa
different Resolver
Group — but it has
ceased to be
something to track in
Peak

Co Only __) 25

© 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Stream 4 — BIF, CBIF, PTF and HDR FUJITSU

BIF now validates field values as part of its review

BIF has criteria for deciding to pass a Peak to CBIF
ManDays is no longer a deciding factor for CBIF

CBIF will use a Proposal form format with POL (like CWO)
CBIF submissions for POL will be derived from the system

BIF/CBIF & PTF meeting dates are all recorded within
Peak

& BIF/CBIF & PTF updates are all recorded within Peak
Stream 4 - Key Meetings
(BIF, CBIF, HDR) ™ HDR Defect updates are system driven

& The Impact field in Peak is now critical for HDR (Business
Impact, Status Update, Next Action)

> Work OUR way = Challenging POL’s lack of attention to good process
> System & Process Driven

>» Management Reporting (Command & Control)

Fujiteu Restrictec
C __Only _) 26 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

The plan from here... FUJITSU

v Explain the changes

¥ Bring data to new standards

> Embed changes into SOP documentation

>» Challenge all staff to work to the new ways

Then...

m@ Ensure management oversight and reinforcement

@ Identify process blocks to speed up the end-to-end process
@ Provide new POA management reporting

@ Formalise POL reporting from POA systems

—Fuijtiou Restricted Internal leo —
Cc Only » 27 © 2021 FUJITSU
FUJ00232743
FUJ00232743

Re)
FUJITSU

shaping tomorrow with you
