FUJ00192728

FUJ00192728
From: "Legal.Defence}. GRO is
Sent: Mon 11/02/2019 5:00:14 PM (UTC)
To:
Subject: Project Bramble - Paula Vennells call with Duncan Tait tomorrow morning - Legally Privileged
and Confidential
Hi Rachel,

I have just come off a conference call with Wendy Warham, Garry Stewart and Pete Newsome.

Wendy as had a call from Duncan Tait. Apparently Paula Vennells called Duncan on Friday expressing concerns around
FJ support re GLO claims and late changes to Witness Statements. The Post Office General Counsel (Jane?) was also
on the PV/DT call.

So Wendy raised the following as requested by DT:-

e Are FJ answering the POL questions and being definitive in what we say as our responses are sometimes “It
[Horizon] could do XYZ”
Pete N explained that that is the situation in some cases. As regards the Witness Statement changes, (around
remote access) and the latest list of Peaks and 22 bugs raised by the GLO Expert (Jason Coyne) FJ are working
flat out in a very dedicated manner and have answered virtually all of PL’s external lawyers questions, having
explained the situation to POL QC and legal team last Monday. POL external legal team appear to have
calmed down as a result. In certain areas the POL processes themselves are not that robust. More for POL to
worry about in that their training was not always effective and robust. We are doing all we can but will not be
perfect. The deadline of Pre-Trial Review hearing on Thursday is causing angst;

e FJ and POL Press Office lined up re disclosures? Pete will speak to FJ Press Office (Graham) but believes so;

Wendy suggested that we should set up a call tomorrow between Paula V and Jane and DT, Rob Putland, Pete
Newsome and myself to calm the situation. I mentioned that you may wish to be on it. Will forward you the invite.

Best Regards

Christopher Jay, Senior Counsel

FUJITSU

Jays Close, Viables Business Park, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG22 4BY

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Autistica
Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
