FUJ00175195
FUJ00175195

From: Alisdair Cameron;
Sent: Wed 25/03/2015 9:06:32 AM (UTC)

To: Keegan Michaelf

Cc: Lesley J Sewel H . Geoff Smythf

Subject: Fujitsu and POL bonne
Michael,

It was very good to meet you and Steve yesterday. I just wanted to drop you a note to confirm our conversation. I
echo your views that we can re-build a successful, joined-up relationship to underpin the following agreements.

(1) Our teams will work together to agree a one year contract extension on front office and data centre support to
end March 2018. This should include sensible incentives for both of us to encourage us “out” as quickly as can be
sensibly managed. We recognise that you have commercial requirements in this conversation but our ability to
fund this is limited and we cannot make significant investments in data centres that will shortly be demolished.
An explicit conversation about risk and funding may be helpful. This should be agreed in time for our Board
meeting on 21 May.

Our teams will work together to complete a three year contract extension on the Telco arrangements. This should
also be completed in time for our May Board meeting. Without unpicking the commercial arrangements, the SLAs
should reflect its nature as a service business.

You agree to pay us £4m in full and final settlement of the various historical disputes. As part of that settlement,
we will not pay the £2.9m invoice originating from BT IP. This will be finalised in time for our May Board meeting.

(2

(3

In addition, you may be able to help us by buying IBM Creedence licences on our behalf. We will revert on the need -
and we appreciate the help.

I recognise and appreciate your concern for POL and its approach to IT development. However, you agree that,
particularly given your exit, we have no practical alternatives at this stage. Our combined efforts will be focused on

making the plan work, together.

Could you confirm that is also your understanding? Please don’t hesitate to call me if anything is different from your
expectations.

Kind regards
Al
Alisdair Cameron

Chief Financial Officer

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 94Q

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
FUJ00175195
FUJ00175195

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
