FUJ00172044
FUJ00172044

From: Welsh Graham[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP 1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WELSHG]

Sent: Thur 24/06/2010 12:13:14 PM (UTC)

To: Van Achte___.
o. Donna GRO
Wilkerson
Ce: Jenkins Gareth GIf
Subject: I RE: Duplication of Transaction Records on ARQ Returns
Penny,

I can not see any issue with the content and I am pleased that we have a workable work-a-round for the interim.

However can you please remove the word “Unfortunately” from the 3” paragraph.

Regards,
Grohow

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: Thursday, June 24, 2010 12:39 PM

To: Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Munro Donna; Thompson Peter; Wilkerson Guy
Cc: Jenkins Gareth GI; Holmes Alan

Subject: FW: Duplication of Transaction Records on ARQ Returns

Importance: High

An update to my note sent yesterday.

More detailed analysis shows:-

Number of ARQs affected 112
Number of ARQs where 1 or 2 instances highlighted 17
which indicates bona fide activity

Number of ARQs WIP 7
12 ARQs where court action is known; number of cases 2
8 ARQs returned where witness statement requested 3

but not yet provided; number of cases

ARQs where no court activity is known 76

Audit Development are currently working on a fix which is expected to be available Tuesday 29 June.

Gareth has suggested the following explanation for POL:-

With Horizon counters, the mechanism by which Data is audited has always worked on the principle that it is
acceptable to audit the same data more than once - in particular if in doubt as to whether or not it has been
FUJ00172044
FUJ00172044

previously audited successfully.

The Mechanism used on Horizon to retrieve the data took this into account and only presented one instance of
such duplicate data in the ARQ extracts.

However it has recently been noticed that the HNG-X retrieval mechanism does not remove such duplicates
and a quick scan of the ARQs provided to Post Office Ltd since the change to the new system indicates that
abut 35% of the ARQs might contain some duplicate data. A Peak has been raised to remove such duplicate
data in the future. However until the fix is developed, tested and deployed, there is a possibility that data is
duplicated.

The reliable way to identify a duplicate transaction is to use the <Num> attribute that is used to generate the
unique sequence numbers. Unfortunately, this attribute is not currently included in the Excel version of ARQ
data that has been passed to Post Office Ltd in the past. This will be included in all future ARQs until the
problem is fixed.

Meanwhile all that can be done on existing ARQs is look for transactions that appear to be duplicates. Note
that we have identified a scenario with Postal Services transactions where multiple, identical mails items are
accepted (ie the Quantity button is set to greater than 1), but Postage Labels are printed for each individual
item. This results in separate transactions being generated for each item, which are identical in the ARQ
extracts (there is another minor difference in the raw data apart from the <Num> attribute, but this different
attribute is not currently included in the ARQ extract).

I'd like to speak with my counterpart this afternoon, please could you give comments by return?

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

il & Royal Mail Group Account

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no Registered Office 22, Baker Street, Lone BW
This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 23 June 2010 13:12

To: Welsh Graham; Van Achte Gaetan; Munro Donna; Thompson Peter
Cc: Jenkins Gareth GI; Holmes Alan

Subject: Duplication of Transaction Records on ARQ Returns
Importance: High

All
Please find attached an initial report on this problem.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services
FUJ00172044
FUJ00172044

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 8SN

Tel:
Mob:
Fax:
E-Mail:f
Web:

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW
This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

