FUJ00175336

FUJ00175336

From: Moran, Regina[/O=FUJITSU EXCHANGE ORGANIZATION/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=C576144C207A4679B706AC9E1FB]

Sent: Sun 19/06/2016 12:17:47 PM (UTC)

To: Bell, Gavin

Subject: Fwd: Follow Up.

Hi Gavin.

Let's discuss early next week. Please don't forward as I don't think the mail is meant to be shared.

Regina

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alisdair Cameron

6 GMT+1

Ce: Rob Houghton
Subject: Follow Up

Regina,
Thank you for your time on Wednesday, it was positive, probably overdue.

As you know the purpose was to set out our core concern: the Fujitsu relationship is not
producing the quality and speed of outcome or the value to Post Office that it should
be. It needs radical recasting.

I appreciated your recognition, the specific apology and the openness with which you
signalled you would be prepared to tackle the issues. I really welcome that: we are
committed to the relationship but it needs to work to be sustainable and that is in all of
our interests.

I have six priorities. The first was not discussed in the meeting for obvious reasons.
Numbers 2-6 were what we agreed to tackle together:

(1) Leadership - One point we didn’t raise is whether we have the senior leadership
right. You are very busy in a big job and while I value our relationship
enormously, you will never have the time to be the day to day relationship lead.
Gavin is knowledgeable, experienced, thoughtful and decent but he isn’t a
communicator and I was very worried by the amount of things he said in that
meeting that have simply not been escalated to us. My view is that now is the
time for a fresh pair of eyes, someone to manage the strategic relationship and
drive a different outcome more than you have the time to do or he is able to. It is
very important that Rob is engaged in this as well, so we achieve good chemistry
with a new CIO.
FUJ00175336
FUJ00175336

(2) Team and culture. We agreed to have a re-launch for the combined teams,
making it clear that this is a fresh start, acknowledging bad habits and setting out
ways of working for the future. One aspect that stands out starkly is the need for
a stronger culture of openly reporting concerns and issues. You are making
changes to your team and it would be good to liaise with Rob to make sure that
we have fed into that process.

(3) Cost. The run rate is simply too high for the service we receive. We have all
acknowledged that in the Trinity pricing. But we need your help now, affecting
this year’s outcomes, to cease unnecessary activity, remove inappropriate gold
plating, focus on content over process and do what is necessary to reduce the
bill without putting us at risk. It was concerning that Gavins immediate response
was to ask for more. I want to re-assert that we need ideas on (1) reducing the
current Fujitsu costs before (2) assessing what else we will do to reduce the
overall POL cost base.

(4) Change. The change process is badly broken and we need your involvement
and support in the change process review that Rob is sponsoring. We need to
get those fixes in place asap.

(5) Governance. Similarly, Rob has outlined a new structure and approach for
governance, escalation and the management of day to day disciplines,
measurement etc He is implementing it immediately but any changes you have
or thoughts would be welcome

(6) Horizon Protection Plan. We agreed to stop expecting a root cause answer and
carefully plan a test back to secondary, then back to primary, with a plan for a
further relaxation in the change freeze after, or even potentially starting before
that process is completed. We will need to share that with our Group Executive
who will be understandably concerned, possibly with our Board.

We need to move quickly across these priorities and I suggest we meet again end July,
before the holidays, at which time I would expect us to have made tangible progress
across all six areas and be into implementation and not just getting ready. Is that OK?
I'd appreciate a response ahead of that meeting.

Two tactical points were discussed that I also don’t want to lose:
- Measuring and making progress in the reference data queue of 220 items (Rob)
- Agreeing a data plan so we can store the data we need around Horizon
transactions by product, etc (Rob to pick up with Harry Clarke and Paul Hemsley
to set the requirement).

Please let me know if this is not in line with your expectations.
Kind regards

Al

ERC I ICICI OR ACCC RR ACCC of FCC AR A ACC of FCA fC oR FCA A CC oR CC CC oa a

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2A HCC 29 FR RFR A KR ECAR A 0 2 FAR 0K oR FAR CG oR COR oR CC oo aa

FUJ00175336
FUJ00175336
