FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo
Document title CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual
Document type Operations Manual
Release: N/A
Abstract: This is the top-level document describing the activities carried

out by the Infrastructure Services Unit within ICL Pathway
Customer Service

Document status: Approved
Owner: Paul Westfield
Author & Dept: Richard Burton, A&TC, Technical Centre

Alex Nicholson, Customer Service
Contributors: Richard Brunskill, Dave Fletcher, Bob Davis
Reviewed by:
Comments by:

Comments to: Paul Westfield

Distribution: Customer Service Director
CS Operations Services Manager
CS Support Services Manager
CS Infrastructure Services Manager
ICL Pathway document library

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 1 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

0.0 Document Control

0.1 Document History

Any hardcopy of this document is NOT UNDER CHANGE CONTROL unless
otherwise stated.

O.1 25/9/00 rst draft for internal CS review

1.0 7/1/00 Issued as Approved

0.2 Approval Authorities

Paul Westfield Infrastructure
Services Manager

0.3 Associated Documents

The version numbers and dates the following table shows are those that were current
when this document was written. If you wish to look at one of these referenced
documents, search for the document in the ICL Pathway Document Library (PVCS)
and refer to the latest version.

CS/QMS/oo1 CS Policy Manual ICL Pathway
cs

CS/QMS/o02 Ou CS Process Manual ICL Pathway
(under development) cs

CS/QMS/004 1.0 7/1/00 CS Support Services ICL Pathway
Operations Manual cs

CS/QMS/005 1.0 7/1/00 CS Operations Services ICL Pathway
Operations Manual cs

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 2 of 36
FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo
CS/MAN/006 3.0 18/0200 I CS General Information ICL Pathway
Operations Manual cs
CS/PRO/048 1.0 15/06/99 I NR2 Horizon System ICL Pathway

Helpdesk Processes and cs
Procedures Description

CS/PRO/105 1.0 29/02/00 I Local Procedure when ICL Pathway
raising a Purchase Order I CS

CS/PRD/o22 1.0 06/01/98 I Process Team Terms of ICL Pathway
Reference for Internal cs
Operations Manual

CS/PRD/o2z9 4.0 05/08/99 I Process for Operational ICL Pathway
Business Change - Outlet I CS

PA/PRO/o20 Ll 28/02/99 I Purchasing Goods and ICL Pathway
Services cs

CR/SPE/005 1.0 20/08/98 I Specification for the APS I ICL Pathway
Reconciliation Reports - cs

for Release NR2

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

BRE Business Research Establishment
BSA Business Support Analyst

CA Contracting Authorities

cP Change Proposal

cs Customer Service

CSPM Customer Service Problem Manager
FRMS Fraud Risk Management Service
HSH Horizon System Helpdesk

HSSM Horizon System Service Management
IRF Invoice Request Form

MCVP Management Care Visit Programme
MIS Management Information Systems
MSU Management Support Unit

MTBF Mean Time Between Failures

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 36
ICL Pathway

FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

NBSC Network Business Support Centre, part of POCL’s organisation
OBC Operational Business Change

ORR Operational Readiness Review

OSR Operational Service Review

POCL Post Office Counters Limited

PORF Purchase Order Request Form

PPD Processes and Procedures Description
QMS Quality Management System

RED Reconciliation Exception Database
SLAM Service Level Agreement Monitor
SLCA Service Level Contract Administrator
SMB Service Manager - Benchmarking
SMC System Management Centre

0.5 Changes in this Version

Upgraded to Approved

0.6 Changes Expected

Following future reviews

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 36
FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

0.7 Table of Contents

1, [ntrOductiOn ....c.scesscessesseessesseeseeseessessesseessseseessseseesvessessessnsssesneeseeseeassssecsneeseess
2. SCOPC.ecececsescecescsescscesesesseneseseseeesessseseseesessseseseessssseasesssescsteueseseseseeesseeeeeeeeeeces

3. OVEPVIOW. eee ceccececeseseseeeseseseesesesesestenesesescseeseecsrstssessaeseseeesieseseeeesassnerseenseneneee

4. Management support

Coen xnn

4. Management Information Systems........c:sccsesseeseesesseeseeseessessesseeneenees
444 Producing and scheduling MIS reports......c.scsseesseeseeseesseeseeseee 10
41.2 Ad hoc report QuerieS......ccceccesseseeeeeseeseseesestesesesestesesesseeesees LO.
413 Service Level Agreement .........c.scsessecseessesseessesseeseeseeseessesseeseeseee dL
4.1.4 Business VOlUMEETICS .......cececeessesseseeesteseesesseseenesssseeseenesneeteaeeneneeetene B
45 CS intranet site lS

4.2 Information technology equipment ..........c.ssseesseseesteseesteseeseesneenees ee LO

4.24 Raising an Order .......sscececseecseeseessesseeseeseessesseeseesseesessseesesssssseeseesseese LO
4.2.2 Processing an OFdeP ......cc.csssesessssecssseecessseecssseeeesssesessseessssseesssseeesssee IT
4.2.3 Receiving the delivery ........ccsscsssseessesssecsseesseesseessseesseesseeesseesseeesse IT
4.3 EPOSS and APS reconciliation... 118

434 Daily APS and EPOSS reconciliation report retrieval and checking18

43.2 Investigating reconciliation incident .........c.scseseeseeseesesseeseeete IQ

43.3 Dealing with recurring reconciliation incidents ............ssee I
4.4 Performance benchmarking...........ccccessecesessesseesseeseessesseesessesseessees 20

4.5 Other benchmarking activities

5. Business Effectiveness.

5.1 Development and maintenance of CS PE and Q methodology

5.2 Alignment of CS cross-domain polic:

53 Development and maintenance of the CS Operations Manuals ..

5.4 Planning and control of process and quality projects... 24
5.5 Development and maintenance of CS process definitions .............0+ 26

5.6 Provision of advice and guidance on the development of operational
procedures 1 26

5.7 Audit of operational procedures .........csesseeeseeesseeseesteeseestssnesseseenees 26

6. Strategic Services Unit....

61 Strategic Services Unit - Terms of Reference.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 36
FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

6.2 Change Management.

6.2.1 Overview
6.2.2 — Process for outlet Change ........sssssecseessesseessessecssssseeseesseesresnssseesessses 29

6.2.3 Service MOMItOring ........cccccessesesseseeseeesseseeseesesesesseetsseesesseseeseessaes ZO

6.3 Managing Business As Usual Activity ..

634 OVEIVIEW voces

6.3.2 Key Processes
633 Service MOMItOring .........ccccccsesesesesseeesseseeseeesssesessessseesssneseeseesssees 32
6.4 — Key Suppliers... ..sceceeseessecssessessessesseesscesecsesssessecsrssneeassreesessesessssessneeene 32
65 Managing Service Implementation ...........ccesesseseestesteeseesnseneenteeeeee 33

6.5.1 Counter Take On....

6.6 Monitoring and Managing Customer Satisfaction...........00sceeeseeees 34
6.6.2 Training

6.6.3 Preparations and documentation .........:ceseeseeeeeeeeeeeee 35
6.6.4 Service Visit RECOIS ......ccccesseseesseseeeeestessseseseeseseseseeneaeseeeene SS,
6.6.5 Routine monthly analysis... eects 3S,

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo
1. Introduction
This manual describes the operations of the Infrastructure Services Unit within
ICL Pathway Customer Service.
2. Scope
This manual describes only the operations associated with the Infrastructure
Services Unit.
In addition to this manual, process documents, lower-level procedures and
work instructions have been produced to describe the operations in more
detail. This manual has references to these documents throughout the main
body of the text; the Associated Documents section gives full references.
3. Overview

The purpose of the CS Infrastructure Services Unit is to support ICL Pathway
Customer Service in the day-to-day delivery of the ICL Pathway solution.

The unit is organised to cover three areas as shown in the following diagram.

CS Infrastructure
Services

[ i L

Management i I Business Effectiveness
support [ {

]
Strategic
services I

The functions carried out in these areas are:
e Management Support

The Management Support Unit supports the ICL Pathway operation in the
following areas:

Management Information Systems.

Vv

Information technology equipment

> EPOSS and APS transaction reconciliation

Vv

Performance benchmarking

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

¢ Business Effectiveness

The Business Effectiveness Team (BET) provides business process
engineering and quality management consultancy to the CS organisation.
The work performed by the BET includes:

> development and maintenance of the CS Policy and Process manuals;

Vv

alignment of CS cross-domain policy and processes;

v

development and maintenance of the CS Operations Manual;

Vv

development and maintenance of CS process definitions;

Vv

provision of advice and guidance on the development of operational
procedures;

Vv

audit of operational procedures.

e Strategic Services Unit
The Strategic Services Unit works to ensure:

» That services required by POCL, agreed and offered by ICL Pathway at the
Post Office Counter & NBSC are available when needed and meet our service
level commitments

> The Horizon systems being operated within Post Office Outlets are properly
implemented and remain useable for the Post Master (& NBSC) when
conducting everyday business

> Ahigh level of customer satisfaction is attained and sustained

4. Management support

The Management Support Unit supports the ICL Pathway operation in the
following areas:

¢ Management Information Systems

¢ Information technology equipment

e EPOSS and APS transaction reconciliation
e Performance benchmarking

The following sections describe the operations in these areas in more detail and
refers to the lower level ‘work instructions’ where they are available.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

4.1 Management Information Systems

The efficient provision of information to the customer, ICL Pathway and ICL /
Fujitsu staff about the performance of the ICL Pathway system is a key part of
the MIS component of the ICL Pathway solution. This activity is managed by
MSU in ICL Pathway Customer Service, with emphasis placed on the following
specific areas:

¢ The monitoring of service performance (in accordance with Service Level
Agreements, where applicable), raising and in some cases resolving any
issues arising there from

e The support of the activities of the CS organisation and the broader Pathway
ICL organisation through the provision of management information(MI) on
both a regular and ad-hoc basis

¢ To support Post Office counters Ltd (POCL) through the provision of
information on an ad hoc basis

In practical terms, this is achieved by means of a number of clearly identifiable
data extraction, processing and reporting activities that can be categorised
according to the nature of the requirement, i.e. what they are driven by:

¢ Legislative obligations

¢ Contractual obligations

© Good business practice

¢ Issue management and investigation

For the most part, these activities are periodic (daily, weekly monthly or
quarterly) but some are event driven. The following table identifies the specific
deliverables according to frequency:

Activity Driver Frequency
Service Performance Report MI Weekly
Service Review Book Contract I Monthly / Quarterly
Vital Statistics Report MI Monthly
Business Incident Management Report I Contract I Monthly
SLA Remedial Calculations Contract I Quarterly
Ad Hoc Query Customer I As Req
Outlet Data Maintenance MI Daily
Powerhelp Data Extraction MI Daily
HSH Performance Reporting MI Daily
Non polled Outlet Reporting MI Daily

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

4.1.1
4.1.2

4el.2u1

Producing and scheduling MIS reports

Ad hoc report queries

This section describes how MSU deals with ad hoc report queries in a
controlled manner to provide a response within five working days. Requests for
ad hoc reports come from a single point of contact within POCL Service
Management, or internally from departments within ICL Pathway

The procedure is completed by one of the MSU Information Analysts as follows:

1. When MSU receives an ad hoc report query, (via the Ad Hoc Query
Mailbox) on an Ad Hoc Query Request Form, the analyst updates the Ad Hoc
Query Database with details of the request and issues an immediate
confirmation of receipt by return of e-mail. The Analyst will also estimate
the length of time the report will take to produce or advise if the
information cannot be supplied.

2. The Ad Hoc Query Database enables MSU to control the requests that it
receives. If an ad hoc report is requested on a regular basis the Analyst asks
the requestor to confirm the frequency with which the report is required
and if the expectation is that the report is to continue, MSU will request the
originator to raise the appropriate Change Request documentation.

3. Ifthe Analyst estimates that the ad hoc report will take longer than 5 days to
complete, agreement with the requestor is sought for an extension to the
timescale. This is confirmed by e-mail via the Ad Hoc Query Mailbox.

4. When the report has been run and the results sent to the requestor, or if the
requestor cancelled the request, the Analyst will close the request and file
details of the report within the Ad Hoc Query Database

Weekly Service Performance Report Production

MSU publishes a Weekly Service Performance Report for the ICL Pathway
Management Team and others (on a need to know basis.) This report is
Generally contains data one week in arrears to enable the data to be collected
from the outlets. Wherever possible though, an up to date position is reflected
within this report. A reporting week falls Sunday through to the following
Saturday.

This report identifies key areas within the Horizon solution and analyses
volumetric and service performance information.
The MSU Information Analysts complete the report.

1. Obtain Transaction volumetrics from the Data Warehouse using the
Business Objects reporting tool for the applicable transaction streams
requiring analysis. Obtain Help Desk call details and volumetrics from the

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 36
FU.

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

4.1.3

413d

Powerhelp system or local databases using either the Business Objects
reporting tool or Access queries.

Analyse the information retrieved according to the requirements of the
report - these are ongoing and can change week on week

Present the data in the agreed manner - either in tabular or graphical
format. Include a written analysis of any trends and observations.

Alert respective departments within ICL Pathway of any adverse
performance noted. This should be completed via the PinICL system.

Pass the completed report sections to the Intranet Administrator to place
into the Customer Service Intranet site.

Issue hard copies of the report to the Management Team or others as
requested.

Service Level Agreements

The following sections describe how MSU monitors and maintains Service Level
Agreements for all ICL Pathway contracts that are under formal change control.

Maintaining Service Level Agreements

ICL Pathway stores and maintains service performance measures and related
data within a software application called the Service Level Contract
Administrator (SLCA). MSU maintains all parameters that relate to the service
levels on the SLCA via File Controller access.

MSU uses the SLCA to:

Raise a CP for a change of service performance measure agreed between
customer, ICL Pathway and associated supplier

Change parameter values via the Maintain performance measure facility in
the SLCA

Change the effective ‘from date’ for all changes made

Log changes using the audit module within the SLCA application giving
cross-references to the changes

Check that the electronic changes are reflected within the commercial
contracts of the Customer, ICL Pathway and associated supplier

The SLCA is also the means by which MSU applies manual performance
measures to the Service Level Agreement Monitor System (SLAM) at the end of
each service period.

MSU uses the SLCA for manual update to:

Enter details from source data in the format and structure defined in the
contract standing data application

Validate data before input and after input before commit

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 36

FUJ00119995
J00119995
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

¢ Log changes using the audit module within the SLCA
¢ Retain all source data used as input for audit purposes
e Input manual performance measures source data in the required time-frame
for the period under review
41.3.2 Monitoring Service Level Agreements
ICL Pathway has responsibilities to demonstrate to its customer that it:

¢ Monitors service delivery in all areas where performance measure criteria
exist

e Applies service management at all levels with alerts raised where service
falls below expectation

MSU will be using the Service Level Agreement Monitor application software to
do this once the feed of information into the Data Warehouse is considered to
be accurate enough to facilitate reporting in this manner. This is currently
under review.

Until this situation is reached, SLA conformance information is obtained from
MSU developed data bases and information supplied from the Pathway
suppliers:

HSH Telephony: Conformance information calculated by OSD and delivered to
MSU daily

HSH Call to Resolution: Call details obtained by OSD and delivered to MSU
daily where conformance is calculated

System Service: Call details obtained by OSD, amendments to call duration are
calculated by OSD and supplied to MSU on a daily basis where conformance is
calculated

Data File Delivery: TPS - MSU run SQL query against Data Warehouse

APS / OBCS - Pathway development supply to MSU
Data Delivery: APS ref Data / OBCS Stops / Ref Data - calculated by MSU
The SLAM application is a service management review tool that:

e Facilitates service level monitoring of all aspects of the delivered service by
the Customer Service management team

¢ Provides daily exception reports (via a traffic light presentation) for all
performance measures that fail to conform to agreed levels

e Identifies failure at both the minimum acceptable and termination review
levels where applicable

¢ Provides top level visibility of the delivered service to all members of the ICL
Pathway senior management team.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

4.1.4

41.4.1

¢ Makes service performance reports available for the monthly service review
forums between ICL Pathway and customer, and ICL Pathway and suppliers

Access and use of SLAM is via password control. This enables MSU to control
which service levels that each user sees.

Users are:
e ICL Pathway Customer Service management and MSU
e ICL Pathway Senior Management

¢ Customer/Suppliers option at future releases of the product

Business volumetrics

The ICL Pathway programme is significantly affected by the level and variance
of business volumetrics. The baseline for volumetrics is the reference source of
the Workload Brief, subsequently updated and maintained as the Workload
Compendium. This is a customer-owned document from which the MIS Unit
generates enhanced supporting business volumetrics on behalf of ICL Pathway.

The outputs from this impact analysis are the prime source of data for planning
and sizing activities carried out by the ICL Pathway development teams and by
ICL Pathway's suppliers.

When a new version of the Workload Compendium is issued, the MIS Unit
carries out an impact analysis on any changed areas. If the level of change in
any area is greater than 5%, the MIS Unit notifies the ICL Pathway Director,
Finance and Commercial to enable contractual variance analysis to be carried
out and provides associated impact analysis data.

Supplementary impact can arise from changes to supplier-related volumetrics
as described in the following sections. They are dealt with and processed in the
same manner as changes to the Workload Compendium.

After carrying out the impact analysis of any changes, the MIS Unit update the
ICL Pathway Business Volumetrics portfolio. This portfolio is the means by
which business volumetric changes are communicated to ICL Pathway.

Implementing business volumetrics processing is described in associated work
procedures and instructions held by the MIS Unit.

Horizon System Helpdesk volumetrics

The MIS Unit maintains Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) call volumetrics. The
HSH volumetrics model provides data about HSH call volumetrics during the
whole life of the ICL Pathway system. In particular, it produces daily and
monthly analyses.

The outputs from the model are a main source of data for planning and
commercial use by the HSH supplier as well as for sizing activities by the ICL
Pathway development teams.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 36
FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

The key input parameters that contribute to re-appraisal of the HSH call
volumetrics model and result in a new issue of the model are changes to:

¢ Workload Compendium

¢ Horizon plan

e ICL Pathway commercial model
e System MTBF parameters

Less significant changes that result in reappraisal of the HSH call volumetrics
model and result in an update to the current model are:

© Minor adjustment in roll-out programme profile
e Correction to key commercial ratios

e Minor update to ICL Pathway commercial model
¢ Minor changes in Workload Compendium

© Minor changes in Horizon plan

In addition to the above, MSU and the HSH Manager hold a quarterly review of
the key ratios relating to inappropriate calls handled by the HSH. Where they
agree, they adjust the key ratios accordingly and release a new version of the
current HSH model.

Before releasing a new version of the model, either within ICL Pathway or
externally, the MIS Unit ensures that the Director, Customer Service, validates
the model and the Director, Finance and Commercial, authorises it. ICL
Outsourcing receives a copy of each variant of the HSH call volumetric model
output.

MSU updates the ICL Pathway Business Volumetrics portfolio with details
about changes to the HSH model. This portfolio is the means by which business
volumetric changes are communicated throughout ICL Pathway.

Implementing HSH call volumetrics processing is described in associated work
procedures and instructions held by MSU.

4.1.4.2 Ad hoc analysis volumetrics

MSU deals with ad hoc analysis volumetrics as they arise. It obtains source data
either from the existing volumetrics models or by specific enquiry to the ICL
Pathway MIS Data Warehouse by access to a Business Objects Universe.

MSU only accepts requests for ad hoc data volumetrics from sources who are
authorised to have access to the data. Requestors must make requests to MSU
on an Ad Hoc Query Request Form. The MIS Unit supplies the form to the
requestor either electronically or as a hard copy.

MSU reviews requests for ad hoc volumetrics and, if it finds them acceptable,
gives the requestor an estimate of:

e Delivery time

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

¢ Format of results

¢ Constraints that limit the resolution of the query
e Limits to be applied

If it is unable to progress the query, MSU gives:

e Reasons for not progressing the query or for delay
© Costs that may need to be met

e Limitations of use of any data to be provided

MSU aims to provide a response to all queries within a time-frame
commensurate with business need and cost in an effective and professional
manner,

Implementing ad hoc volumetrics query processing is described in associated
work procedures and instructions held by MSU.
4.1.5 CS intranet site

The CS Infrastructure Services unit provides and maintains an intranet site for
use by ICL Pathway Customer Service and senior ICL Pathway management.
The site address is currently

IRRELEVANT

The site is based on a Windows NT Personal Web Server; the documents are
created using MS FrontPage.

Currently, the site provides the following facilities and information:
¢ Management information reports

e Discussion forum

e ICL Pathway CS organisation and contact information

¢ Noticeboard

e CS procedures and operations manuals

© Site search

The CS intranet site administrator is responsible for maintaining and
developing the site. This includes the following tasks:

e Updating and archiving reports
¢ Managing usernames and password access to report pages

e Updating organisational information. Note that staff are expected to update
their own personal and contact details

¢ Managing the discussion forum

e Ensuring that procedures and operations manuals on the site are updated to
reflect the latest versions of documents in the ICL Pathway library

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 15 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

More detailed information and the procedures for carrying out these tasks are
available on the site at:

4.2 Information technology equipment

The CS Infrastructure Services Unit is responsible for ordering all Office
Desktop equipment for ICL Pathway. The process involves a number of people
and departments within and outside ICL Pathway:

¢ The originator of the request for IT equipment

e The CS Infrastructure Services IT administrator who manages the ordering
process

e The ICL Pathway Accounts Department which raises the purchase order and
pays the invoice

e The supplier who supplies the goods or service

The following description of the process is divided into three sections:
1, Raising an order

2. Processing an order

3. Receiving the goods

4.2.1 Raising an order
To raise an order:

1. The individual originating the order identifies the requirement and
technical specifications of the equipment.

For standard desktop equipment, for example, PCs and printers, CS
Infrastructure Services are able to advise on what to purchase and the
suppliers to use so a detailed technical specification need not accompany
such requests. For non-standard orders, for example, specific software or
servers, it is the responsibility of the originator to determine the
specifications and technical requirements

2. The originator checks with CS Infrastructure Services to see if the proposed
supplier is already registered on the ordering system.

If there is a known supplier, the originator checks with the CS IT
department to find out if they have the supplier’s information. For a new
supplier, the originator provides the supplier’s bank details and a copy of the
supplier’s company letterhead showing the VAT number with the purchase
request

3. Having established the specification and technical requirements the
originator completes a Purchase Order Request Form (PORF). Refer to Local

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 16 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

Procedure when raising a purchase order (CS/PRO/105) when raising the
order

4. The originator takes the completed PORF to his or her department manager
for approval

5. The originator sends the completed PORF to the IT administrator in the CS
Infrastructure Services Unit together with any quotations they have
obtained and any Change Proposals they have raised

4.2.2 Processing an order
To process an order after the originator has completed the PORF:

1. The IT administrator checks the PORF and decides whether the order is a
standard, blanket, or call off order. See Purchasing Goods and Services
(PA/PRO/o20) for more details. He or she then assigns a reference number
to the order

2. The IT administrator checks that the correct cost centre code has been used
and obtains authorisation of the completed PORF from the manager of the
CS Infrastructure Services Unit.

If an order is rejected, the IT administrator informs the originator of the
reason for the rejection

3. The IT administrator enters the order details on to the Oracle Database and
passes the PORF to the Accounts Department for the purchase order to be
raised. The Accounts Department creates the purchase order, adding
supplier account codes and giving the purchase order a unique number

4. The Accounts Department returns a hard copy of the purchase order to the
CS IT department within 24 hours of receiving the PORF

5. The IT administrator attaches a copy of the purchase order to the rest of the
order information and enters the details of the order onto a spreadsheet for
reference purposes, such as monthly analysis

6. The IT administrator faxes the purchase order to the supplier together with
an order Acknowledgement Form

7. The supplier faxes the Acknowledgement Form back to ICL Pathway to
acknowledge receipt of the order and advise ICL Pathway of the expected
delivery date

8. The IT administrator emails the originator with the expected delivery date
so that the originator can arrange to accept the delivery when it arrives
4.2.3 Receiving the delivery

To receive the delivery:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

1. When the goods are delivered to ICL Pathway, the IT administrator is
contacted and informs the originators asking them to collect and sign for
the goods.

Note: CS Infrastructure Services do not store deliveries. Once they have
advised the originator of a delivery, the originator must make arrangements
to collect the goods.

If the goods are delivered off-site, the supplier sends a copy of the delivery
note to the CS IT administrator. An appropriate person on-site checks and
signs for the goods and informs the CS IT administrator of any problems

2. The IT administrator files a copy of the delivery note with the rest of the
order documentation

3. The supplier sends the invoice directly to the ICL Pathway Accounts
Department
The Accounts Department checks the invoice against the original purchase
order. When they are satisfied that the invoice matches the purchase order,
they send the invoice to the originator

4. The originator checks the invoice against the delivered goods to confirm
that they also match and, if so, returns the invoice to the Accounts
Department for payment

4.3 EPOSS and APS reconciliation

Reconciliation incidents may arise for a number of different reasons. In all cases
there is a mismatch between the information held in different parts of the ICL
Pathway system. The task of the Management Support Unit (MSU) is to
investigate and financially resolve reconciliation incidents. If a similar
reconciliation incident occurs a number of times, the MSU identifies it as a
problem incident to be managed through the problem management process.

Possible incidents that may occur are:

e Rejected transactions

¢ Unmatched transaction reversals

e Transaction rejection by HAPS (APS)

e Transaction rejection by TIP

e Incidents raised by clients

e Incidents raised by customers

e EPOSS counter reconciliation report errors

Reconciliation and Business Incidents will be jointly investigated by the
Business Incident Administrator and the Business Support Analyst as directed
by the Business Incident Team Leader.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 18 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

4.3.1

4.3.2

4.3.3

Daily APS and EPOSS reconciliation report retrieval and checking

Prior to release CSR+, APS reports are obtained via Business Objects Reporting
tool running on the APR universe held on the MIS client within CS / MSU.
Reports are generated automatically via the Document Agent Server and are
available at 08.oohrs daily.

Prior to release CSR+, EPOSS reports are delivered to CS / MSU via e mail
having been extracted from the central systems by CS /SSC. Reports are
available daily at 08.0ohrs

Following the implementation of release CSR+, the full set of APS and EPOSS
reconciliation reports are delivered automatically to the appropriate folder held
on the MIS Client PC situated within MSU. These reports are available daily at
08.oohrs. In the event that a system problem prevents this automatic process
from being completed, both APS and EPOSS reports will be extracted from
central systems by CS / SSC and delivered to CS /MSU daily via e mail to be
available at 08.oohrs.

The Business Incident Administrator will retrieve and print the reports daily
and distribute to the Business Support Analyst who will investigate any
incidents or queries identified

Investigating reconciliation incidents

This section describes the general procedure that the MSU follows to
investigate all types of reconciliation incidents. The MSU:

1. Receives notification of the incident via a PinICL from the HSH that
includes details of the transactions that have failed

2. Raises a report on the Business Incident Management System (BIMS)
including details of the rejected transaction. Where applicable a Manual
Error Report (MER) is issued

3. Investigates the reason for the transaction rejection by checking the
transaction details for invalid or corrupted fields

4. Finds the correct details and adds them to the BIMS report
5. Issues the BIMS report to POCL

Dealing with recurring reconciliation incidents

This section describes the procedure to deal with recurring reconciliation
incidents.

This procedure is jointly carried out by the MSU and the Customer Service
Problem Manager (CSPM). The CS Problem Manager investigates the incident
after the Management Support Unit has dealt with the financial reconciliation.

The procedure is as follows:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

1. Ifthe same or similar reconciliation incident occurs more than once, the
MSU reports it as a problem incident to the Customer Service Problem
Manager (CSPM) by sending an email requesting investigation of the
incident.

The email contains details of the type of incident and the PinICL reference
number. In addition, the MSU passes hard copies of all similar incidents to
the CSPM

2. The CSPM progresses the incident investigation after the MSU has carried
out financial reconciliation. The MSU requests a response time from the
CSPM of less than two weeks

3. The CSPM sends a progress report detailing the findings of the investigation
to the MSU on an agreed date

4. On receiving the progress report, the MSU updates the existing RED
incident report

5. IfPOCL or the Horizon System Service Manager (HSSM) request further
investigation of the problem incident, the MSU issues an updated RED
incident report to POCL and HSSM for information

Invoicing If a MER is issued to supply details of missing or erroneous
transactions, Pathway are liable for an agreed charge. MSU manager and POCL
agree on a monthly basis the level of this charge based upon the number of
MER’s issued. If agreement cannot be reached between the two parties, a Case
Law referral form is completed by the MSU manager and passed to Pathway
Commercial for discussion and agreement with POCL commercial. The
subsequent decision is then used as a precedent for similar incidents which may
occur.

4.331 Dealing with reconciliation enquiries

Enquiries resulting from POCL being unable to complete a reconciliation of the
ICL Pathway reports to their internal totals are referred to the Horizon System
Helpdesk.

The Helpdesk logs the call and provides a call reference number. If the query is
resolved during this initial call, the Helpdesk closes the call.

If the Helpdesk is unable to resolve the query, it passes the call to the ICL
Pathway MSU reconciliation team who take over ownership of the call and
communicate directly with POCL to resolve it.

The reconciliation team logs all the calls that they receive requiring
investigation as reconciliation queries and maintains a full audit trail.
4.3.3.2 Archiving the reports

Customer Service hold electronic copies of all reconciliation reports for seven
years and are able to provide copies of any reconciliation report or file on
request within this period.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 20 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

4.4 Performance benchmarking

The purpose of performance benchmarking is to determine and agree the
benchmark transaction times that enable monitoring of service performance
against contracted POCL service levels. The Service Levels and Remedies
Contract Schedules Eo8 (APS) and Fo8 (EPOSS) define the maximum
contracted transaction times for various counter transactions.

1

The Service Manager - Benchmarks (SMB) reviews the Contract Schedule
and identifies and agrees with POCL the transaction types that require
benchmark transaction times to be derived

He obtains the existing process flow maps and transaction times which
relate to these transaction types from POCL

The SMB develops a process flow map for each identified transaction type
using process management software.

The process flow map contains all the manual and system components
required to carry out the transaction and connects them in serial and
parallel flows based on the logical performance of the procedure. To ensure
consistent results and the practicability of the procedure, the performance
of the transaction follows the documented counter procedure described in
the relevant Processes and Procedures Description (PPD)

The SMB develops provisional benchmark times for components within the
process flow map and incorporates these times in the process flow map,
ensuring that the map reflects the most efficient practical sequence of
activities and hence the critical path.

Any amendments to the map are made through, where necessary, the
change control process

The SMB aggregates the corresponding manual and system component
times on the critical path to produce an overall transaction time. The SMB
highlights to the appropriate managers any potential non-conformance to
the maximum contracted transaction time

The SMB reviews the process flow map and provisional benchmark
transaction time with POCL to identify and agree any changes required.
Where necessary, the SMB incorporates any agreed changes into the process
flow map and benchmark times through the change control process

For each transaction, the SMB identifies the system components that
require measurement and develops test scripts for the measurement
exercise. The test scripts comprise the activities that must be carried out in
order to observe each system component. The confidence level and accuracy
requirements are also identified in order to determine the number of
observations required

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

8. The SMB ensures that a configuration replicating the counter environment
and appropriate test data are available for the exercise and arranges for a
Business Research Establishment (BRE) consultant to video the exercise.

The SMB may also invite POCL to attend the exercise if this is felt to be
appropriate

9. During the measurement exercise, the SMB carries out the transactions on
the system in accordance with the test scripts. This is recorded by the BRE
consultant using a broadcast - quality video camera. Each second of the film
in record mode is extended to 25 seconds in playback mode in order that the
system component times may be observed precisely and to an accuracy of
4/1ooths of a second.

From the film of the measurement exercise, the SMB calculates the mean of
each system component time together with its standard deviation and
confidence interval

10, The SMB examines the effect of the measured system component times on
the process flow maps and the provisional benchmark transaction times and
amends them accordingly.

Any potential non-conformances to the maximum contracted transaction
times perceived at this stage are highlighted to the appropriate managers

u. The SMB produces a report detailing the results of the benchmarking
exercise

12, POCL reviews the report with a view to agreeing the process flow maps,
benchmark transaction times and system component measurement
methods. The SMB provides audit capabilities which comprise the
inspection of the results of the system component measurement exercise

13. The SMB examines any changes proposed by POCL to the report and, where
appropriate, agrees and incorporates them through the change control
process

14. The CS Infrastructure Services Manager and POCL jointly agree and sign-off
the benchmark report to indicate their acceptance of the proposed
benchmark counter transaction times

15. The SMB ensures that the target times for system components that require
in live operation are added to the relevant service level contract schedules
through the change control process. The target times are derived from the
agreed benchmark report and reflect the maximum time allowable for the
component without having an impact on the overall transaction time

16. The SMB ensures that management information relating to the performance
of system components that require measurement in live operation is
available on a monthly basis

The SMB analyses the monthly system performance management information
and assesses the impact of performance on transaction times. The SMB will
review benchmark transaction times in response to reported poor live

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

performance and highlight to the appropriate managers any potential non-
conformance to the maximum contracted transaction times

17. The SMB reviews the benchmark transaction times following POCL
notification of a potential failure to meet any benchmark system component
times which are not measured in live operation

18. The SMB reviews the maximum contracted and benchmark transaction
times following any agreed changes in product, software or counter
procedures. POCL determines when such a review is required

4.5 Other benchmarking activities

The SMB also undertakes transaction benchmarking for purposes other than
monitoring service performance against contracted POCL service levels. For
example, benchmark transaction times may be needed to ensure that supplier
charges are appropriate. In general, such benchmarking follows the same
procedure as for performance benchmarking. However, the people involved and
the report contents differ with the specific requirements of each exercise.

5. Business Effectiveness

The Business Effectiveness Team (BET) provides business process engineering
and quality management consultancy to the CS organisation. The work
performed by the BET includes:

e development and maintenance of the CS Policy and Process manuals;
¢ alignment of CS cross-domain policy;

e development and maintenance of the CS Operations Manual set;

e planning and control of process and quality projects;

e development and maintenance of CS process definitions;

¢ provision of advice and guidance on the development of operational
procedures;

5.1 Development and maintenance of CS PE and Q
methodology

The methodology is updated at the discretion of the Business Effectiveness
Manager to incorporate new ideas or changes in the way of working. The
methodology is approved by the ICL Pathway CS Director. The methodology is
recorded in the ICL Pathway library.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 23 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

5.2

5.3

5.4

Alignment of CS cross-domain policy

Members of the BET meet with nominated post office managers, on an as
required basis, to develop and agree service management policy. The policy is
published in jointly approved Service Management Framework documents.

Chairmanship of joint ICL Pathway and post office meetings is alternated
between the ICL Pathway Business Effectiveness Manager and the nominated
post office chairman. The chairman is responsible for publishing an agenda and
circulating minutes.

Development and maintenance of the CS Operations
Manuals

As input to the ICL Pathway Quality Management System, Customer Service
develop and maintain a set of Operations Manuals. The set of five manuals
detail the following information in relation to each of the CS units:

¢ Unit Organisation charts

¢ Unit responsibilities/deliverables

¢ Cross reference to operational processes, procedures and work instructions
e Operational interfaces

Update and reissue of each manual is the responsibility of the manual owner,
normally designated as the unit manager but may differ. The BET is responsible
for ensuring that regular reviews take place and that the manuals reflect
conformance to latest policy and practice and also that latest versions are
lodged within the ICL Pathway document library.

Planning and control of process and quality projects

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 24 of 36
ICL Pathway

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual

FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
Ref: CS/QMS/006
Version: 1.0
Date: 7/u/oo

Approved changes that
impact service
management processes

Service management
process improvement
opportunities

Current processes for
review and/or update

Proposed process or quality projects

Service management
process problems

Service management
process issues

Back-log of defined
process or quality projects
awaiting allocation

Allocated process
or quality projects
in progress

Completed process or quality
projects with relevant documents
recorded in the ICL Pathway library

Process and quality projects can arise from:

a

Interrupted process
or quality projects
awaiting re-start

I

* an identified need to review or update an existing process;

an approved change that has service management process implications;
a service management process improvement opportunity;
a service management process problem;

a service management issue (general category that includes issues raised
formally and informal communication).

Members of the BET work with project sponsors to create project proposals,
which define the:

project scope;
business justification;
date required;

progress reporting requirements.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 25 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

5.5

Project proposals are formally approved by project sponsors. Following
approval, the projects are entered into the back-log of work awaiting allocation
to a BET consultant. The project sponsor is kept updated with the planned
start date.

Projects are allocated to BET consultants, taking into account the business
justification and the date required. BET consultants manage allocated projects
to completion and report progress to the agreed distribution, at the agreed
frequency. Any conflicts between the available BET consultancy resource and
the project workload are handled initially by the Business Effectiveness
Manager. By exception resource issues are escalated to the ICL Pathway CS
Infrastructure Services Manager.

By exception resource external to the BET, with appropriate skills, may be used
on process and quality projects. In this case there will also be an allocated BET
consultant to oversee the work of the external resource and provide support if
and when required.

Allocated projects may be interrupted at the discretion of the Business
Effectiveness Manager in order to progress higher priority work. The project
remains with the allocated BET consultant and is re-started when the higher
priority work is cleared. Projects may be re-allocated at the discretion of the
Business Effectiveness Manager.

The results of projects are initially published in draft reports and following
validation are approved by the project sponsor and other relevant authorities.
Draft project reports and approved versions are recorded in the ICL Pathway
library.

Any unresolved issues relating to process or quality projects are escalated to the
Business Effectiveness Manager immediately via Email and included in monthly
reports. The escalation route for issues that cannot be resolved by the Business
Effectiveness Manager is the ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Manager.

Development and maintenance of CS process definitions

Process projects include the development and maintenance of:
e policy statements to support and clarify process definition;

e end-to-end definitions for the key service management processes to
facilitate the maximisation of business effectiveness;

e focused process definitions to define how a specific part of the business
operates;

© process definitions to evaluate alternative support policies or strategies;

e process flow analysis to identify work load sensitivity and capacity
requirements.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 26 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

5.6 Provision of advice and guidance on the development of
operational procedures

The BET provides, on request or at the discretion of the BET consultants, advice
and guidance on the development of operational procedures. This includes:

e helping managers position their operational procedures within the process
framework;

© providing additional information relating to cross-organisational interfaces;

e providing guidance on the evaluation of alternative approaches and the
selection of the optimum solution;

e helping operational managers resolve procedural issues.

5.7 Audit of operational procedures

The BET ensures Quality Conformance within CS. This is achieved by:
¢ audits of operational procedures;

© ongoing audit and review of the end-to-end processes.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 27 of 36
ICL Pathway

FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

6. Strategic Services Unit

6.1 Strategic Services Unit — Terms of Reference

The Strategic Services Unit works to ensure:

That the services required by POCL, agreed and offered by ICL Pathway at the
Post Office Counters & NBSC are available when needed and meet any service
level commitments associated with those services

The Horizon systems being operated within Post Office Outlets are properly
implemented and remain useable for the Post Master (& NBSC) when
conducting everyday business

A high level of customer satisfaction is attained and sustained

Strategic Services Unit activities are completed by service management staff,
executing those processes implemented through the service management
frameworks and agreed with POCL. Those processes are:

The Incident Management Process

The Problem Management Process

The Complaint Management Process

Service Management is provided by the unit to monitor three delivery streams,
which support:

The implementation of Horizon Systems at Post Office outlets

The operation of the Horizon Systems and use of Horizon Services by the Post
Office Outlet (and NBSC) in support of Business as Usual activity

The Change of Horizon Systems and Services supplied to the Post Office
Outlet

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 28 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

Additionally Customer Satisfaction is monitored by the team, through the

complaint management process and management care visit program
(suspended - see below)

The work carried out by the Strategic Services Unit is reflected in the model
below.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 29 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: — 7/u/oo
STRATEGIC SERVICES
- MANAGEMENT MODEL
SERVICE AVAILABILITY
SYSTEM USABILITY
The
Post Office
Outlet & NBSC
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
SERVICE LEVEL ACHIEVEMENT THE
CUSTOMER
INTERFACE
IMPLEMENTATION BUSINESS AS CHANGE
USUAL ACTIVITY
SUPPLY LINES

KEY SERVICE DRIVERS ICL PATHWAY

e CONTRACT (S) e

e KNOWLEDGE e

e TECHNOLOGY e

e RESOURCE e

e PROCESS & PROCEDURE °

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 30 of 36
FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

6.2

6.2.1

6.2.2

Change Management

The Strategic Services Unit provides services to implement agreed changes to
the installed state of an Horizon counter system within an outlet; That is
changes that occur, as a result of POCL conducting change within the Post
Office Retail Network - supporting activities such as open, close or relocate an
outlet.

Overview

Agreed changes are those defined as requirements within the Operational
Business Change catalogue, agreed between POCL and ICL Pathway -
document ref CS/REQ/o06. Agreed changes are changes that are identified and
prepared for in advance and do not require software code changes. Through
change ICL Pathway supports the delivery the following post office outlet
activity.

e EMERGENCY Outlet Closure
ICL Pathway receives minimal notice of closure and the closure can only be
temporary and is short term generally <3 days.

e SIMPLE Outlet Re-opening
This only applies following an emergency closure when no site visit or
Reference Data change is needed before re-opening

e PLANNED Outlet Closure
Any closure other than an emergency closure. Planned closures can be
either temporary or permanent.

e PLANNED Outlet Refurbishment (same counter configuration)

¢ PLANNED Outlet Opening, Outlet Relocation or Outlet Refurbishment (new
counter configuration)

¢ ADVANCED AND BASIC Reference Data Changes to Office Details

Process for outlet change

The process to implement each type of outlet change includes the following
stages:

¢ The receipt and processing of the change order from POCL, to defined time
scales

¢ The scheduling and delivery of individual services to the Post Office Outlet,
by ICL Pathway

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 31 of 36
FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

6.2.3

6.3

¢ The end to end management of the delivery process, which links all of the
change services together, and ensures the successful delivery of the change

¢ The final acceptance of the change by the Post Master at the Post Office
Outlet

The end to end management of the change delivery process is the
responsibility of change service controllers within ICL Pathway customer
service. The following document set governs the delivery of outlet change
activity to the Post Office Outlet.

[CS/REQ/006 - OBC Change Catalogue]

[CS/PDN/0o15 - Outlet Change Service Descriptions]

[CS/PDN/o17 - Outlet Change Schedule of Service Prices] [Under review and
awaiting agreement with the customer]

[CS/IFS/003 - ICL Pathway/POCL Interface Agreement for Operational
Business Change - Outlet]

[CS/PDN/o29 - The Management Process for Operational Business Change —
Outlet]

Service Monitoring

There is a continuous stream of change activity, which is active work in
progress. The delivery of change is the subject to daily monitoring and on
going telephone and electronic mail discussion with suppliers and customers.

A unit database is used to monitor and control operational changes and a new
tool [OCMS] is planned for delivery at the end of February 2001 to enhance
this monitoring capability. A completion record for all changes is sent to the
customer.

Additionally any major supplier issues (which are rare in this area) are fed in
to the monthly supplier review for action and resolution. Likewise any major
customer issues are introduced the monthly customer review (Network
Transformation Team Meeting) for action and resolution.

Managing Business As Usual Activity

The Strategic Services Unit monitors the delivery of support for the operation
of the Horizon within Post Office Outlets. To this end the unit is concerned
that:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 32 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

e ICL Pathway Services are available to the Post Office Outlet - when needed

¢ The Horizon System is available for use at the Post Office Outlet - when
needed

¢ The Horizon System is usable by the Post Master

6.3.1 Overview

The delivery of service in a business as usual environment is clearly focussed
on:

¢ The management to resolution of incidents and problems
¢ The management of supplier relationships and

¢ The management of customer relationships

6.3.2 Key Processes

In monitoring the delivery of service, the Strategic Services Unit works within
the bounds of the Service Management Framework established between POCL
and ICL Pathway. The framework provides the service management team with
the tools and rules for doing their job, as defined within the following key
processes:

¢ The Incident Management Process
¢ The Problem Management Process

¢ The Customer Complaint Process

When Managing Incidents and Problems the Strategic Services Unit works to
ensure:

¢ The Incident Management process, supports the flow of incidents through
the support chain, and that matters relating to the quality and performance
of suppliers operating the incident management process are properly
addressed and resolved

¢ The Incident Management process, supports the prompt resolution of
incidents and achievement of agreed service levels

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 33 of 36
FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

¢ Incident trends or incidents of major business impact are captured,
recorded as problems and are effectively managed through the Problem
Management process

¢ Customer complaints are dealt with both quickly and appropriately

6.3.3 Service Monitoring

A good customer/supplier relationship is essential to the successful delivery of
service to the Post Office outlet. To this end both customer and supplier
relationships and delivery of service are managed, monitored and reviewed
through a tightly controlled review process in which the Strategic Services Unit
plays a very active part.

The specific set of reviews the Strategic Services Unit play an active part in are:

¢ The Cross Domain Problem Management Forum - where problems
impacting on both POCL and ICL Pathway are reviewed and progressed ona
monthly basis

¢ The HSH/NBSC Review Forum - where operational matters effecting the
delivery of service to the Post Office Counter are managed and customer
complaints are dealt with

© The OSD Service Review, where the “key” suppliers performance is reported
and reviewed

¢ The Horizon Service Review Forum where ICL Pathway performance in the
delivery of the end to end service is measured

6.4 Key Suppliers

The key suppliers monitored through the OSD Service Review process by
Strategic Services are:

¢ Horizon System Helpdesk - who provide the single point of contact for Post
Masters with Horizon System and Service problems

¢ UK System Service - who provide engineering services at the post office
outlet, for both business as usual activity and change

The ICL Pathway Management Support Unit is also a key supplier to the unit.
The MSU provides service performance information used by the Strategic

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 34 of 36
FUJ00119995
FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

6.5

6.5.1

Services Unit to monitor and improve the service delivered to the customer.
The performance data is held on the CS Intranet - a local web site.

Additionally the following document set provide essential information for, the
successful, delivery of business as usual activity to the Post Office Outlet.

[CS/FS/o05 HSH Incident Prioritisation]

[CS/FSP/o02 HSH Call Enquiry Matrix]

[CS/PLA/o15 HSH Continuity Plan]

[CS/PRD/oz21 ICL Pathway Problem Management Process]
[CS/PRD/074 ICL Pathway Incident Management Process]

Managing Service Implementation

The Strategic Services Unit has an interest in and monitors the:

¢ Introduction of new sites to live service
¢ Introduction of new services or software changes to the counter
¢ Level of customer satisfaction being achieved

Such is the success of the Post Office role out the Strategic Service Unit
monitors the implementation of sites through it’s supplier the SMC on an
exception basis.

Counter Take On

SMC manage counter take on. Strategic Services Unit will manage exceptional
issues, which occur at the SMC interface with implementation, if:

¢ Anew outlets fail to pass SMC tests for outlet take on, which includes site
health checks

¢ The business as usual activity conducted by the outlet is impacted,
negatively, while the Horizon solution is introduced and integrated in to the
office operation

Such issues are generally reported to Strategic Services Unit by SMC or
Implementation and are tracked through the POWERHELP call management
system.

The counter take-on process executed by the System Management Centre,
involves Engineering Service, Horizon Field Support Teams and KnowledgePool
and confirms the following is achieved before the Post Office outlet goes live.

a) Operational checks are complete successfully

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 35 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

b) Minimum training compliance is achieved
c)  Allimplementation calls relevant to the outlet are closed
d) Hardware acceptance and health check is complete successfully

e) Outlet migration is achieved successfully

6.6 Monitoring and Managing Customer Satisfaction

The MCVP process is suspended while ICL Pathway work with the POCL to
decide how they wish to progress this activity.

6.6.1 MCVP

To monitor the users’ perception of ICL Pathway’s post-implementation
services, the Strategic Services Unit manages the Management Care Visit
Program (MCVP) - a monitoring program implemented to ensure ICL
Pathway fully understands the Post Masters view of our service. The MCVP
involves senior ICL Pathway representatives visiting selected post offices and
collecting feedback using a predefined interview pack. And following the
completion of the Horizon Roll Out program it is expected around 500 outlets
per annum will be visited.

6.6.2 Training

Before the interviewers have any contact with the post offices, the Strategic
Services Implementation Manager will

1. Explains the purpose and the goals of the MCVP
2. Goes through the interview procedure and questionnaire in detail
3. Presents all other relevant documentation

4. Answers any questions and addresses any concerns raised by the
interviewers

All interviewers will be briefed to inform them that each interview must follow
a standard procedure so that the results can be fairly compared and a true
analysis obtained.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 36 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995

ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

6.6.3

6.6.4

6.6.5

Preparations and documentation

The interviewers will be electronic copies of relevant documentation, plus
hard copy interview packs containing all relevant reference documentation.
The interviewers maintain the interview packs as necessary and take them to
interviews. The interview pack contains:

° Procedure document (including the Interviewer’s Summary Guide)
. Phone script

° Sample forms

. Other documents that the questionnaire refers to

. Questionnaire

¢ List of post offices to contact

The interviewer will then arrange interviews at the Post Office Outlets
allocated to them, attend and conduct the interview and complete the MCVP
report.

Service Visit Records

In addition to the MCVP the Strategic Services Unit also runs the Service Visit
Reply card process, which is used to monitor the service performance
achieved by ICL engineers who visit outlets to conduct remedial or change
activity.

Through this process Post Masters are able to comment on the quality of the
service provided by an engineer during his visit, including any related contact
to the Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH).

Routine monthly analysis

The Strategic Services Unit carry out an initial analysis of the returned cards
and pick out any issues needing immediate action. Having done this, the cards
are then passed to the Management Support Unit for monthly analysis and
formal reporting purposes. Generally reports cover:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 37 of 36
FUJ00119995

FUJ00119995
ICL Pathway CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/o006
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 7/u/oo

¢ The percentage of feedback cards returned compared with total visits made.
ICL System Service provide the number of total visits made

¢ The percentage of positive and negative responses by question

¢ Comments on key areas of satisfaction or dissatisfaction

© 2000 ICL Pathway Ltd ©» COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 38 of 36
