Manual Error Report — Liquidated Damages Costs
Open BIMS database
Select Pre-Defined Reports / MER Output from the main menu.
For the start date, enter a date commencing a few days before the month, for the
end date, add at least 5 days after the end of the month to ensure that all ‘B’ priorities
are captured.
Copy and paste all the data presented into a new Excel spreadsheet.
Change the column entitled HSH Reference to BIMS Reference
Format columns A and G to date; format MER Set Amount column to currency.
Sort by BIMS reference.

Highlight all the entries.

Highlight harvester exceptions using another colour and note that remedies are not
relevant.

Investigate any discrepancies (date raised, any incomplete BIMs? Why? When?
Suspended? Followed up? etc) and identify why the call is on the report.

Add MER comments to explain whether Fujitsu are liable. Check previous MER
reports for wording/phrasing of common errors.

If Fujitsu is at fault, highlight using another colour.
Under Chargeable Errors, add how many exceptions per call.
Charging criteria:- If Fujitsu are liable:

o £100 per exception for EPOSS/POLFS (ie customer query / TPS) where face
value is under £100

o £150 per exception for EPOSS/POLFS (ie customer query / TPS) where face
value is in excess of £100

o Value of the exception for APS

o No other charges currently apply

Total MER amounts at the bottom of the spreadsheet.
Save in Z:\MIS Team\Remedies\Manual Error Reports\relevant year and quarter

Go into BIMS database select the specific BIM, select Settlement Tab, under MER
Details section enter charging details and explanations. Complete for all identified
cost related BIMs. Also complete for all BIMs where costs are not applicable,
explaining why. No other amendments made.

Go to Pre-Defined Reports / Charging Details Report — select month and year.
Report (CRmmmmyyyy) will be exported to B/Ms_BE/BiMs_Docs. Move document
to Z:\MIS Team\Remedies\Manual Error Reports\relevant year and quarter

Go into PON Remedial Summary (Relevant Year) / MER Liability Case Law
(Relevant Year) Add chargeable total to the table.

FUJ00232622
FUJ00232622
FUJ00232622
FUJ00232622

e Quarterly invoicing (due quarter plus 10 days) —- go to Remedies/Manual Error
Reports/previous quarter/year invoice and copy and paste into current quarter.
Amend details and save.

e Send Charging Detail Reports for the 3 months for the quarter to Scott Somerside
and Antonio Jamasb of Post Office.

e Send invoice to Caroline Walker, copied to Tony Atkinson and Donna Munro.

* Also, I've listed relevant dates below.

Day of Month To Do

1 Report for Michelle
6 Blues Data

15-17 Scorecard
20 SMR slides

24-25 Monthly Accrual

quarter plus 10 days Quarterly Inwice
Charging Detail Reports
