FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OL1
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

Document Title: Audit of Customer Service
Document Type: Report
Abstract: This report documents the outcome of an internal audit of

Customer Service. The audit was one of a planned programme
of audits within ICL Pathway for 1998. Its prime objective was
to assess the state of the Customer Service operation for the
advent of New Release 2 and National Rollout.

Status: APPROVED

Distribution: S. Muchow J. Bennett
M. Bennett D. Groom
J. Holmes
Library

Author: J. Holmes, B. Procter, S. Loam & G. Hooper

Comments to: S. Loam

Comments by:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 34
© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786
ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref; IA/REP/O11
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99
0 Document control
0.1 Document history
Version Date Reason
0.1 18/01/99 _ First internal draft for comments
1.0 03/01/99 Issue incorporating comments received on draft
Ll 18/02/99 Revised draft following further comments
2.0 09/03/99 Issue incorporating all comments received
0.2 Approval authorities
Name Position Signature Date
M. Bennett —_ Director Quality & Risk
0.3 Associated documents
Reference Vers Date Title Source
IA/PLA/001 1.0 Internal Audit Plan 1998
RS/REP/004a_— 0.1 04/01/99 Audit Report - SSC
0.4 Abbreviations
ACP Access Control Policy
APS Automated Payment Service/System
AV Anti Virus
BA Benefits Agency
BES Benefit Encashment Service/System
BPS Benefit Payment Service/System
BSU Business Support Unit
CAP Corrective Action Plan
CAS CAPS Access Service
CFM (ICL) Computer Facilities Management
CMS Card Management Service/System

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Vent IAREP IOI
Date: 09/03/99
cs Customer Service
cP Change Proposal
DLR De La Rue
DPA Data Protection Act
DRP Disaster Recovery Plan
DSS Department of Social Services
DW Data Warehouse
EPOSS, Electronic Point Of Sale System
FRM Fraud & Risk Management
HSH Horizon System Helpdesk
KEL Known Error Log
MIS Management Information Systems
NR2 New Release 2
NRO National Rollout
OCR Operational Change Request
OLA Operational Level Agreement
OTT Operational Test Team
ORR Operational Readiness Review
PAS Payment Authorisation Service/System
PCHL Payment Card Help Line
POCL Post Office Counters Limited
PIR Post Investigation Review
PUN Pick Up Notice
RDMC Reference Data Management Centre
RED Reconciliation Exception Database
SLA Service Level Agreement
SLAM Service Level Agreement Monitor
SLCA Crevice Level Contract Administration
SMC Service Management Centre
SSC Service Support Centre
TPS Transaction Processing Service/System

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 3 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

0.5

Table of content

T Introduction... cececseecsesseesseessessneeseeesesseessesssetsnsevessesssessnsesesesesssesreeasetseevecsenesessnsese 6
2 Scope & Conduct oe... ee cecececeseessesessessesnesesesreesesseseesesnessesueseeseereesesueseeseeaeeneeneeeeeneneenees 6
3 Management Summary ...............c:ccseesess esses ee eesesseetesseeeeseeseeetsneeesanesesseenseesenseeseteneeeeae 7
3.1 General
3.2 SSC (details in 4.3) ... cesceseecaveseueseseresesteesseseavsnensseeestessisstetsseeestetssseesarenee ©
3.3 BSU/RED (details in 4.4) ....
3.4 Problem Management (details in 4.5) .............ccscesseeseeeeeeeeeteesteseesneeteeteeeeeeeee 8
3.5 MIS (details 11 4.7) .....ccececcccseessseeesessesesneseseeesssesesveneacscsuseesesveresestetsuessaneneneseeeeee 9
4 Detailed Findings

4.1 Customer Service Operation Now .. veces eeeeeeeeeseeseetesneeeeeentettaneetsiteeeeeeeres LO
4.2 Customer Service Readiness for NR2 & NRO.
4.2.1 SSC
4.2.2 BSU.
4.2.3 Incident/Problem Management ................c0:cesceeeeeeteeeeteetteereeeeeeneee LD
4.3 Service Support Cemtre oo... ceccececcecseesesseseseesessesseeeesneseesesseeesneeeeaeeneeeaneesees 12
4.3.1 SSC Responsibilities .......0....cceecceeeceeeeseseeseeseesecneeeeseeseesesseeeeseeressesteeeeee 12

4.3.2 Application Support Process ...............scececese teense tees ee teeters 13
4.3.3 Personal Data ..........ccccesccecseesseessesseesesseeesessseesnseneeesesstesneesneeseeeneeseseneesese

4.3.4.4" Line support UNits oo... cccccceececcsssseessssseescssssesecssteesessseseesssesesssieseesseese 14
4.3.5 Support and Release Management Process..............c0:eteseseteeeeeeeeee LS

4.3.6 Access to Live Systems.
4.3.7 Operational Change Requests
4.3.8 SSC Intranet Site

4.3.9 Resource Management
4.3.10 Physical Security ..........c..cccceceeesceseeeeseeeeeseeseetesesesseeseeesestentesteteeeeees LO
4.4 Business Support Unite... cece eccecseesesseeeeseeeeeseeneeesneeeesesseeeseseenneneeeaneesees 19
4.4.1 Non-BES (BPS) elements ............:.cccccssceseeseeseeeceeeeeseereeteeseeteseereeeeeeeee LO
4.4.3 Operational Change Requests .............ccecsesssessesseeseesseesneeseeseestesseseneeseee 20
4.4.4 BSU Relocation ...

4.4.5 Contingency Planning 0.0.0.0... cesses eesseeseesseeeeeeeeeseeeseeeeeeeereneeeseeeee 21

4.5 Incident/Problem Management

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.5.1 Problem Management Database...............:. cece eeseseee tee teteeteeteneeeee 21

4.5.2 Feedback.......

4.5.3 Documentation of processes and procedures ..............ccccseeeseetesteeteeeeeeee 22

4.5.4 Escalation of changes to future releases..............c0.cecceseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 22
4.6 Business Continuity 22... cececceeeseeseseeeeeseseessesseesesseeeesesneeseseeeeaneneeeeeeeeeee 22

4.6.1 Rationale 2.0... ccc cecceeesseeceseeeseseseesneeseseessnessneeesneeenneeessseensesesneeensees 22

4.6.2 Status.

4.6.3 Conclusion .... 24
4.7 Management Information... ees eesseesesesesseesseesnenseesnesseesneeaneeneenee 24

4.7.1 Reliance on Key Personmel .............ccccsessesessessesseseeseeseeseeeesneeeesesreeneanensees 24

4.7.2 Timeliness of information... tess eeseeeeseseesseeeesneeseeessnneesneees 24
4.7.3 System Testing ..........cccceccecec cece esses eeeeeseeeesesseeeeseeeeestsnestessetentenestesneeeees 25
4.7.4 Documentation of Processes and Procedures.............::cssessseeceessieseseens 25

4.8 DSS Services... 26
4.8.1 Card and PUN Production ............0.cceccessessesseesesenesseesneesseeneeeteeseaneesnee 26

4.9 POCL Services ........cceccceccsseesstesesseesseessseeesseessseeesseeesnesssinessseseseesnenseneeesneeeseeees® 26
4.9.1 Horizon System Helpdesk.............c.cccescesesssessesseeseeesseeseeseeseseeeeeeeeneeeees 26

4.9.2 Service Management Centre oo... eceeeeeeteseeseeeseeeeseeseseeeeeeens 27

4.9.3 Review Process ........c.cscsscesseesseessessseesesstessessressuseseeesesseesneesneenesaveesesanensese 27

4.10 Communications 0.0.0.0... cece cecceeeccseeseeesss ness eeeeeseesseeessinessneeesesesseneesneesneeeneeess 28
4.10.1Liaison With Other Pathway Groups ..............:sceseeseeseeeseeeeseeeetesseeeees 28

5 Annex I - Terms of Reference ............c.ccecc cesses ees esseesseeseesseesneeseseeeeeseneesneeneeeseeseees 29
6 Annex 2 — Current Status of the BSU CAP (TA/CAP/002) .........cceccesseeeseetesteeeentenes 32
7 Annex 3 — Summary of SSC Security Review...........c:cccsceeceeseeseesesseeteseeeeeseeseeteneees 33
TD SCOPC Lecce eecesceseeseeseesesseseseeeesseseessessseesaesaeesessseeeaneseestaneeteanestsssntetteneeeseeneeeeenes OS)
7.2 AMti-VirUs. ooo... eeccecsecseecees cess eesneeseeeeesseesnesneesneesessessessneesesseneeeeerseaneeseeneeeseess 33
7.2.1 Office Desktop . 33

7.2.2 The Live Network
7.3 Cryptographic Key Handling .
7.4 Business Continuity
7.5 Data Protection Act

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

1 Introduction

Customer Service is an operational unit within ICL Pathway responsible for the
delivery of "live" service to the post office outlets. Recently reorganised into three
units - Infrastructure, Operations and Support - much of Customer Service’s day-to-
day service is delivered via suppliers both internal to ICL through Outsourcing and
UKSS, and externally through De La Rue Card Technologies, De La Rue Secure Print
and Alliance and Leicester.

It is the primary contact point with the customer for all support aspects of the Horizon
solution.

2 Scope & Conduct

The audit forms part of the 1998 programme of planned Internal Audits into aspects of
ICL Pathway’s organisation and activities. While Internal Audit would normally be
expected to assess and report on the controls present in an organisation the emphasis
in this audit was to consider the activities and controls being established in Customer
Service for the imminent implementation of New Release 2 and the onset of National
Rollout, both of which will have a significant effect on Customer Service activities.

The audit was undertaken in accordance with the Terms of Reference (attached as
Annex 1) on various dates between 26/11/98 and 14/01/99. It was originally planned
to complete by Christmas 1998 with a draft report by 14/01/99. Sickness and
alternative work pressures resulted in unforeseen delays and the late production of the
report. This is regretted.

The time and co-operation of Steve Muchow, his managers and other members of his
team during the audit is appreciated.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 34
FU.

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

3.1

Management Summary

General

All the functions reviewed in this audit are managed effectively and have appropriate
staff complements for the current requirements. Staff are competent and well
motivated. Most issues that need to be addressed for the implementation of NR2 and
National Rollout have been addressed or are currently being assessed. The principal
general findings of this audit are:

Whilst comprehensive process documentation has been prepared for all major
functions, there is a general dearth of detailed procedure documentation such as
would enable a new member of staff to operate with a minimal amount of
training.

In SSC, MIS and the Problem Management areas, staff operate with a large
degree of autonomy. In the current scenario this has proved to be an effective way
of working, largely due to the specialist and non-routine nature of the work
undertaken. The audit raised concerns about the long-term succession of both the
SSC Manager and the MIS Team Leader, in the event of their untimely departure
from the company. In both cases there is appropriate short-term cover, but there
are risks to Pathway in the longer term. The MIS Team Leader has sole
responsibility for the volumetrics model, which is not documented. A successor
to the SSC Manager has been identified, but is currently managing a separate
department within Pathway; in addition, the personal relationship between these
two people increases the risk that Pathway could lose both of them
simultaneously. In the context of the specialised nature of their responsibilities
and the scant detailed documentation mentioned above, this represents a risk to
Pathway.

Management response
The SSC Manager has not agreed with the audit’s conclusion on succession
planning. His response is reproduced verbatim:

= I disagree that the relationship between my "successor" and myself poses
any additional risk. We have not, in the past, changed jobs because of each
other, or for reasons of location.

The remaining paragraphs in the section provide an overview of the detailed findings
but within the main body of the report there are also 1 recommendation in the area of
NR2/NRO readiness (details in 4.2), 2 in DSS Services (4.8), 3 in POCL Services
(4.9), 1 in Communications (4.10), and 4 in Annex 3, the summary of the SSC
Security Review.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 34

FUJ00079786
IJ00079786
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

3.2

3.3

3.4

SSC (details in 4.3)

SSC are exercising adequate control over 4" line suppliers and their support processes
are operating well. The detail section of the report contains 14 recommendations, with
the following significant findings:

= Several systems currently in use have been developed in isolation and are not
formally supported as part of the Pathway product set. The most significant such
system is the SSC Intranet site; there are, however, three people in the SSC
capable of maintaining it.

= Although staff are “security aware”, there is not sufficient control over access to
live systems.

= SSC are in a position to support NR2 in the live environment, but there are
deficiencies in existing arrangements that will inhibit the SSC from supporting
the target estate adequately.

BSU/RED (details in 4.4)

BSU/RED was audited in June 1998; the current status of that Corrective Action Plan
is attached as Annex 2. They recently relocated to offices in BRAOI and have
satisfactory arrangements for physical access security. The detail section of the report
contains 2 recommendations, with the following significant findings:

= There is some concern about the impact of automation on workloads following
NR2. Staffing decisions will only be made after NR2 trials.

= Processes for APS incident handling during NR2 are being prepared; non-BES
elements cannot be gauged until NR2 testing. In addition, failures of APS/EPOSS
transactions are perceived as more critical than BES transactions. It is anticipated
that crucial problems will be resolved during live trials.

= The RED database is being supported internally by BSU/CS staff, only one of
whom is fully conversant with the system. (Subsequent to the audit CP 1785 was
raised to commission a feasibility study into the development of an Oracle
solution.)

Problem Management (details in 4.5)

The Problem Management function is well managed and staffing is deemed
appropriate — the staff complement is not expected to increase significantly to
accommodate NR2 or National Rollout. The detail section of the report contains 3
recommendations, with the following significant findings:

= The Problem Management database is a subsection of the PinICL system, which
does not have suitable functionality, in particular in its analytical capability and
search facilities. Its replacement is currently being mooted.

= There is no procedure to ensure that the originator of a problem receives
feedback. A proposal has been made that written approval should be obtained
from BA/POCL before a problem is closed. This would be an ideal solution.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

3.5 MIS (details in 4.7)

MIS deliver business information to enable service performance to be monitored at
both the service and remedial levels. The detail section of the report contains 5
recommendations, with the following significant finding:

= When requests are made for ad-hoc reports the data in respect of encashments
made or calls made to CMS/PAS are obtained from the Data Warehouse. The
DW currently holds 26 weeks’ data on-line; a formal request must be made for
older data to be loaded. Currently the DW is unable to supply the required data in
time for Pathway to meet the SLA. This situation may be aggravated, as there are
moves afoot to further reduce the amount of data held on-line.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OL1

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

41

4.2

4.2.1

4.2.2

Detailed Findings

Customer Service Operation Now

The primary focus of this audit was to evaluate Customer Service’s readiness for NR2
and National Rollout. In view of the fact that most of the processes are already in
place under Release Ic, the approach taken was:

= Review the processes and procedures as they are being applied in Rle and
establish whether changes are anticipated;

= Assess whether the internal controls are appropriate, considering both the current
and future estates;

= Review the effectiveness and security of the current practices and assess their
suitability and scalability for future needs.

Customer Service Readiness for NR2 & NRO

ssc

The SSC is in a position to provide support for NR2 in a live environment. There are
however some deficiencies in existing arrangements which would not allow the SSC
to support adequately the target estate. These have been identified and action plans
developed for their resolution. Progress against deficiencies is monitored actively and
status included as part of the regular monthly report produced by the SSC Manager.

All deficiencies impacting on readiness for NRO have been identified and are
similarly monitored and reported.

Whilst this audit found the current structure to be operating effectively and standing
procedures correctly practised it is recommended that CS management undertake a
review into the possible effect on staff resource management of a ramp up to National
Rollout.

BSU

BSU have budgeted for an anticipated additional two staff in April 1999 and a further
four staff during the initial stages of the live trials for NR2 (expected to last until the
end of 1999). This requirement is by no means certain, as likely non-BES workloads
are extremely difficult to gauge. NR2 trials will be used to inform decisions on future
staff requirements together with ongoing monthly reviews/analysis of incident
volumes. Human Resources have made arrangements with an agency to assist with the
future recruitment of appropriate candidates. Staff training will be given “on the job”
by existing BSU analysts. The specific nature of BSU/RED work makes this the only
viable option.

Processes for APS incident handling during NR2 are being prepared (CS/PRO/058).
BSU have estimated the likely impact of new payment types at NR2 on the volumes of
BES related incidents and are anticipating an increase of 35-40 a month. Extrapolation

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.2.3

4.2.4

to an NRO environment has indicated the need for approximately 30 staff but this
requirement will be reviewed regularly during NR2. The Section does not anticipate a
significant variation in the type of BES related referrals at NR2, although volumes are
expected to increase. The majority of problems during R1c related to transactions that
for one reason or another were not committed at the PO counter. These have already
been identified and appropriate fixes created. Increases are also likely to arise from
EPOSS/APS transactions that, for the most part, are an unknown quantity.

BSU have made arrangements to ensure that every Ric incident will be replicated on
the NR2 test rig prepared by Design & Development. Experience suggests a need for
this given the peculiar nature of some of the reconciliation issues that have occurred in
the past.

On-line access to Oracle/Discover tools will prove invaluable in obtaining information
quickly. This will release staff to concentrate on the investigation of reconciliation
cases.

BSU are represented at a newly created series of joint ICL Pathway/Horizon
Reconciliation Workshops (the first of which took place during w/c 7.12.98). These
will help identify and resolve problems and continue throughout NR2. Processes and
procedures for this are currently being prepared.

BSU intend to develop a parallel RED system solely for non-BES reconciliation cases.
The driver for this initiative comes not from the inability of the current REDv3.3
system to handle both types of transactions but rather as a way of providing a more
customer-focused RED report for the Contracting Authorities. It also ensures that
information pertinent only to one Contracting Authority is not made available to the
other. The proposed system would utilise the same hardware/software and would be
governed by the same access protocols and procedures. BSU are aiming to develop
this during the early part of 1999. (Subsequent to the audit CP 1785 was raised to
commission a feasibility study into the development of a solution in line with the
overall Pathway architecture.)

Incident/Problem Management

Incident/Problem Management staff will be able to support NR2 in the live
environment, including NRO. Due to the nature of issues handled here it is anticipated
that their workload may increase with the release of NR2, necessitating more problem
managers for about six weeks. Incidents accepted as problems relate to the
specification, design and implementation of service components hence are not
dependent on the volume of transactions. Currently about two incidents per month are
accepted as problems, with about a dozen being open at any time. Extrapolating their
experience from the release of 1(c), they are appropriately staffed (service managers
take on the role of managing problems within their areas of expertise).

MIS

MIS (Contract Administrator and SLAM) are being developed specifically for NR2.
National Rollout is not expected to present exceptional problems - the increased estate
will result in an increase in the volume of transactions, but is not expected to impact
the types of MIS information produced. Any changes to Contract Administrator after

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.3

4.3.1

4.3.2

NR2 will require a CP, which will be costed according to the work needed (including
additional staff if appropriate).

Service Support Centre

The SSC is a major and complex element of Customer Service. This part of the report
is based on visits made during the summer of 1998 and the actual audit visits made
during November 1998.

SSC Responsibilities

The Service Support Centre (SSC) is responsible for all support activities and
specifically for providing 3" line support for all applications in the Horizon estate. It
handles the end-to-end management and disposition of service calls made to the HSH
and all incidents referred from HSH with the exception of those relating to known
faults or those associated with hardware failure. It diagnoses problems, understands
the solution and manages any resultant fixes. Incidents may be referred to 4" line
support groups for action as appropriate (fixes are not written by SSC).

Obligations of SSC to HSH/SMC and of SSC to 4® line Support Units are
documented (CS/MAN/002). The principles by which the SSC operates are
documented in the End-to-End Support Process Operational Level Agreement
(CS/FSP/006) which outlines the responsibilities of the four levels of support towards
each other.

Pathway’s Security Technical Design Authority indicated that the SMC were
requesting tool support that exceeded their remit and would grant them an
inappropriate level of access. This was discussed with the SSC Manager, who
indicated that:

= The SMC’s remit has not changed; it remains as documented in contract SBOO1
and the Access Control Policy (ACP);

= The ACP, in documenting the SMC’s responsibilities, defines three functions but
only defines tool sets for two of them. A CP will be raised to remedy this
omission.

It is recommended that the CP is raised to ensure that the SMC has appropriately
controlled access to the live system and the appropriate tool sets, to enable them to
meet their contractual obligations.

Application Support Process

All calls from 2¢ line support are sent via PowerHelp on an OTI link and transferred
to PinICL before presentation to SSC. A typical PinICL daily live load at R1c totals
10-20. The Co-ordinator monitors constantly the status of all incidents liaising with
both the 2™ line originators, the 3 line Diagnostician and the 4" line Support Unit to
whom any associated fix has been referred. When a subsequent fix has been created
and implemented the Co-ordinator also notes and closes the PinICL.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.3.3

Serious concerns were expressed by the SSC Manager that the number of software
calls currently being received from the 2" line is greatly in excess of projected figures
(70% of all calls instead of 23%). If scaled to the NRO environment this would result
in a flood of calls being received by SSC, which could not cope without a
commensurate increase in staff resources.

It is recommended that this matter is investigated by Customer Service and, if
evidence of calls being wrongly transferred is found, a corrective action plan put in
place at the SMC to address the problem.

Personal Data

Sensitive, personal information can sometimes be attached as evidence to PinICLs and
passed around an unsecured network. This is further complicated by the fact that no
clear guidance on what constitutes “personal data” has been provided (i.e.: name
alone, name+address, name+date of birth etc). In addition, personal information can
sometimes be sent on PinICLs via Pathway Development to Escher in Boston USA.
Personal customer information is generally classified by HM Government (and
therefore by DSS) as “Restricted”. As such its electronic transfer overseas is
prohibited unless it is suitably encrypted using HMG approved algorithms.

The main threats to personal information come from:
a. persons who gain unauthorised access to the information on the system

b. persons who have authorised access to the system but use the information
contained for purposes other than those for which they are granted access.

There are two distinct issues here:

= The requirements of the DPA, the new EU Directives on Data Protection and the
definition of what constitutes “Personal Information”;

= The requirements of HMG on the protection of information protectively marked
“Restricted” and subsequently transmitted overseas.

With regard to DPA issues, initiatives have been undertaken in both SSC and BSU to
sanitise information attached to PinICLs by removing unnecessary client sensitive
data. In practice, however, the information attached to PinICLs is largely determined
by what the 4" line Support Units require in order to create and test the necessary fix
and it is not always practical or appropriate to remove information.

This is an extremely sensitive issue and there are serious implications for the
protection of personal information. Consideration has been given to the encryption of
the entire PinICL system as a means of reducing the risk of compromise. This is not
however considered an appropriate or viable solution.

It is recommended that ICL’s Commercial & Legal Group is approached to:

= provide a formal defi)
contracts, and

ition of what constitutes “personal data”, to be used in

= review contracts with 4"" line suppliers and other recipients of PinICLs to ensure
that Pathway has adequate legal protection via contractual obligations placed on
recipients of the data.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

It is further recommended that line management undertake random checks on
incidents of access to, or transmission of, personal data to assure themselves that
such access or transmission was justified.

As for the requirements of HMG, the transmission overseas of personal information
attached as evidence to PinICLs is unacceptable and an urgent solution or compromise
must be reached. (This function is not controlled by Customer Service.)

It is recommended that urgent steps are taken by Pathway Development to ensure that
information attached as evidence to PinICLs and sent overseas is either sanitised
beforehand or suitably encrypted. Alternatively, DSS should be approached with a
view to negotiating a dispensation allowing for the unsecured transfer of information.

4.3.4 4" line support units

A number of units provide 4" line support to the ICL Pathway system, these include
AT&C, Pathway Internal Development, ISTL, Eicon, Solution Centre, Technical
Direct and Escher. These units provide the software that supports the solution. The
obligations of SSC to the 4% line support are summarised in CS/MAN/002 and
formalised in suitable contracts between the parties.

The current status of these contracts vary: those with AT&C and The Solution Centre
have been signed and represent legally binding agreements; those with Eicon and
Technical Direct are under active development with completion expected by the end
of 1998 (this aspect was reviewed in November 1998). The support contract with
Escher is maintained by Pathway Internal Development as part of an overall contract.
Pathway Internal Development is committed to the contractual arrangements. All
contracts form part of a series of outsourced agreements under the overall control of
the Operational Service Manager.

We have been advised that SLAs only exist between Pathway and the contracting
authorities; all other agreements among the suppliers are covered by either OLAs (for
ICL Group companies) or formal contracts (for external companies). OLAs limit the
punitive damages for non-compliance to the fees charged for the service (this is
apparently consistent with ICL Group policy), while contracts with external
companies transfer any penalties incurred to the third party.

In the absence of contractual agreements there is no formal route for the transference
of liability or other legal restitution in the event of a failure by the 4" line to deliver
the agreed service. This weakness could leave Pathway seriously exposed. Where an
ICL Group company consistently fails to comply with their contracted service levels,
the only practical recourse available to Pathway is to change suppliers. The SSC
Manager is consequently monitoring these service levels on a monthly basis.

It is vital that the approval process for contracts with external companies is brought
to a conclusion before the implementation of NR2 when SLAs and other contractually
binding requirements are placed on ICL Pathway by the Authorities. It is
recommended that this activity is rigorously pursued by Customer Service
management.

There are no formally agreed liaison meetings with each 4" line support unit although
fortnightly reviews are held by the SSC Manager with Oracle/AT&C representatives.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.3.5

4.3.6

In general, they are held on an ad-hoc basis as and when there is something to discuss
(i.e. when a high number of PinICLs are raised about bugs in software provided by the
supplier). Any agreements/decisions flowing from these meetings are implemented as
operational practice where appropriate. Where they are held no formal record is kept
of what was discussed.

Given the impact discussions can have on service delivery and future amendments to
contracts it is recommended that formal minutes are kept which, at a minimum,
record what was discussed and agreed.

While SLAs, which are restricted to hardware and network monitoring rather than
software-related activities, are monitored and reported via SLCA, operational level
performance of the 4" line support is recorded and maintained by the SSC Manager
on a discrete database. This is used to monitor deliverables, time scales and trends,
and to inform discussions at ad-hoc meetings. The database collates performance
statistics, which are then provided as a monthly report to SMC and to CS Managers.

Only time will tell whether these informal measures are appropriate to support the
SSC. It is recommended that the situation is reviewed afier, say, 6 months of NR2
operation and action taken as required.

Support and Release Management Process

When problems are encountered on the live system, SSC carry out the pre-authorised
actions available to them including workarounds in the Known Error Log (KEL). The
KEL is maintained in Microsoft Word on a fixed format template utilising pre-defined
data subsets to aid completion and subsequent interrogation.

Access to the KEL is available to HSH and SMC as well as the 4" line units. SSC has
a filtering mechanism for preventing access to individual KELs by the 1, 2 and 4%
line support units if this should be considered necessary.

Access to Live Systems

Diagnosticians working in SSC have read access to live databases (PAS/CMS/OBCS),
the CAS interface, the Correspondence Server and various NT systems. They operate
on a double PC configuration, one for standard desktop activities (email, WP, Intranet,
PinICL) and one for access to live systems. SSC Procedures and Testing section also
have access to live systems. The live system PCs have a restricted build level, operate
on a separate LAN and are encrypted.

Access at Ric is via a username and password control. However, it is not possible to
attribute positively the actions of users on the system in the event of a password
compromise. Further, access protocols for Rlc are not auditable as no record of the
access of individual users is maintained by the system. This is a serious weakness.

At NR2 it is planned that access to live systems will be via a secure ID login that uses
a personal token and a password. The Personal Token will be a “Smartcard” that will
generate a unique number that the system reconciles with the password. A mismatch
will result in a failed login.

This proposed system is significantly more secure than that currently used for Rlc
and it is recommended that this is adopted for NR2.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.3.7 Operational Change Requests

When correcting data on the live system at least two people must be in attendance.
This could be two members of SSC but in practice the SSC Manager insists that,
wherever possible, one of the witnesses is a person from the 4" line support unit
responsible for the relevant area in which the data correction will take place. This
arrangement helps avoid the “Gamekeeper/Poacher” scenario arising from the
correction of data by staff who may have raised the original Operational Change
Request (OCR’s are covered under 4.3.7). Where complex corrections are required
they are usually scripted. In practice most corrections require only quick and simple
activity that it is felt does not warrant the completion of a formal script. Nevertheless
all corrections made in the live environment are recorded and documents are signed
by both parties and retained.

Where live data has to be manipulated an Operational Change Request (OCR) is
raised. The operational procedures for altering data are covered briefly
(CS/MAN/002) and require the authorisation of any one of a CS group comprising the
CS Operations Manager, CS Problem/Duty Managers, BSU Manager or SSC
Manager. However, CS/MAN/002 does not detail the process for updating live data,
nor is there a documented procedure for maintaining an adequate audit trail of changes
made to the live database.

There is a requirement for documentation that details all these end to end processes.
CS/MAN/002 does not provide this level of detail and it is recommended that the
document is reviewed and updated accordingly.

OCRs may be sent to SSC as an original hard copy, an e-mail, or fax. The use of both
e-mails and faxes to send OCRs is considered vulnerable to exploitation. The receipt
of an e-mail is not of itself proof that the OCR has been correctly authorised by one of
the approved signatories (this is borne out by the observation that, in practice, OCRs
from BSU are raised by BSU analysts rather than the BSU Manager). This working
practice is mitigated by the fact that changes are requested by BA themselves but it is
nevertheless a deviation from agreed procedure. Faxed authorities are vulnerable to
the “cutting and pasting” of an authorised signature (either as a time saving practice or
as a more sinister attempt to circumvent the system) and this would be potentially
undetectable by SSC.

There have also been problems in the past regarding the visibility to SSC of OCRs
raised by CFM and to CFM of those raised at SSC (SSC originated OCRs are held at
BRAOI whereas those originated by CFM are held in Belfast). It is understood that
CFM has an action to merge variants into a single electronic form which will provide
independence of initiation and authorisation whilst maintaining full visibility to both
parties of the work undertaken.

The OCR process is an extremely sensitive area and recent approaches from BA have
added gravitas. Despite the existence of documented procedures and a standardised
proforma, the current arrangements for raising OCRs are somewhat discordant, could
be vulnerable to compromise and provide only a limited assurance.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.3.8

4.3.9

In addition to the CFM action already being undertaken, it is recommended that the
OCR system is standardised, with appropriate hierarchical controls, to ensure that
OCRs are correctly authorised, adequately monitored and suitably reconciled.

Completed OCRs are not subject to any routine checks by the SSC Manager. No
“before” and “after” images of the database are taken or retained, other than a brief
description on the OCR (and a script, if completed). There is also no association or
subsequent reconciliation between the OCR and the PinICL that is being fixed via the
data correction. Under the current system there is therefore a limited record of what
was actually done and an insubstantial audit trail should this be required at a later
date.

It is recommended that:

a. Completed OCRs are subjected to a documented, % check by the SSC
Manager (or designated officer) to provide some degree of assurance that
procedures are being complied with);

b. A linkage is created that reconciles the OCR with its associated PinICL;

c. An adequate record is kept of the changes made to the system.

SSC Intranet Site

The SSC Intranet is an evolving site created, supported, maintained and managed by
SSC staff to assist and inform day-to-day working decisions. Access to the site is via
NT domain, controlled by username and password. The contents of the site are under
constant review but currently comprise details of KELs, Change Proposals and
Release Management data as well as providing access to commonly used web-sites, an
SSC bulletin board and other useful information. The site is becoming increasingly
important as a resource tool both for SSC Diagnosticians and other authorised users.
As such it now forms a crucial element of both the SSC function and the delivery of
the overall ICL Pathway solution.

In view of the importance of this site, which was developed and is being supported
locally, it is essential that CS Management continually ensure that effective support is
available in the long term.

Resource Management

The SSC functions with a very flat management structure and the SSC Manager (and
to a lesser extent the Diagnosticians) operates from a position of significant autonomy.
This approach is supported by the SSC Manager, who considers that any additional
management layers would have the effect of insulating him from issues and problems.
Whilst there are substantial advantages to be gained from this direct “finger on the
pulse” approach (particularly in the technological environment in which SSC
operates) it places a heavy responsibility on the SSC Manager in monitoring
adequately all SSC operational and staff activities.

Succession plans exist to cover the absence of the SSC Manager and the functions of
the post are documented in both the SSC Manager’s Terms of Reference and in the
post holder’s personal objectives. Three members of SSC can provide short-term
cover in the event of the manager’s absence, and deputising periods are alternated

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

between them to build a sufficient breadth of knowledge. Despite this, the level of
knowledge currently vested in the present incumbent and the scope of his
responsibilities may represent a significant vulnerability.

It is recommended that CS Management assure themselves that the long-term loss of
the present incumbent would not affect unduly the continued function of the SSC.

All staff receive adequate training and are recruited specifically for the skills they
possess. SSC specific training is undertaken “on the job” and all staff have access to
both the SSC Operations Manual (CS/MAN/002), which tells them what should be
done, and a Technical Environment Directory to assist them with in-house
terminology. There is however little or no additional lower level procedural guidance
available to staff to tell them how it should be done (although it is recognised that the
investigative and intuitive nature of SSC diagnostic work makes development of this
extremely difficult).

It is nevertheless recommended that CS Management periodically assure themselves
that adequate procedural guidance is available. It is suggested that the measurement
criterion should be whether the documentation would enable a new incumbent to
operate in the function with a minimal amount of training or induction.

Pathway policy requires that all staff joining the project undergo vetting — prospective
employees are required to provide proof of identity, two personal references and a self
declaration regarding criminal and financial records — and are also subjected to a
credit check. The policy requires that HR initiate periodic recheck by reissue of the
Pathway Security Questionnaire to employees; this has not been carried out.

It is recommended that the periodic checks are carried out. In particular it is
important that personnel whose positions require them to have access to sensitive
functions such as amending data, be reviewed on a frequent basis to ensure that their
circumstances have not changed to the extent that their continued employment could
be queried by the contracting authorities. SSC diagnosticians and BSU analysts
would be included under these conditions.

4.3.10 Physical Security

4.4

An independent review of physical security was carried out concurrently with this
audit and a report issued (RS/REP/004a). The findings from this report are included in
Annex 3 (note that the report is structured in such a way that only exceptions are
reported, which convention was followed in the Annex).

The physical security of the SSC has been jointly reviewed with representatives of the
Horizon Programme twice. On both occasions the existing controls were deemed
satisfactory and no additional recommendations were made

Business Support Unit

The BES activities of the ICL Pathway Business Support Unit (BSU) and the
Reconciliation Exception Database (RED) were the subject of an Internal Audit
during June 1998 (IA/REP/007) and subsequent follow up reviews based on an agreed
Corrective Action Plan (IA/CAP/002).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

441

4.4.2

44.3

Non-BES (BPS) elements

Non-BES elements of BSU work will not come on-line until NR2 goes to live trial.
The main services to be introduced at NR2 and that impact directly on BSU are
EPOSS and APS with additional linkage into TPS and RDMC.

Primary Non-BES data streams will be available to BSU via the PowerHelp/PinICL
systems from the first and second line support sections (HSH and SSC respectively).
All HSH referrals are allocated a reference number and every incident is logged to
provide a clear audit trail and a measurement against service level agreements.

Some concern was expressed about the impact of automation on workloads following
NR2. Whilst BES elements have been largely tried and tested during Rlc, non-BES
elements are something of an unknown quantity until NR2 testing. In addition,
failures of APS/EPOSS transactions are perceived as more critical than BES
transactions because BES payments are generally made pending further investigation.
All procedures and protocols currently in place for BES elements of BSU work will be
applied to the non-BES elements. The policy and procedures for handling
EPOSS/APS incidents have been documented at high level (CS/PRO/058). Lower
level procedural guidance on incident handling is currently being prepared by BSU
staff.

Feedback from the Contracting Authorities show that they are happy with the
functionality and controls of the RED v3 database.

RED v3.3

RED v3.3 has been developed in response to suggestions made by BSU analysts as
Ric has progressed. There is not thought to be any need to upgrade RED with the
introduction of NR2 other than some minor alterations to fields.

Some concern was expressed about the adequacy of technical support for the RED
v3.3 database. RED has been developed internally by BSU/CS in response to
operational needs. As such it has never been considered part of the ICL Pathway
operational tool set or afforded suitable priority. It is currently supported internally by
BSU/CS staff, only one of whom is fully conversant with the system. This leaves it
highly vulnerable to unforeseen absence or loss of pertinent staff leading to a
significant risk to this element of the Horizon solution.

It is recommended that steps are taken to support and develop RED 3.3 as an ICL
Pathway corporate initiative.

Operational Change Requests

The issuing of Operational Change Requests (OCRs) by BSU to the SSC has been
formalised and is covered by procedures outlined in a joint Pathway/Contracting
Authorities document (CS/PRO/058). These procedures require the authority of a
BSU analyst who has individual and documented password access to the system.
There is however no independent authorisation by management prior to OCR action
nor is there any subsequent verification/audit by management that OCR action was
appropriate.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

444

44.5

4.5

Although OCR action is only taken following the receipt of an appropriate authority
from BA (which mitigates against a lack of control in this area) it is recommended
that OCRs are authorised only by the BSU Manager.

BSU monitor all OCRs and liaise with both BA and SSC to keep them informed of
progress. A regular monthly “tidy-up” meeting is held with BA representatives.

BSU Relocation

BSU recently relocated to the first floor of Annex 2 at BRAO1. Access to the building
is controlled by personal token and limited to staff that work in Annex 2. Visitors are
escorted at all times. Adequate and secure arrangements are in place for the control of
passes. Access to the first floor CS area (which includes BSU and SLCA personnel) is
controlled by an additional access control that allows entrance only to staff working in
that area. BRAOI’s Annex 2 is suitably protected by both CCTV and an intruder
detection system.

BSU is contained in a discrete area of the first floor and is separated from other work
areas by the use of medium level acoustic screens providing suitable privacy and
protection from eavesdropping. VDUs of the RED database cannot be viewed by
unauthorised personnel or visitors. It is considered that BSU now operate in a suitably
controlled environment.

Contingency Planning

Contingency procedures are being documented to support RED and the work of BSU
in the event of a failure at BRAOI or of a software/hardware failure and these will be
available at NR2. It is anticipated that space/terminals will be available at FELO1 with
access to PAS and Discover tools.

A document (CS/PRO/060) is also being prepared by BSU that outlines a proposed
clerical back-up system that provides for the recording of RED incidents with the
limited issuing of subsequent reports.

Paper based reports held by BSU are being transferred to electronic archive to reduce
the amount of documentation held by the section. In addition, BSU regularly archive
RED data to ensure that a smaller data set is held on the system.

All live data is backed up automatically by the system on a daily basis and stored on
the server (“P” Drive).

Incident/Problem Management

Incidents escalated to Service Management are reviewed in terms of a set of criteria to
decide whether they should be regarded as problems. These criteria include business
impact, time scales, customer satisfaction, cost, complexity and extent of the problem,
security implications and the impact on other organisations. If they are accepted as
problems they are recorded on a Problem Management Database and allocated to a
Problem Manager, who is responsible for co-ordinating the activities involved in
arriving at a solution.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.5.1

4.5.2

45.3

4.5.4

Problem Management Database

The PinICL system is being used as the Problem Management Database. There have
been problems in the past where calls have been transferred between stacks; hence
Customer Service did not have a permanent record of the calls. The procedure in place
now requires a copy of the record to be made and held on the Problem Management
stack as a diary entry, cross-referenced to the live call. This is to be monitored by the
newly appointed administrator.

The use of the PinICL system for the maintenance of Problem Management is
currently under review - its analytical functionality is very limited and it does not have
powerful search facilities.

These issues are being addressed and will be included in the next audit of CS.
Feedback

There is no procedure to ensure that the originator of a problem receives feedback.
Where a PIR is produced it will fulfil this requirement, but in terms of the latest
process specifications a PIR is not always required. A proposal has been put forward
that written approval should be obtained from BA/POCL before a problem is closed,
but this has not yet been agreed.

It is recommended that written approval is obtained from the originator of a problem
in all instances, and that this is used as the authorisation for closing the problem.

Documentation of processes and procedures

Processes have been documented, but there are not detailed procedures that will
enable a new employee to operate with a minimum of training. In particular, several
requirements are stated very generally (e.g. the criteria for deciding whether a specific
call should be classified as a “problem” or not), requiring a subjective judgement from
the Duty Manager. This is not a major issue at present as the Duty Managers (of
whom there are currently three) are suitably familiar with the project to reach
consistent decisions.

It is recommended that detailed procedure documentation is prepared at the level that
would facilitate consistent operation of the system by newly appointed staff.

Escalation of changes to future releases

There is not an effective control mechanism for ensuring that changes made to the
current release of the software via PinICL are incorporated in future releases. This is
under discussion but as yet agreement has not been reached, nor have any procedures
or controls been implemented.

It is crucial that this issue is resolved and appropriate controls implemented — failure
in this area will cost time and money and can damage Pathway’s credibility.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.6

4.6.1

4.6.2

Business Continuity

Rationale

A key requirement of the Horizon solution is that of business continuity i.e. ensuring
that there are operational processes and procedures in place to ensure that any
component failure has little or no effect on the service provided. The principal
requirement in respect of the provision of contingency plans is specified in
Requirement 830. This is supported by associated requirements on the provision of
BPS fallback facilities and the activation of contingency payments, PCHL and HSH
contingency.

Contingency planning for the Horizon solution is based on the fundamental premise
that elements of the solution have been developed and designed from the outset with a
substantial degree of in-built resilience (e.g. networks, servers etc. are duplicated
across the estate). Contingency Planning managers therefore operate on the basis that
the overall system is already low risk. As a consequence, ongoing contingency
planning is focused on drawing together all existing documentation into a framework
document that supplements the Security Acceptance Test Specification (RS/ACS/002)
by defining in detail the actual deliverables (and methods of review and assurance of
deliverables) associated with Requirement 830.

The Business Continuity Framework (CS/SIP/002), owned by the CS Operations
Manager, is under active production and is aimed at achieving acceptance prior to
NR2 Live Trial. It defines the methodology agreed between ICL Pathway, POCL and
DSS for the handling of all aspects of business continuity. In scope, the document
defines the Business Continuity Framework itself, the services covered, the
contingency plan, test strategy, deliverables, deliverable schedules and a review
mechanism.

The constituent elements of the framework comprise a project plan, business
continuity management process, test strategy & plan and review strategy as well as the
actual contingency plans. Contingency plans themselves will comprise: service
definition, risk analysis/service impact and escalation contacts and contain reference
to proposed contingency Operations Manuals that will eventually contain step-by-step
procedures to be followed by managers in the event of an incident.

A resilience and recovery strategy for all aspects of the service has been prepared and
is documented in TD/DES/31

Status

The project plan is owned jointly by ICL Pathway, POCL and DSS and is being
reviewed at regular monthly meetings between the tripartite. The Group is currently
developing the Business Continuity Management Process (CS/PRD/031) and defining
what could trigger a business continuity event. These scenarios are being mapped into
developing contingency plans.

A list of business critical areas and their owners have been identified and these will
appear in the Operations Procedures Plan for NR2.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

46.3

4.7

47.1

Assurances are being obtained from CS managers that suitable and sympathetic plans
are being developed/completed in their respective areas and that they are in a position
to respond adequately to possible contingency events. Subsequent reports have shown
no serious shortfall in arrangements. Similar assurances are being obtained from
Business Continuity Managers in companies providing service support to ICL
Pathway.

A number of POCL initiated E2E walkthroughs have been undertaken in order to
identify potential gaps in procedure. Some good value observations have been made
and these are being taken forward by the tripartite group where they consider there is
cause for review.

A technical integrity test plan has also been prepared and test reports have been
produced. These have identified areas for further consideration. Three quarters of all
issues highlighted from the tests have already been resolved to the satisfaction of all
interested parties. All tests have been run against data volumes expected at NR2 and
these have fully demonstrated the capability to cope during live trails.

Conclusion

The strategic approach adopted is sound and extensive documentation exists. Potential
problems have been identified, documented and scheduled into action plans. Liaison
amongst the interested parties is well established and issues are jointly owned and
resolved. Business Continuity Managers are satisfied that they have the right people
doing the right thing in the right places at the right time.

Management Information

Management Information Systems under the control of Customer Service comprise
facilities for monitoring Pathway’s compliance with contracted Service Level
Agreements, and for tailoring reports to meet the needs of both Pathway management
and the Authorities.

Reliance on Key Personnel

The calculation and comparison of actual performance against contracted service
levels involves a complex set of calculations, the standards of which are currently held
on a set of spreadsheets, which are loaded into the data warehouse to facilitate the
conformance calculations. There is adequate short-term cover for staff absence. Due
to the complexity of the volumetrics model, however, the MIS Team Leader
responsible for the project has significant autonomy, and there is no alternative
member of staff capable of immediately taking over the project in the event of the
present incumbent’s untimely departure.

While the present incumbent is a person of proven ability and integrity, it must
nevertheless be recognised that this situation places Pathway at risk. It is
recommended that this risk is mitigated by detailed documentation describing the
model in terms that will facilitate another person's taking over the project without a
phased hand-over.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.7.2

47.3

4.7.4

475

Timeliness of information

When requests are made for ad-hoc reports, access must be gained to the Data
Warehouse in order to obtain data in respect of encashments done or to enquire on
calls made to CMS/PAS. The Data Warehouse does not hold archived data; if the data
required is older than 26 weeks a request must be made for the required data to be
loaded; data manipulation is then carried out using Business Objects. When data
needs to be loaded from archive, DW is unable to supply the required data in time for
Pathway to meet the SLA. This will be exacerbated if the 26 weeks is to be further
reduced, as has been proposed.

It is essential that a solution be found to enable Pathway to meet the SLA ~ data must
be delivered in a time frame that allows enough time for the analysis and reporting
required.

System Testing

System testing has covered the operation of the Data Warehouse batch schedule jobs
relating to the MIS applications in MISO101. SLAM receives its data download after
these calculations, and calculates the conformance figures. This function has not yet
been tested.

It is imperative that the calculations performed by SLAM are tested to ensure that the
reporting and monitoring of conformance figures is reliable.

Due to the complexity of the model that relates service level agreements to
performance achievements, the system testers do not understand the model
sufficiently to test the operation of the MIS system effectively.

It is recommended that MIS staff prepare a set of input data and expected results for
use when testing the operation of the MIS system — both initially and when any
changes are made.

Documentation of Processes and Procedures

Processes have been documented, but there are not detailed procedures that will
enable a new employee to operate with a minimum of training. For present operations
this has been partially mitigated by ensuring that, for every operational function, each
responsible person has a backup.

It is recommended that detailed procedure documentation is prepared at the level that
would facilitate consistent operation of the system by newly appointed staff.

SLAM

At the time of the audit staff running SLAM were experiencing problems with the
stability and speed of response time of the application. They also reported errors in the
reports being produced. Since then Oracle Express has been upgraded, which has
apparently alleviated some of these problems. A workshop was held recently and
included representatives from Testing & Integration and AT&C. An action plan has
been agreed to address the outstanding issues. Outsourcing will be able to correct
some of them for NR2 (this will be done by 1 March to allow Testing and Integration

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.8

48.1

4.9

sufficient time to test and validate the changes); the balance will be held over for
NR2+.

There is no contingency plan for MIS systems — they depend on recovery of the Data
Warehouse in the event of a DRP being invoked. The relevant SLA requires that
Pathway report conformance data to the Authorities within five working days after the
end of a reporting period; the average time needed to run the reports is between two
and four days. Since the reporting dates are a calendar month apart, and the Data
Warehouse SLA on disaster recovery is 48 hours, it is felt that the exposure does not
warrant the cost of implementing other contingency arrangements.

DSS Services

The BA Services delivered by Customer Service comprise the Payment Card Help
Line located at Girobank, Bootle; Card and PUN production by DLR Card Systems;
Temporary Tokens by DLR Secure Printing and the distribution of Cards, PUNs and
TTs by Royal Mail.

Card and PUN Production
This activity is effectively controlled through the Card Production Management

Strategy (CS/STR/003). Version 0.1 dated 07/08/98 was reviewed and it was agreed
that it required a final review and approval.

It is recommended that this document is reviewed for content and accuracy and
updated to reflect the approaching NR2 position. It should be approved and issued.

There is a wealth of lower level documentation to monitor stock values and
production schedules and these are reviewed at the monthly progress meetings with
De La Rue. There are also agreed procedures in operation at DLR covering the
handling of ‘spoiled’ cards during production. In addition the DLR security
procedures are overlaid with Pathway specific requirements and these were audited by
Pathway during 1997. However, the monthly meeting review is not supported by any
other form of periodic verification of stock values by Pathway, nor has there been any
recent site or security auditing taking place.

The role of DLR in the Horizon solution is critical and it is recommended that
Customer Service introduce regular stock validation exercises with DLR. It is also
recommended that the processes and security measures in place at DLR are audited
prior to the NR2 production increases.

POCL Services

The POCL Services delivered by Customer Service comprise the Horizon System
Helpdesk at Stevenage, the Service Management Centre, also at Stevenage, and the
management and control of the Field Engineers responsible for equipment repairs and
replacement in the Outlets.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 25 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

4.9.1

4.9.2

49.3

Horizon System Helpdesk

The activities of the HSH are governed by a large number of documents headed by a
single document, the Helpdesk Document Structure Overview (CS/ACS/014). Version
1.0 dated 22/07/97 was reviewed and while the content was comprehensive it did not
include references to the Payment Card Helpline - the complementary BA Helpdesk -
and its approval date suggests that it warrants a thorough review.

It is recommended that this document is reviewed for content and accuracy and
updated to reflect the approaching NR2 position.

The lower level documentation was comprehensive and the approach for removing
any subjectivity in the initial problem analysis by Helpdesk Operators impressive.
Escalation is controlled by the Helpdesk itself and the direct involvement of the Duty
Manager occurs once penalty limits have been reached. This appears to be too late in
the cycle as some time will be required for the Duty Manager to take control of the
situation by which time penalties might be in force.

It is recommended that this aspect of the problem escalation process is reviewed with
a view to advancing the direct involvement of the Duty Manager.

Service Management Centre

The SMC operate as the 2 line support to the HSH and is involved in the diagnosis
and resolution of known problems through the application of the 3 line Known Error
Log. Concern was expressed during the audit about SMC’s readiness for NR2 and the
anticipated increase in calls once more Outlets come on-stream based on their ability
to deal with calls within the required SLAs. It was suggested that calls are being
passed through to SSC for action that should have been cleared as ‘known errors’ by
SMC.

Appropriate action to address this issue has been recommended earlier in this report.

Review Process

The review process for POCL (and BA) Services operates at three levels:

a. Internal CS Review, which identifies potential or actual hotspots for action
either internally, directly with the supplier or via the Horizon Service
Management Review Forum.

b. With the supplier where specific SLA issues are dealt with.

c. At the Horizon Service Management Review Forum which is the overarching
body, chaired by POCL, that monitors the operation of all aspects of the
Horizon service.

Meetings are minuted and where SLAs are not being met recovery plans established
and monitored. Plan DSP/PLA/HH/001 v1.4 dated 17/8/98, which relates to
contingency arrangements for the Horizon System Helpdesk, was reviewed and it was
noted that some action dates were being moved without adequate explanation. The
most extreme example was one which slipped from 03/98 to 10/98 with no supporting
text.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 26 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

It is recommended that when action dates are moved in the Recovery Plans some
justification text is added to provide an audit trail of changes for subsequent review.

4.10 Communications

4.10.1Liaison With Other Pathway Groups

Liaison with other CS areas is effected mainly by a combination of established regular
management meeting and other ad-hoc meetings arranged as and when operationally
required.

The active detection of real or attempted fraud is not currently a specific responsibility
of the SSC, BSU or Incident/Problem Management. Nevertheless, they are considered
to be in an ideal position to spot anomalies which may indicate fraudulent activity or
other malpractice at the Counter Outlets.

There have been a couple of occasions where Customer Service staff have become
aware of spurious activity and, in the absence of a formal referral mechanism, have
provided an ad-hoc report to the CS Problem Manager. Customer Service recognise
the value of such referrals, are sympathetic to the needs of Fraud Risk Management
and will do what they can to assist when incidents arise. They are not however trained
or resourced to provide this service.

Given the potential of Customer Service to assist in this area it is recommended that
SSC and Problem Management open a formal dialogue with FRM to establish how
they could contribute more fully to the general anti-fraud effort and formalise an
agreed referral procedure. The procedures established by BSU (CS/PRO/027) should
be used as a reference.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 27 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

5 Annex 1 - Terms of Reference

1. Audit Aims

The audit will provide assurances to ICL Pathway Customer Service Director about
the policies, procedures and practices of Customer Service, with particular regard to
New Release 2 and the impact on CS that the implementation of that Release will
have.

2. Objectives

21 To ensure that CS policies, procedures and practices exist and support those of ICL
Pathway and the delivery of an efficient and effective service to both BA and POCL.

2.2 To ensure that the CS organisation is capable of supporting the imminent release of
New Release 2 to the existing automated estate and the NR2 increment (+~100
outlets).

2.3. To assess the degree of readiness and preparation for National Rollout and the impact
of the increased estate on current organisation and resources.

2.4 To assess the effectiveness of internal controls in particular areas of the CS
organisation:

a. System Support Centre.

b. Non-BES elements of Business Support Unit & RED.

c. Incident and Problem Management.
d. Business Continuity.
e. Management Information production.

These activities are all located at BRAOI.

2.5 To assess the effectiveness of the management of services supplied to CS as part of
the Horizon solution:

a. Horizon System Helpdesk at STEO9.

b. Payment Card Helpline at Girobank Bootle.
c. System Management Centre at STE09.

d. De La Rue Card Technology at Tewkesbury.

e. De La Rue Secure Printing at Dunstable.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

2.6

Member(s) of the audit team may visit the service supplier if concerns are raised about
the quality of service received or the state of the relationship.

To review the communication channels in place between CS and other parts of ICL
Pathway and the exercising of those channels.

Exclusions

The BES activities of the Business Support Unit and the Reconciliation Exception
Database will not be included as they were the subject of an Internal Audit during
June 1998 and subsequent follow-up reviews based on the agreed Corrective Action
Plan.

However, the current status of the RED CAP will be reported as part of this audit,
especially where the move to BRAO] affects changes made following the June audit.

Dates

The audit will start during week commencing 23" November and complete before
Christmas 1998 with a final report to the Customer Service Director, ICL Pathway.

Approach to the Audit

The nature of the CS operation and availability of audit resource means that it will not
be possible to complete the audit in a two-week block. Rather a series of interviews
and site visits will be conducted at mutually agreed dates at the location where the
work is carried out.

The available procedural documentation will be scrutinised and used to structure
interviews where the emphasis will be on confirmation that procedures are
successfully deployed and complied with.

It is understood that a series of Operational Readiness Reviews are taking place within
CS. Where an ORR has been completed the outputs and action lists will be used as
inputs to the audit.

Every effort will be made by the audit team to minimise interruption to the normal
work of the Department although this has to be tempered with the need to complete
the audit within the required time scales.

Audit Resources

The following members of the Quality and Risk Management Directorate will be
involved in this audit:

Jan Holmes : Pathway Audit Manager [*]
Stanley Loam : Internal Auditor [*]
Barry Procter : Pathway Security Manager

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 29 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

David Groom : Pathway Quality Manager
Graham Hooper : Alliance & Leicester Internal Auditor [*]
[*] Full time members.

7. Reporting

At the conclusion of the audit a draft report will be produced and discussed with the
auditees. Corrective actions will be agreed and documented in a Corrective Action
Plan. A final report will be produced and distributed to members of the Customer
Service and Quality & Risk Management Directors only.

Further distribution will be at the discretion of the Customer Service Director.

8. TOR Distribution

Steven Muchow : Customer Service Director

Martin Riddell: Operations Manager

Paul Westfield: Information Services and Processes Manager
Peter Burden : Support Services Manager

Mik Peach : SSC Manager

Martyn Bennett : Director of Quality and Risk Management

Audit Team Members

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 30 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

6 Annex 2 - Current Status of the BSU CAP (IA/CAP/002)

007/1 Procedures between BSU and Contracting Authorities currently being prepared
to cover all aspects of reconciliation incident handling. Lower level procedures are
documented in CS/PRO/055.

007/2 Assessments of incident volume and the likely impact on staff resources post
NR2 continue. Precise requirements are difficult to gauge until EPOSS/APS incidents
are reported and analysed during live trials. A regular working review of the size,
percentage and type of exception transactions continues. BSU will have access to
Discover tools at NR2.

007/3 Job descriptions have been written for all members of BSU. These will
however be subject to ongoing review in light of changes reported during the tail end
of Ric and those in NR2.

007/4 BSU have trialled a “non names” approach in reports and this has been
successful.

007/5 Status as per IA/CAP/002. Documented in CS/PRO/055.

007/6 Specification produced and REDv3.3 now contains adequate functionality to
maintain an auditable history of changes made to information. No amendment to
previously entered data is possible.

007/7 Status as per IA/CAP/002. Documented in CS/PRO/055.
007/8 Status as per IA/CAP/002. Documented in CS/PRO/055.
007/9 Status as per IA/CAP/002. Documented in CS/PRO/055.
007/10 Status as per IA/CAP/002. Documented in CS/PRO/055.
007/11 Status as per IA/CAP/002. Documented in CS/PRO/055.
007/12 Status reported at para 4.4.4.

007/13 Status reported at para 4.4.4.

007/14 Key procedure documented at 4.4.5. A purge of unnecessary documentation
has been undertaken. Key documents have been identified and are now stored
electronically on the BSU server.

007/15 Status as per IA/CAP/002.

007/16 REDv3 allows password control at clerk and managerial levels and prompts
regular password changes utilising NT security protocols.

007/17 REDv3.3 contains drop down initials field within each RED update action.
However, the absence of a password + token access protocol means that each input to
RED cannot positively be attributed to the operator.

007/18 Status as per IA/CAP/002. Specification for RED audit trail produced.

007/19 All RED reports now stored in electronic format on server. No paper records
are now kept.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 31 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OL1

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

7.1

7.2

7.2.1

7.2.2

7.3

Annex 3 —- Summary of SSC Security Review

A review of the security aspects of the SSC at Bracknell was undertaken concurrently
with the audit of Customer Service. Findings raised in that report, which was issued as
RS/REP/004a, are appended here for convenience.

Scope

The IT Security audit concentrated on four aspects of the controls required in a live
support environment: Anti-Virus, Cryptographic key handling, Business Continuity &
Data Protection.

Anti-Virus.

Members of the SSC operate dual workstations in compliance with the ICL Pathway
Access Control Policy; one for use on the live network, the other for ‘regular’ office
applications and access to the ICL corporate network.

Office Desktop

Due to a recent change in the provision of ICL Pathway I.T. services, for the purposes
of virus detection and prevention, the SSC is no longer a member of the Pathway
‘domain’ which provides automatic virus software update.

Since the change in anti-virus software provision, a loose arrangement has evolved
whereby individual staff members download the ‘current’ version of Dr Solomon’s
AV software. This is not a formal arrangement and is not enforced.

The Live Network

RS/REQ/012 - ‘Group Definitions for the Secure NT Build Release 2’ describes the
software to be made available to each group operating on each NT platform. No AV
software is mentioned in this document or any of the secure NT build documents. As a
result, no AV software is present on any of the NT workstations accessing the live
network.

It is recommended that:

= The group responsible for the provision of ICL Pathway LT. services takes steps
to ensure they can provide the SSC with automatic, monthly updates of the Dr
Solomon anti-virus sofiware.

= All relevant documents and builds are modified to incorporate Dr Solomon anti-
virus sofiware and a strategy is agreed for its regular (monthly) update.

Cryptographic Key Handling

During Release 1c, the Manager of the SSC was issued with a subset of the live
cryptographic keys but no operating instructions were issued.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 32 of 34
FUJ00079786

FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL

Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

7.4

7.5

The keys are retained securely and are under the sole control of the SSC Manager. At
no time have they been in danger of loss or compromise.

It is recommended that:
= The SSC Manager is nominated as a formal Cryptographic Key Custodian.
= He is issued with a complete set of cryptographic keys for appropriate releases.

= He receives a set of Cryptographic Key Operating Instructions for appropriate
releases.

Business Continuity

The SSC provide third line support behind the HSH and the SMC, both of which
operate out of Stevenage 09 and neither of which yet have adequate business
continuity arrangements for long term site or service unavailability.

Whilst the HSH and the SMC contingency arrangements are out of scope for this
audit, the burden on the SSC in their absence would be untenable.

No formal, documented business continuity arrangements currently exist for the SSC.
It is anticipated that in the short term (up to four working days) relevant SSC experts
would relocate to Feltham and work from there on PC’s configured from existing
build scripts. Thereafter, application support would revert to the appropriate
development team.

It is not clear how SSC staff operating from Feltham would gain access to the live
environment.

It is recommended that:

= All elements of CS with access to the live service (SSC, BSU, OTT and Reference
Data Support) are included in the existing business continuity exercise owned by
the CS Operations Manager.

= Given the sensitivity and importance of their work the SSC need to consider the
human elements of contingency too - their staff complement is small but they are
highly skilled in specialist areas.

Data Protection Act

Members of the SSC have received formal Data Protection Act training from the ICL
Commercial & Legal Group and appear particularly sensitive to the requirements
around non-disclosure.

Doubts remain about the awareness of the various groups and companies on whom
they depend for fourth line support.

Recommendations arising from this part of the review, which have already been
addressed earlier in this report (section 4.3.3), were:

= Contracts with providers of fourth level support are modified to incorporate the
New European Union directives on Data Protection.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 33 of 34
FUJ00079786
FUJ00079786

ICL Pathway Audit of Customer Service Ref: IA/REP/OLL
Version: 2.0
Date: 09/03/99

= An explicit definition of ‘personal data’ is formalised, particularly where an
obscure combination of fields may reveal personal data in a way that is not
immediately obvious.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 34 of 34
