FUJ00154739
FUJ00154739

From: Pinder Brian[/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FEL01/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PINDERB]
Organizer: Pinder Brian[Brian.Pinde!

Attendees: Sewell Peter (FELO1); Dunks Andy

Location: BRA01 4th floor

Subject: Re: Caledonian WS - Call Logs.doc

Importance: Normal

Start Time: Thur 14/09/2006 11:30:00 AM (UTC)

End Time: Thur 14/09/2006 12:00:00 PM (UTC)

Required Attendees: Sewell Peter (FELO1); Dunks Andy

Need to discuss a way forward with this issue.
If either of you cannot make it on Thursday, then it will be Friday at 12.30

Please confirm?

Brian

graham.c.wardé.,,-
13 September 2006 12:40

5 Dunks Andy
Ce: Pinder Brian; Sewell Peter (FELO1); Thomas Penny
Subject: Re: Caledonian WS - Call Logs.doc
Attachments: Andy updated Caledonian WS - Call Logs.doc

Andy

There is a difference between the Marine Drive and Caledonian Rd cases
seeeeeeeel one is a ‘Civil’ case, the other is ‘Criminal’ . The words /

format of statements used in civil cases often differ to those in criminal
cases.

That said the new second para and amendments to the third para to the usual
standard statement will not impact from our perspective so if you want to
include these as standard from now on that's fine with me. Remember these
statements are yours and whilst I will offer comment and support, the

wording must be such that you as the witness are comfortable and can answer
if cross examined at court.

I have made some amendments (e.g. calls were for 2004 not 2006 and have
asked for an explanation for 1 or 2 acronyms), so have a look through and
accept or reject changes as you see fit (it should now fit onto 4 pages ,

if so please amend the header accordingly if this is the case)

(See attached file: Andy updated Caledonian WS - Call Logs.doc)

Feel free to ring to discuss ........ re-send the final draft before
putting pen to paper.

I also note you have also excluded the following sentences
I have working knowledge of the computer system known as Horizon, which
is a computerised accounting system used by Post Office Ltd. (1 would
have thought this could be retained as you must have a working knowledge
2)

The entire second paragraph is excluded (not a problem as this is
recorded in the statement that Penny will provide)

It is my opinion that none of these calls relate to faults which would
have had an effect on the integrity of the information held on the
system as none of the calls recorded raised problems that fall outside
the normal operating parameters of the Horizon system. (presumably

you're not comfortable stating this 7?)

Regards
Graham
Casework Manager

Post Office Ltd Investigation Team

PO BOX 1, CROYDON, CR9 1WN

I, VoiceMail:

External Email: graham.c.ward

Dunks Andy

To:  graham.c.ward:_
sonnel OG:
Subject: Caledonian WS - Call Logs.doc
13/09/2006 11:28

FUJ00154739
FUJ00154739
Hi Graham,

Sorry for the delay but have been dealing the wording for my statement for
Marine drive with the solicitor and thought that it best we use the same
wording for future requests.

Attached is my statement for the Caledonian Road PO HSH call logs, I have
taken Penny's new format and amended the content with the wording used in
the Marine Drive statement (see attached) that we have agreed with the
solicitor to use. The basis of the statement is saying that this is not my
particular area of expertise and I am supplying the witness statement

simply

to help clarify the call logs for the benefit of the Court.

If any of the calls are then picked out as being an area of contention then
they can be flagged for further investigation and explanation by an
appropriate technician. We spoke at great length to the solicitor for

Marine

Drive and the contents are his words.

If you are ok with this I will get it in the post...

Andy Dunks
CS Security

FUJITSU

Web: http://uk. fujitsu.co

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office
22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW.

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents

are

subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services
does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or
that it is virus-free.

<<Caledonian WS - Call Logs.doc>>

>>>> WS Marine DriveDOC.DOC attachment was removed from this email <<<<

>>>> Caledonian WS - Call Logs.doc attachment was removed from this email
<<<<

SORIA ISO ISO IA IIASA III II ISI RII STII DI DIS ISIS ISS IS OSS OSS SISOS SASS SS IA.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

FUJ00154739
FUJ00154739
FUJ00154739
FUJ00154739

SORIA IIS ISO IOI OI KOKO IAI LSI HII STII DI ADI SII II ASI OSI OBS SISOS SOI IDOI
