FUJ00172043
FUJ00172043

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: Wed 23/06/2010 12:30:45 PM (UTC)
To: Thomas Penny}.

Subject: I RE: Duplicate Messages in ARQ
Penny,

Yes, your note looks fine.
I think this will cover off both my actions once I get the confirmation from Richard.
Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

UBLMUK-FONEL Cor

wa Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services
does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 23 June 2010 13:19

To: Jenkins Gareth GI; Holmes Alan
Subject: RE: Duplicate Messages in ARQ

Yes, it does, Gareth.

I have spoken to Graham Welsh and the issue is now with management. Are you happy with my note and
attachment?

Kind regards
Penny

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 23 June 2010 12:42

To: Thomas Penny; Holmes Alan
Subject: Duplicate Messages in ARQ

Penny / Alan,
I've had a look at the Mails dupli ink it is OK._ I’ve sent the extract to Richard O'Neil in Crewe to confirm

that this is normal. should be back tomorrow. I'll let you know when he
confirms all is OK.

Back to the more general duplicate issue, here are some suggested words:
FUJ00172043
FUJ00172043

With Horizon counters, the mechanism by which Data is audited has always worked on the principle that
it is acceptable to audit the same data more than once - in particular if in doubt as to whether or not it
has been previously audited successfully.

The Mechanism used on Horizon to retrieve the data took this into account and only presented one
instance of such duplicate data in the ARQ extracts.

However it has recently been noticed that the HNG-X retrieval mechanism does not remove such
duplicates and a quick scan of the ARQs provided to Post Office Ltd since the change to the new system
indicates that abut 35% of the ARQs might contain some duplicate data. A Peak has been raised to
remove such duplicate data in the future. However until the fix is developed, tested and deployed, there
is a possibility that data is duplicated.

The reliable way to identify a duplicate transaction is to use the <Num> attribute that is used to generate
the unique sequence numbers. Unfortunately, this attribute is not currently included in the Excel version
of ARQ data that has been passed to Post Office Ltd in the past. This will be included in all future ARQs
until the problem is fixed.

Meanwhile all that can be done on existing ARQs is look for transactions that appear to be duplicates.
Note that we have identified scenarios with Postal services transactions where (details t6S) which result
in different transactions appearing to be duplicates.

Does that sound like a good start? I'll fill in the missing bit when I get something back from Richard.
Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

Aftpiiukc fujitsu:com

wa Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

it

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
