FUJ00079301
FUJ00079301

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth

Sent: 9/8/1999 7:13:.

To: Pope Johni

ce: Warwick Steve!
lemingway
Jones David

i 3 Dixon Rex
Subject: RE: RE (again): EPOSS Reconciliation
John,

> just to capture for posterity the brief conversation I had

>with you and Steve Warwick today, I believe the totals

> created daily at the counter per section 2.2 of the Logical

> Design, and the items created at the time of producing the

> Cash Account Final Report per section 2.3, need to used

> signed rather than absolute values. Otherwise items which

> net within a Cash Account line (e.g. sale and subsequent

> reversal, net nil) will not reconcile with the summed transactions.

Shouldn't we just ensure that we have different categories to handle Positive and negative amounts so that netting is done
when checking rather than when accumulating amounts? This gives us checks to handle our current problem cases of
an amount of £24,000,000 immediately followed by a reversal. We DO want to know about such problems (even if they
have no impact on cash Accounts and TIP data).

Remember these checks are really aimed at finding bugs in our code. If there weren't any, then we wouldn't have a
problem!

Regards
Gareth

email: GRO

Internal Phone: 7

External Phone:

External Mobile Phone:} G RO
Internal Mobile Phone: }

i

ICL
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
Website : http://www.icl.com

This e-mail is intended only for the addressee named above. As this e-mail may contain confidential or privileged information if you are not, or suspect
that you are not, the named addressee or the person responsible for delivering the message to the named addressee, please telephone us immediately.
Please note that we cannot guarantee that this message or any attachment is virus free or has not been intercepted and amended. The views of the
author may not necessarily reflect those of the Company.

International Computers Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 26, Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1SL
