FUJ00243338
FUJ00243338

Message
From:
Sent:
To:

ce:

Subject:

Mike
Thank you for letting us know that.

We will stand down and issue report as requested along with our fee for the work as per agreement.

We were very much looking forward to supporting you in the delivery of this project, but understand and appreciate the
changes that you have mentioned.

Should the circumstances change then we will, of course, be pleased to assist further.

Kind regards
Chris Starnes

Christopher Starnes
Senior Manager

KPMG Risk Consulting
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf

London, E14 5GL

GRO

From: Deaton Mike [mailto
Sent: 04 May 2012 12:11
To: Starnes, Chris

Cc: Jocson, Ervin; Beresford Peter
Subject: RE: HGNX

Chris, Ervin

Apologies for my having gone quiet, but there have been noises of an alternative approach by Post Office and
wanted to gauge the certainty of these plans and understand the ramifications in order I could confirm how this
impacts this particular project.

It seems that Post Office are now considering a full end to end integrity check on both former and previous
systems. This would extend outside of our HNG and HNGxX obligations to incorporate the Post Office obligations,
systems and processes.

As such, it is unlikely that we shall be looking to engage you on Phase 1. Clearly this may change, but for the
time being, could I please request that you issue Phase 0 to us “as is” but removing the draft status and then
stand down your resources on this project for time being.

Naturally, I will be in touch with you a the earliest opportunity should we need to pick up again.

Thank you for the professionalism that you have demonstrated in your approach to date and am sorry that it is
looking unlikely that we will be seeing this project through with you.
FUJ00243338
FUJ00243338

Should you wish to discuss the matters in more depth, please do feel free to contact me.

Regards,

Mike

Mike Deaton
Change & Operations Director
Business Operations

Fujitsu
Fujitsu, 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW
Internally f

Web: hitip7ak Tujitsu cori

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Starnes, Chris [mailto:‘_
Sent: 04 May 2012 08:46

To: Deaton Mike

Subject: HGNX

Good morning Mike

Have you all had chance now to look at the draft document?

Would it be useful to set up a call to discuss, arrange a face to face meeting or do you want us to arrange to
commence the next phase?

Please could you let me know which you would prefer.

Many thanks

Chris

Christopher Starnes
Senior Manager

KPMG Risk Consulting
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf

London, E14 5GL

This email has been sent from KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability
partnership (which is a subsidiary of KPMG Europe LLP),
from KPMG Europe LLP, from one of the companies within KPMG LLPs
FUJ00243338
FUJ00243338

control (which include KPMG Audit Plc,

KPMG United Kingdom Plc and KPMG UK Limited) or from KPMG Resource
Centre Private Limited, together "KPMG".

KPMG Europe LLP does not provide services to clients. None of KPMG
Europe LLPs subsidiaries have any authority to obligate

or bind KPMG Europe LLP. This email is confidential and may be
legally privileged. It is intended solely for the addressee.

Access to this email by anyone else is unauthorised. If you are not
the addressee or an intended recipient or have not

agreed with us the terms on which you are receiving this email any
disclosure, copying, distribution or any action

taken or omitted to be taken in reliance on the contents of this
email or its attachments, is at your own risk,prohibited

and may be unlawful, and to the fullest extent permitted by law KPMG
accepts no responsibility or liability to you.

When addressed to our clients any opinions or advice contained in
this email or its attachments are subject to the terms and
conditions expressed in the governing KPMG client engagement letter.
Anything in this email or its attachments which

does not relate to KPMG's official business is neither given nor
endorsed by KPMG.

KPMG Europe LLP, registered in England No 0C324045
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

KPMG United Kingdom PLC, registered in England No 03513178
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

KPMG UK Limited, registered in England No 3580549
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

KPMG LLP, registered in England No 0C301540
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

KPMG Audit Plc, registered in England No 3110745
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS)
Limited, or from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence
and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended
or that it is virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London
W1U 3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London
WIU 3BW.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office
Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
