FUJ00086922
Fuso0086922

Briefing note on Audit findings for Senior Management

Executive Summary

Given the scope of the audit and the significant changes to the key financial systems being
investigated, the findings from the 2010/11 audit are significantly focussed.

POL and Fujitsu have undertaken significant changes to the financial systems environment
this past year. The entire counter and branch support environment (consisting over 30000+
counters and 12000+ branches) converted from the Horizon system to Horizon next
generation (HNGX) along with the consolidation of the SAP back-office environment into
POLSAP, and the provision of supporting change management processes and systems within
Fujitsu to support POL’s customer requirements.

The new HNGX environment is now a full production environment and Fujitsu is in the final
stages of transitioning all supporting environments as part of this progression from a major
development.

There are 3 main categories to be addressed,
e the Change Management Process and it’s controls,
e User Access and appropriate authorisations and
e the extent to which POL require proof of management activities from the Fujitsu
Managed Service.

Ernst & Young have identified 4x High priority, 3x Medium priority and 3x Low priority
findings.

The complexity of the POL/Fujitsu environments has required a more technical
understanding from the auditors vs previous years, and the utilisation of the shared service
approach (ie the utilisation of a shared, secure List X data centre shared with other customers
including Government) has introduced further complexity and difficulty in gaining audit
evidence. The utilisation of these shared services have contributed towards the £50m
savings to POL for IT services.

The hours utilised this year doubles that of last year's audit — but given the scope of changes
applied and the total revisit of the evidential information request, this is not unexpected.

Audit interaction

Ermst & Young auditors have been provided with significant support from all parties involved
with the audit, and certain key personnel have been identified for recognition. Due to the
significant system changes this audit period, the original information requests had to be
totally reworked which created additional workload within POL and Fujitsu.

In spite of the markedly changed environments, new information requests and the necessity
to explain the changes to the financial systems as well as the supporting change
management systems, the audit completed more than 5 weeks earlier than last year's audit.

Financials

Ernst & Young have stated that an over-run against Plan has occurred.
However, neither POL nor Fujitsu were engaged in the production of the Plan, and
* no prior years engagements were factored in, (2010 overrun doubled the Plan
estimate)
e the significant impact that the changes of POL FS to POLSAP and Horizon to HNGX
made to
othe original evidence requests,
© re-engineering request to the new environments or
© gaining evidence from remarkably differing financial systems.
e Insufficient time allocated for a new team reaching an understanding of the new
environments

The estimated budget for Ernst & Young to complete this year's review, based on the
assumption that evidence would be readily available and that all controls would be in place
was 457 hours. Actual time spent from E&Y was 1195 hours which included a figure of 75
hours for internal E&Y overruns due to a new team being engaged with no experience of the
POL estate, which is extremely conservative.

Contractuals

The Post Office and Fujitsu operate 180 Operational Level Agreements against the
contractual obligations for the Managed Service incorporating HNGX and POLSAP financial
environment.

These operational level reviews are primarily focussed on the business-facing services and
do not necessarily cover the support systems that Fujitsu operates behind the scenes to
manage the environments from development to production through all its stages.

However, a Security Managed Service: Service Description does exist that ‘provides a range
of security-related activities that support the establishment and maintenance of an 1SO27001
compliant infrastructure. The Security Management Service monitors operations and
introduces specific protective security controls to maintain the integrity, availability and
confidentiality of information used and produced ‘

This includes ongoing assurance of security policies and procedures, reviews of operational
processes, monthly plans to address audit and compliance issues and monthly reporting on
existing service changes, among other activities.

Recommendations

It has been recommended that activities take place in certain key areas to resolve applicable
audit findings
1. POL/Fujitsu contract to clearly state expectations and ensure monitoring of
requirements to support control activities is in place to support controls identified
2. Fujitsu to resolve certain access control issues around financial systems
a. Resolution of user or system accounts that create segregation of duties
conflicts
b. Ensure processes are in place to ensure regular review of access
controls and cleanup of access rights due to personnel changes
3. Fujitsu continue to improve change management processes
a. ensure visibility to POL of process controls
b. ensure adequate traceability of approvals

While certain mitigating controls are in place through Fujitsu’s global best practices there are
opportunities to improve specific controls, visibility of controls and mitigating processes and
POL's management interactions to continue to assure the environment.

FUJ00086922
Fuso0086922
Appendix A - Audit Findings

Ernst & Young have generated 10 key findings

Finding I Priority Summary Responsibility
1 High The governance of the outsourced POL - review contract to
environment is complex and difficult I identify control management
to gain control evidence requirements
Fujitsu — ensure visibility,
end-to-end process
2 High Segregation of duties within the POL - ensure controls are
controlling of the manage change managed
process to be confirmed Fujitsu — balance best
practice and segregation of
duties
3 High Strengthen the change management I POL - ensure clear evidence
process regarding approvals of approvals process
required Fujitsu — balance best
practise with need for fixes
4 High Review of privileged access for POL - ensure controls are
administration and technical managed
resources Fujitsu — ensure appropriate
access, control on regular
schedule
5 Medium I Implement periodic user access POL - ensure controls are
reviews and monitoring controls managed
Fujitsu — implement regularly
scheduled access control
reviews
6 Medium I Strengthen the User Administration POL - ensure controls are
Process managed
Fujitsu — review user access
process with full traceability
7 Low Improvements to logical security POL - ensure controls are
settings for administrators managed
Fujitsu — balance best
practice and segregation of
duties
8 Low Strengthen the password POL - ensure controls are
parameters managed
Fujitsu — balance best
practice and system
capabilities
9 Medium I Review of generic privileged POL - ensure controls are
accounts managed
Fujitsu — balance best
practice and segregation of
duties
10 Low Improvements to the problem and POL - ensure controls are

incident management process

managed
Fujitsu — ensure best practice
followed

FUJ00086922
Fuso0086922
