FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479
Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/015
Version: 1.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002
Document Title: Management Information Service: Service Description
Document Type: Service Description
Release: N/A
Abstract: Service Description of the Management Information Service
provided under contract to Post Office Ltd
Document Status: APPROVED
Originator & Dept: John Moran : Fujitsu Services Customer Service
Contributors: Richard Brunskill, Mark Haggett, Mark Jones, Tom Cheriyan
(Fujitsu Services)
Internal Distribution: PVCS, Reviewers
External Distribution: Post Office Reviewers

Approval Authorities:

Name [Position Signature Date

[Liz Tuddenham [Post Office Network Support -
Supplier & Service
Performance Manager

[Richard Brunskill [Fujitsu Services Pathway
Infrastructure Services Manager

© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: I of 11
(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479
FUJ00120479

Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/015
Version: 1.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002
0.0 Document Control
0.1. Document History
\Version No. [Date iReason for Issue IAssociated
(CP/PinICL
1.0 20/12/02 First authorised version introduced under contract
jnegotiations and agreed between Fujitsu Services andI
Post Office

0.2 Review Details

[Review Comments by: [Date

Review Comments to: [Originator

Mandatory Review Authority

Name

[Post Office: Network Support — Supplier &I
Service Performance Manager

Liz Tuddenham

Fujitsu Services:
Services Manager

Pathway

InfrastructureRichard Brunskill

Fujitsu Services: Pathway — Customer Servic
[Director

jartin Riddell

Optional Review / Issued for Information

Post Office: Network Support — Performance
Reporting Manager

Ben Gildersleve

( * ) = Reviewers that returned comments

0.3 Associated Documents

Reference ersion [Date (Title Source

\CS/PER/013 Service Review Performance PVCS

\CS/PRD/104 3 22/11/2002 System Service: Reporting & [PVCS
‘Remedial Settlement Process

\CS/PRO/133 4 18/04/2002 Data File Delivery SLA PVCS
[Exclusion Conditions

B/SDS/008 etwork Banking MIS PVCS

[Reports Design

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current

approved versions of the documents.
0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

© 2002 Fujitsu Services

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Page: 2 of 11

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479

Management Information Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/015
Version: 1.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002

[Abbreviation Definition

MIS anagement Information Service

[Miscellaneous DataA request for data from the Post Office as described in paragraph 3.3}

(Query Request f this CCD

MSU Fujitsu Services Management Support Unit — the team which collectivel
supplies the Management Information Service

OLA Operational Level Agreement

PAN Personal Account Number

Post Office™ Post Office Ltd

Service Management orum comprised of nominated representatives from both the Fujitsu

[Forum Services and the Post Office which meet at regular intervals to revie'

ithe service supplied by Fujitsu Services

Service Review Book

‘A document published on a monthly basis by Fujitsu Services detailing

he previous months achievement to target against SLA(s) andI
containing managerial comment when appropriate, as further described
in paragraph 3.1

SLA

Service level Agreement(s)

SLT

Service Level Target

The definitions above
within this documen

meaning as defined within Schedule 1 of the Agreement.

0.5 Changes in

apply within this document only. Any other defined terms used
t, other than those set out in the table above, shall have the

this Version

\Version

‘Changes

1.0

First Issue

0.6 Changes Expected

(Changes

© 2002 Fujitsu Services

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 3 of 11

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479

Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/015

Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002

5.0

5.1
5.2

6.0
6.1

Table of Contents

SERVICE SUMMARY.

GENERAL...
MAIN ELEMENTS OF THE MIS.

SERVICE PRINCIPLES.
GENERAL.
SERVICE DEFINITION.

THE SERVICE REVIEW BOOK.
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION..
MISCELLANEOUS DATA QUERI
CALCULATION OF LIQUIDATED DAMAGES

SERVICE AVAILABILIT

SERVICE TARGETS & LIMITS...

SERVICE DEPENDENCIES & POST OFFICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
Post OFFICE RESPONSIBILITIES.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 4 of 11

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479
Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Ref: CS/SER/015
Description
Version: 1.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002

1.0 Service Summary

1.1 General

LL The primary aim of the Management Information Service (MIS) is to provide to

the Post Office performance reporting and management information relating to the
Horizon Services

1.2 Main elements of the MIS

1.2.1 The delivery to Post Office of the monthly Service Review Book (SRB) as detailed
in para. 3.1 below.

1.2.2 The delivery to Post Office of supporting information leading to the settlement
with Post Office of Liquidated Damages where applicable, as detailed in para. 3.4
below.

1.2.3 The delivery to Post Office of management information in accordance with the
requirements set out in paragraph 3.2.1 in relation to Network Banking transaction
data.

1.2.4 The delivery to Post Office of management information in relation to the
Automated Payments Service (APS) transaction delivery to individual clients as
detailed in paragraph 3.2.2.

1.2.5 The delivery to Post Office of management information in relation to the Capacity
Management Service as detailed in paragraph 3.2.3.

1.2.6 The delivery to Post Office of management information in response to a
Miscellaneous Data Query Request which may be received by Fujitsu Services, as
detailed in para. 3.3.

2.0 Service Principles

2.1 General

2.1.1 Staff utilised for the MIS will have the necessary skills to provide statistical and
data analysis appropriate to the MIS.

3.0 Service Definition

3.1 The Service Review Book

3.1.1 The Service Review Book is the primary input into the Service Management
Forum reporting on performance against SLT’s.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 5 of 1
(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479
Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Ref: CS/SER/015
Description
Version: 1.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002
3.1.2 Fujitsu Services will deliver version 1 of the monthly SRB to Post Office by close

of business on the fifth working day following the end of the month being reported.
This version will contain SLT data only.

3.1.3 Fujitsu Services will deliver version 2 of the monthly SRB to Post Office by close
of business on the tenth working day following the end of the month being
reported. This version will contain SLT data (which may have been updated from
version 1 due to the late delivery of information) and a service summary broken
down into the following categories:

a) Management Summary — highlights of the last months service delivery;
b) A high level review of each of the supplied services;
c) Service volumetric data which is available to the MSU, for example:

e The Number of calls received from live Post Office branches by the
Horizon Systems Helpdesk (HSH).

¢ The number of OBCS transactions.
e The number of APS transactions.

© Technical Service Desk volumetrics as defined in section 4.3.3 of
the CCD Technical Service Desk Service Description
(CS/PRO/148).

« Number of live Post Office branches and counter positions.

d) High level review of problem management and cross domain problem status;

e) High level review of release management including releases delivered and
future scheduling;

f) Annexes identifying Engineer Services failures attracting remedies and TSD
failures against SLTs. These annexes will detail the following in respect of
each failure:

e Incident reference

© Degree of failure

© Brief description of incident

e Explanation of cause of failure

e Action planned/taken to mitigate further failures

3.1.4 The SRB will contain SLA information as described in paragraphs 3.1.5 to 3.1.8

below.
3.1.5 Monthly SLA achievement shall be reported over the previous 13 calendar months.
© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 6 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479

Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Ref: CS/SER/015

Description
Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002

SLA achievement, with the exception of all Data Services SLA’s (Data file delivery
and Logistical feeder service, as detailed in Annex 2 Schedule 15), shall be
reported to one decimal place.

SLA achievement for all Data Services SLA’s shall be reported to two decimal
places.

SLA achievement shall be colour coded as follows:

a) Green: SLA target met — no issues to report;

b) Amber: SLA target missed — one off incident with action plan in place or not
required;

c) Red: SLA target missed — root cause unknown at this point or no action
planned to resolve the issue and could re-occur.

3.2 Management Information

3.2.1

Fujitsu Services will deliver the following Network Banking management
information to Post Office, in the form and manner as further detailed in the CCD
entitled: Network Banking MIS Reports Design (NB/SDS/008):

a) MIS money laundering report: Fujitsu Services shall produce on a monthly
basis a report listing, by Branch, the cash deposit Banking Transactions that
exceeded the configurable threshold specified in the above CCD, together with
a Post Office Branch summary giving the number and value of such Banking
Transactions.

b) MIS multiple transactions report: Fujitsu Services shall produce on a monthly
basis a report giving the number of Banking Transactions conducted for the
same PAN on a calendar day in excess of the configurable threshold specified
in the above CCD, with details of all such Banking Transactions sorted by Post
Office Branch, PAN and the date on which those Banking Transactions
occurred.

c) MIS transaction outcome analysis by branch report: Fujitsu Services shall
produce on a weekly basis a report giving, by Post Office product and Banking
Transaction outcome, the number and value of Banking Transactions for the
previous accounting week.

d) MIS bank analysis report: Fujitsu Services shall produce on a weekly basis a
report in respect of each accounting week for each Bank, issuer scheme,
posting date (the date from which the relevant Transmission Day Number (as
defined in the TIP application interface specification) is derived), Network
Banking Settlement Date, product type and value band, the outcome, daily
number and value (determined from the applicable Network Banking
Confirmation) of Banking Transactions harvested in that Accounting Week.
There shall be value bands as specified in the CCD entitled “Network Banking

© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 7 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479

Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Ref: CS/SER/015

Description
Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002

3.2.2

3.2.3

3.3

3.3.1

3.3.2

3.3.3

3.3.4

MIS Reports Design” (NB/SDS/008).

e) Changes to the value bands and / or introduction of additional bands will be
effected through the Hard Change Control Procedure. Both parties agree, (but
for the avoidance of doubt without any commitment) that, in the normal course
of business, four weeks would be a reasonable period to allow for the
introduction of a change to the value band. Fujitsu Services shall provide Post
Office with one copy of each MIS report electronically using “Business
Objects” software (or such other software as may be agreed by the parties in
writing from time to time).

Fujitsu Services will deliver the OBCS (including OBCS stops) & APS client
transaction management information to Post Office by close of business on the
tenth working day after the end of the month being reported. The information to
be provided is as follows:

a) The number of transactions completed, (in respect of APS at APS client level),
each day throughout the Post Office Branch network; and

b) The delivery profile of those transactions, (in respect of APS at APS client
level), based upon the % delivery to Day B, Day C, Day D and Day J (where
Day A is the transaction completion date).

Fujitsu Services will deliver Capacity Management information to the Post Office
by close of business on the tenth working day after the end of the month being
reported, in accordance with the CCD entitled: Capacity Management Business
Volumes (PA/PER/033), section 4H.

Miscellaneous Data Queries

Post Office may request Fujitsu Services to supply data not normally reported by
the MIS within section 3.1 & 3.2, subject to the limits detailed in section 5.2.

Post Office will submit a Miscellaneous Data Query Request via the Fujitsu
Services ‘Ad-hoc query’ mailbox. Urgent requests for data may be communicated
via the telephone, however all such requests must be followed up as soon as
reasonably practical by a written Miscellaneous Data Query Request.

Fujitsu Services will log all Miscellancous Data Query Requests in a database for
future reference and audit requirements.

Fujitsu Services will deliver data to Post Office in any of the following formats as
requested by Post Office:

a) Business Objects Report; or

b) MS Office: Word / Excel.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 8 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479

Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Ref: CS/SER/015

Description
Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002

3.3.5

3.3.6

3.3.7

3.4

3.4.1

3.4.2

3.4.3

3.4.4

3.4.5

3.4.6

3.4.7

The data shall be delivered in paper or electronic (CD / E mail / Diskette) form, as
requested by the Post Office.

Fujitsu Services shall use reasonable endeavours to return the completed
Miscellaneous Data Query Request to Post Office within 5 working days from
receipt.

Fujitsu Services will advise Post Office if they are unable to deliver the completed
Miscellaneous Data Query Request within 5 working days and will advise Post
Office of the estimated delivery date.

In carrying out the MIS service, Fujitsu Services shall comply with its data
protection obligations as identified in paragraph 2.3.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

Calculation of Liquidated Damages

Some but not all SLA’s are subject to Liquidated Damages when the applicable
Liquidated Damage Threshold (LDT) has not been achieved. Those Service levels
that do attract liquidated damages are identified within Schedule 15.

Fujitsu Services will provide Post Office with the backing data that has been used
to calculate the financial payments associated with any liquidated damages on a
monthly basis.

Post Office will review this backing data to verify this financial payment is correct

Post Office will advise Fujitsu Services if it considers any payment to be incorrect
and both parties will attempt to resolve any dispute at the operational level.

If a dispute cannot be resolved at the operational level, the issue will be escalated
to the Service Management Forum for discussion and resolution.

Ifa dispute cannot be resolved at the Service Management Forum, the issue will be
referred to the Commercial Forum where it will be resolved using the established
“Case Law’ procedure.

Once both parties have agreed on the value of the financial payment, Fujitsu
Services will issue a credit note to Post Office based upon the amount payable over
the relevant Post Office quarter in accordance with Schedule 9.

4.0 Service Availability

The MIS will be available from 9:00 to 17:30 Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays.

5.0 Service Targets & Limits

5.1 Targets

© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 9 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479

Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Ref: CS/SER/015

Description
Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002

Service Review Books

a) Fujitsu Services will deliver to Post Office the Ist iteration of the SRB - 5
working days after month end;

b) Fujitsu Services will deliver to Post Office the 2nd iteration of the SRB — 10
working days after month end; and

c) Fujitsu Services will use reasonable endeavours to deliver a completed
Miscellaneous Data Query Request to Post Office within 5 working days of
receipt.

Network Banking MIS Reports Delivery

a) Fujitsu Services will, in the normal course of business, provide Post Office with
one copy of each MIS report within the time limits specified below:

e in the case of the Reports specified in paragraphs 3.2.1 a) to c) above no
later than 5 working days after the end of the period covered by the Report;
and

e in the case of the Report referred to in paragraph 3.2.1 d) no later than I
working day after the end of the period covered by the Report.

b) Where circumstances outside the normal course of business impact on the
timing of provision of a MIS report to Post Office then such report shall be
provided to Post Office as soon as reasonably practical after the end of the
period covered by the Report. Fujitsu Services shall notify Post Office as soon
as reasonably practicable after becoming aware of circumstances that will delay
preparation or provision of a MIS report.

c

In the case of the MIS reports referred to in paragraphs 3.2.1 a) to c) above
information from any Branch which is non-polling between the end of the
period covered by the MIS report and the time when that MIS report is
prepared will not be included in the MIS report for that period but will be
included in a subsequent reprint of the MIS report showing that information,
once all the Branches have been polled.

5.2 Limits

Post Office may submit no more than 5 Miscellaneous Data Query Requests each week.

6.0 Service Dependencies & Post Office Responsibilities.

6.1 Post Office Responsibilities

6.1.1 Fujitsu Services will only accept an Miscellaneous Data Query Request if it has
been received via the agreed route as described in paragraph 3.3.2.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 10 of I

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00120479

FUJ00120479
Fujitsu Services Management Information Service: Service Ref: CS/SER/015
Description
Version: 1.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20 -Dec-2002
6.1.2 Post Office will make Miscellaneous Data Query Requests using the standard
Miscellaneous Data Query Request form.
6.1.3 Post Office will use reasonable endeavours to refuse any requests for data from

within their organisation which they do not consider are cost justified. Where
necessary, Post Office will consult Fujitsu Services prior to any such request being
made.

6.1.4 Post Office shall not submit any Miscellaneous Data Query Request which would
normally be submitted via the established audit and security route. Any such
request will be refused by Fujitsu Services MIS.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services SECURITY CLASSIFICATION Page: 11 of 1
(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
