FUJ00183347

FUJ00183347

Cc: "Gareth Jenkins.

<gi.jenkiny__.

Bremner +
Subject: Stage 2 review of Coyne's Report [(WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]
Hi All,

Can we have a quick daily call to run through progress on Jonny's 4 points below please.
Regards,

Dave

> Join Skype Meeting

Trouble Joining? Try Skype Web App

Join by phone

“ireland External) (UK&) English (United Kingdom)

UK & freland Internal) (UK&l) English (United Kingdom)
UK External) (UK&I) English (United Kingdom)

Conference ID:
Forgot your dial-in PIN? IHelp

Note: For Technical Support calls with Video conferencing this meeting is in Fujitsu-Pool-02

From: Lenton, Matthew

Sent: 01 November 2018 18:10
To: Jonathan Gribbe
areth Jenkins <.

; Newsome, Pete £

; Andrew Parsons <_

; Katie Simmonds

Subject: RE: Stage 2 revie -AC.FID27032497]

Jonny,
I confirm that your request number 1 below has been passed to the Problem Management team.

Could you give an indication of how much (weeks / months etc) and what age of information you are looking for?
Clearly recent information is going to be easier and quicker to obtain.

Matthew Lenton
Post Office Account Document Manager
P&PS, Digital Technology Services

, Lucy

'b; Parker, Steve
FUJ00183347
FUJ00183347

Fujitsu

From: Jonathan Gribben [f

Sent: 01 November 2018 16:27

+ Parker, Steve

i Lucy Bremner

Subject: FW: Stage 2 review of Coyne's Report [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]
Importance: High

Pete,

Privileged & Confidential

Further to our call, the order of priority is:-

1. the high priority request in the "Further Evidence Required" document that relates to para. 1.156 of Coyne's report
(this looks like one for Matthew);

2. analysis of Robert's sample of 50 KELs (Gareth/Steve);

3. analysis of the KELs referred to in Coyne's report (Gareth/Steve); and

4. the rest of the requests in the "Further Evidence Required" document.

When completing the attached tables for 2 and 3 please would the writer analyse the KELs in their own words, rather
than referring to Robert's analysis. This is for privilege reasons (I'll be deleting the Robert's analysis column from the
table, and therefore the FJ analysis needs to stand on its own).

Can we touch base tomorrow morning once you've spoken to Gareth to agree timescales?

Kind regards
Jonny
Jonathan Gribben

Managing Associate
w oe

(UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts
: womblebonddickinson.com

»)) WOMBLE
DICKINSON

FUJ00183347
FUJ00183347

From: Jonathan Gribben
Sent: 01 November 2018 12:35

Cc: Dave. Ibbett{_ GRO Andrew Parsons ¢
Lucy Bremner; Katie Simmonds
Subject: Stage 2 review of Coyne's Report [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Importance: High

Pete,

Privileged & Confidential

Thank you for sending through initial comments from you and Gareth on Coyne's report. When will the comments from
Steve's team be available please?

You mentioned agreeing a strategy for the support Robert and his team needs to the points made by Coyne about Peaks
and KELs. Please find attached two documents:-

* a table containing Robert's analysis of the KELs referred to in Coyne's report, with a column for Fujitsu's analysis to
be added; and
+ a table containing Robert's analysis of a sample of 50 KELS, with a column for Fujitsu's analysis to be added.

Working backwards, we will need to produce a witness statement to explain the impact of the issues referred to in
KELs and Peaks that Robert cannot say did not cause discrepancies in branch accounts and/or were not resolved by
himself. You'll see that there are eight KELS in his sample of 50 that Robert can't deal with himself based on his
analysis (but that could increase if you disagree with his analysis).

As you know the deadline for witness evidence is 13 November. Please would you therefore:-

* add your analysis to the table relating to the sample of 50 KELs by 1:00pm tomorrow; and

* add your analysis to the table relating to the KELs referred to by Coyne (I see that Gareth has already provided
some comments and understand that Steve and his team are reviewing the report, so this work is already quite well
advanced) by close of play tomorrow.

That should enable us to get a draft witness statement or statements (ideally the statements will come from the
authors of the KELs if they are available) into play by midday on Tuesday.

I've also attached a document called "Further Evidence Required v3" which identifies specific sections of Coyne's
report where Robert would like some more detailed analysis. There is some overlap with the KELs referred to in the
table, but some are not covered by the table. There is one high priority request in relation to para. 1.156 that I'd
appreciate a response to today if possible.

I will give you a call to discuss.

Kind regards

Jonny

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this em
FUJ00183347
FUJ00183347

2

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confides legally privileged and protected by Jaw, matthew.lento} only is authorised to access
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not matthew lentol..s..2.689_....04, please notify jonathan.gribbel, GRO} as soon as possible and delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use
personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or
consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing services
in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world, Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor can bind
or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see www,womblebonddickinson.com/legal
notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
