FUJ00176310
__FUJ00176310

Thomas Penny

From: Jenkins Gareth GI I I
Sent: 24 June.2010 09:39 \ I
To: Thomas Penny; Holmes Alan

Subject: Duplicate Messages in ARQ (updated) "POH - 5 D
Penny / Alan,

As mentioned before, I've now confirmed that the Mails duplicate is OK.
Back to the more general duplicate issue, here are some suggested words (updated in last para):

With Horizon counters, the mechanism by which Data is audited has always worked on the principle that it is
acceptable to audit the same data more than once — in particular if in doubt as to whether or not it has been
previously audited successfully.

The Mechanism used on Horizon to retrieve the data took this into account and only presented one instance of
such duplicate data in the ARQ extracts.

However it has.recently been noticed that the HNG-X retrieval mechanism does not remove such duplicates
and a quick scan of the ARQs provided to Post Office Ltd since the change to the new system indicates that
abut 35% of the ARQs might contain some duplicate data. A Peak has been raised to remove such duplicate
data in the future. However until the fix is developed, tested and deployed, there is a possibility that data is
duplicated.

The reliable way to identify a duplicate transaction is to use the <Num> attribute that’is used to generate the
unique sequence numbers. Unfortunately, this attribute is not currently included in the Excel version of ARQ
data that has been passed to Post Office Ltd in the past. This will be included in all future ARQs until the
problem is fixed.

Meanwhile all that can be done on existing ARQs is look for transactions that appear to be duplicates. Note
that we have identified a scenario with Postal Services transactions where multiple, identical mails items are
accepted (ie the Quantity button is set to greater than 1), but Postage Labels are printed for each individual
item. This results in separate transactions being generated for each item, which are identical in the ARQ
extracts (there is another minor difference in the raw data apart from the <Num< attribute, but this different
attribute is not currently included in the ARQ extract).

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
Tel: Internal

Mobile: 7 L Internal: i
email * Gareth:Jenkins!
Web: htto://uk. fujitsu. com

1 Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Streel, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not.been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
