FUJ00152966
FUJ00152966

From: Williams Roger[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WILLIAMSRQ]
Sent: Mon 08/02/2010 1:12:13 PM (UTC)

To: Jones David

Subject: I RE: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged

Thanks David.
BTW, I know the lawyers in the POL Criminal Team quite well from my Post Office days.

Best regards
Roger

Roger Q Williams

Legal Department

FUJITSU

Observatory House, Windsor Road, Slough, Berkshire SL1 2EY

From: Jones David M

Sent: 05 February 2010 17:41

To: Williams Roger; Roberts David (LON22)

Subject: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged
Importance: High

FYI - there are some key issues here about our systems that could potentially impact relations with POL if mishandled -
so I am keeping close to it for a while!

Best wishes

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

FUJITSU.
Mobi.

E-mail . _GRO

From: Jones David M

Sent: 05 February 2010 17:10
To: jarnail.a.singI
Cc: Jenkins Gareth GI; Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged
Importance: High

Jarnail

This is an email that I received earlier from Gareth. You will see that he is clear that in order to answer Counsel's
question about any issues he needs to be able to check the underlying transaction logs to be able to say whether there
were any issues. On the specific issues you raise Gareth’s view is:

2. He needs information and time to research the background to this case before providing any response;

3. He is not currently in a position to make a clear statement. It is possible for there to be problems
where transactions have been “lost” in particular circumstances due to locking issues. When this happens
FUJ00152966
FUJ00152966

then we have events in the underlying eventing logs to indicate that there was an issue. Whenever we provide
transaction logs to POL we check for any such events. In the case of West Byfleet we have not been asked to
provide any transaction logs and so have not made these checks.

4. Gareth has reviewed the statement by Eleanor Nixon. There is nothing technical there for him to
comment on. If POL are able to expand on exactly what they did to resolve the issues and what they found to
be the issues there, then he could comment on that. At first glance it is purely a case of incorrect use of the
system and clearly with any system if incorrect information is input then incorrect results come out.

I hope that helps.

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

FUJITSU.

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 05 February 2010 16:06

To: Jones David M; Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged

David / Penny,
Brief responses as follows, but not sure that I should put them in a Witness Statement:

2. I need [Jones David M] information and time to research the background to this
case before providing any response

3. This is where I'm reluctant to make a clear statement. I am aware of one problem
where transactions have been lost in particular circumstances due to locking issues.
When this happens we have events in the eventing logs to indicate that there was an
issue and whenever we provide transaction logs to POL we check for any such events. In
the case of West Byfleet we have not provided any transaction logs and so have not made
these checks.

4, I have reviewed the statement by Eleanor Nixon. There is nothing technical there
for me to comment on. If POL are able to expand on exactly what they did to resolve the
issues and what they found to be the issues there, then I could comment on that. At
first glance it is purely a case of incorrect use of the system and clearly with any
system if incorrect information is input then incorrect results come out.

If you feel it OK to pass this onto POL then that’s fine by me, but I’m reluctant for it
to go further without POL’s agreement and understanding of the potential implications.

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

FUJITSU

FUJ00152966
FUJ00152966

E-mail: {

Web: http:

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office: 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

----- Original Message-
From: marilyn.benjami
Of jarnail.a.singh@!
Sent: 05 February 20
To: Jones David M
Cc: Jenkins Gareth GI; Thomas Penny

Subject: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged

mailtof GRO

GRO

Dear David and Penny,

On first glance points 2 - 4 have not been answered which I reproduce
below.
2) My barrister telephoned me yesterday evening and requested that I find

out any information that Fujitsu may hold in relation to an office called
Callender Square in Falkirk. Apparently, Anne Chambers a Systems
Specialist employed by Fujitsu was cross examined and it is said that she
had full knowledge of an error in the Horizon system at this Post Office.
Our barrister would like Gareth to deal with this matter and expand upon
whatever issue Anne Chambers raised at court within his witness statement.

3) When Gareth completes his statement could he also mention whether there
are any known problems with the Horizon system that Fujitsu are aware of.
If none could this be clarified in the statement.

4) Could Gareth read the statement from Eleanor Nixon attached below and
respond in his statement to the points raised by Eleanor Nixon about
Horizon.

(See attached file: Eleanor Nixon Statement.rtf)
Could you please give this matter your urgent attention and look forward to

hearing from you.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Team

Tel.No:
Fax.No

FEI IO IO IO ISI III III OI ISI II II II ISI SI III II II ISI ISI SII IOI IOI IOI III III I I I i ie tek
Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system.
JESSIE ISG ISOS IOI IOI TOG IOC ISI IOI ISG I IOI SSI ISO I ISI ITO II SOI ISI toe
