Business Assurance

CRA/1112 - Post Office Limited (RMGA)

Account Owner Private Sector
Division
Resolution Private Sector

Owners: Division, Core
Division,

Alert Manager David Keeling

Account Gavin Bounds

Manager

Alert Management Centre

Raised 31/03/10
Duration 13 days
Forecast 16/04/10
x-refs

Spotlight

FUJ00095213
FUJ00095213

All Levels of Severity
13/04/2010

Irrelevant

Recent outages affecting all of the PO branches live on the HNG-X
application are resulting in serious customer concerns.

Various letters have been received from POL Directorate and from the
National Federation of Sub-postmasters expressing their concern in
regards to the instability of the new system.

There have been 4 major outages affecting the customer’s business
running on Horizon on-line over the last week

Progress against Streams:

Stream 1. Service Stability - no change since Friday i.e. no Major Incidents
since Friday (when streams was turned off). Interim appointment of Problem
manager agreed.

Stream 2. Service Area Findings - Progress on track for internal report this
week.

Stream 3. Acceptance Incidents — Progress as previous update, all High
Severity Incidents to be closed or downgraded by end of April.

Stream 4. Criteria to Resume Pilot — Internal Meeting held today with
Programme and CS staff to review Customer proposals, comments and
requests for clarification identified. Meeting planned with the customer
tomorrow.

Stream 5. Enterprise Management — Plan sent to the Customer who will use as
input to their meeting on priorities tomorrow, further joint discussion will then
be held to adapt plan. Project Manager resource is required (ERIC 51689),
which has been escalated to Bridget Ward (Lead Resource Manager, P&PM).
Configuration Management — James Young (CSA assigned for 1 week) is
identifying the immediate needs for configuration management, as it relates to
both change and release management, in the next week.

The Closure Criteria has been revised and updated.
[last updated 12/04/10,

Irrelevant

FUJ00095213
