FUJ00174434
FUJ00174434

Fro Corporate Alerts

Sent: 03 April 2012 13:00

To: ‘Armstrong Sue; Atkinson Tony; Bell Gavin; Boyd Fiona; Bull Richard; Cochrane Vince; Corporate Alerts; Davidson James; Dunmore Phil; Freeman Roy; Gordon Mark; Jeram Peter; Kostuch Maz; Lamb Helen; Long Stephen;
Mills Ged; Norris Robert; O'driscoll lan; Payne Andrew; Phillips Edward; Roberts David (LON22); Stevenson Andy; Tait Duncan; Thompson Peter; Tuttle Ron; Welsh Graham

Subject: Corporate Escalated Issue Ref 1218 - Post Office - Update Report

This document contains information which is confidential and may be privileged. The information is intended only for the use of the individuals named above andmust not be copied or disclosed to other
Fujitsu employees or third parties without express permission.

Corporate Escalated Issue — Update Report

Post Office Met Reference: 1218 ae

Loss of banking transactions across the whole Post Office estate ]

=
Progress against last week's impact at time Alert was raised (01/03/12):
goals & milestones:
+ Potential Service Credits at £100k per lost business hour
+ Reputational damage to both Post Office and Fujitsu; 4th major outage in 9 months
+ Potential to influence the HP&BB negotiations

Progress made this week:

The suspected Ace Blade is with Cisco, and the Account Team are awaiting their report covering both hardware and software analysis of the ace blade.
This is expected around mid April.

er
Key goals for this week: + The tactical & strategic reviews are both progressing. The tactical review is well underway, and the strategic review is starting to take shape. These

reviews (the strategic in particular) will take a significant amount of time (months) to complete.

ee
Major milestones this week:
None.

—V.€
Other items of interest: + There has been a further Major incident this week. It appears unrelated to any of the other Major incidents in recent history. The cause appears to

be the security patching of the VPX servers in the Ireland Data Centres over the last weekend. This resulted in around 1,200 (of 30,000) counters being
unable to trade for several hours on Monday 2nd April. The changes have been regressed, and the service has been stable since midday Monday. As
major incidents go, the impact of this was relatively minor, however, this will not have helped ease the anxiety levels for either POL or Fujitsu regarding
the stability of the infrastructure, on what was the first trading day for Post Office as an independent company.

Closure Criteria:

* Service restored and stable for 24 hours
* Major Incident report produced with corrective actions
FUJ00174434
FUJ00174434

Current Assigned Actions: —[

Title I Status I Assigned To I Start Date il

_——— =
7/04/2012] Report Week Commencing: — [3012.04.02

Title

Due Date I
Estimated Closure Date:

Useful Links:

