FUJ00081967
FUJ00081967

To: ‘Jonathan Gribbe!
Ce: Defence Legal (Chris Ja
From: Godeseth, Torstein[/o=Fujitsu Exchange Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT )/cn=Recipients/cn=73367 f867463422895a4 1 1e49bd]

Sent: Fri 7/13/2018 3:11:49 PM (UTC)

Subject: RE: Dr Worden's Foundations Report [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

gij.Quantitative Approach to Horizon Bugs Final.docx

gij. DOC _150212853(1) Foundation Report v1tg.docx

IMPORTANT - This email or attached documents contains legal advice (or relates to litigation or anticipated litigation) and is being provided in circumstances for which
Legal Privilege may be claimed. Do not copy or forward this document without permission

Gareth and I have looked through the two documents and have added in comments.
I look forward to the session that Dave Ibbett is setting up for us to discuss further.

Regards etc
Torstein

From: Jonathan Gribben
Sent: Wednesday, July 4, 2018 8:52 AM
To: Newsome, Pete {_
Cc: Defence Legal (Chris Jay,

ob Godeseth, Torstein r

ir Worden's Foundations Report [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]
Pete,

Privileged & Confidential — please do not forward other than to Gareth Jenkins

Further to my email below, Robert is very keen to get some feedback on his report which sets out some of the key lines of argument
that he intends to use in his expert's report as part of the Group Litigation (Foundations Report) and his short note summarising
two quantitative approaches to the core issue of the Horizon trial (i.e. have Subpostmasters been held liable for losses caused by
bugs in Horizon) that he has identified (Quantitative Approach). Both documents are attached.

Are Torstein and Gareth able to review the documents and provide some feedback early next week? The feedback can be in
writing or in a conference call.

Please feel free to give me a call if there is anything you'd like to discuss — I'm o1
Kind regards
Jonny

Jonathan Gribben
Managing Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

e: jonathan aribben

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

womblebonddickinson.com

A)

EXHIBITION

K
<
wi)
om
Oi

Oo
DICKINSON

From: Jonathan Gribben t
Sent: 14 June 2018 19:29
To: Legal.Defencef” RO "~~~" pete.newsome:

FUJ00081967

FUJ00081967

Cc: Mark Underwood1; Catherine Hamilton; Rodric Williams; Andrew Parsons

Subject: Update following 5 June CMC [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Chris, Pete,

Privileged & Confidential — please do not forward

The purpose of this email is to update you following the CMC on 5 June. An unsealed copy of the Order is attached. The key
points that Post Office would like Fujitsu's assistance with are set out in the table below, with a note on their current status.

Order

Current Status

Post Office to use reasonable endeavours to arrange for the
parties' IT experts to be given two days access to inspect the
Peak and TFS systems at Bracknell.

Pete Newsome is currently arranging this.

Pete's view is that the inspection is likely to take one day only
and he would prefer not to tie up resource for two days. Pete's
preference is to offer one day initially with an agreement to
provide another day if required.

By 4pm on 26 June the parties’ IT experts are to produce a list
of error codes used in the Known Error Log and/or in the Peak
System or equivalent (Error Codes List) so that Fujitsu can
provide descriptions of what those error codes mean.

This flows from the fact that Fujitsu does not keep a list of error
codes.

By 4pm on 26 June the parties’ IT experts must compile a list of
information that either one or both of them considers they
require in order properly to opine on the Horizon Issues.

The Order does not provide for what is to be done with this list,
but Post Office has already agreed to use reasonable and
proportionate endeavours to provide some document references
and information to the Claimants' expert - Pete Newsome is
overseeing this.

The key dates are: (1) document references to be provided by
4pm on 17 July; and (2) information to be provided by 4pm on
14 August. However, from a tactical perspective it will assist
Post Office to provide the references and information in
tranches periodically (e.g. once a week). That should also
assist with the management of the exercise.

By 4pm on 14 September 2018 each party shall file and serve
witness statements of any witness of fact whose generic
evidence (in distinction to Claimant-specific evidence) they wish
to rely upon for the purposes of determining the Horizon Issues.
Post Office also has the right to serve responsive witness
evidence by 4pm on 16 October.

No decision has been made on the identity of Post Office's
witnesses, but it is likely that Post Office will request factual
evidence from a Fujitsu employee or employees.

As you will see from this table there is a lot going on at the moment and we anticipate that Mr Coyne will make further information
requests as he prepares his report, which is due on 28 September. Post Office's expert (Robert Worden) may also make some

requests, although they will be fewer (if any) and more focused.

There is also another round of disclosure underway that we have asked for your help with - Amy Prime has already contacted Pete

and Matthew about that.

In addition, Dr Worden has produced a report which sets out some of the key lines of argument that he intends to use in his expert's
report which focuses on the functionality, business uses and architecture of accounting systems, the checks built into such systems,

FUJ00081967
FUJ00081967

the business applications in Horizon and the architecture of the original Horizon system and HNG (Foundations Report). The
Foundations Report is not written for the Court, but large parts of it will be used in Robert's expert's report. He and Post Office
would like Fujitsu to provide comments on it from a technical perspective and we think that is best done by Torstein and Gareth.
We'd appreciate your thoughts on that. Please note that the Foundations Report is privileged and, therefore, once we send it to you
please do not forward it to anyone without our prior written agreement.

Andy has already had a conversation with Garry Stewart about additional resources and it might be useful for us to set up a meeting
in London or Bracknell to discuss this and the above in more detail with you both and Garry. Please let me know if you think that
this would be useful and, if so, when you're free during the weeks commencing 25 June and 2 July. In the meantime, I have spoken
to Pete and he is going to check Gareth Jenkins' availability to assist for one or two days per week.

Please feel free to give me a call if there is anything you'd like to discuss
Kind regards
Jonny

Jonathan Gribben
Managing Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

‘Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON Pin)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-
any attachments. If yo

only is authorised to access this e-mail and

Unauthorised use, disseminati

s soon as possible and d

novi jonathan saber

ments is prohibited and m

faformation about how we use personal

a is in our Privacy Policy on our website

sion, Womble Bond Dickinson
achment,

us with virus d oftware before transm
d you should carry out your ovin virus checks before openir

UK) LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email i sent hy Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which isa limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office is 4 More London
Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, whe es is open to inspection. We use the term pa
standing, Our VAT registration number is GB1233

ner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent

services in the US, the UK,
nother Womble Bond

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providi
and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal
Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited does not practice law

ity and is not responsible for the aets or omissions of, nor can bind or obl

-¢ www, womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

ithorised and reg

lated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
