FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

Horizon Additional Content Trial Report &
Findings

Authors: Antony Durdin
Dave Ireland

Signed Date

Authorised: Sue Harding
Business Partner
Group Change & IS

Authorised: Tim Batterbee
Project Manager
Business Partner Team —
Group Change & IS

Post Office® 2006

The contents of this document must not be reproduced (wholly or in part) used or
disclosed without the written permission of Post Office Ltd. This copyright applies to all
forms of storage and reproduction in which this information may be embodied including
without limitation magnetic storage, computer printout, and visual display.

Page 1 of 33
Document Date:

Version:

6 Feb 2007
1.0 Final Version

Document Type:

Ref. Number: TOS

Summary Report

FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Control

0.1 VERSION HISTORY

Version Dated Change Details
0.1 11 December 2006 I Initial draft for discussion within the project team
0.2 21 December 2006 Revised draft following initial review amongst
project team
0.3 10 January 2007 Final draft for wider review
1.0 6 February 2007 Final Version for submission

0.2 DOCUMENT REFERENCES

Ref. Title Version Number Reference
1. High Level Blueprint Document 1.0 RS1138
2. Intranet Exploitation Assessment 0.3 IEAO2

Proposal to cease production of Feasibility
3. Operations Manual booklets in hard 0.3 Report
copy format RS1051
4 Automated Stock Ordering 20
: Feasibility Report °
5 Regulatory Compliance Workbook, Final
: January 2006
0.3 DISTRIBUTION LIST
Name Title
Ric Francis Operations Director
Dave Smith Head of Change & IS
Adrian Baker Head of Strategy Development
Tim Connold Delivery, Integration & Assurance Manager
Deirdre Joy Senior System Manager (Group Technology)
David Gray Strategy & Architecture Manager
Tom Fitzgerald Business Solutions Manager
Steve Page Business Solutions Manager

Karen Hillsden

Business Solutions Manager

Mauro Liverio

Business Solutions Manager

Alana Renner

Head of Engagement & Internal Communications

Ann Cruttenden

Business Partner Network & Sales

Sue Harding Business Partner Group
Carol Ayres Business Partner Marketing
Mark Burley Horizon On-line Programme Manager

Damion Taylor

Head of Accounting, Reporting & MI

Keith Woollard

Head of Compliance

Neil Ennis

Head of Supply Chain Programme

Crispin Beale

Head of Marketing Services

Tim Batterbee

Project Manager, Business Partner Team, Group Change &
IS

Mike Gallagher

Senior Design Authority

Page 2 of 33
Document Date:
Version:

6 Feb 2007
1.0 Final Version

Document Type: Summary Report
Ref. Number: TOS

FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Alan Brompton

Business Consultant (Fujitsu Services)

Dave Baldwin

Business Unit Director, Post Office Account (Fujitsu
Services)

Liam Foley

Director, Business Development, Post Office Account
(Fujitsu Services)

Steve Ironside

Account Manager, Post Office Account (Fujitsu Services)

Giacomo Piccinelli

Customer Solutions Architect, Post Office Account (Fujitsu
Services)

All Contributors, see 0.6 Acknowledgements below

0.4 DOCUMENT AND CHANGE CONTROL

Changes to this document will only be made through the C&IS Change Control
procedure. For these purposes the document owner shall be the C&IS Project Manager,

Tim Batterbee.

0.5 GLOSSARY

AP-ADC. Automated Payments — Additional Data Capture
APOP. Automated Payments — Out Payments
C&lS Change and Information Systems
CBT Computer Based Training

CFPO Converted Franchise Post Office
CYC Form Crown Your Colleague Form

DVLA Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency
EDG Electronic Data Gateway

HLBP High Level Blue Print

HTML Hyper Text Mark-up Language
iPlatform Royal Mail Group’s new Intranet Platform
IPS Identity and Passport Services

MSPO Modified-contract Sub Postoffice
NBSC Network Business Support Centre
OFp Operational Focus plus

OMI Operations Manual Interim

PCs Personal Computers

POL Post Office Limited

RMG Royal Mail Group

SIP Systems Integration Partnership

SLA Service Level Agreement

SPSO Scale Payment Subpostoffice

0.6 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The project team would like to thank the following branch staff for their constructive and
active participation in this trial.

Denise Hutchinson, Manager, Burnham SPSO.

Janet Polsakowska, Manager Caversham CFPO

John Naish, Sub Postmaster, Milton under Wychwood SPSO
Pat Patel, Manager, Twyford MSPO

Page 3 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

Tracey Stacey, Assistant Branch Manager, Reading Crown Office

The project team would also like to thank the following people for their involvement in
ensuring that the trial content was prepared and delivered to the branches within a very
demanding timescale.

Allan Hodgkinson, Horizon Design Authority, Fujitsu Services

Andy Corbett, APADC Reference Data Manager, Post Office Limited

David Wilcox, Reference Data Manager, Fujitsu Services

John Burton, Horizon Programme Manager, Fujitsu Services

Mark Cunningham, Production Manager — Sales and Service, Post Office Limited
Rabia Cody, Reference Data Manager, Post Office Limited

Steve Lewin, Application Designer, Fujitsu Services

Steve Port, Reference Data Business Analyst, Post Office Limited

Page 4 of 33
FUJ00117941

FUJ00117941
Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
0.7 CONTENTS
0.1 VERSION HISTORY... 2
0.2 DocumeNT REFERENCES. 2
0.3 DISTRIBUTION LIST. 2
0.4 DOCUMENT AND CHANGE CONTR 3
0.5 GLOSSARY. te .3
0.6 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS. 3
0.7 CONTENTS. 4

1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.
2. INTRODUCTION & BACKGROUND.

3. APPROACH...

3.1 INITIAL APPROACH.
3.2 REVISED APPROACH.
3.2.1 Trial Content...
3.2.2 Participant Branches.
3.2.3 Trial Duration........
3.2.4 Trial Communication.

4. BENEFITS AND METRICS

41 PERCEIVED BENEFIT:
42 TRIAL BENEFITS...
43 TRIAL METRICS......

5. ASSESSMENT AGAINST METRIC

5.1 OPERATIONAL PUBLICATIONS MATERIAL.
5.2 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE MATERIAI
5.3 CROWN YOUR COLLEAGUE FORM...
5.4 ‘SELF-HELP MATERIAL

6. DIRECT RESULTS & FEEDBAC!

6.1 QUALITATIVE RESULTS.... cesses
6.1.1 Operations Manual Interim and Operational Focus plus Material.
6.1.2 Regulatory Compliance Material
6.1.3. Crown Your Colleague Fort
6.1.4
6.1.5
2

an = i
BERG ORES 3 SS0aa@

a.
SAN N Oo

Self-Help Material.
Summary of Results.
DIRECT FEEDBACK FROM BRANCH STAFF.

7. OBSERVATIONS.

7 LIMITED REAL ESTATE.
7.2 SUITABILITY OF HORIZO!
7.3. ACCESS TO PCS...
74 IMPACT UPON WORKING PRACTICES.
75 RELIANCE ON OFFLINE CONTENT AND THE NBSC..
7.6 HORIZON AS AN ENABLER FOR WIDER CHANGE.

8. CONCLUSIONS.

8.1 LIMITATIONS OF TECHNOLOGY AND EXPANSION REQUIREMENTS TO BE FURTHER INVESTIGATED...
8.2 AUTOMATION AND CURRENT OPERATIONAL DIFFICULTIES SHOULD BE PRIORITY.
8.3 INTRANET CAPABILITY REPRESENTS MAJOR STEP CHANGE.
8.4 ACCESS REMAINS THE ISSUE veces
8.5 MAXIMISE CURRENT SYSTEM USE FOR EXISTING HARD Copy MATERIAL.
8.6 ADDITIONAL HORIZON CONTENT TO BRING SHORT-TERM BENEFIT.

9. RECOMMENDATIONS.

10. APPENDICES...
APPENDIX I — TRIAL CONTENT.

Page 5 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

APPENDIX II — BRANCH TRIAL FEEDBACK FORM....
APPENDIX IIl — OPERATIONS MANUAL INTERIM PRODUCTION CYCLE.

Page 6 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Royal Mail Group (RMG) launched its new Intranet platform (iPlatform) in November
2006. This new platform substantially increases the flexibility and capability of the Post
Office Intranet. An investigation was initiated to establish how this capability might be
leveraged to deliver increased usage and access to the business and its employees
across the entire network.

In parallel to this wider assessment activity, a technical trial was undertaken across five
branches. The trial, as reported in the sections that follow, presented four items of
additional content within the Horizon application to demonstrate that intranet-type
content could be displayed across the branches using existing technology.

The four elements made available included the Operational Focus Manual Interim and
Operational Focus plus publications, Regulatory Compliance test material allowing
on line completion, a one-way corporate form (Crown Your Colleague) and a short set
of self-help instructions detailing how to reset the counter printer. These were made
available for three weeks in branches across the Thames Valley region selected to
represent the characteristics of the branch network.

Feedback from the branches was generally positive to new uses for existing technology
with some, such as Reference Material, being more positively received than others such
as the Regulatory Compliance test. As these trial elements were created using existing
technology it demonstrates that a cost-effective approach to the provision of additional
functionality is readily available. However, the full impact on support and delivery teams
must be identified before firm recommendations can be made.

In addition to the direct feedback from the branches a number of observations were
made that may impact future use of Intranet connectivity across the entire network. The
only approach that can universally provide connectivity to all branches requires that the
Horizon terminal is used as the standard access point. Whilst it is considered technically
feasible to connect the Intranet to the terminal (work is in progress to confirm this), there
remains significant doubt about the ability of the terminal, as currently configured, to
provide an acceptable user interface.

With emphasis on delivering customer service and transactions as a priority for all
counter staff, accessing new and additional content may only be feasible outside of
normal working hours or practices. The impact this could have on working regulations,
shift patterns or branch dynamics has not formed part of this review but it should not be
underestimated and requires further investigation.

If the Horizon terminal and current working practices will prevent intranet access for
practical reasons, alternative methods will need to be identified. Limited real estate and
access to standard PCs in many branches present a further challenge.

The project team acknowledges that a previous business case for the provision of PCs
across the network was prepared and subsequently rejected. This work was completed
some four or five years ago and is believed to have been passed on to Royal Mail Group
for further consideration. It has not been possible to gain an update on any progress or

Page 7 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

locate the business case to analyse the assumptions and metrics within but it is
understood that there is no intention to revisit it at this time.

The resultant conclusion from these findings is that there is no single approach to
delivering the Intranet that can be guaranteed to be successful across the entire branch
network. This contradicts the original guiding principal for the trial that all branches must
be treated equally.

Based on the findings above, the following recommendations are made. Some of these
are already in progress and where appropriate, this is noted. The recommendations are
not presented any specific order. All recommendations relevant to the exploitation of the
Intranet will be carried forward into the Intranet Exploitation Assessment Document
(reference /EA0Q2).

1. Implement on-line stock ordering as a matter of urgency to provide confidence and
reliability in the supply chain. Examples of incorrect, incomplete and duplicated
orders represent significant opportunities to reduce costs and improve business
efficiency’.

2. Identify clear business requirements for intranet expansion to cover the entire
branch network in order that solutions can be designed to meet true business
needs.

3. Identify the capability and feasibility of connecting the Post Office Intranet to the
Horizon terminal. Work to establish the technical feasibility is in progress but it
should be extended to cover the suitability of the current hardware to meet future
functionality requirements.

4. Investigate access options to connect the branch network to the Intranet. If the
Horizon device is not considered suitable then wider access options must be
considered.

5. Identify further process automation options to maximise the current Horizon
system functionality and remove existing manual operations.

6. Confirm the possibility of, and requirements for, the provision of Operations
publications through the Horizon terminal and initiate a project to deliver them.

7. Assess the impact on current processes, procedures and teams to render content
in a format that is suitable to being published electronically via different channels.

8. Investigate production of product-related training material that could be made
available via Horizon utilising both the AP/ADC and APOP functionality.

9. Investigate further options to provide self help material and reduce the number of
calls made to the Horizon Service desk.

10. Instigate work to ascertain the range and severity of the anomalies reported by the
branches within current Horizon transactions to ascertain potential improvements.
This may lead to some enhancements and improvements or may highlight those
that are already planned or in progress.

11.Improve printing capability and identify potential ways to enhance the details
printed or displayed on receipts and labels’.

These recommendations will be referenced in the /ntranet Exploitation Assessment
document (Reference /EAQ2) to be published as part of the Intranet Exploitation
Assessment exercise. Please note however that recommendations 10 and 11 above

‘ Automated Stock Ordering project has produced a Feasibility Report which is currently being reviewed.
? A project to replace counter printers is due to commence early in 2007,

Page 8 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

(with the exception of the potential for on-demand printing within recommendation 11)
relate specifically to the current Horizon implementation. Consequently these are not
considered to impact future exploitation of the Post Office Intranet and will not be
reflected in IEAQ2.

Page 9 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

2. INTRODUCTION & BACKGROUND

Royal Mail Group (RMG) launched its new Intranet platform (iPlatform) in November
2006. This new platform substantially increases the flexibility and capability of the Post
Office Intranet and an investigation was initiated to establish how this capability might be
leveraged to deliver increased usage and access to the business and its employees
across the entire network.

A request was submitted to Fujitsu Services to supply resource, under the Systems
Integration Partnership (SIP) agreement, to ascertain ways to “exploit the Post Office
Intranet’. In particular, the challenge set by Ric Francis (Operations Director) was to
make the Intranet available in all branches.

After initial work to assess the scope of the exercise a high-level blueprint (HLBP)
document was submitted, and approved. It included the two elements below.

« An Intranet Trial within a defined number of branches
o This trial was to take place over a three to four week period before the
December peak-time activity commenced
e Awider, benefits-driven, assessment of ways in which the Intranet could be
exploited to support the Post Office business.

In defining the scope of the trial activity two guiding principals were provided by POL
Senior Management.

All branches must be treated equally with content provided in a consistent manner.
Whilst recognising the inherent difficulties of both electronic and manual content delivery
any mixture of approaches should be avoided due to cost and inefficiency. The impact of
any recommended course of action must also be contractually viable whether relating to
network providers or the working practices of branch employees and staff.

Provision of PCs to all branches is not to be considered at this stage. A previous
business case for the central provision of PCs as a standard access mechanism was
previously prepared and rejected by the business.

The trial activity and the findings are outlined in the following sections. They will also be
used as part of the wider assessment exercise and will be included in the Intranet
Exploitation Assessment document (Reference /EA02) outlining the potential exploitation
of the Post Office Intranet. These findings and recommendations will be presented to the
Executive Committee for their review.

Page 10 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
3. APPROACH

3.1 INITIAL APPROACH

The initial approach focussed on the connection of web servers to the Horizon network to
enable the demonstration of basic intranet connectivity, content delivery and functionality
on the Horizon terminal.

Whilst conceptually possible, many aspects needed to be understood to ensure that the
operation of the live system would not be compromised. The list below identifies some of
the issues.

1. The implications on performance were not clearly understood. Detailed analysis
would be required to understand whether this approach represented limited or
manageable operational risk to the live system.

2. The impact on risk, contractual obligations and performance against Service Level
Agreements (SLA) was also not clear and required analysis and confirmation that
any impact would be minimal and manageable.

3. The Horizon screen presents content at the 640x480 resolution, and is a touch-
screen interface with no mouse. This imposes significant limitations on the way
content can be presented and substantially impacts the user interface.

4. Procurement, configuration, testing and verification of any hardware to be
connected to the network, to ensure that items above were not compromised, was
not possible within the proposed trial window.

Consequently, the initial requirement was analysed in more detail. Based on the
collective knowledge of the network and the technology it provides, it was agreed that the
delivery of the content was more important than the means by which it was made
available.

Therefore, it was recommended that the content could be delivered using existing
technology to provide a meaningful and secure trial within the live environment. Most

importantly, this approach was designed to deliver a cost-effective exploitation of the
existing network and technology to meet the agreed objective.

This approach, and the content trialled, is outlined in the section that follows.
3.2 REVISED APPROACH

Working with business functions the four types of content considered to offer the greatest
potential benefit were selected and are listed below.

1. Operational reference material

2. Training material currently delivered in hard or physical media
3. An operational or corporate form

4. Self help Material

Four specific pieces of content to be trialled were then selected as described below.

3.2.1 Trial Content

Page 11 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

3.2.1.1 Operational Reference Material

Two editions of the Operations Manual Interim and Operational Focus plus content
were rendered into HTML format and displayed via the Smart Help interface and are
listed below.

1. Operations Manual Interim Euro-Checking instructions published 9 November.
2. Operational Focus plus detailing the Christmas arrangements published on the 23
November.

3.2.1.2 Regulatory Compliance Material

Two aspects of the Regulatory Compliance Workbook were presented to assess the
feasibility of delivering Computer Based Training (CBT) and achieving greater control
over adherence to compliance standards.

Firstly, using an AP/ADC transaction a read-receipt was created with details being sent
across the Electronic Data Gateway (EDG) and captured in a recipient file on the Post
Office side of the EDG.

Secondly, as presented in the Regulatory Compliance Workbook, the Final Assessment
Test was rendered into an AP/ADC transaction with results being captured in the same
file. These results carried a different and therefore identifiable transaction reference to
the read receipt above.

3.2.1.3 Crown Your Colleague Form

The Crown Your Colleague Form (CYC) was rendered into an AP/ADC Transaction
with details being sent to the same recipient file as above. This also carried a separate,
and therefore distinguishable, reference.

3.2.1.4 Self Help Material
Seen as a significant opportunity to provide help and support to the branch network a

self-help page was also made available. Presented in both graphical and textual format,
this fourth element provided detailed instructions on how to reset the counter printer.
Screen shots of this content can be found at Appendix I — Trial Content.

3.2.2 Participant Branches

The branches selected to participate in the trial are listed in the table below.

Table One — Participant Branches

cont Branch Name ge Branch Contact

- Crown Tracey Stacey
002939 Reading Office (Assistant Branch Manager)
134939 Twyford MSPO Pat Patel
102939 Caversham CFPO Janet Polsakowska
053946 Burnham SPSO Denise Hutchinson
159137 Milton under Wychwood SPSO John Naish

Page 12 of 33
FUJ00117941

FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

Initial identification of branches was conducted by Steve Moakes (Transformational
Change Manager). Subsequent communication and liaison was carried out by Dave
Ireland and Antony Durdin as outlined below.

3.2.3 Trial Duration

The trial ran for a period of three weeks from Monday 13 November to Saturday 2
December.

3.2.4 Trial Communication
As detailed below, three sets of visits were conducted to the participant branches.

3.2.4.1 Initial Branch Visits

Initial visits were made to each of the branches on Tuesday 7 or Wednesday 8
November to outline the objectives of the trial and the expectations of each branch. A
communication pack was prepared and left with each branch along with appropriate
contact numbers in the event of difficulties®.

3.2.4.2 Interim Visits

Part way through the trial each branch was visited again to ensure that the Christmas
Arrangements were available on all of the counter positions. A feedback form was also
given to each branch contact and is provided at Appendix Il — Branch Trial Feedback
Form.

3.2.4.3 Post Trial Feedback Visits

Due to staff availability and Christmas activity final evaluation visits could not be
conducted until Tuesday 5 and Friday 8 December. For the same reasons the Twyford
branch was unable to spend time reviewing the material until January 2007 and was
therefore not consulted. As records show that no use of the transaction material was
made, no further evaluation was arranged at this branch.

At the time of visiting, the Caversham branch was extremely busy and with the same
level of activity recorded as at the Twyford branch no further visit was scheduled.

3 This exercise was not linked to the Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) and all support and
assistance enquiries were handled by the project team.

Page 13 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

4. BENEFITS AND METRICS
4.1 PERCEIVED BENEFITS

Although detailed work to quantify the benefits that this approach represents is not being
conducted at this stage it is evident that they are potentially numerous. Some examples
of these are shown below.

1. The processes and work flows are already in place to produce the proposed
content and therefore additional content of its type can be supported at relatively
low cost.

No new technology is required to deliver content in this way.

The technologies are understood and maintained by in-house Post Office teams.

The incremental cost of delivering additional content is likely to be less than the

current costs in hard-copy production and delivery.

Additional content, although different in nature, can readily be presented across

the network.

6. Since the processes, teams and technologies already exist, the timescale to
deliver new and additional content may be less than that for a detailed analysis
and feasibility of the initial approach.

7. This interim means of distributing content, if communicated well, could begin to
demonstrate value to the branch network and create a foundation for newer ways
of working as we move towards Horizon On-Line and its proposed developments.

RON

a

4.2 TRIAL BENEFITS

For the trial, and wider assessment, the project team identified a number of benefits and
corresponding measures which could be used to judge the potential business benefit of
making these types of content available via the Horizon Terminal. Eight high-level
benefits were identified and are described below.

Business Efficiency (Bus Eff) — focussing on cost and its reduction

Agility — focussing on speed of response to change

Knowledge Management (Know Mgmt)

Employee Satisfaction (Emp Sat) — Promoting the sense of belonging to Post

Office Ltd

Customer Satisfaction (Cust Sat) — Increased levels of customer service and

satisfaction

6. Client Satisfaction (Client Sat) — Increased confidence from our Clients in our
performance and operations

7. Compliance (Comp) — Improved adherence to Compliance standards set by
industry regulators

8. IT Efficiency (IT Eff) — Improved value from IT spend

RON>=

a

Table Two below identifies the Primary (PRIM) and Secondary (Sec) benefits that each
of the Trial elements seeks to deliver. Whilst, it could be argued that each option
addresses all of the listed benefits in some way, only the key benefit areas have been
identified in the table below.

Page 14 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
Table Two — Primary and Secondary Benefits
Trial Element I Benefit
Bus Eff oe Know I Emp I Cust I Client IT
(Cost) Agility I migmtI Sat I Sat I Sat ICOMPI er
OMI & OFp PRIM Sec Sec Sec
Compliance Sec Sec I PRIM
CYC Form PRIM
Self-Help PRIM Sec

4.3 TRIAL METRICS

Table Three below outlines the measures associated with the Primary and Secondary
Benefits. Some of these measures have been taken from direct observation and quoted
statistics whereas others have been inferred through interview with trial participants.

Table Three — Trial Metrics

ne Primary Measures Secondary Measures
Business Efficiency Agility
OMI & OFp I. Preparation Cost * Total time from production to arrival at
e Printing Cost branch
* Distribution Cost Compliance
«Time and Materials for electronic. « Must demonstrate that it is being read
media Employee Satisfaction
e Interview with participants
Compliance Client Satisfaction
Compliance I * Compare against existing level of * Ability to produce accurate and up-to-
compliance date assessment of compliance to
« Time to achieve compliance relevant standards
e Current level of reminder activity Business Efficiency
* Ability to deliver Individual and Branch I * Production Costs
compliance e Delivery Costs
¢ Distribution Costs
Interviews with participants also used to identify ease of use and practicality
CYC Form _ I Employee Satisfaction

« Interviews with participants to establish
ease of use and practicality

Page 15 of 33

FUJ00117941

FUJ00117941
Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
Business Efficiency Employee Satisfaction
« Number of calls to Service Desk ¢ Interviews to be held with participants
Self-Help related to printer errors / resets to assess ease of use, accessibility,
Text ae relevance and additional information
« Average total fix time that could be provided
¢ Call Duration

Page 16 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

5. ASSESSMENT AGAINST METRICS

Each of the sections below outlines, where possible, an assessment against the metrics
presented in Section 4.3-Trial Metrics.

5.1 OPERATIONAL PUBLICATIONS MATERIAL

Work has already been completed by Dave Ireland (Network & Product Change
Communication Manager) around the benefits to be gained by removing hard-copy
versions of the forty booklets that comprise the Operations Manual. A draft proposal
(version 0.3) was submitted to Ann Cruttenden (Business Partner Network & Sales) on
10 September 2006 for the removal of hard copies in favour of electronic versions. As
this document has not yet been approved, any figures quoted should be considered as
indicative and for illustrative purposes only.

The following indication is provided of the potential benefit that could be realised through
electronic delivery of the operational publications material.

Table 4 - Operational Reference Material Benefits

Benefit Area Estimated Benefit / Saving

Production and Distribution Cost (Operations Manuals) £200,000 per annum (approx)

Production and Distribution Cost (Additional Operations I £475,000 per annum (approx)
Material)

Production Cycle Time 7 — 10 working days (approx
average)

It is accepted that content generation overheads will remain and that initially some work
will be required to create the publication and delivery mechanism. It is also
acknowledged that whilst realising savings on print and storage costs it will be necessary
to incur an initial recycling cost to remove existing stocks (approx £150,000) and that
activity at the NBSC may increase. An approximate 40% increase in calls was predicted
but as this should reduce over time, and recycling is a one-off cost, the case for removal
of hard copies remains. The tables below provide further detail in support of these
projections.

Production costs for the remaining Operational Materials are shown below. Table Five
below details recent print costs for the Operations Manual Interim.

Table 5 - OMI & OFp Production Costs

Number of ietancee Number of Unit Cost Average Cost
Pages Copies per Copy
4 2 30,000 £2,392.00 £0.08
8 8 30,000 £3,265.00 £0.11
12 13 30,000 £4,392.50 £0.15
16 2 30,000 £5,520.00 £0.18

For the purposes of calculations the total circulation for each publication is assumed to
be 29,500 with, where appropriate, an average number of 12 pages.

Page 17 of 33
FUJ00117941

FUJ00117941
Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
Table 6 — Estimated Production Costs
Publication Frequency per I hvetage No Unit Cost Total Cost
annum Pages
- £
CD Version 6 N/a £1,800.00 10,800.00
Operations £
Pi ; 45 12 £4,319.29 194,368.1
Manual Interim 3
. £
Operational 52 12 £4,319.29 224,603.1
Focus 7
Operational £
Focus plus 3 12 £4,319.29 12,957.88
£
Monthly Update 8 12 £4,319.29 34,554.33
£
Total Cost 477,283.51

With regards to the production cycle, in the case of the Operations Manual Interim, this
commences three weeks in advance of the publication date. The electronic version is
usually available on the Intranet within seven or eight working days from content
submission with hard copies arriving in branches approximately two weeks later. Full
timescales are provided at Appendix IIl - Operations Manual Interim Production Cycle.

Note however that any potential savings associated with these manuals will be

dependent upon:
any electronic version being available to all users;

material being available in a format that is suitable to the device upon which it is
being displayed;
e the ability of the material to support the delivery of organisational compliance and
customer transactions, without compromising expected levels of customer service,

and

« the ease with which the manuals can be searched or interacted with.

Any shortcoming in meeting these criteria would naturally lead to an increased
dependence on the NBSC and other more experienced colleagues and call into question
the benefits of a move toward electronic content.

For further evidence on this recommendation and the supporting evidence please refer to

the original proposal itself (document reference RS1051).

5.2 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE MATERIAL

Regulatory Compliance activity is conducted in a number of ways as listed below.

¢ Annual training for the entire network spanning a three month period in January*

4 Regulatory Compliance activity for 2007 is to be conducted during April

Page 18 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

e Sub Postmaster training on induction

e Business as usual training for staff as required

e Refresher training as changes are introduced

e Training driven by audit findings

This training covers all four areas of Regulatory Compliance and is delivered through a
combination of classroom-based sessions, automated telephony service (provided and
administered by a third party for approximately 10,000 individuals in Crown and high-risk
offices) and Sub Postmasters’ contractual requirements. The latter is evidenced via a
receipting function provided within the Horizon system.

Quoted costs (not a complete representation of total cost) for producing and delivering
Regulatory Compliance material and the automated telephony service are shown in
Table Seven below.

Table 7 — Regulatory Compliance Material Production Costs

Cost Element Cost
Production of Workbooks £50,000 for 40,000 Workbooks
Telephony Service £40,000 for 10,000 members of staff

Currently, the only use of technology for Sub Postmasters to support training of their staff
is a Horizon transaction receipt attached to the workbook. This is used as proof that the
training has been completed. There is no means of assessing the level of compliance at
an individual level outside of the 10,000 individuals referenced above. This leaves an
estimated 40 to 50 thousand individuals across the network at the responsibility of the
Sub Postmasters.

Theoretically, if the material could be made available to all staff, the following could be
achieved.

e Compliance training could be delivered and measured at an individual level;
e Control could be retained within Post Office Compliance team.

However, to be successful the electronic version made available via Horizon needs to
replicate the functionality and benefits offered by the use of the third-party voice
recognition service. As the cost presented above includes administrative management
(from initial delivery through to progress reporting, reminder activity and statistical
analysis to identify fraudulent answers) the ability and cost of replicating this internally
may prove prohibitive.

Therefore, it appears that in the field of Regulatory Compliance, further detailed
investigation and requirements definition would be required before an indication of
potential benefit can be returned. That said, the opportunity to supply product and
transactional-based training remains and was openly welcomed by those interviewed
during the trial.

5.3 CROWN YOUR COLLEAGUE FORM

Page 19 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

With no defined numeric metric being applicable, the benefit observed during the trial is
difficult to assess. Based on branch feedback the concept of forms is one that they
would very much welcome. In addition, questions were posed over the ability to create a
simple messaging or communication function using the existing technology.

Other uses of the form concept were suggested by the branches and are listed below,
some of which relate to the automation of specific manual forms.

Passport Application Receipt & Notice — reference P4921 (Jan 2006)

Daily Schedule of Driver Licence Applications Received — DVLA reference D762
Daily Passport Schedule — reference P5035 (08/05)

Fraud reporting

Registry of complaints

CWU information and voting requirements

The ability to complete these activities from the Horizon Terminal was viewed as a
positive move as it enabled privacy and allowed for completion without the need to use
the back office PC (if it existed). For the non-Crown Offices the concept was further
endorsed as this was potentially the only means of accessing such content.

Whilst the concept was favourably received, the technical options and limitations need
further investigation. The business need for creating any such functionality also needs to
be established before any development is undertaken.

Since visiting the branches we have been able to confirm that some of these issues are
being investigated by Tom Fitzgerald (Business Solutions Manager) and his team. An
HLBP has been issued that is aimed at changing the Passport Application Receipt &
Notice form and where possible automate the process via a Horizon transaction.

The Daily Schedule of Driver Licence Applications Received forms part of continuing
discussions with DVLA. Investigations are in progress to assess the ability to automate
the entire transaction, including the receipt, further updates are awaited.

With regards to the Daily Passport Schedule, a number of demonstrations have been
made to the Identity and Passport Service (IPS) on the benefit of automation. No
further development is envisaged as the form is used within the IPS organisation and no
commitment to change the process has been observed.

5.4 SELF-HELP MATERIAL

During the trial period the following activity was observed relating to counter printer
resets across the network.

Table 8 — Printer Reset Call Log

Page 20 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
Statistic Total

Total number of calls resulting in a factory reset 25
Number of calls resolved by Postmaster reset 20
Number of calls resolved by Engineer reset 5
Number of one counter branches affected (branch outages) 4
Number of two counter branches affected 9
Percentage of Offices losing at least 50% capacity 52

Work is ongoing at the Horizon Service Desk to analyse some of the routine issues that
are handled. The material that was displayed electronically during the trial had been
piloted on laminated cards in branches to assess its viability. Other potential material is
being investigated.

The figures quoted below have been sourced from this work and are taken from the total
number of printer-related calls during May and June of this year.

Table 9 — Indicative Savings Linked to Printer Reset Material

Statistic Total
Number of Counter Printer calls in May / June 2006 4,730
No calls resolved by factory reset 426
Average call length to talk caller through a factory reset 6 mins and 24 secs
Average number of printer calls per month 217
Average cost per call £11.40
Potential cost saving (approx) £30,000

Of the calls received approximately ten per cent were resolved with a reset of the
Counter Printer. Through provision of self-help material there is clear potential to reduce
the total number of calls made to the Service Desk along with the associated call cost
savings. Providing a near instant fix in approximately ten percent of cases using such
material represents a potential increase in transaction processing and customer
throughput.

Further work is in progress concerning similar issues with Pinpad calls. This
demonstrates that with sufficient analysis some of the less complex issue resolution
activities could be removed from the Service Desk delivering both cost and efficiency
savings.

Page 21 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

6. DIRECT RESULTS & FEEDBACK

In addition to the assessment against the metrics presented in the previous section direct
feedback was sought from the participant branches. This feedback comes in two forms
as listed below and detailed in the two sections that follow.

1. Quantitative results from the Branch Trial Feedback Form (Appendix Il — Branch
Trial Feedback Form)
2. Direct Feedback from the branch staff during the post trial evaluation visits

6.1 QUALITATIVE RESULTS

As shown on the Branch Trial Feedback Form, five questions were asked to gauge views
on how useful each element had been and could be if it were to be developed further. A
scale of 1, Strongly Disagree, through to 5, Strongly Agree, was adopted and the
responses are shown in the tables below.

6.1.1 Operations Manual Interim and Operational Focus plus Material
Table 10 — Branch Feedback Regarding OMI and OF p Material

Milton under Average

Reading I Bumnian Wychwood Response

This material was easy to

3.00
access
This material was easy to use 5 3 2 3.33
This material (or similar
material) would benefit you 5 5 4 4.67

and your staff?

This material (or similar
material) would enhance your 4 5 4 4.33
ability to serve your customers
The Horizon terminal is an
appropriate

vehicle to display this (or 4 5 4 4.33
similar) material

6.1.2 Regulatory Compliance Material
Table 11 — Branch Feedback Regarding Regulatory Compliance Material

Milton under Average

eel I etl te) Wychwood Response

This test was easy to access 4 1 2 2.33
This test was easy to use 4 1 3 2.67
This material (or similar

material) would benefit you 5 1 4 3.33

and your staff?

This material (or similar
material) would enhance your 4 1 4 3.00
ability to serve your customers

Page 22 of 33
FUJ00117941

FUJ00117941
Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
The Horizon terminal is an
appropriate vehicle to display 2 DNA® 4 3.00
this (or similar) material
6.1.3 Crown Your Colleague Form
Table 12 - Branch Feedback Regarding the Crown Your Colleague Form
Milton under Average
AOE Gh aoe Tin Wychwood Response
This form was easy to access 4 5 2 3.67
This form was easy to use 4 5 2 3.67
This form (or forms in general)
would benefit you and your 4 5 4 4.33
staff?
This form (or forms in general)
would enhance your ability to N/a 5 4 4.50
serve your customers
The Horizon terminal is an
appropriate vehicle to display 4 DNA 4 4.00
forms in this way
6.1.4 Self-Help Material
Table 13 — Branch Feedback Regarding Self-Help Material
fe Milton under Average
ecding I Boman Wychwood Response
This help material was easy to
access 3 5 2 3.33
ms help material was easy to 4 5 2 3.67
This help material (or similar
help material) would benefit 2 5 4 3.67
you and your staff
This help material (or similar
help material) would enhance Nia 4 4 4.00
your ability to serve your
customers
The Horizon terminal is an
appropriate vehicle to display 4 4 4 4.00
this (or similar) help material

The table below provides a summary of these results.

6.1.5 Summary of Results

The table below details the average responses to each of the questions for each of the

trial elements.

° DNA — Did Not Answer

Page 23 of 33
FUJ00117941

FUJ00117941
Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
Table 14 —- Summary of Branch Feedback
i Self-Help
OFI Compliance cyc Material
Trial element was easy to access 3.00 2.33 3.67 3.33
Trial element was easy to use 3.33, 2.67 3.67 3.67
Trial element (or similar examples) 467 3.33 4.33 3.67

would benefit them and their staff
Trial element (or similar examples)
would enhance their ability to serve 4.33 3.00 4.50 4.00
their customers

The Horizon terminal is an
appropriate vehicle to display this 4.33 3.00 4.00 4.00
(or similar) trial element

Notes

1. Where a value of N/A or DNA has been recorded no value has been included
when calculating the average value.

2. Answers to Question One were expected to be non-committal as members of staff
were aware that this was not the final placement of the material and that work is
needed to ensure that any material is available in a logical structure.

3. Operational Focus material and Forms scored highly on areas of benefit to
branches and their staff and their ability to serve their customers.

4. The same could not be said of the Regulatory Compliance Material although these
figures are skewed by the responses from Burnham. It was reported that the
screen froze on a number of occasions when trying to complete the test and could
therefore explain the low values. Conversely, both of the other branches rated
training highly in terms of its potential use and impact on customer service.

5. Forms were seen as an opportunity to provide a communication route into other
destinations (such as Sorting Offices, Head Offices and other Branches) and also
to widen access to the reporting of faults and levels of performance. Performance
reporting could apply to individuals, systems or functions across the network.

6. The Self-Help material was relatively well received but in their commentaries all
branches stressed the need for it to be instantly available relative to the
transaction being carried out. Also, any help material must be easy to access and
return to the customer transaction and, in the case of transactions conducted
infrequently, more detailed.

6.2 DIRECT FEEDBACK FROM BRANCH STAFF

In general discussion during the visits a number of key points were echoed by all when it
came to potential improvements in the information and functionality that could be made
available to them. These points are listed below. Where possible, they are related to the
content or functionality of the device and the Horizon application. Wider issues are
covered in Sections 7 and 8 (Observations and Conclusions).

1. Stock ordering process is unreliable, inaccurate and prone to error. A reliable and
accurate electronic option is required that allows orders to be tracked and
checked at any point during the process.

Page 24 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

2. Any improvement that eradicates the need for paper form handling should be
encouraged. Some manual forms are being completed in significant numbers and
were therefore questioned. Particular examples of these are those shown below
(as previously stated in Section 5.3.

a. Passport Application Receipt & Notice — reference P4921 (Jan 2006)

b. Daily Schedule of Driver Licence Applications Received — DVLA reference
D762

c. Daily Passport Schedule — reference P5035 (08/05)

3. Staff in branches felt that some processes didn’t appear to have been thought
through to completion or had some glitches that either required manual
intervention to complete or caused irritation due to additional process time and
steps. Whilst not necessarily related to the delivery of the Intranet, examples of
these anomalies are provided below.

a. When printing labels staff need to hand write “Small Packet” or “Printed
Material” on the label before attaching to the parcel or envelope. It was
asked whether this could be printed directly onto the label itself.

b. On completing remittances missing items are only reported once the entire
remittance has been processed. Once notified of the omission staff
members are required to resubmit all details anew. This posed the
question as to why a notification of the missing items, and an ability to key
them, could not be given before the final remittance calculation is
processed.

c. Staff are unable to scan barcodes on stamp books.

d. Within the “Print Stamps” screen the “Print Stamps” and “Stamps” button
were reported to be too close together resulting in errors and rework. A
request was therefore made to investigate the possibility of moving these
further apart.

e. When using National Savings Cards two options are presented, one above
the other, and regularly used - “Cheque Deposit” and “Cash Deposit”.
Pressing the wrong one of these requires the clerk to exit the transaction
and resume from the beginning adding considerable time. Again therefore
a request was made to investigate the possibility of separating the two
buttons on the screen.

f. Provision of a “Special Deliveries” button was also requested as currently
their barcodes cannot be scanned. Consequently the entire transaction
(weighing through to final processing) has to be completed when it is
deemed unnecessary.

4. Providing on-line content was greeted with mixed reaction as cases could be
made for both electronic and hard-copy delivery mechanisms in often similar
proportions. If the help material was quick and easy to use during transactions
then moving to electronic formats was possible. However for large quantities of
data, the only way to make this available to staff was often in the printed version in
communal areas or during breaks in activity.

5. With regards to terminal or computer-based training a similarly equal split
between advantages and disadvantages. If designed to mirror the operational
environment with an ability to suspend and resume from the same point to serve a
customer, then it was a potentially viable option. The priority of serving customers
remains and therefore any activity which limited activity at any one (or numerous)
terminal was considered unworkable. Delivery of the same material via a
standard PC posed both issues of availability of PCs and also the need to remove

Page 25 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

staff from counter positions. Clearly this carries similar implications to those
mentioned previously.

6. Printing capability was causing numerous problems due to the quality of the
output. Printed barcodes were of inadequate quality, especially in the busy
offices. This necessitated rework and manual intervention.

7. Staff in branches also asked whether receipts could be personalised to either the
branch or to promote other Post Office products such as travel insurance or
foreign currency.

Page 26 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

7. OBSERVATIONS

A number of observations were made during visits that will affect, albeit to varying
degrees, the types of changes that could be accomplished across the network.

7.1 LIMITED REAL ESTATE

A common issue with all branches visited, and by inference replicated across the
network, was the availability of space to provide additional terminals or access points to
additional content or intranet capability.

7.2 SUITABILITY OF HORIZON HARDWARE

As a point-of-sale interface the Horizon terminal is not an ideal vehicle for accessing
material outside of the direct customer transaction or transaction support. The low
resolution and touch-screen interface without standard mouse and keyboard functionality
may impair the ability to navigate through intranet content. The ability to connect the
Intranet to the terminal is also yet to be fully demonstrated. Whilst this is considered
possible technically with work in progress to demonstrate this, the previous concerns
remain.

7.3 Access To PCs

The availability of PCs from which to connect to the Post Office Intranet is limited. In the
branches visited only the Crown Office (Reading) had a PC on site that could be used
solely for Post Office purposes. Of the remaining offices, two had PCs in their shop /
back office environment that could be used with permission and the other two had them
available at home. Of these two, one was prepared to use it for Post Office purposes
with their own Broadband connection whereas the other was not.

If it is concluded that the Horizon terminal is not suitable then alternative options to
provide access will be required. It is noted that a previous business case was prepared
and subsequently rejected for the provision of PCs across the network. It is also
understood that there is no intention to revisit that business case at this time. Note,
however, that the possibility of using existing PCs available or owned by Sub
Postmasters or other branch staff remains. Although this would present a number of
challenges, the idea has been voiced a number of times during the wider assessment
workshops and interviews. It is an approach that is clearly favoured by a significant
number of senior POL employees.

7.4 IMPACT UPON WORKING PRACTICES

Accessing new and additional content may have to be done outside of standard working
hours or practices. The impact this could have on working regulations, shift patterns or
branch dynamics has not formed part of this review but it should not be underestimated
and requires further investigation.

Page 27 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

The focus on serving customers remains the dominant force in the branch and the
absolute priority from all of those interviewed. Any change to the terminals or the
material made available must not hinder this priority and the use of counter positions for
non-customer facing tasks should be kept to a minimum.

7.5 RELIANCE ON OFFLINE CONTENT AND THE NBSC

Based on the observations above branches rely on paper and offline content being made
available in communal areas to communicate operational changes to their staff. This
poses a problem in branches with limited storage space as the numerous manuals take
up valuable back office space or have to be stored off site.

Linked to the above there is a prevailing culture of calling the NBSC before seeking
resolution of queries through the printed or available media. This is particularly true of
irregular transactions and therefore represents a significant challenge to the provision of
on-line support.

7.6 HORIZON AS AN ENABLER FOR WIDER CHANGE

From the work conducted during this trial there appears clear potential to utilise current
technology to start introducing changes to the way in which content is published and
distributed to the Branch network. Given that wider technology change such as full
Intranet provision, may not be available in the short term, wider use of Horizon may begin
to create a “critical mass” of change and deliver significant business benefit due to the
lower cost base.

Page 28 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

8. CONCLUSIONS

8.1 LIMITATIONS OF TECHNOLOGY AND EXPANSION REQUIREMENTS TO BE FURTHER
INVESTIGATED

Providing the Intranet to the branches appears to offer as many challenges as
opportunities. The business need for opening up this capability is as yet unclear, and
with the potential advantages being counter-balanced by the limitations of the current
operational environment, future development opportunities are complex.

Introducing new uses for existing system functionality presents a number of possibilities
for the exploitation of the technology currently available. It will be important to gauge the
views and opinions of the branch network (initially addressed during the wider
assessment) to develop relevant content. It will also be important to understand the
impact on existing processes and the teams in place to deliver them.

8.2 AUTOMATION AND CURRENT OPERATIONAL DIFFICULTIES SHOULD BE PRIORITY

In discussion with the participant branches there are a number of issues that are at the
forefront of their minds — namely stock ordering and printer capability. Means of
providing a stock ordering capability via the Horizon terminal are being investigated and
will have a considerably positive impact on the branches. Other operational issues, such
as printer capability, are also clouding judgements on potential new developments.

Once updated counter printers have been rolled out (forecast for early 2007) it may be
that other opportunities could be pursued. At the moment however these operational
issues are influencing their opinions.

8.3 INTRANET CAPABILITY REPRESENTS MAJOR STEP CHANGE

It should also be noted that it is difficult for branch staff to understand what could be
delivered via the provision of the Intranet. It requires a level of vision in a context that is
unfamiliar to them. Consequently, they may express views at this stage that might not be
upheld following delivery of a live environment.

8.4 Access REMAINS THE ISSUE

Although able to access all terminals in all branches the validity of using the point-of-sale
terminal to display the Intranet is widely questioned and yet to be proved. Should this
prove an invalid means of displaying the Intranet then potential alternatives need to be
established that do not compromise the issue of limited real estate yet provide a
standard access method for all branches.

The conclusion that arises from the findings is that there is no single approach to
delivering the Intranet that can be guaranteed to be successful across the entire branch
network. This contradicts the original guiding principal for the trial that all branches must
be treated equally.

8.5 MAXIMISE CURRENT SYSTEM USE FOR EXISTING HARD COPY MATERIAL

Page 29 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

Following on from this, some very simple changes to processes, system functionality and
distributed media could actually have more impact than opening up an entirely new
capability. Indeed one of the branches stated that provision of simple help and reference
material (Christmas Arrangements) was more favourably received than the idea of being
able to browse the Intranet.

8.6 ADDITIONAL HORIZON CONTENT TO BRING SHORT-TERM BENEFIT

The trial demonstrated that the branch network was receptive to change and
development. It also proved that additional and useful content could be made available
in the short term in a cost-effective way that could open up the Head Office network to
the wider branch community. Provided that some of the operational issues referenced in
this document are resolved, and some short-term improvements to the current interface
and system are made, this should have a positive impact on the culture and mindset of
the entire network. This could therefore lay a solid foundation for any developments and
changes that the Horizon On-Line environment may bring as requirements are defined
and confirmed.

Page 30 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

9. RECOMMENDATIONS
Based on the findings above the following recommendations are made.

1. Implement on-line stock ordering as a matter of urgency to provide confidence and
reliability in the supply chain. Examples of incorrect, incomplete and duplicated
orders represent significant opportunities to reduce costs and improve business
efficiency®.

2. Identify clear business requirements for intranet expansion to cover the entire
branch network in order that solutions can be designed to meet true business
needs.

3. Identify the capability and feasibility of connecting the Post Office Intranet to the
Horizon terminal. Work to establish the technical feasibility is in progress but it
should be extended to cover the suitability of the current hardware to meet future
functionality requirements.

4. Investigate access options to connect the branch network to the Intranet. If the
Horizon device is not considered suitable then wider access options must be
considered.

5. Identify further process automation options to maximise the current Horizon
system functionality and remove existing manual operations.

6. Confirm the possibility of, and requirements for, the provision of Operations
publications through the Horizon terminal and initiate a project to deliver them.

7. Assess the impact on current processes, procedures and teams to render content
in a format that is suitable to being published electronically via different channels.

8. Investigate production of product related training material that could be made
available via Horizon utilising both the AP/ADC and APOP functionality.

9. Investigate further options to provide self help material and reduce the number of
calls made to the Horizon Service desk.

10.Instigate work to ascertain the range and severity of the anomalies reported by the
branches within current Horizon transactions to ascertain potential improvements.
This may lead to some enhancements and improvements or may highlight those
that are already planned or in progress.

11.Improve printing capability and identify potential ways to enhance the details
printed or displayed on receipts and labels7.

These recommendations will be referenced in the /ntranet Exploitation Assessment
document (Reference /EAQ2) to be published as part of the Intranet Exploitation
Assessment exercise. Please note however that recommendations 10 and 11 above
(with the exception of the potential for on-demand printing within recommendation 11)
relate specifically to the current Horizon implementation. Consequently these are not
considered to impact future exploitation of the Post Office Intranet and will not be
reflected in [EAQ2.

® Automated Stock Ordering project has produced a Feasibility Report which is currently being reviewed.
7 A project to replace counter printers is due to commence early in 2007,

Page 31 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: I Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

10. APPENDICES
APPENDIX I — TRIAL CONTENT

The menu below was created to launch the Trial Material. Trial content was available
from buttons F5 through to F8 inclusive.

Quantity into

«= iiransactions

StockISUf
User USEROA)
(individual
1 AEP O

ServelGustomer

Having entered their user details individuals were presented with each of the
“Compliance Quiz” questions as below.

Page 32 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: I Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

} Intranet Trial
shouldiopt forfully, I I 9826935100353)
I comprehensive car I
I insurance cover would
I youl recommend that for
I greater protectionIthey:
I do?

Multiple Choice answers were then presented as shown below. Asterisks were used to
notify individuals that the answer had been truncated in order to fit on the button.

Bi info

[Comp Qs
Yes\-alllshouldjbeltully wu) I I) Intranet Trial
covered «= 9826935100353)

No third party/onlyjas itis
I cheaper

ENotibeforelcalculating
Hi Eprice

Advise\to contact Helplines

Using the “Info” facility, bubble help was used to provide the complete answer as it
appears in the Regulatory Compliance Booklet.

Page 33 of 33
Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

f
I I Display, official advertisingis

} imaterial

I UocalIpress advertisement;
I =

I
l
I Leaflets inside relevant
I [magazines': Local press
I advertisement outlining
I Uselown' private! retail the features and

business websites « benefits of each FS
product

Page 2)of2

Within the Operational Help Menu the Printer reset Instructions were provided in the
format shown below.

cp Counter Printer E>

These instructions will reset your printer back to factory settings. This will
help with some common printer problems you may experience

How to perform
a factory reset

Resume Button

1. Turn the Counter Printer off (The on/off button is located at the
back on the L/H side above the power cable)

2. With the printer off hold down the feed and resume buttons

3.Keep the buttons held down and turn the Counter Printer on

4. Hold the buttons down until the counter printer finishes printing

5. When finished, release the buttons and the printer will print out
more

6. When it has finished the red light will flash
7. Turn the Counter Printer off and on and steady green light will be
displayed

FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Page 34 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

Operations Manual Interim and Operational Focus plus Reference Material was
presented in the standard Smart Help format and navigated in the same way. The
contents page for the Operations Manual Euro Checking Instructions is shown below.

Travel services - new Euro checking equipment

KK. Travel services - new Euro checking equipmentI

B. Receipt of equipment!

&. operational instructions for the equipmentI

B. Euro checking machineI

E. Identification of counterfeit banknotes

E. Error MessagesI

&. Treatment of notes that you suspect to be counterfeit]

Hi. Maintenance instructions
J. charging the batteryI
i. Cleaning the unit sensorsI

K. Malfunction during the warranty periodI

Page 35 of 33
Document Date:

Version:

6 Feb 2007
1.0 Final Version

Document Type:

Ref. Number:

Summary Report

TOS

FUJ00117941

FUJ00117941

APPENDIX Il — BRANCH TRIAL FEEDBACK FORM

The form below was supplied to all branches to complete in readiness for the final visit at
the end of the trial.

Horizon — Additional Content Proof of Concept
Branch Trial Feedback Form - <Branch Name>

Piegse Complete ne sect one Delow retaing to he tial aememts nat nave recently Deen made

aysia]t0 you Ss oat of he
1. Operational Focue Reference Material

cise

Srongiy Orsagree
«© TYE maieia was easy to access 1 2
«. This materia was easy t0 use 1 2
. f} would Denese 2
© THE maeis (or dima materia) would enmance 1 2
your ability to serve your customers
©. The Hortzon termina is an appropriate 1 2

10 ois play ths (or sintiiar} material

Pisase use the Dax Oslo 10 crovide any further comments on

wae

cr)

a

Srongiy Agree

& s Nia
< s NS
2 s Nia
4 $ N@
é 5 Nia

the Operations! Focus material

2 Compliance Test

© This testweas easy t

* ‘Tres testwas easy touse

«. This materiai (or simmitar material) would nenstt
you and your staff?

© TW maierist (or similar materist) would ennance

«The Horizon temingt ts an ap
wehicie 10. dis glay this (or em

hes

i

Srong

& ht

b

a

ov

Presse use) he Dox Delow t provide amy further Comments on the Comolance Test.

j Agree

N32
NIB
Nia
N@

NB

Page 36 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: I Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

$. Crown Your Colleague Form

Svongly Disagree Srongly Agree I
«© Tris form was easy to access: 1 2 3 4 5 Na I
. 1 2.3 8 5 ONS
Pe ( 1 2 3 4 5 Na I
venett you and your staf? I
© ‘This form (or forms in generat) would 1 2 3 £ § NB I
enhance your ability 10 serve your customers
o Ther ‘mina is am appropriate 1 2 3 4 5 N32

venice
Please use te Dox Dalow to provide any further comments onthe Crown your Colleague form

is Slay forms in tis way I

4 Printer Reest Help Material

Srongly Disagree Srongly Agree

«This elo material was easy 10 access : ney ae ee Ce See
This neo material was easy to use 120034 BN

© Tris neip materia (or similar net materia) 102 308° SN
would Deneft you and your stam?

«This neip material (or similar help material) would 1 2 308) 5 Na
enhance your ability to serve your customers

© The Horizon terminat is an appropriate To 28 ee Ne

vericie 10 dis play this (or simifar} netp material

PISSEE UEE Te DON OBOW 1D OrONide any tutner comments on the Srimer Reset neo material

nssemaanannenanar esate coats ramen macuenonco 7 _ I

Page 37 of 33
FUJ00117941

FUJ00117941
Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS
I 5. Wider Feedback j
I Suess use the Dax Delow 10 NOM Us Of any addisonat tunctonailty or reterence materia that i
you would like 10 De made avaliatie to you and your staff elther via Me Horizon termina or oy j
some otner means I

Page 38 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

APPENDIX II] — OPERATIONS MANUAL INTERIM PRODUCTION CYCLE

The table below shows the current production cycle for the Operations Manual Interim
publication.

Operational Publications Production and Distribution Timescales
Operations Manual Interim

Week Wed * Deadline for submission (unlike an article in Operational Focus,
1 09:00 OM+/OF+ must be pre-booked by the contributor)
Week Wednesda I « Convert submission (incorporate text and graphics) in appropriate
4 y software for typesetting using OM+/OF+ templates
Thursday

" e Complete initial edit (text is re-written, restructured, operational
Friday gaps filled, issues resolved)

« Produce version 1 in PDF

Monday Send version 1 PDF to review group
Week I Tuesday

2 Wednesda

Check and collate reviewer's comments

Produce version 2 PDF

y
« Submit version 2 PDF to contributor for final sign-off by
Wednesday/Thursday, depending on complexity
e Check and incorporate (if applicable) contributors’ sign off
amendments
e Finalise page layout
Week « Produce and check table of contents
Thursday
2 * Complete proof read
e Complete print order
e Notify printers (Romec Print, Swindon) of number of pages, quality
of paper etc
Week Friday * Send the document to Romec Print via ISDN
« Publish OMI on intranet and Operational Publications PDF site
Week Monday I Romec Print start print run
Week Friday « Romec print complete print run
Week Monda « Romec Print despatch in bulk to Optecon in Leicester (with the
3 y Operational Focus for the same week) to arrive by 12 noon
Week e Optecon despatch the Operational pouch containing the OMI,
3 Tuesday Operational Focus and other operational material via 1st class

mail.

Week I Wednesda Vast majority of Operational pouches arrive in branches

3 y
Week Thursday I © Distribution complete

Page 39 of 33
FUJ00117941
FUJ00117941

Document Date: 6 Feb 2007 Document Type: Summary Report
Version: 1.0 Final Version Ref. Number: TOS

Page 40 of 33
