FUJ00122980
FUJ00122980

Message

From: Thomas Penny [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=THOMASP]

Sent: 17/09/2010 12:01:03

To: Jenkins Gareth GI [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GARETH.JENKINS]
Subject: FW: Duplicatation of Transaction Records in ARQ Returns

Attachments: Audits.doc; Gareth - DRAFT Duplicated Records V2.doc

Gareth

I received this lot from POL today and then talked it through with Mark. As a result of that discussion
I agreed to put together a draft statement for you, which I attach. This is for Rinkfield, by the way

Are you happy with this?

Kind regards

Penny

Penny Thomas

Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account

Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 8SN

E-Mail: penny. thomas!

web: http://uk.fujitsu.com <http://uk. fujitsu.com/>

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London w1U
3BW

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of
confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been
intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Mark Dinsdal
Sent: 16 September 21
To: Thomas Penny
Cc: Jane M Owen
Subject: FW: Duplicatation of Transaction Records in ARQ Returns

Penny, this is for Gareth and a reword of his witness statement. He want to give me a call to discuss.
Thanks

Regards
FUJ00122980
FUJ00122980

Mark

From: Juliet Mcfarlane

Sent: 16 September 2010 16:45

To: Mark Dinsdale; Jane M Owen

Subject: RE: Duplicatation of Transaction Records in ARQ Returns

Mark Jane

Further to our discussion regarding this matter.

We will need to provide a statement in due course to deal with the duplication of data. I mentioned that
it would be helpful if Gareth's statement could be revisited in part. I am attaching your draft with a
few comments which should be amended in conjunction with Gareth's statement.

The statement will have to be made by Gareth or someone who understands the technicalities.

After tomorrow I will be next in the Office on the 4th October. Rob Wilson is aware of this matter
should you need to discuss this before then

Juliet McFarlane
Principal Lawyer

Legal Services, Criminal Law Team

From: Mark Dinsdale

Sent: 13 September 2010 12:07

To: Juliet Mcfarlane

Subject: FW: Duplicatation of Transaction Records in ARQ Returns

Juliet, do you think this draft would be okay. I'1] run it past Penny at Fujitsu and ask them to ‘top
and tail’ it into a witness statement if you're happy with it (ignore the attachment, this is the
original).

On audits of transactions, there occurs a duplication of records when records were in the process of
being recorded purely for audit purposes from the correspondence servers to the audit servers. This has
always been the case; however the mechanism used on Horizon to retrieve audit data took this into account
and only presented one instance of such duplicate data. As offices have migrated to the new HNGx
application, any requests made for audit data during this period, the mechanism used to filter out
duplicates did not remove them from the audit data.

The duplicates only occur in the audit data, and does not effect the actual physical transactions
recorded on any counter at any outlet.

This problem has now been resolved, however a small number of audit requests made during the period from
HNGx migration until the resolve will show the duplicate transactions.
FUJ00122980
FUJ00122980

Regards

Mark

SEIN In nin iri irinieinieiainieaniesr intra iranieiraiea

m your system, ####srsrsisssse seit srabieaieseab arate

Tneiinniniciiiinnninioiiiinniniiniinhindioiuriinniioiinriniinisoiinrininiianenrnccsrrne Royal Mail Group Limited

registered in England and wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria
Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the

sender and then delete this email from your system.
JENS eini ein iid int rier indie ine ieee oni inion rina dora aaa aaaace
