ICL Pathway

Scheduling Strategy

FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284
Ref: IM/STR/040
Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

Document Title:

Document Type:

Abstract:

Status:

Distribution:

ICL Pathway

Barrie Davies
Bob McDermott
Mark Fisk
Andrew Barkham
Paul Underwood
Eamonn Long
Barry Hancill
Lorraine Holt
Sue Parker
Claire Roberts
Billy Herd

Tan Openshaw
Pam Barlow
Dave Howells
Celia Tebbs
Library

Author:

Comments to:

Comments by:

Scheduling Strategy

Strategy

Documents the strategy by which the Scheduling of the Rollout
Events will occur to achieve installation of Horizon counter
system in the post office outlets.

Issue for Approval.

POCL

Andy Jones
Barry Evans

Bruce McNiven
Graham Katon

Martin O” ‘Toole
Trevor Rollason

Steve Burgess

Steve Burgess

N/A

Suppliers

Bob McCully, Sorbus.

Alastair Cameron, Celestica
Stuart Kearns, Peritas

Linda Melvin, Exel

Chris Daniels, Energis

Jim Booth, Verification Centre

Les Betts, Sorbus
Jon Chapple, WT ple

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

© 1998 ICL Pathway Ltd

Page 1 of 27
ICL Pathway

FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

Scheduling Strategy Refi IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0

Date: 02/11/98

0.1

Document control

Document history

Version Date Reason

O41 12/02/98 First draft of the document for limited circulation only

0.2 02/03/98 Second draft incorporating comments

03 5/5/98 Third draft incorporating comments and including updates to thinking
around the POCL readiness review and rescheduling.

0.4 19/5/98 Updated with comments, issued for comment.

0.5 29/07/98 Updated with comments, issued for inspection.

0.6 21/09/98 Updated with comments, issued for inspection

1.0 02/11/98 For approval

0.2 Approval authorities

Name
Bob McDermott

Graham Katon

Bruce McNiven

Position

Signature

Rollout Manager

POCL Implementation Co-

ordinator

GM Horizon

Implementation

0.3 Associated documents

we

6

Reference Vers
IM/STR/0025 2.0
BP/TRN/001 2.0

PATH /29/036 0.1

IM/PLA/010 8.0
IM/PLA/010 8.0
BD/PRP/002

IM/PRD/004 1.0

Date
14/7/98
10/11/97

17/11/97

23/07/98
21/07/98

Title
High Level Counter Rollout Strategy

Training and User Awareness Baseline
document

BA/POCL Counter Automation User
Awareness - MIB event

Infrastructure Programme Plan Version 8.
Installation Programme Plan Version 8.
Implementation Support Data Process

Counter Hardware Ordering Process

Date

Source
B McDermott

L Holt
M Taylor

S Burgess
S Burgess
W Kerrigan
I Openshaw

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284
ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy vent PM/STR/O40
Date: 02/11/98

8 IM/REQ/ Inspectorate Requirements M Fisk
9 IM/REQ/030 Site Preparation Requirements M Fisk
10, IM/REQ/005 Site Survey Requirements M Fisk
11 IM/REQ/014 Training Scheduling Requirements A Barkham
12 IM/STR/ Split Implementation Strategy B McDermott
13. IM/ Security Capitalisation Proposal
14 IM/ Scheduling Terms & Definitions C Tebbs
15 IM/ Pre Installation Inspectorate Requirements J Bates
0.4 Abbreviations

BA Benefit Agency

BAD Benefit Agency District

DRI Designated Responsible Individual

FAD Financial Accounting Division

HSHD Horizon System Help Desk

NHIT National Horizon Implementation ‘Team

IP Implementation Programme

IPP Implementation Programme Plan

IU Implementation Unit

InfrU Infrastructure Unit

InstU Installation Unit

ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network

POCL. Post Office Counters Ltd

RoDB Rollout Database

ReadU Readiness Unit

RGM Regional General Manager

RFI Ready For Installation

SIP Split Implementation Programme

UAE User Awareness Event

WTple Workplace Technologies PLC

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 3 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

0.5 Common Terms

Suppliers References to suppliers includes POCL in their Supplier capacity

stalled and fully functional, however stock unit
migration has not yet taken place and the outlet itself is not ready to proceed
with business through the Horizon system

Live

Operational An outlet is said to be in Operational Service in scheduling terms when the
Horizon system has been installed and its stock units migrated.

Implementation Four distinct groups of outlets that are managed as separate rollout
Programme programmes.

Sub Programmes Groups of outlets within an Implementation Programme that are composed
of as number of BA Districts, these represents a geographic region of
variable size

0.6 Changes in this version

All changes are highlighted.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

0.7 Table of content

1. Introduction

1.1 Scope.

2. The Scheduling Process.

2.1 Overview

2.2 Scheduling Constraints...

2.2.1 Timing of Events...
2.2.2 Beat Rate ...

2.2.3 Christmas Constraints

2.2.4 Bank Holidays...

2.2.5 Outlet requiring particular permission in respect to modifications...

2.2.6 No Fixed Counter Outlets

2.2.7 Non-Cash Account Outlets

2.2.8 ISIS (Security Capitalisation Project) ...

2.2.9 Other Constraints...
3. Rescheduling Processe

3.1 SIP Rescheduling St

3.2 Rescheduling during the SIP

3.3 Rescheduling - Geographic Considerations.

4. POCL Readiness Review ..

5. Infrastructure Phase...

5.1 Activating Infrastructure Units (InfraU) ...

5.2 RGM Letter.

5.3 Management Infrastructure Briefing...

5.4 Site Survey call...

5.6 Site Re-survey Call...

5.7 Site Resurvey

5.8 Pre Modifications Call

5.9 Pre Preparation Call

5.10 Site Modifications

5.11 Production of outlet labels

5.12 Site Preparation

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

5.13 Ready for Installation

5.14 Inspectorate ...

6. Installation planning phase

7. Installation phase

7.1 Forecast to hardware suppliers

7.2 Issue Invitation for the User Awareness Event...

7.3 Firm hardware requirements ..

7.4 User Awareness Event

7.5 Invitation to trainin;

7.6 Auto configuration of the Horizon Counter equipment ...

7.7 Communications line installation ....

7.8 Inspectorate (Phase 2) ..

7.9 Instruction to Parcel Force & MRM

7.10 Build of the counter systems...

7A1 User Trainin;

7.12 Collection of overshippers

7.13 Equipment installation...

7.14 Completion of the installation phase (Migration) ..

7.15 Issue of the Equipment Indicator...

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

1. Introduction

This document has been produced as one in a series of strategy documents reflecting the
processes involved in the implementation of the Horizon counter systems.

The Rollout of the Horizon dependant on the efficiency of the
scheduling process. The process is not complex in respect of each post office but when
dealing with nearly 20,000 post offices it produces a logistic complexity. ‘To manage the
large number of events involved in the rollout a database has been developed (the
Rollout Database RoDB). ‘The concept behind the RoDB is to develop a database that
interfaces between all parties involved in the delivery of the Rollout and schedule their
appropriate events

The main interfaces are illustrated below:

National Network DB
POCL Reference Data
POCL Regions
0
POCL POC
Distribution} jr cimentat
Contre implementation
Peritas
WIL
Local PathwayI Pathway pos
Users RoDB Suppliers nereh
Celestica
Pathway Exel Logistics
Pathway Planning Implementation 8
Pathway Management
Rollout Helpdesk
Pathway
Regional
Users PLM’s
Fig 1.0
1.1 Scope

‘This document describes the strategy of how ICL. Pathway and its suppliers will schedule
the Rollout events. There will be appropriate references to requirements documents from
which the detailed specification of scheduling for each party will be produced.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy v Ref: TM/STR/040

02/11/98

2. The Scheduling Process

2.1 Overview

The scheduling process has been defined around the management of Implementation
Units (IU) of post offices scheduled in line with the Split Implementation Programme as
defined in the Split Implementation Strategy Ref [12]. Throughout the programme each
post office outlet is assigned to three different kinds of Implementation Unit.

Readiness Review Unit (ReadU) is a four weekly cut of outlets that is delivered to
POCL to check the readiness of each outlet to enter the implementation programme.
Infrastructure Unit (InfrU) is a weekly cut of outlets that will progress through the
infrastructure phase of the programme in the same time cycle.

Installation Unit (InstU) is a weekly cut of outlets that will progress through the
installation phase of the programme in the same time cycle.

, the creation of
stage.

Each of the above units relate to a stage in the implementation proces
each of these is dependant on the successful completion of the previous

The diagram below illustrates the high level scheduling processes which will be applied to
each outlet during the course of its implementation. ‘T hows that greater than 300
outlets will need to be put into the front end of the SIP in order to maintain a 300 per
week beat rate. The maximum number of outlets that can be entered into a given stage
of the SIP will be governed by Supplier contracts & in agreement with POCL.

Outlet 4 Week! POCL, fWeekiyI Infrastructure [Weekly Installation Steady
Bucket Cut Readiness cut Phase Cut Phase State
Read Review Init Inst Bucket
Approx 1200 + 4(X+¥4Z) 300 +¥ +z, 300 +7 300
20,000 Outlets Outlets Outlets Outlets
Outlets XC \e a Per Week
Drop Drop Drop
Outs Outs Oe

X: Outlets dropping out during the POCL Readiness Review
‘Y: Outlets dropping out during the Infrastructure Phase
Z: Outlets dropping out during the Installation Phase

Fig 2.0

The Post Office estate of nearly 20,000 outlets has been divided on a geographical basis
into four Implementation Programmes (IP). The IP’s are sub divided into Sub
Programmes, Benefit Agency Districts which define the relationship between BA and the
post offices. The outlets are then further divided into groups defined by the first half of
their Post Code, these groups are then sequenced into a geographically optimal order
within their BAD to produce a list. Post offices will then be cut from this list at each
stage of the programme as illustrated above, at each scheduling point within the process
where outle cheduling may take place ages between programmes to
realign the outlets back into the original geographically optimal sequence.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

The flow of scheduling information throughout each phase of the implementation is
illustrated in the Split Implementation Strategy [12].

Outlets that are delayed from their targeted progression through the roll out will be
suspended within the RoDB, while the issue surrounding their delay is resolved. Once
this occurs the outlet will be rescheduled back into the program at an appropriate time
and event by assigning it to an alternative Implementation Unit [See Section 3].

2.2 Scheduling Constraints

2.2.1

2.2.2

2.2.3

2.2.4

These are the rules which govern the time cycle in which groups of outlets will be
entered into and proceed through the SIP.
Timing of Events

The timing of the events are detailed in the Split Implementation Strategy - Ref [12].

Beat Rate

During national rollout after a ramp up period of three weeks the target number of
installations is an average of 300 per week. The ramp up totals are aimed at 125, 175 and
250 installations for weeks 1 to 3 of National Rollout respectively. The ramp up in each
TP is outlined below, this is a guideline and will be revised in line with current factors.

Week1 Week2 Week3 Week4
IP1 35 41 50 50
IP2 32 45 66 80
IP3 32 45 66 81
Ip4 32 45 67 89
TOTAL 131 176 249 300

The numbers above vary slightly from the target values and are the actual numbers
represented in the Infrastructure Programme Plan Ref [4]

In order to achieve a beat rate of 300 / week it will be required to enter more than 300
outlets into the program to account for outlets dropping out, within the constraints
previously defined in section 2.1.

Christmas Constraints

As Christmas is the post office’s busiest period there is a restriction on when outlets can
be entered to carry out work related to the Horizon System. It has been defined that no
work will be carried out for 3 weeks over Christmas and that only half the standard beat
rate, of each event occurring in an outlet, can be scheduled for the 3 weeks prior to the
Christmas shut down, see Ret [1]. The 1 week following the Christmas shutdown will be
a self imposed period of reduced activity, due to the practicality of supplier ramp up.

Bank Holidays

‘The spread of the increased beat rate generated by Bank Holidays will be determined by
the implementation planning manager in negotiation with affected resource managers.

The working week for the programme will comprise 5 working days. Bank holidays and
public holidays are specifically excluded. Where a working week is shortened due to a

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

2.2.5

2.2.6

2.2.7

2.2.8

2.2.9

bank or public holiday then the daily beat rate will be increased to cater for this. The
increase to the beat rate will be spread over a number of weeks to ensure that the
increase is manageable for Suppliers with field based resources whilst minimising the
amount of rescheduling required. It should be borne in mind that there is a variation of
Bank Holidays across the United Kingdom.

Outlet requiring particular permission in respect to modifications
It is anticipated that before any modification
outlets specific permission may be required.
following reasons;

¢ preparation work is carried out in some
his permission may be due to one of the

© Outlet is a grade 1 listed building or has grade 1 listed fittings.
¢ Outlet is part of a franchise/multiple, see Ref [10].
© Outlet is owned by a Landlord, see Ref [10]

Data in respect to Grade 1 listed buildings has been produced by our suppliers and the
franchise/multiple data is supplied & updates by Reference data & POCL
Implementation. ‘This information is processed in line with procedures defined in the
Survey Requirements Ref [10] . Requirements in respect to Landlords consent are also
covered in the Survey Requirements Ref [10].

No Fixed Counter Outlets

‘These outlets cannot be entered into the Infrastructure programme until a suitable survey
process has been agreed.

Non-Cash Account Outlets

‘These outlets may proceed through the infrastructure programme but will not be entered
into the installation programme until they have been converted to cash account status.
ISIS (Security Capitalisation Project)

‘There are a number of POCL Projects running in parallel with the Horizon automation
project. The most significant of these is ISIS which up until recently has been know as
the Security Capitalisation Project. Management around this project has been detailed in
a separate proposal, Ref [13].

Other Constraints
Other scheduling constraints include:

¢ Known outlet refurbishment requirements, (This should be highlighted at Readiness
Review).

¢ Non - ISDN data communications, (This will restrict entry into the installation
programme if a suitable solution is not available.).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy v Ref: TM/STR/040

02/11/98

3. Rescheduling Processes

3.1 SIP Rescheduling Stages

‘The first stage in the SIP where rescheduling takes place is in selecting outlets for entry
into the infrastructure rescheduling terminology is defined in Ref [14]. Outlets
undergoing readiness review [Section 4] will be returned to Pathway either as part of a 4
weekly drop as Ackl or Ack2 or as part of a we release of outlets that were
previously placed on hold, Ack3 (Wednesday of each week). Outlets that are released
after being placed on hold, Ack3’s, will be rescheduled back into the programme at the
optimal position taking into account geography and the number of outlets in surrounding
infrastructure units.

‘The next key rescheduling stage is prior to entry into the installation programme. The
optimal geographic sequence of outlets disrupted during the Readiness Review and
Infrastructure phases will be realigned as much as possible prior to entry into the
Installation Programme.

The Pathway RoDB will highlight outlets that have been diverted from their optimal
position in the implementation sequence at both of these two key stages and present
them for rescheduling. Rescheduling will be done by assigning a virtual BA District and
Post Code Group to the outlet which will be used solely for determining where in the
sequence these outlets will be brought back into the programme (The outlet will retain its
own BA District identifier and Post Code for all other purposes). Four separate
geographic sequences will be managed in this way, one for each IP region.

3.2 Rescheduling during the SIP

Issues arising during the course of the Horizon programme will be managed by the
Helpdesk / Regional infrastructure and in some es will lead to outlets being
suspended. This information will be captured on the RoDB by the Rollout Helpdesk
who will amend the outlet status to suspended, this data will then be communicated to
appropriate Suppliers by means of the overnight interfaces.

When the problems surrounding an outlet suspension have been resolved it will be
released via the Rollout Helpdesk to implementation planning for rescheduling. In order
to reschedule the outlet back into the programme details surrounding its event history
and geography will be investigated and considered in line with the high level programme
plans. Once the optimal programme re-entry point is determined the outlet will be
rescheduled via the RoDB, the Implementation Planning team will simply assign the
outlet to the appropriate implementation unit. This will cause the outlet to fall in line
with the new implementation unit such that its subsequent event target weeks will be
updated and issued to appropriate suppliers.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy v Ref: IM/STR/040

1.0
02/11/98

3.3 Rescheduling - Geographic Considerations

An outlet may be rescheduled back into the Horizon Programme on one of the following

ba:

1.

Rescheduled back into its own geographic area, having been released from
suspension prior to field based resources moving out of the locality.

Rescheduled with a group of outlets that is close to the geography of its original
group and is being visited at a later period of the rollout.

Clustering, where rescheduling of type 1 and 2 is not viable, consideration will be
given to clustering. If a number of outlets in a given area have been suspended and
subsequently released over a period of time they will be reintroduced into the rollout
programme as a cluster and complete the rollout programme together. In such
circumstances consideration will be given to the availability of field based resources.
A cluster may consist of 2 or more outlets.

Where none of the above options are available an outlet will be rescheduled based
upon the availability of field based resources.

The above will be determined in consultation with Suppliers, maps and mapping tools
will be used where appropriate.

When rescheduling consideration will be given to the number of outlets that have been
suspended within a given Infrastructure Unit

Whilst rescheduling during the infrastructure phase consideration will be given to the
potential for realignment at the end of the infrastructure phase. The period available to
regroup outlets with neighbouring outlets depends on the time period between the

infrastructure and installation pha:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy v Ref: TM/STR/040

02/11/98

4. POCL Readiness Review

The Implementation Planning Department will sequence the post office estate in line
with the Infrastructure Programme Plan, Ref. [4]. This plan details the breakdown of the
estate into Implementation Programmes (IP), Sub Programmes and finally BA Districts
(BAD’s).

A four weekly cut of Post Offices will be taken in line with the IPP and issued to POCL
6 weeks prior to the RGM letter issue. The Regions will review the readiness of each
outlet to enter the Implementation Program. An indication of the readiness of each
outlet will be returned to Pathway 3 weeks after issue of the Post Offices to POCL.

The POCL Regions will also verity reference data related to the ReadU during this
period, this will include an assessment of the number of counters positions to be
automated for each outlet if this has not previously been determined.

Outlets that are not ready for the implementation program will be put on hold by the
POCL Regions while they resolve the associated issues, at which point they will be
released to Pathway for inclusion in the SIP. An outlets that has been placed on hold for
a significant period of time may miss out on being rescheduled back into the
infrastructure program with its own geographic group. Other rescheduling options will
then be considered and may lead to the outlet being scheduled back into the program at
much later date. Therefore it is in the interest of the outlet manager as well as POCL and
ICL Pathway to restrict the time period outlets are placed on hold. Example
placing an outlet on hold are:

asons for

¢ Outlet has been identified for refurbishment which must be completed before being
included as part of the Horizon programme.

¢ Outlet has been scheduled to undertake activities as part of another POCL
programme that will introduce serious conflict with the Horizon implementation
schedule.

© Outlet is temporarily closed.

The outlets ready to go ahead with the Horizon implementation programme will then be

placed in an RODB table ready for assignment to appropriate infrastructure units. The

InfrU are then produced in line with the BAD sequence defined in the Infrastructure
Programme Plan, Ref. [4].

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

5. Infrastructure Phase

5.1 Activating Infrastructure Units (InfraU)

The number of outlets selected for inclusion in an infrastructure unit will be aimed at
achieving the requited beat rate of 300 installations per week. This will requite a
minimum of 300 outlets to be selected, plus a variable number of additional outlets to
allow for delays and drop outs. ‘The variable number will be determined by utilising
historical data and data modelling tools. Consideration will also need to be given to the
number selected for each IP in order to ensure each region stays on target with the
Infrastructure Programme Plan, Ref [4].

Once the number of outlets in an InfrU has been selected for each IP these will be
logically grouped and activated within the RoDB. This takes place two wee

ks prior to issuing of RGM letters and instigates the issue of start/finish dates for
particular events to NHIT, Peritas and WTple. NHIT receive the target week for issuing
the RGM letter, Peritas receive the target week for issuing the Invitation for the
Management Infrastructure Briefing (MIB) and the week for the MIB event. Finally
WTple receive the target weeks for Pre Survey Call, Site Survey and Preparation.

From issue of the InfrU two weeks are available to perform preparatory tasks prior to
commencement of the SIP proper. This time is utilised by POCL Regions to prepare
RGM letters for each of the post offices in the InfrU. It also gives Peritas additional time
to organise briefing venues and schedule outlet managers to the appropriate location.

5.2 RGM Letter

Each outlet in an Implementation Unit will receive from their post office region an RGM
letter. The letter is the first official contact with the outlet. NHIT are required to notify
the RoDB by the Wednesday of the appropriate week that the letters have been issued.

5.3 Management Infrastructure Briefing

The outlet manger at each outlet in the Implementation Unit is invited to attend a
Management Infrastructure Briefing. Details of the contents of the Management
Infrastructure Briefing is documented in Ref. [3]. The issuing of the invitation to the MIB
is dependant on confirmation that the RGM letter has been sent. The MIB invitation will
be issued at least 4 weeks prior to the event being held.

At the MIB, outlet managers will be asked of their availability for the target survey call,
survey and preparation weeks. This will help identify potential problems with the
scheduling of these activities later in the programme and the information will need to be
logged on the Horizon System Help Desk (HSHD). To minimise the need for
rescheduling, a DRI (Designated Responsible Individual) should be nominated at the
MIB to act on behalf of the Post Master should they be unavoidably absent during
identified activity periods.

All outlets with a representative attending a MIB are confirmed via the RoDB. All non
attendees are also reported via the RoDB with confirmation that they have been sent a
pack of information which describes the forthcoming infrastructure activities.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

IM/STR/040
1.0
02/11/98

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy

5.4 Site Survey call

The Site Survey call is dependant on a representative member of the outlet having
attended a MIB or receiving a MIB pack. ‘This information will be available via the RODB
to WTple.

A telephone call is made to each outlet to arrange the site survey and preparation dates.
Outlet managers will be asked to agree their availability for the survey and preparation
activities based on target weeks. If the outlet manager is available then dates will be
agreed for the survey and preparation activities. If the outlet manager is not available to
attend Survey or Preparation, confirmation that the DRI is available will be sought, in
exceptional circumstances where neither is available during the target weeks they are
asked for the duration and timing of their unavailability. On the basis that the majority of
people take up to 2 weeks holiday at one time, the outlet manager will be advised that the
dates will be either 1 or 2 weeks after the target week as appropriate. During the Site
Survey call, agreement will be reached with the outlet manager as to whether the survey
activities are carried out in the morning or afternoon and that preparations are
commenced in the morning. The call will also identify an individual at the outlet who can
authorise any work to be carried out. This may be the outlet manager or a Designated
Responsible Individual at the outlet.

Consideration will be made for outlets that need to agree the dates/times with their
landlords. Two prospective dates/times will be offered and the outlet will be contacted
two days following the initial contact to find which date/time is acceptable to the
landlord.

Details of the site surve
10}.

all is provided in the site survey requirements document Ref

Successful calls result in the RoDB being updated with baseline dates for the survey and
preparation events and whether the activities are to be carried out in the morning or
afternoon. After 3 unsuccessful attempts to contact an outlet a call will be made to the
appropriate POCL contact. At the end of the week all outlets that could not be
contacted will be issued to the POCL Region with appropriate information on why they
were not successful. ‘The process for managing these post offices back into the
programme is outlined in the rescheduling section of this document [Section 3}.

5.5 Site Survey

‘The Site Survey is dependant on a date being agreed with the outlet manager at the Site
Survey call. The site survey process is defined in detail in the Site Survey Requirements
Document Ref: [10]. Following the Site Survey the RoDB will be notified of any
additional Re-surveys or Modifications that are required in the outlet. This information
determines the additional events to be scheduled for the outlet ie whether the outlet
requires a Re-survey and /or Modifications.

The Site Survey work is completed within one working day. Notification of Site Survey
being complete on the Baseline date will take place on the overnight interface to the
RoDB, this notification will be forwarded the to POCL on the same night. Non
completion will be notified via the Rollout Helpdesk and confirmed when complete via
the RoDB.

Up to 40% of Site Surveys will be attended by POCL, fluctuations in the number of Site
Surveys to be performed around the 300 beat rate will be indicated to POCL and

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy v Ref: TM/STR/040

02/11/98

Suppliers by the RoDB approx 10 weeks in advance and via Survey Schedules
approximately 1 week in advance. Any decis
number of surveys will be agreed with suppliers as per contracts and notified to POCL as
far in advance as possible.

ns to make sustained increases to the

5.6 Site Re-survey Call

The Site Re-survey call is dependant on the outlet being registered as requiring a Re-
survey at the Site Survey. The Target week for the Re-Survey Call and Re-survey will be
in line with the Split Implementation Strategy, Ref [12], unless dates were agreed at the
Site Survey call in each of the weeks following the target IU week. If this has occurred all
the subsequent Infrastructure events will move forward the same number of weeks.
Again if the outlet manager is unavailable during this period the DRI should preside.

The Baseline date & time will be sent to the RoDB following agreement with the outlet.
This information will be forwarded to NHIT to organise the appropriate POCL
attendance, POCL will attend 100% of resurveys.

5.7 Site Resurvey
The site resurvey will be dependant on the date/time being agreed with the post master
at the Site Re-survey Call and advising POCL of the requirements for attendance.

On completion of the Re-survey the Actual date will be reported to the RoDB as will
notification that the outlet requires screen parts and/or modifications.

5.8 Pre Modifications Call

Commencement of this event is dependant on completion of the Re-Survey with the
purpose of confirming a date for Moditication works.

5.9 Pre Preparation Call

The outlet is to be contacted to confirm the Preparation date. Where applicable this call
is also an opportunity to check that the post master has completed any works they have
agreed too

5.10 Site Modifications

The site modifications are dependant on quotes for alterations being authorised and the
date for the work being agreed with the outlet. If appropriate the landlords consent to
carry out the modifications is also required. Site modifications are those activities carried
out in an outlet which have to be performed by a specialist organisation.

the outlet to enable the work to be carried out.

In some cases it may be necessary to clos
This usually applies where the modification work carried out in the outlet affects the
security of the outlet. Notification of Modifications being complete on the Baseline date
will take place on the overnight interface to the RODB. Non completion will be notified
via the Rollout Helpdesk and confirmed when complete via the RoDB.

All site modifications have to be complete prior the Site Preparations commencing.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

5.11 Production of outlet labels

As part of the Site Preparation process, document Ref [9], a label is fixed to a wall in the
outlet to signify the ISDN circuit position.. These labels have to be ordered in batches of
approximately 500 with a 7 week lead time. They will be required for inclusion in the Site
Preparation pack which is assembled the week following the Pre Preparations Call.
‘Therefore the order will need to be placed at least 11 weeks prior to the Preparation.

‘The labels are produced from information supplied by the RoDB.

5.12 Site Preparations

Site preparation activities are those which are carried out after any modification work has
been completed to prepare the outlet ready for installation of the Horizon counter
equipment. Where applicable an authorised landlords consent form will need to be
returned by the outlet manager, this would have been issued to the outlet manager
following site survey.

The site preparation work is usually completed within one working day. Notification of
Preparation being complete on the Baseline date will take place on the overnight
interface to the RoDB within 48 hours of the preparation taking place. Non completion
will be notified via the Rollout Helpdesk and confirmed when complete via the RoDB.

Preparation of ECCO outlets will be scheduled to avoid taking place on Wednesdays
when cash accounts are balanced.

The only exception to the Preparation being complete in one day is the connection of
electrical tails which will be completed within 2 weeks of the Preparation date.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy v Ref: IM/STR/040

1.0
02/11/98

5.13

5.14

Ready for Installation

Ready for installation occurs a week after the Preparation, which accommodates the
return of the Preparation pack and the subsequent issue of the Completion Pack to ICL
Pathway. The Completion pack may be held for up to 2 weeks following Prep awaiting
the connection of electrical tails by the local electricity board. Arrangements are made for
the electrical tail circuits to be connected through the appropriate regional electricity
board.

Once a post office is registered as Ready for Installation it is available to enter the
Planning phase prior to the Installation Phase.

Inspectorate

‘The contract defines that 10 percent of the outlets will be inspected for the quality of
preparation. Since the introduction of the Split Implementation Plan the timing of this
inspection has required revision. Due to the Preparation of the outlet and the Installation
of the ISDN now occurting on different days it has been agreed that half the inspections
will take place following the preparation and the other half following the ISDN
Installation.

The first half of the inspections are selected the week after RFI is achieved unless the
outlet requires electrical tails in which case it may be selected the week following
completion electrical tail works upto 3 full weeks after the preparation has taken place.
Details of this activity including the selection criteria are detailed in the Pre Installation
Inspectorate requirements document, ref [15].

This 2 week period is to allow for the confirmation of tail connections. ‘The inspections
are then scheduled and the planned Inspection dates, being 2 weeks hence, agreed with
the outlet manager. The dates for the Inspection will be available to those parties
required to attend the inspection.

On completion of the Inspection the inspector will notify the results to their responsible
manager. If the outlet has passed the inspection the inspection report will be issued by
post to the responsible manager. If on the other hand it fails the inspection the report
will be both faxed and issued by post to the appropriate manager. Resolution of faults
highlighted during inspection will be managed by the inspectorate service provider, once
resolved the outlet will be re-inspected for confirmation.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy v Ref: TM/STR/040

02/11/98

6. Installation planning phase

At least four weeks prior to the commencement of the Installation Phase and following
the Infrastructure Phase there is a 4 week Planning Phase. This phase is for the
scheduling of post offices prior to entering the Installation Phase and agreeing baseline
dates for key events.

It is anticipated that a buffer of Post Offices that are ‘Ready for Install’ will be created
between the two Implementation Phases. This will have two major benefits, firstly to
help ensure there is always enough Post Offices avail:
at the required rate and secondly providing additional time to ensure optimal sequencing
of outlets.

lable to enter the Installation Phase

The number of outle

s selected for inclusion in an installation unit (InstU) will be aimed
at achieving the required beat rate of 300 installations per week. ‘This will require a
minimum of 300 outlets to be selected, plus a v:
allow for delays and drop outs. The variable number will be determined by utilising
historical data and data modelling tools. Consideration will also need to be given to the
number selected for each IP region in order to ensure each region stays on target with
the IPP Ref [5].

‘iable number of additional out

to

Once an InstU of post offices has been activated in the RoDB related scheduling
information will be issued to appropriate suppliers, including POCL for HFSO
scheduling. Exel will be issued target weeks for Installation, Energis provided with target
ISDN install dates and Peritas issued with target weeks for User Awareness events.

ISDN lines will not be required at outlets which are already installed with ALPS
equipment (subject to commercial agreement). Endeavours will be made to agree
installation dates for ECCO offices so that they are evenly distributed across the week.

The agreed baseline dates are submitted to the RoDB for the remaining Installation event
dates to be calculated.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

7. Installation phase

The installation phase covers those activities required for the installation and delivery of
the Horizon equipment in the post office outlets. Entry to the Installation phase is
dependant on the post office completing the Infrastructure phase and Planning phase.
On entering the Installation phase the outlet will have agreed Baseline dates for the key
events and the appropriate suppliers will have been notified of planned dates for their
events. It is envisaged that only a very small percentage of outlets will drop out of the
programme once entering the Installation phase. These drop outs will be rescheduled in
line with the processes outlined in Section 3.

Completion of the installation phase results in the outlet moving to the in office data
migration and acceptance phase.

7.1 Forecast to hardware suppliers

Information provided by the RoDB to Celestica allows a forecast to be provided to
hardware suppliers for the equipment required to satisfy the installation. ‘The forecast is
derived from figures based on the number of counter positions to be automated, number
of back office systems and the office printer type, in accordance with Ref. [7].

7.2 Issue Invitation for the User Awareness Event

A minimum of 4 weeks prior to the User Awareness event the outlet will receive an
invitation informing them of the UAE venue and reminding them of the dates agreed for
data communic
UAE Invite being i

ions & Horizon installation. ‘The RoDB will receive confirmation of the

ed.

Included with the invitation will be a questionnaire in respect of requirements for
training. If this questionnaire is not returned within 8 days the outlet will be contacted by
telephone to collect the information. This discussion will be confirmed in writing. This
proc defined in detail in the Training Scheduling Requirements Document Ref 11.

7.3 Firm hardware requirements

A firm committed hardware forecast will be issued to Celestica on a four week rolling
basis, 8 weeks prior to installation of the Horizon system.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy v Ref: TM/STR/040

02/11/98

7.4 User Awareness Event

To ensure that all appropriate outlet staff understand the Installation series of events, a
User Awareness Event is arranged. Details of the contents of the User Awareness Event
is documented in Ref. [2]. Attendance on the User Awareness event will be dependant on
the invitations being issued 4 weeks prior to the event.

The User Awareness event is designed to offer a detailed explanation of what is expected
of the outlet manager and staff, and what they should expect to happen during this
phase. By this stage all the dates appropriate to the outlet manager have been agreed,
with the exception of the training date.

Non attendees of the UAE will be sent a User a
forthcoming events.

vareness pack to explain the

7.5 Invitation to training

Information collated at the User Awareness Event will allow the training requirements
for each outlet to be scheduled and the venues confirmed. Once training venues are
established invitations are sent to outlet staff via the outlet manager. Details of the
invitation to training is provided in the training strategy Ref. [2]. This process is defined
in detail in the Training Scheduling Requirements Document Ref [11].

7.6 Auto configuration of the Horizon Counter equipment

All Horizon equipment will be built with a minimal configuration. On installation the
outlet specific configuration will be transferred to the counters. To undertake this
configuration an Auto configuration system has been developed. This system requires
certain reference data for the outlet which is supplied by the RoDB. ‘The interface is
triggered 30 days prior to the Baselined Installation date and will be updated with any
changes up to the point the Auto configuration system configures the counters.

7.7 Communications line installation

The ordering and confirmation of the Communications Line (In the majority of cases
this will be ISDN) installation date was completed during the Planning phase. Data
communications will be installed at the outlet, with the exception of Alps offices that
already have an ISDN line that can be utilised by the Horizon system in those offices.
Furthermore approximately 2% of outlets will not have ISDN coverage and an
alternative means of communication will be installed., under these circumstances the
same scheduling processes will be followed and the most appropriate type of
communications link installed

Where an ISDN line is installed it will be monitored by Energis at agreed times relative
to the time of install. Should the ISDN line fail this will be detected by Energis and
rectified before installation of the Horizon equipment.

Should a failure on the ISDN line be detected within 2 days of the baseline installation
date and it is anticipated that the Horizon counter equipment installation may be
aftected, then telephone escalation to ICL Pathway will occur.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 27
FUJ00001284
FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

Confirmation of the ISDN installation will take place no more that 2 days after the date
of installation.

7.8 Inspectorate (Phase 2)

The second phase of inspections will be scheduled to follow the Installation of the ISDN
line. The outlets will be selected in a similar manner to those selected for phase 1
inspections as outlined in ref [15]. These inspections will be conducted 2 days after
ISDN installation where this can be agreed with the outlet manager.

resolution. Once resolved the outlet will be re-inspected for confirmation. There is a very
short period for resolution of failures s ms may be short circuited as long as the
audit trail via the Rollout Helpdesk is lation is detailed
in Ref. [8].

7.9 Instruction to Parcel Force & MRM

Details of outlets which are to be installed with the Horizon equipment are passed via the
RoDB and electronic mail to Parcel Force 10 days prior to installation. Parcel Force then
deliver packs of leaflets and posters to the outlets the week prior to the Installation.

Outlet details are similarly passed to MRM Promotional Services who will arrange for
posters and leaflets to be delivered to Benefit Agency offices and Job Centres.

7.10 Build of the counter systems

‘The equipment that will be delivered to the outlet will be tested and packaged into boxes
known as overshippers. The forecast information will be available as detailed in Ref. [7].

‘The appropriate overshippers will need to be available at least 5 days prior to Collection.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

7.11

7.12

7.13

User Training

‘The outlet manager & staff attend a specialised training event to ensure they are suitably
prepared to operate the Horizon counter equipment. The Invitation for these training
events will have been issued under the constraints defined earlier, at least 4 weeks prior
to the event taking place. The training events are scheduled to be complete no earlier
than 5 days prior to the Installation. Before the installation of the Horizon equipment
can take place in the outlet, a minimum number of users must have passed the
competency test to use the system. The criteria for minimum training requirements will
be agreed by Pathway & POCL training teams.

The RoDB will be notified when the training commences for an outlet and when
minimum training compliance has been achieved.

Management of the scheduling of training is detailed in the Training Scheduling
Requirements Document Ref [11].

Collection of overshippers

Between 1 and 5 days prior to the Baselined Installation date the appropriate
overshippers will be collected from Celestica. Once collected the overshippers will be
distributed to the appropriate distribution depot and be available for loading on the
delivery vehicle.

Equipment installation

‘The installation is dependant on the outlet being prepared, the data communications
being operable, the minimum training compliance achieved and the Horizon equipment
available for installation. The delivery vehicle will be scheduled to arrive am or pm on the
Installation day. Dependant on the number of counters Installation will take up to a day
to complete, the installation will take place in the outlets hours of business. Once the
equipment has been installed and the auto configuration taken place the system is
considered to be Live (This is ‘Live’ in so much as the Horizon system is installed and
fully functional and therefore supported by the ICL support infrastructure from that
point onwards, however until migration of stock units has taken place the Post Office
itself is not ready to proceed with busin rem). When the
system is Live the installer will request a signature from the outlet manager for
acceptance of the installation and they will log a call on the HSHD (NB. This may be the
Rollout Helpdesk) as confirmation.

ss through the Horizon

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 27
FUJ00001284

FUJ00001284

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref: IM/STR/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 02/11/98

7.14

7.15

Completion of the installation phase (Migration)

Scheduling of migration activities will be done based upon the baseline dates of
installation, any deviations in this will be reported via the Helpdesk / Regional
infrastructure to affected parties. With the system Live the Migration team will assist the
outlet staff in migrating the outlets accounts onto the Horizon system.

On completion of Migration the outlet manager signs the acceptance document for the
system in Operational Service. If this is not achieved by 11:30 on the day following
notification of Live status a call will need to be logged on the HSHD (NB. This may be
the Rollout Helpdesk) to hold the instruction that the system is in Operational Service
that is issued to the Benefits Agency.

Completion of migration activities will also result in updating the outlet status to
Operational, this will be forwarded to POCL and interested Suppliers by means of the
overnight interfaces.

Issue of the Equipment Indicator

At 12:00 on the day following Live installation and assuming there have been no
problems with migration, a file is issued to the Benefits Agency containing the outlets
FAD Code and the equipment indicator. The equipment indicator is a number that
defines the type of automation available at the outlet.

‘The outlet then passes to steady state for future management.

‘The method of capturing this data and supplying it to the Benefits Agency is currently
under review. Enhancements have been proposed to drive this through main Horizon
system.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 27
