Fujitsu Services
Limited

FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

Document Title:
Document Type:
Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:
Originator & Dept:

Contributors:

Internal Distribution:

External Distribution

Approval Authorities:

Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Business Change
—Branch, Interface Agreement

Interface Agreement
N/A

This document sets out the interface between Fujitsu Services
and Post Office Ltd in respect of Operational Business Change —
Branch. It defines the customer and supplier responsibilities
which both Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services must undertake
in order to support the delivery of change to the Post Office
network.

APPROVED

Tan Venables, Fujitsu Services Limited (Post Office Account),
OBC Service Delivery Manager

Jan Venables, David Anders, Paul Kirk

Tan Venables; Nikki Hawkins;

David Anders; Rabia Cody; Tony Marsh; Bernadette O’Donnell;
Paul Kirk; Kevin Parkin; Steve Bates; David McLaughlin; David
Thompson; Della Latham; Alan Hudson

Name Position Signature Date
Liz Evans-Jones I Fujitsu Services, Service
Delivery Team Manager
R.Cody OBC Reference Data Service
Manager, Post Office Ltd
T. Marsh Head of Network Implementation
& Security.
© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page I of 44

Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986
Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05
0.0 Document Control
0.1 Document History
Version No. I Date Reason for Issue Associated
CP/PinICL
0.1 4/10/98 First draft
0.2 17/11/98 Second draft — supersedes first draft.
0.3 30/11/98 Third draft incorporating comments received.
1.0 1/4/99 Issued to definitive status
11 2/7/99 Issued following formal review with PON
2.0 7/7/99 Definitive for issue under CCN
3.0 19/7/99 Definitive version for approval CCN 512a
3.1 20/04/01 To introduce weigh scales, flat screens, trolleys,
mobiles & satellite services.
3.2 4/6/01 To incorporate comments following a Post
Office Ltd meeting on 10" May 01.
3.3 17/05/01 To incorporate comments from Post Office Ltd
by e-mail.
3.4 24/1/02 To include changes to emergency closure
process.
3.5 26/3/02 To change PON to POL, to include supply of
UPS, to make changes to the emergency closure
section.
3.6 06/08/02 To review for network banking implications;
change ICL Pathway to Fujitsu Services and
POL to Post Office Ltd; Change of document
title to match other OBC documentation
3.7 04/09/02 To incorporate review comments received and
amend service lead times.
25/09/02 Definitive version for approval
5 09/12/02 To incorporate comments from reviewers to
version 4.0, and to issue for Agreement
Sl 07/02/03 Interim update arising from new contractual
arrangements, and amendment of minor errors in
version 5.0
5.2 27/10/03 Updated following review comments to v5.1

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

Limited (Post Office Account)

Commercial in Confidence Page 2 of 44

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

64 04/03/05 Dd *updated—d Heth h
ith Davi Deni "

6.2 15/09/2005 To incorporate review comments received
6.3 2/11/05 Updated following review comments and to

incorporate latest version of the E2E processes
7.0 20/12/2005 I Updated after Review for Approval

0.2 Review Details

Review Comments by:

09/01/06

Review Comments to:

Jan Venables

Mandatory Review Authority Name
Fujitsu Services N. Hawkins
H. Forrest
P. Purewal
I. Venables
Post Office Ltd D. Anders
R. Cody
P. Kirk
K.Parkin
N.Samuel
S. Bates
D. Thompson
0.3. Associated Documents
Reference Version I Date Title Source
1 I CS/PDN/O15 74 31/10/05 I Operational Business Fujitsu
Change — Branch, Services
Service Descriptions
and Schedule of
Service Prices
2 I CS/STD/001 3.0 20/09/04 I Definition of Fujitsu
Compliant Counter for I Services
© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 3 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986
Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05
OBC
3 HSD Planned and Fujitsu
DRAFT Unplanned Closure Services
Process
21/12/05
4 I CS/OLA/035 20/04/0 I 20/04/05 I Operational Business I Fujitsu
5 V5 Change — Network, Services
Operational Level
Agreement
5 I The Agreement 1.0 28/07/99 I The Schedules to the Post Office
between Fujitsu as Agreement Ltd or
Services and Post amended3 Fujitsu
Office Ltd dated 28 1/12/02 Services
July 1999 as
amended, in
particular by
CCN1100 (the
“Agreement’)
6 I CHE/NET/003 0.3 22/07/02 I OBC Network Post Office
Operational Review Ltd
Forum — Terms of
Reference
7 I CS/PRD/058 13.0 Fujitsu Services / Post I Fujitsu
In Review I Office Ltd Interface Services
Agreement for
Operational Business
Change — Reference
Data
0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions
Abbreviation Definition
ADSL Asynchronous Digital Subscriber Line
AIM Area Intervention Manager
BM Post Office Branch Manager
BO Post Office Branch Office — a Branch which is managed directly by
Post Office Ltd, also known as ‘Directly Managed’
BT British Telecom
© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 4 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
Fujitsu Services
Limited

FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

CCN Change Control Number

CRT Cathode Ray Tube — a ‘television’ style counter monitor

FAD Finance Accounts Division — a Post Office group that formerly
issued unique identifying codes for branches. The term continues to
be used to refer to the branch 7-digit unique identifying code.

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services Ltd (Post Office Account)

FIM Post Office Ltd — Network — Field Implementation Manager

HNS Hughes Network Solution — the providers of satellite
communications solutions

HSD Fujitsu Services Horizon Service Desk

ID Identifier

IM Post Office Ltd — Network — Implementation Manager.

IPM Post Office Ltd — Network — Implementation Project Manager.

IS Post Office Ltd — Network — Implementation Support (a member of
the Implementation team)

ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network

LAN Local Area Network

MID Merchant Identifier — used to denote a branch for Debit Card and
Bureau purposes

MPG Multi-Position Gateway base unit

NBSC Post Office Ltd Network Business Support Centre

NRP Network Re-invention Programme

NS Post Office Ltd — Network Support

OBC Operational Business Change

OBC BORF Operational Business Change — Branch Operational Review Forum

OCMS Outlet Change Management System

PayPole A support bracket fixed to the counter for mounting a PIN Pad

PES Personal Earth Station — part of the satellite communications
equipment

PIN Pad Personal Identification Number Pad — a keypad used in conjunction
with network banking transactions to enter Personal Identification
Numbers

POL NIST POL Network Implementation & Security Team

Powerhelp The Fujitsu Services Horizon Service Desk call logging and

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 5 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

recording tool

PMMC Postmaster’s Memory Card — used to initialise counters

POEX Post Office Limited External — a helpdesk for external customer
enquiries

Post Office Ltd Post Office Limited

Remedy A Post Office Limited Call Logging and Incident Management
system

RDMC Fujitsu Services Reference Data Management Centre

RDORF Reference Data Operational Review Forum

RDOT Post Office Ltd Reference Data Operations Team

RDS Post Office Ltd Reference Data System

AIM Post Office Limited Area Interface Manager

Romec NPG Royal Mail Engineering Contracting — Subcontractors for the supply
of branch surveys and preparation work

SAP Systeme, Anwendungen, Produkte in der Datenverarbeitung AG (a
German software manufacturer)

SMC The Fujitsu Services System Management Centre

SPG Single Position Gateway base unit

Spmr Sub-Postmaster

SSC Fujitsu Services Systems Support Centre

TID Terminal Identifier — used to denote an individual branch counter for
Debit Card and Bureau purposes

Triage Fujitsu Services nominated repair facility

UPS Uninterruptible Power Supply

VSAT Very Small Aperture Terminal — a term used to describe the type of

application used for satellite communications to a branch

0.5 Changes in this Version

Version

Changes

6.0

Update to reflect comments to draft version 5.2.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

Commercial in Confidence Page 6 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement

FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

Incorporation of revised OBC Branch processes following review.

6.1 Document updated during walkthrough review with David Anders
and Ian Venables

62 To incorporate review comments received.

63 Updated following review comments and to incorporate latest

version of the E2E processes

6.4 For Approval after completion of review comments

0.6 Changes Expected

Changes

¢ The appended E2E processes will be modified and supplemented shortly to meet business
developments with the additional services of “Opening directly to ADSL”, “Porting of
Telephone Number”, “Porting of ADSL Service” and changes to archiving timescales.

¢ The new escalation matrix will be included shortly following its amendment by David
Thompson of POL. To replace existing matrix at appendix 4.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 7 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05
Table of Contents

1.0 BACKGROUND

2.0 INTENT OF THIS AGREEMEN’

3.0

4.0 CHANGE CONTROL...

5.0 RESPONSIBILITIES — GENERAL.

6.0 RESPONSIBILITIES - SPECIFIC.

6.1 Post OFFICE LTD.
6.2 FUJITSU SERVICES.

7.0 OPERATIONAL BUSINESS CHANGE — BRANCH; KEY ROLEB.......

7.1 THE Post OrFicE LtD POL NIST....
7.2. THE Post OFFICE LTD IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT MANAGER.
7.3 THE Post OFFICE LTD IMPLEMENTATION MANAGER...
7.4 THE Post OFFICE LTD — FIELD IMPLEMENTATION MANAGER.
7.5 THE Post OFFICE L1D OBC PROCESS MANAGER.

7.6 THE FUJITSU SERVICES OPERATIONAL BUSINESS CHANGE TEAM 17
7.7 THE FUJITSU SERVICES OPERATIONAL BUSINESS CHANGE TEAM LEADER
7.8 THE FUsITSU SERVICES SERVICE DELIVERY MANAGE!
7.9 Post OFFICE L1D NETWORK BUSINESS SUPPORT CENT
7.10 FUJITSU SERVICES HORIZON SERVICE DESK......
7.11 FUusITsU SERVICES SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT CED

8.0 OPERATIONAL BUSINESS CHANGE, BRANCH - OPERATING
PRINCIPLES....

PRE.

8.1 PLANNED CHANGE......0-ccocssosssessee
8.1.1 Postponement or Cancellation Polic:
8.2. EMERGENCY “UNPLANNED” CLOSURE
8.2.1 Rolling-over temporarily closed Post Office branches.

8.3 EMERGENCY SERVICE PROVISION — PLANNED CHAN!
9.0 CHANGE COMMUNICATIONS CHANNELS.

9.1 THE OBC BRANCH CHANGE MAIL Box.
9.2 THE HORIZON SERVICE DES!

10.0 SUMMARY OF KEY ACTIVITIES FOR DELIVERING OBC BRANCH

10.1 STANDARD CHANGE ACTIVITY. 27
10.2. DEVIATIONS TO THE STANDARD CHANGE ACTIVITY. 27
10.3. PROCESS ASSUMPTION: 28
10.4 INCIDENT AND PROBLEM MANAGEMEN’ 28

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 8 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

10.5.1 OBC Branch Change requiring a new FAD Cod

11.0 DEBIT CARD - MIDS AND TIDS....

12.0 USE OF CONTRACTORBS....

12.2 Post OFFICE LTD.........
12.2.1 Authorised Contractors.
12.3. LIABILITY.

13.0 COMMERCIAL ASPECTS.

14.0 OBC BRANCH CHANGE CONTACTS LIST.

APPENDIX 1 - OBC BRANCH CHANGE PROCESSES.

COMMISSIONING OF HORIZON EQUIPMENT......0ssssssientnsenseneuneninnennnenennenenenteneneen 34
SERVICE DESCRIPTORS. ....csssssssssssessessseseeeeeeee soe eeeeeeeeeeeeeneee
OBC BRANCH — SERVICE DESCRIPTORS — (FOR ORDE!

e APPENDIX 2 VERSION 10 OF E2E PROCESSES.

APPENDIX 3— EMERGENCY SERVICE PROVISIONS
CHANGE OF COUNTER CONFIGURATIONS NOT IMPLEMENTED. 39
BRANCH CONFIGURATION ERROR... ee
BRANCH HAS CLOSED WITHOUT SYNCHRONISATION OF MESSAGE STORE......
ISDN PROVISION IS DELAYED.

ISDN IS NOT AVAILABLE AT A NEW LOCATION.

CONVERSION ON SITE...

APPENDIX 4- INCIDENT MANAGEMENT AND ESCALATION...

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 9 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

1.0 Background

This document sets out the Interface Agreement between Fujitsu Services and Post Office Ltd
in respect of Operational Business Change - Branch. It defines the customer and supplier
responsibilities which both Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services must undertake in order to
support the delivery of change to the Post Office network.

2.0 Intent of this Agreement

The intent of the Agreement is to:

e Establish effective co-operation between Fujitsu Services and Post Office Ltd in the
delivery of Operational Business Change to Post Office branches.

e Agree roles and responsibilities and detail the interactions that must take place, between
Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services to ensure the successful delivery of changes within the
Post Office network.

¢ Provide a contractually recognised definition of the roles and responsibilities of Post Office
Ltd and Fujitsu Services in respect of delivering change to the Post Office network in the
most efficient and cost effective manner.

¢ To formalise contractually between Fujitsu Services and Post Office Ltd, the End-to-End
OBC Branch Processes, as appended to this Agreement

3.0 Scope

Post Office Ltd requires support for the Operational Business Change procedures they operate
within their network.

Procedure Types:

Emergency procedures are those procedures used to identify and escalate “unplanned” change
and predominantly relate to the emergency closure of Post Office branches. These procedures
are detailed briefly within this Agreement at Section 8.2

e Planned procedures detail how “planned” Post Office branch change will be managed
This Agreement defines how Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services will work together to
support Post Office Ltd change procedures, when those procedures are used to request

changes detailed within Document Ref. I

Document Ref.1 represents the totality of change types that are governed and supported
through this Agreement. The specific areas described within this Agreement are:

* Key Responsibilities & Roles
¢ OBC Branch operating principles

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 10 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

e Change communications channels
¢ Incident and Problem Management

4.0 Change Control

This document is to be held as a contractually controlled document, which shall be subjected
to regular joint reviews by Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services. Such review shall be at least
annually, and following any major changes to the OBC processes.

5.0 Responsibilities — General

In the context of this Agreement for OBC Branch change:

© Post Office Ltd is responsible for the management and implementation of change within
the Post Office network

© Post Office Ltd is responsible for the definition and inclusion of their change requirements
within Document Ref. 1

e Fujitsu Services is responsible for supporting Post Office network change, through the
delivery of the operational services described in Document Ref. 1.

e Both parties are responsible for monitoring and reporting on those OBC branch change
activities which happen within the respective organisations, and in seeking to improve
performance in the delivery of OBC branch change.

© Post Office Ltd is responsible for the maintenance and security of the OBC Team mail box
—i.e. POL NIST OBC; POL_NIET_CENTRAL_OBC mailbox. The OBC Branch Change
Mail Box is covered in greater detail in section 9.1 below.

e Both parties are responsible for adherence to this Agreement.

e Both parties will work together to adjust between them the specific responsibilities
detailed in paragraph 6.0 where necessitated by individual OBC Branch Change
circumstances.

e Where a change is required which does not fall within the scope of a standard service
listed below in Appendix 1, the change must be ordered as a Service OBC013 (Ad Hoc
Change); the responsibility of each party to perform individual aspects of such changes will
then be the subject of individual agreement. Examples of this would include the installation or
decommissioning of “event offices”, where the work is carried out wholly by Fujitsu Services;
in this particular case, the completion of a survey and prep where required, the lay-out of the
Horizon equipment, and the subsequent removal of the equipment would all become a Fujitsu
Services responsibility, whereas under the standard process these areas of responsibility
would be in the Post Office Ltd domain.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 11 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

6.0 Responsibilities - Specific

6.1 Post Office Ltd

Post Office Ltd is responsible for:

a.

e

9

So wm

The identification of the change from Document ref. I and the application of the
appropriate procedure type.

The communication of planned change requests to Fujitsu Services - via the OBC Team
mailbox- using the agreed processes.

Use of agreed file naming conventions for OBC Team mailbox communication.

The communication of unplanned emergency closure requests to Fujitsu Services — via the
Horizon Systems Helpdesk.

For all changes the provision of purchase order numbers at the time of change order. This
purchase order number will be known as the Change Control Number.

The communication of reference data changes via the agreed reference data processes.
The verification of the reference data that has been changed in response to a change
request.

Adherence to the change process timescales detailed within Appendix I below.

The communication of Post Office branch closure, Post Office branch — Alternate Office
and Post Office branch opening information to Post Office Customers and Clients.

The communication of change exception information to Fujitsu Services. (E.g. change in
delivery date)

The final sign-off for the completion of change activity.

The maintenance of the Post Office Ltd details within the OBC Branch change contacts
list.

. Ensuring that branches provide access for Fujitsu Services staff or subcontractors who are

attending at agreed and scheduled appointment times.

Ensuring that branches inspect and verify the proof of identity provided by Fujitsu Services
representatives upon arrival at the branch

Ensuring that work being carried out in support of planned OBC branch change either by
the Branch Manager, the Branch Manager’s representatives, or other subcontractors of
Post Office Ltd, is completed in accordance with the change process timescales detailed
within Appendix I below.

Ensuring that Horizon Equipment or packaging material is kept safe during the period
when it is the responsibility of Post Office Ltd or its subcontractors

The safe carriage of Horizon Equipment or packaging material from/to Triage to/from
Post Office branches

Ensuring that removal, relocation or installation of the Horizon Counter Equipment is
performed in accordance with instructions provided to Post Office Ltd by Fujitsu Services
Requiring branch managers to advise Fujitsu Services staff or subcontractors of any health
and safety risks that may be present on the premises in the area where Fujitsu Services
staff or subcontractors will be working, prior to the works commencing on site. Branch

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 12 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

Managers must be required to work with the Fujitsu Services representatives to minimise
any such risks arising from the OBC Branch activity.

t. The disconnection of the Horizon electrical circuit(s) at Horizon enabled Post Office
branches.

u. The provision or installation of a dedicated live electrical circuit for the Horizon system.
The circuit must meet electrical regulations and the jointly agreed requirements of the
Horizon system (as detailed in Document Reference CS/STD/001)

v. The delivery of an Horizon compliant Post Office counter provided as part of an OBC
branch change. The counter must support jointly agreed standards for the implementation
of the Horizon system, as defined in Document Reference CS/STD/001

w. The creation of new system roles, passwords, and making available the PMMC card at the
time of system installation.

x. Post Office Ltd is responsible for the supply of additional MIDs and TIDs as necessary

. Arranging and chairing regular OBC Branch Operational Review Forums

z. Ensuring that Branch Managers are aware that no kit is to be interfered with/switched off

at any time.

6.2 Fujitsu Services

Fujitsu Services is responsible for

a. The acceptance, acknowledgement via the return of a POL Receipt spreadsheet within 48
working hours, and implementation of change requests electronically sent, by Post Office
Ltd, to the OBC Team mail box.

b. The verification and delivery of unplanned emergency closure requests received through
the Horizon Service Desk.

c. The management of the delivery of those aspects of change services which are the
responsibility of Fujitsu Services.

. Use of agreed file naming conventions for OBC Team mailbox communication.

e. The receipt and progression of reference data changes through agreed reference data
change procedures.

f. The provision of changed reference data for verification in accordance with agreed
procedures.

g. The assessment of planned changes and the identification of the change services needed to
satisfy specific changes.

h. Adherence to the timescales detailed in Appendix I below.

i. The planning and delivery of Horizon activity and the prompt provision of work schedules

to Post Office Ltd POL NIST for those aspects of changes which are the responsibility of

Fujitsu Services.

The provision of change prices through Document Ref. I

Communicating issue and exception information to Post Office Ltd to enable them to

manage and control all their relevant change activity on the Post Office Ltd side of the

change interface.

1. The provision of a quarterly invoice net of credits due, and also a monthly invoice
summary, with detailed supporting information provided in spreadsheet form.

mo

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 13 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05
m. The maintenance of the Fujitsu Services details within the OBC Branch change contacts

7

list

Ensuring that Fujitsu Services representatives attending branches produce proof of identity
to the branch manager

Ensuring that Fujitsu Services employees or subcontractors undertake a risk assessment,
and provide full details to the branch manager of any health and safety risks associated
with the works they will be carrying out, prior to the works commencing on site.
Provision of communications solution to the branch (ISDN, ADSL or VSAT as
appropriate)

The supply of refurbished and tested Horizon equipment appropriate to the branch
configuration and at the correct software build level and/or any associated packaging
The delivery of services specified in Appendix 1, including asset management, effecting
amendments to branch configurations, and Horizon equipment on-site commissioning and
configuration services.

The removal, relocation or installation of Horizon systems where appropriate, as detailed
in the service descriptions (Appendix 1)

The provision of weekly and monthly reports on the performance of the Fujitsu Services
OBC Branch services, against the targets and criteria detailed in Document Reference
CS/OLA/035

Attending the OBC Branch Operational Review Forums to review service performance
The provision of service management to address late breaking developments or incidents,
that would otherwise impact planned OBC go-live dates. Where appropriate, and by
agreement with Post Office Ltd., invoke emergency service arrangements. These are
outlined in Appendix 2.

. The formulation and regular updating of a calendar specifically for the OBC BORF for
future Software Releases, Data Centre Upgrades and any “events” that have the potential
to necessitate an embargo or to disrupt those OBC Branch changes requiring configuration
work by Fujitsu, for example: Openings, Relocations, Counter Increases/Counter
Decreases.

To provide POL NIST with at least 10 weeks advance notification of future Software
Releases and Data Centre Upgrades and with information on the potential impacts and
their severity on POL’s OBC Branch operations.

To ensure that adequate contingency arrangements are in place to help POL to minimise
any operational disruption.

Where possible and agreed with the Postmasters or Sub Postmasters Fujitsu engineers will
remain on site until all configuration work has been completed.

.0 Operational Business Change — Branch; Key Roles

The following are the key roles within Operational Business Change:

©

2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 14 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

7.1 The Post Office Ltd POL NIST

The Post Office Ltd POL NIST will act as the normal Post Office Ltd point of contact for
Fujitsu Services, and as the originator of change instructions issued to Fujitsu Services. The
team will be responsible for:

e The checking, authorisation and forwarding of verified OBC20 forms to Fujitsu Services

¢ The completion and forwarding of OBC 22 Reference Data forms to Post Office Ltd
RDOT, and the completion and forwarding of OBC 24 Reference Data Receipt and
Verification forms to Fujitsu Services, for the authorisation of data that is not pre-authorised.
¢ Maintenance of an OBC23 audit record of changes.

e Checking invoices and support material for change work submitted by Fujitsu Services,
and raising any subsequent queries.

e The issuing of amendments to planned Change activities through the submission of version
controlled OBC21 forms to Fujitsu Services

e The management of OBC Branch queries or issues

7.2 The Post Office Ltd Implementation Project Manager

The Post Office Ltd IPM will act as a Post Office Ltd point of contact for Fujitsu Services for
the management of planned change and will be responsible for:

¢ The identification of changes, or amendments to changes, on behalf of Post Office Ltd, and
the translation of those changes into orders via the completion of an OBC20 form.

e Ensuring that change information passed to Fujitsu Services is accurate, complete and
timely.

¢ The setting of dates for the scheduling of activities in strict accordance with the process
definitions shown in Appendix I

¢ Acting as a point of contact within Post Office Ltd for exception information relating to
changes in progress

e The end-to-end management of change processes from the Post Office Ltd perspective.

¢ Ensuring that other subcontractors to Post Office Ltd, or to the Post Office branch
manager, complete their own activities to schedule, so as to enable Fujitsu Services to deliver
those aspects contracted to them as planned.

e Arranging and overseeing site meetings, explaining to the Branch Manager his/her
responsibilities and ensuring that they are discharged and attending site on work critical dates.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 15 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

7.3 The Post Office Ltd Implementation Manager

The Post Office Ltd IM will act as a point of escalation see Appendix 4 within Post Office
Ltd, as detailed in paragraph 8.3 of Document Reference CS/OLA/035. Escalation will be to
the Fujitsu Services Operational Business Change Team Leader in cases where:

e A proposed OBC Branch Change cannot be delivered as planned, and any of the
provisions set out in Appendix 2 below are requested

© Where the Post Office Ltd Implementation Project Manager and the Fujitsu Services
Operational Business Change team have failed to agree on a suitable approach to meet the
requirements

7.4 The Post Office Ltd — Field Implementation Manager

The Post Office Ltd Field Implementation Manager will act as a point of escalation see
Appendix 4 within Post Office Ltd, as detailed in paragraph 8.3 of Document Reference
CS/OLA/035. Escalation see Appendix 4 will be to the Fujitsu Services OBC Service
Delivery Manager in cases where:

« An OBC Branch Change is required to be delivered which, for business requirements, does
not meet the normal lead times defined in Appendix 1. All such cases will be considered
within the parameters of paragraph 10.2 below.

e Where the Post Office Ltd Implementation Manager and the Fujitsu Services Operational
Business Change Service Delivery Manager have failed to agree on a suitable approach to
meet the requirements

7.5 The Post Office Ltd OBC Process Manager

The Post Office Ltd OBC Process Manager will represent Post Office Ltd in defining the OBC
service requirements and performance targets, and will be responsible for:

© The definition of Post Office Ltd’s requirements for OBC — Branch services and supporting
OBC ~— Branch processes

© Chairing and managing the OBC BORF to review service performance (Document
Reference CHE/NET/003)

¢ Identifying, developing and implementing OBC - Branch process and service improvements
within Post Office Ltd

¢ Maintaining a point of contact with the Fujitsu Services OBC Service Delivery Manager for
the ongoing review of the OBC process

¢ Acting as an escalation route where necessary, to the Fujitsu Services OBC Service
Delivery Manager, or to the Horizon Service Management Forum (HSMF).

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 16 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

© Modifying internal Post Office Ltd OBC Procedures to support and reflect the revised
content of the Interface Agreement and other OBC — Branch Contract Controlled
Documents.

© Reviewing the Interface Agreement and other OBC — Branch documentation in a
comprehensive and timely manner.

¢ Arranging for the provision of additional MIDs or TIDs for use with the Debit Card service
provision, as and when necessary

7.6 The Fujitsu Services Operational Business Change Team

The Fujitsu Services OBC Team will act as a point of contact within Fujitsu Services for Post
Office Ltd, and will implement the planned Change instructions. They will:

e Schedule the delivery of the Fujitsu Services elements of change services

e Log a Powerhelp call for each change type notified to Fujitsu Services. This call will be
used to record and monitor the attendance on site of a Fujitsu Services engineer where
appropriate, and to manage the movement of Horizon assets whilst in the care of other
subcontractors to Post Office Ltd

e Ensure that change information is communicated from Fujitsu Services to Post Office Ltd

e Identify and manage exceptions to changes in progress (relating to Fujitsu Services
activities) and advise Post Office Ltd without undue delay

7.7 The Fujitsu Services Operational Business Change Team
Leader

The Fujitsu Services OBC Team Leader will be responsible for:

The management of service exceptions on behalf of Fujitsu Services

The end to end management of change processes from the Fujitsu Services perspective
The management of the Fujitsu Services Operational Business Change Team

Acting as a first point of escalation for service exceptions

The management of services provided by subcontractors acting on behalf on Fujitsu
Services in the delivery of Changes.

7.8 The Fujitsu Services Service Delivery Manager

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 17 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

The Fujitsu Services Service Delivery Manager will represent Fujitsu Services in negotiating
with Post Office Ltd on the range of OBC services and reporting on performance targets, and
will be responsible for:

© Implementing changes to the structure and range of OBC services to meet the requirements
of Post Office Ltd

¢ Representing Fujitsu Services at the OBC BORF

© Providing performance statistics to the OBC BORF and reviewing the OBC delivery
performance

Identifying, developing and implementing OBC - Branch process and service improvements
within Fujitsu Services

© Maintaining a point of contact with the Post Office Ltd OBC Process manager for the
ongoing review of the OBC process

¢ Acting as an escalation route to the Post Office Ltd Field Implementation Manager, or Post
Office Ltd OBC Process Manager or to the Service Management Forum

© The maintenance and updating of Fujitsu Services OBC — Branch documentation, including
this Interface Agreement, the Operational Level Agreement (Document Reference
CS/OLA/035) and the Service Descriptions and Schedule of Service Prices (Document
Reference CS/PDN/015).

7.9 Post Office Ltd Network Business Support Centre

The NBSC will be the single Post Office Ltd point of contact for Fujitsu Services for the
management of unplanned changes and will be solely responsible for the authorisation and
request of emergency closures on behalf of Post Office Ltd.

7.10 Fujitsu Services Horizon Service Desk

The HSD will be the single Fujitsu Services point of contact for the Post Office Ltd NBSC for
the management of unplanned closures and will be responsible for the authentication of
emergency closure calls and the end to end management of emergency closures.

Additionally, during the management of planned network change the Horizon Service Desk
acts as a point of contact when any configuration or set-up problems are encountered during
the implementation of OBC Branch change. The HSD records the incident on Powerhelp, and
channels the call through to the appropriate second or third line technical support teams.

7.11 Fujitsu Services Systems Management Centre

The SMC will act as a point of contact for Post Office auditors or subcontractors during
planned OBC Branch Change activity, solely for the purposes of verifying that the Horizon
system has synchronised all the data held at the branch with the Correspondence Servers, and
that the End of Day markers have been successfully received for the previous day. These

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 18 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

responsibilities are detailed as appropriate within the process definitions shown in Appendix 1.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 19 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

8.0 Operational Business Change, Branch - Operating
Principles

8.1 Planned Change

The information pertinent to any given OBC branch change is submitted by Post Office Ltd
POL NIST to Fujitsu Services. The submission is made to the OBC Team mail box on an
OBC20 form, which may be followed by an OBC 21 supplementary information form if
amendment is required; the OBC Team mail box is covered in greater detail in paragraph 9.1
below.

The Post Office Ltd RDOT will make the required reference data changes and pass them to
the Fujitsu Services RDMC for application on the Horizon system.

8.1.1 Postponement or Cancellation Policy

OBC21’s will be received by Fujitsu Services should there be any amendment to the original
OBC20 whether for a postponement or a cancellation.

For postponements received prior to the OCMS “lockdown” period there are no criteria for
postponement lengths. Should a postponement be requested once the OCMS “lockdown”
period has started then the postponement date can only be administered if the new date is
within 28 calendar days of the original request for service date. Should the postponement be
received by Fujitsu Services within 5 days of the request for service date then this
postponement will not be able to be administered due to limitations of OCMS.

For clarification and guidelines on postponement criteria for each of the OBC versions
reference should be made to the E2E processes contained within this document at appendix 2.

8.2. Emergency “Unplanned” Closure

The full process for the management of emergency “unplanned” closure is documented within
Document Reference CS/PRD/106.

Emergency “unplanned” closure can result from a number of external causes. Where these

causes can be considered to be “Force Majeure and the Horizon equipment is at risk of theft

or damage, Fujitsu Services will, in accordance with Clause 49 of the Agreement, remove the

Horizon equipment on request. Such circumstances would include:

© Fire or flood at the branch

e Building rendered unsafe due to vehicle impact damage, subsidence or explosion

e Post Office counter area insecure, and cannot reasonably be made secure, due to Robbery,
Burglary or Ram Raid at the branch

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 20 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

e Ifthe Temporary Closure is anticipated to exceed 10 calendar days, POL NBSC will
inform POL NIST, who will in turn complete an OBC22 Reference Data Form for a
Temporary Closure and for the subsequent Reopening for forwarding to POL RDOT.

Fujitsu Services will only remove the hardware where it is reasonably physically possible and

safe to do so.

As the owner and insurer of the Horizon equipment, Fujitsu Services will undertake such

action under these circumstances at its own expense. However, Post Office Ltd must take all

reasonable steps to ensure the safety and security of the Horizon equipment whilst installed in

Post Office branches.

In accordance with clause 20.1 of the Agreement, Fujitsu Services will not be responsible for

any loss or damage caused to the physical hardware if such loss or damage is occasioned by

the negligence or willful act or omission of Post Office Ltd.

Where an Emergency Closure is required, the Post Office Ltd NBSC will request such a
change via a telephone call to the Fujitsu Services HSD, and will provide a Remedy reference
number. The telephone calls will be made using agreed communication dialogues between the
Post Office Ltd NBSC and HSD. Change requests must be supported by an authorisation
number, which will be the Remedy Call Reference number. The HSD will validate the caller,
record the branch closure details on a Powerhelp call, and provide the Powerhelp call
reference number to the NBSC. The HSD operator will ascertain if the Horizon Equipment is
secure, the anticipated duration of the closure, whether the Horizon Equipment may be left
switched on, and whether the branch trading statement will be rolled over to the next
accounting period(s).

If removal of the Horizon equipment is necessary, then the Fujitsu Services HSD team will
raise a hardware call for a Fujitsu Service engineer to attend site and remove the equipment.
The HSD will voice the Fujitsu Services OBC Team for awareness (Refer to CS/PDN/015 for
more information)

In more detail:

¢ Post Office Ltd NBSC telephone HSD to inform them of the unplanned closure and provide
the authorisation number

¢ HSD verify the identity of the caller by the receipt of a valid NBSC call reference number
and log a call upon the successful verification of the branch details

e HSD ascertain office details, length of closure, and schedule engineers if the Horizon
equipment is at risk or requires removal.

If the closure is anticipated to exceed ten calendar days, an OBC22 Reference Data form is
completed by Post Office POL NIST for a Temporary Closure (and for the subsequent re-
opening)

© Post Office Ltd ensures the branch trading statement has been completed if the closure will
be over one week.

© Post Office Ltd ensure the branch trading statement is rolled over each week if the Horizon
equipment is left operational on site —see further details in paragraph 8.2.1 below

© Post Office Ltd to ensure equipment is left switched on and at Riposte, where the Horizon
equipment is operational.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 21 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

e HSD will arrange for the replacement of damaged equipment if the site is secure, at a time
agreed with the branch.

© Post Office Ltd to monitor closures and identify those that may continue for more than 3
weeks after the last branch trading statement.

© Closures lasting over 3 weeks will be escalated by Post Office Ltd to Fujitsu Services OBC
Service Management

¢ For re-opening of sites after a closure of less than three weeks, where the Horizon
equipment has remained on site, Post Office Ltd will notify the HSD

e Any re-opening after a closure of more than 3 weeks (where the FAD has archived), or that
requires changes to the ISDN / Satellite connection will be managed through the OBC Branch
process. This requires an OBC20 to be raised and will thereafter be managed as a planned re-
opening.

8.2.1 Rolling-over temporarily closed Post Office branches

When a Post Office branch closes temporarily, the branch manager is obliged in the first
instance to inform the NBSC.

As shown in the bullet points above (paragraph 8.2), where a Post Office branch closes
temporarily, Post Office Ltd must ensure that the equipment is left switched on and at Riposte,
and that the branch trading statement is rolled over each week, where the Horizon equipment
is left operational on site.

The Horizon system is configured to ensure that a full balance is completed at least every third
calendar week; if this is not completed, then the system loses access to the opening figures
needed from the week “-2” balance result, with the effect that the balance produces a number
of discrepancies, which cannot be resolved by the user. By archiving the transactions in this
manner, the Horizon equipment effectively “dies” — whilst it may appear on site to be working
normally, the balance figures will be inaccurate. The only way to resolve this situation is to
complete a full branch closure, followed by a full branch re-opening, with consequent time
delays and costs. The time delay can be mitigated by using a new FAD code and effecting a
new branch open (as opposed to re-opening using the former branch FAD code).

In between every third week, the branch should be rolled over without production of the
branch trading statement (as if the branch trading statement were suspended). If this is not
done, then the branch remains in the previous branch trading statement; any attempts to do
transactions would then result in errors (as they are being performed in the wrong branch
trading statement); any transactions completed in this state (for example, recording rems
in/out which may occur to correct the branch stockholding) would then be associated with the
wrong branch trading statement week and balance, with resultant financial inconsistencies.
Additionally, if the branch is not rolled over, then a system alert is raised and reported to Post
Office Ltd for investigation.

If the branch is being maintained as “open” (i.¢. not reported as temporarily closed and being
rolled-over each week), then it will continue to receive software downloads. If it is reported
as being “temporarily closed” then software distribution is suspended until Fujitsu Services is
notified that the branch has re-opened, when the software is remotely updated to the latest

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 22 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

version. Hence, it is important that Fujitsu Services HSD is notified when a temporarily-
closed branch re-opens for business.

Archiving:

For outlets trading and polling but not rolling over: archiving would take place on day 42,
therefore an Office Rollover would need to take place not more that 42 days after the first
stock unit rolled into the current Trading Period.

The same is true for outlets still polling but not trading and not rolling over. Although we do
attempt to support Branches not rolling over within the 42 days, we cannot guarantee to
resolve such issues and so reserve the right to request that such Offices are re-rolled. Note
that Counter staff are warned at Day 38 and preventative action is taken to try and avoid the
need for a re-roll at this point.

Note that we understand that 4 times a year there is a 35 day Trading Period and this is
supported. However for these Trading Periods there is very little flexibility to support
Branches that do not roll over on the correct date.

No change has been made to the formal position where any branch that is inactive for a period
of 21 days or more may be required to re-roll.

For all outlets Non-Polling whether they be trading/not trading and rolling over/not rolling
over archiving will occur after 42 days.

8.3. Emergency service provision — planned changes

Circumstances may arise that prevent the delivery of planned changes. This may be due to
human error, unavoidable late changes to requirements, or circumstances outside the control
of Fujitsu Services or Post Office Ltd.

Where such conditions arise, Fujitsu Services will work with Post Office Ltd in an attempt to
reschedule the change to accommodate the circumstances.

In exceptional circumstances, such as where there will be a substantial business impact or
media interest, Fujitsu Services will work with Post Office Ltd in an attempt to provide an
emergency Horizon service. Both parties will use reasonable endeavours to expedite a
solution to the problem.

Each circumstance will be managed individually, and the emergency provision is likely to need
to be tailored accordingly.

Appendix 2 gives an outline of emergency provisions that have previously been deployed to
meet certain exceptional circumstances, and which may be appropriate to future cases. It is
not intended as an exhaustive or definitive list, but rather as an aide memoir, should similar
exceptional circumstances recur.

In each case, escalation to this level will be agreed by the Fujitsu Services Service Delivery
Manager and Post Office Ltd Field Implementation Manager or OBC Process Manager, and

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 23 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

reasonable endeavours made to implement it as soon as is practicable whilst being mindful of
the individual circumstances giving rise to the situation.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 24 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

9.0 Change Communications Channels

9.1 The OBC Branch Change Mail Box

The OBC Branch Change Mail Box is the channel by which planned change requests are made
and by which communication pertinent to the delivery of planned change requests is managed.
The maintenance and security of the OBC Branch Change Mail Box is a Post Office Ltd
responsibility. Any authorised OBC20 accepted by Fujitsu Services is accepted as a firm order
for work

The information relevant to any given planned OBC branch change will be submitted to Fujitsu
Services, via the OBC Branch Change mail box, on an OBC20 form (order) and an OBC 21
(amendment) form if required. Where Post Office are able to supply additional information
relating to a change which does not materially change the instructions previously issued on the
OBC20, then this information will be communicated to Fujitsu Services by way of an email or
telephone call. An email is acceptable, for example, when advising of changes to dates
scheduled for other suppliers (e.g. survey and prep dates for Romec NPG), or for amendment
of details that do not affect Fujitsu Services delivery of OBC service - for example security, or
cash and stock funding details. Email is also acceptable to advise of changes to the hours of
business at the branch, provided that this change does not affect the scheduled attendance of
Fujitsu engineers or suppliers. Where email is used, it should be sent to the OBC Team Group
Mailbox — OBCT:
The OBC Team mail box will be monitored throughout the contractual hours of Fujitsu
Services OBC attendance (09.00 to 17.30 Monday to Thursday, and 09.00 to 17.00 Friday,
excluding all UK bank and public holidays) and requests placed in the mail box by Post Office
Ltd will be cither:

e Accepted by Fujitsu Services as an order for work (if the submission has been made on the
OBC20 form).The OBC 20 form will be checked on receipt by Fujitsu Services; where an
error or omission is identified, the Fujitsu Services OBC Team will contact the Post Office
POL NIST and attempt to rectify the position.

© Rejected if the forms are incomplete, or the instructions are unclear and cannot be clarified
as above, or if the order does not comply with the minimum lead times or milestones
specified in the process documents at Appendix 1. The Fujitsu Services OBC Team will
contact Post Office Ltd POL NIST who initially submitted the OBC20, and explain the
reasons for its rejection
e Actioned as amendments as instructed on an OBC 21 form, providing that those

amendments can be actioned using reasonable endeavours

Where additional information (not an amendment) becomes available to further inform an
OBC20 previously forwarded to Fujitsu Services, this information will be emailed by Post
Office Ltd POL NIST to the Fujitsu Services OBC Team Mailbox at the earliest possible

opportunity.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 25 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

Where the Fujitsu Services OBC Team needs to amend a Post Office Ltd OBC20, they will
liaise with Post Office Ltd POL NIST to agree the amendment. This will be supported by the
raising by Fujitsu Services of a revised version of the OBC20 form, referred to as an OBC21
v.1 (or subsequent).

9.2. The Horizon Service Desk

The Horizon Service Desk is the channel by which the NBSC requests emergency action at a
Post Office branch and through which notification of any unplanned closure which affects the
Horizon System is channelled.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 26 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

10.0 Summary of Key Activities for Delivering OBC
Branch Changes

10.1 Standard Change Activity

The process tables shown in Appendix I detail the necessary key activities and communication
between Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services for delivering OBC branch change. They also
provide the minimum timescale at which supporting activities must be undertaken. The
minimum timescale is expressed in working days. Monday to Friday inclusive comprising 5
working days. UK Bank and Public Holidays do not count as working days.

The lead times indicated within Appendix I for each OBC Branch Change type reflect the
minimum notice period required by Fujitsu Services in order to deliver the planned change,
and the latest points within that overall timescales at which supporting activities may be
undertaken in order to allow a reasonable degree of contingency (within which to manage any
issues that may arise). Notwithstanding this detail, and the points made in section 10.2 below,
Fujitsu Services continues to work to reduce these lead times in order to improve the overall
service provision to Post Office Ltd. Further lead time reductions will be made when they can
be delivered without threat to service delivery reliability.

10.2 Deviations to the Standard Change Activity

Deviations to change requirements, standards and processes will be managed on a case by case
basis. No commitments, in terms of delivery time, delivery standard or price can be given by
Fujitsu Services - until the detail of the specific deviation is known and understood.
Management of exceptions may invoke a supplementary charge.

Where Post Office Ltd request delivery of Change Activities “Out of Hours” (see paragraph
9.0 of Document Reference CS/PDN/015 for full details), then the “Out of Hours” prices
detailed in Document Reference CS/PDN/015 will apply. I However, should that work
element not, in fact, be delivered “Out of Hours”, then the Standard Hours prices for that
element would apply.

In exceptional circumstances Fujitsu Services will use reasonable endeavours to compress the
time scales detailed in Appendix 1.

Wherever the overall lead time specified within Appendix 1 is compressed, or the supporting
activities do not occur at the agreed milestones shown within Appendix 1, Fujitsu Services
shall be entitled to reject the Change Order as detailed in Paragraph 9.1. Where the Change
Order is accepted, Fujitsu Services shall not be held accountable for any resultant service
delivery failure.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 27 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

Where unexpected circumstances arise which threaten or prevent the delivery of a planned
change, Fujitsu Services and Post Office Ltd will use reasonable endeavours to attempt to
provide an emergency Horizon service, as detailed in section 8.3. Under such circumstances,
Post Office Ltd will work to ensure that their subcontractors support such endeavours to
provide an emergency Horizon service.

10.3 Process Assumptions
OBC Branch change processes have been developed using the following assumptions:

a) The installation of Horizon systems will be made to a compliant counter, where the
counter offers the correct operating area and space (Document Reference CS/STD/001).
Where a space-compliant counter is not available, a survey will be carried out by Post
Office Ltd for a trolley or mobile counter installation, and a trolley supplied and installed
by Post Office Ltd where applicable.

b) Post Office Ltd will ensure that the site is compliant
c) The electrical supply to the branch conforms to “in force” electrical regulations

d) An Horizon electrical radial circuit, fitted with a working circuit breaker of the correct
size (Document Reference CS/STD/001), will be provided prior to the Horizon equipment
commissioning work.

e) The services and the price of the services Fujitsu Services provide to support Operational
Business Change at the Post Office branch are based on delivery in core office hours.
Work outside core hours will incur additional charges.

The standard hours of service delivery are detailed in full in paragraph 9.0 of Document
Reference CS/PDN/015. Document Reference CS/PDN/015 also details the charges
levied by Fujitsu Services for the delivery of those services during core hours, and outside
of those hours.

f) The Fujitsu Services engineering team provide both OBC Branch change support and
Break-Fix component exchange within branches. It has been agreed between Fujitsu
Services and Post Office Ltd that a guaranteed Fujitsu engineer 09:00 default service will
be provided for all OBC changes at no additional cost to Post Office Ltd. When
commissioning the Horizon equipment, Fujitsu Services has a duty of care to ensure that
any identified on-site health and safety risks arising from the works planned are brought to
the attention of the branch manager, and mitigating actions discussed. Equally, the branch
manager has a duty of care to advise the Fujitsu Services engineers of any health and
safety risks present in the workplace, and to agree mitigating actions.

10.4 Incident and Problem Management

Fujitsu Services will operate jointly agreed incident and problem management processes, to
manage OBC branch change incidents and problems from notification to resolution.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 28 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

10.5 Reference Data

The management of Reference Data, and the monitoring of its application, is undertaken by
the RDORF. The information below is intended as a brief outline only; further detail regarding
the information flow supporting the Reference Data changes can be found within Document
Reference CS/PRD/058.

The Post Office Ltd POL NIST submit branch Reference Data to the Reference Data
Operational Team at Chesterfield, using an OBC22 form. This is processed, and the changes
then passed on to the Fujitsu Services RDMC.

Some Reference Data changes do not require the submission of an OBC20 form — such as
changes to branch opening hours or phone numbers. This Reference Data — known as
“Helpdesk” Reference Data — is supplied direct to the Fujitsu Services Reference Data team
from Post Office Ltd RDOT at Chesterfield. The provision of this data is outside the scope of
this document, and is detailed within Document Reference CS/PRD/058.

10.5.1. OBC Branch Change requiring a new FAD Code

Certain change types require a new Post Office FAD code. A new FAD code is generally
required:

© For a new Greenfield Site opening

e Ifa branch has to have a VSAT satellite comms solution, in place of an ISDN line
installation

e Ifa branch has to have an ISDN line installation, in place of a VSAT satellite comms
solution

e For a branch conversion (i.e. from a Directly Managed branch to a Franchise or Sub-Post
Office branch)

e¢ DN POL is currently examining the feasibility of not changing the FAD Code for all of its
OBC Branch Conversions.

¢ Where the Horizon equipment has archived at a branch, the branch can be reopened in a
minimum of 15 working days if a new FAD is obtained and the base units swapped out.
Alternatively, in order to retain the old FAD a closure and reopen would be required. This
will require a minimum of 30 working days.

A new FAD code can be obtained from Post Office Ltd Product and Branch accounting team
within 48 hours (if the requirement is urgent) via Post Office Ltd POL NIST.

Where a change in comms type is necessary (from VSAT to ISDN or vice versa), a
replacement FAD code is not a technical requirement. However, without a new FAD code, it
is necessary to complete a complete system closure of the branch, and then to process a
complete system re-open of the branch, and these actions must be performed consecutively,
rather than concurrently. These actions will take approximately a month, during which time
the branch would need to be closed for business.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 29 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

By providing a new FAD code, the opening of the “new” branch (i.e. using the new FAD
code) can be progressed while the existing branch remains open to the public. Following the
changeover to the new comms type and use of the new FAD code, the former configuration
can be closed without an impact on customer service.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 30 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FU.

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

FUJ00001986
IJ00001986

11.0 Debit Card — MIDs and TIDs

In order to transact Debit Card functionality, a Post Office branch must be allocated a
Merchant Identifier (MID), and each counter position within that branch must be allocated a
Terminal Identifier (TID).

Post Office Ltd is responsible for the provision of sufficient MIDs and TIDs to enable the
Debit Card Application to be successfully delivered by Fujitsu Services. The allocation of
MIDs and TIDs resulting from OBC Branch Change is initiated by OCMS which sends a feed
to the MID/TID generator, whereby an appropriate number of MIDs and TIDs are enabled
and associated to the branch, or, in the case of a closure or counter decrease, are marked as
being redundant.

An initial supply of 18,750 MIDs and 50,000 TIDs has been provided by Post Office. Once
allocated to a branch, a MID cannot be reused or reallocated; a redundant TID can be re-
allocated after a period of three months.

The OBC Branch Operational Review Forum will review periodically the number of MIDs and
TIDs available for allocation, such that Post Office Ltd can take steps to acquire additional
supplies in good time when necessary.

To assist with this management, Fujitsu Services will make Post Office Ltd aware if the
number of available MIDs or TIDs falls below an agreed threshold. This threshold is set at
250 MIDs or TIDs. Additionally, Post Office Ltd may request Fujitsu Services to provide a
detailed breakdown of the numbers of MIDs and TIDs in use at any time, by the submission of
a Miscellaneous Data Request via Post Office Ltd Network Support.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 31 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

12.0 Use of Contractors

12.1 Fujitsu Services

Fujitsu Services may use such agreed contractors as are required for the delivery of its
responsibilities under OBC branch change. However, all Fujitsu Services employees, or
contractors acting on behalf of Fujitsu Services must have been security cleared by Post Office
Ltd in advance (other than employees of British Telecom acting in the installation or
amendment of the Horizon communications line, who will produce their own passcards).

12.2 Post Office Ltd

Post Office Ltd may use such agreed contractors as are required for the delivery of its
responsibilities under OBC branch change. Post Office Ltd may request additional contractors
to be added to the list shown in paragraph 12.2.1. Fujitsu Services will not unreasonably
withhold authorisation for such additional contractors.

12.2.1 Authorised Contractors

Fujitsu Services hereby authorise the following contractors for use in this connection:
Romec NPG Ltd, Central Office, PO Box 124, Stockport, Cheshire, SK1 1AB

Avery Weigh Tronix Ltd, Foundry Lane, Smethwick, Warley, West Midlands, B66 2LP

12.3 Liability

The liabilities applicable within the delivery of Operational Business Change — Branch are as
determined within The Agreement (Doc Ref. 5). Notwithstanding this, where Post Office Ltd
chooses to use a contractor other than Fujitsu Services for Operational Business Change
work, the following additional conditions apply:

e¢ When Horizon equipment is being decommissioned, Fujitsu Services will not be liable for
any data loss where the decommissioning procedures defined by Fujitsu Services (See
Appendix 1) have not been observed by the Post Office auditor or any other contractor

e Any damage caused to the Horizon equipment by such contractor during its connection or
disconnection, or during its transit to or from the branch location when the transit is
undertaken by the contractor, will be at the risk of Post Office Ltd. The repair costs of any
such damage will be chargeable to Post Office Ltd.

e Where packaging is supplied to Post Office Ltd or its nominated contractor in support of
any OBC - Branch activities, then Post Office Ltd will be liable for any loss of or damage to
such packaging, fair wear and tear excepted.

e Where a remedial visit by a Fujitsu Services engineer is required in order to resolve an
issue or to replace or repair any damaged equipment, the reasonable costs of such a visit will
also be recoverable from Post Office Ltd unless it is Fujitsu themselves who are responsible
for the issue or faulty Horizon equipment.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 32 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

13.0 Commercial Aspects

The charging, invoicing and commercial principles associated with the delivery of OBC
Branch changes are detailed within the OBC Branch Service Descriptions and Pricing
Document (Document Reference CS/PDN/015).

14.0 OBC Branch Change Contacts List

The OBC Branch change contacts list provides details of those persons employed, by Fujitsu
Services and Post Office Ltd, in the delivery or support of OBC Branch change. The list is

held within the OBC Branch, Operational Level Agreement document(Document Reference
CS/OLA/035).

The Post Office Ltd OBC Process Manager is responsible for the maintenance of the contacts
list from the Post Office Ltd perspective. Within Fujitsu Services the Operational Business
Change Service Manager is responsible for the maintenance of Fujitsu Services details.

Only OBC Branch change requests made by Post Office Ltd POL NIST or by the NBSC will
be actioned by Fujitsu Services. OBC Branch change requests made by Post Office Ltd staff
not approved within the OBC Branch contacts list will be referred to Post Office Ltd POL
NIST for approval and clarification of the actions required.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 33 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

APPENDIX 1 — OBC Branch Change Processes

This section documents the processes that support each type of OBC Branch Change. The
processes have been drawn up in workshops held between Post Office Ltd, Fujitsu Services,
and Romec NPG, and are intended to describe fully each process from inception to
completion.

As such, in addition to containing information that is relevant to the Interface between Post
Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services, each process also details the Interfaces between Post Office
Ltd and their other subcontractors, and processes internal to Post Office Ltd. In each section,
the parties responsible for completing the relevant action are shown in the right hand column.

Post Office Ltd also holds process documentation for types of OBC Branch Change within
which there is no interaction with Fujitsu Services — for example the provision of a Trolley,
Scales or installation of a UPS. The processes for these types of OBC Branch Change are
outside the scope of this document.

Commissioning of Horizon Equipment

The OBC Branch Change processes detailed below include references to the Horizon
Equipment commissioning and configuration work undertaken by the Fujitsu Services
engineers. This element is described fully within Document Reference CS/PDN/015.Please
also see the Conversion Process within this document (Appendix 1).

In summary:

Fujitsu Services make available reconditioned and tested Horizon equipment at the correct
software build level, which Post Office Lad’s subcontractor transport to the branch site,
unpack, and lay out on the counter in accordance with a pre-defined survey plan. The
subcontractor will then complete a Europa test of the hardware.

A Fujitsu Services engineer will subsequently attend site, and check the equipment lay-out
against the survey plan and the printout from the Europa test. The engineer will then replace
any pieces of hardware that have failed the Europa test, connect the equipment to the Branch
communications solution (VSAT PES or ISDN line), and commence the download of the
configuration.

The time taken to download the Branch configuration and load the Riposte software will vary
enormously dependant on the size of the Branch; whether the Branch is a new open or a re-
open; and the type of communications solution used. Further information is provided within
Document Reference CS/PDN/015

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 34 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

Service Descriptors

Each OBC Branch Change will be ordered using one of the following Service Descriptors a
term used to identify the particular type of change required at that branch. Certain Service
Descriptors also have supplementary Sub-Categories to further clarify the precise nature of the
change required. Post Office POL NIST will identify the appropriate Descriptor (and any Sub-
Category), and select it when completing the OBC20 order form.

Any change required which does not fall within the scope of a Service Descriptor listed below,
must be ordered as a Service OBC013 (Ad Hoc Change), and will then be the subject of
individual agreement with regard to lead times and charges.

The range of Service Descriptors and Sub-Categories is shown in the table below:

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 35 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account)

Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

OBC Branch — Service Descriptors — (for Orders Placed On or After 19/01/04)

pal

"OBC Branch -
Service Descriptors V:

Important Note

e The term “Standard” covers normal Fixed Horizon kit (including that used on a Trolley solution branch) and the kit required for a Luggable storage
site connected via an ISDN line.

e = The term “VSAT” covers normal Fixed Horizon kit (including that used on a Trolley solution branch) connected via a VSAT.

¢ The term “service site only” covers the reduced Horizon kit that is supplied for a “Core and Outreach” service site connected via an ISDN line.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 36 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account) Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

e APPENDIX 2 VERSION 10 OF E2E PROCESSES
"OBC Branch-2to1 “OBC Branch - “OBC Branch - "OBC Branch - “OBC Branch - “OBC Branch -
or 1 to 2 Counter Pos Complex Refurbishme Complex Relocation \ Conversion On Site V: Counter Decrease Ver Counter Increase Ver

fe) pal pal pal
"OBC Branch - CPU “OBC Branch - “OBC Branch - “OBC Branch - “OBC Branch -
Relocations Vers 5.0 Exchange of CRT wit Exchange of Fixed w Openings & Reopenii Openings and Re-Op

pal pal pal

“OBC Branch - “OBC Branch - Simp! “OBC Branch - Simp! "OBC Branch -

Planned Closure & PI Refurbishment Vers Relocation Vers 10.0 Unplanned Urgent Cl
© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 37 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account) Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
Fujitsu Services
Limited

FUJ00001986

FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement Ref: CS/IFS/003
7.0
Commercial in Confidence 20/12/05

APPENDIX 3—- EMERGENCY SERVICE PROVISIONS

This section details Emergency Service Provisions that have previously been deployed to meet certain exceptional circumstances.

It is not intended as an exhaustive or definitive list, but rather as an aide memoir, should similar exceptional circumstances recur.

Deployment of any of the emergency provisions listed below may only be implemented in accordance with the escalation routes detailed in section 8.3

above.

Change of counter configurations not implemented

Circumstance

Possible emergency solution

A configuration change to the number of
working counters has not been actioned

If the change is to decrease the number of counters:

Leave a set of counter equipment connected to the LAN, but installed under the counter. This
maintains the configuration whilst the amendment is actioned, without taking up serving space.
If the change is to increase the number of counters:

Consider redeploying a back office position to the new serving position.

Branch configuration error

Circumstance

Possible emergency solution

A change to the branch configuration has not
been processed or has not taken effect

Involve second or third line support and request manual intervention to amend the branch
configuration.

Previous branch configuration needs to be
erased, but there is insufficient time for this to
be processed. This will occur where a branch is
planned to re-open, but the closure was not
previously notified to Fujitsu Services, or
where the outlet communications type needs to
be changed

Erasing a branch configuration cannot be significantly accelerated by third line support. Where a
branch needs to reopen urgently, without sufficient time for the configuration to be amended, the
process can be shortened by the allocation of a new FAD code. This enables the branch to proceed as
a new open, without waiting for the previous configuration to be closed.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

Commercial in Confidence Page 38 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account) Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

Branch has closed without synchronisation of message store

Circumstance

Possible emergency solution

A branch has closed and replication of the
message store has not been possible, either
because of network problems or because the
Horizon equipment has been disconnected by
someone other than an approved engineer.

Following of the agreed Closure Procedures at the time of branch closure will identify that there are
unsynchronised transactions trapped at the branch. Where this occurs, the Post Office Ltd Auditor, or
subcontractor engaged by Post Office Ltd to decommission the Horizon equipment, must notify the
Fujitsu Services OBC Team. The OBC Team will arrange to recover the data through the “laptop data
retrieval” method, whereby a Fujitsu Services engineer attends site with a specially configured laptop,
which will connect the Gateway base unit, via a standard telephone line, to the correspondence server.
If this does not prove possible, the affected base units must not be returned for refurbishment. When
the Fujitsu Services OBC Team is contacted, they will advise the arrangements that have been made
for the transfer of the affected base units to a Fujitsu Services engineer, who will either undertake
Laptop Data Retrieval at a secure Fujitsu location, or arrange carriage of the base units to the Fujitsu
Services Third Line support team. It should be noted that due to system security measures, or if the
base unit has been disconnected from the network for a period of more than three weeks, recovery of
the data may not be possible.

N provision is delayed

Circumstance

Possible emergency solution

The ISDN line has not been moved as part of a
branch refurbishment, or provided at a new
location on a relocation

Where an ISDN line has not been moved within an office, it may be possible to make a connection by
use of lengthy ISDN leads, where these can be connected safely. These can be joined together to
provide long cable runs, but this should only be seen as a temporary measure.

Where a connection to the ISDN point cannot be achieved, the existing Horizon equipment can
continue to operate and provide an off-line service; however, as Network Banking facilities would be
unavailable under these circumstances, Post Office Ltd have indicated that they would prefer not to use
this contingency.

Full Post Office facilities, including Network Banking, can be provided by installing a “laptop retrieval”

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

Commercial in Confidence Page 39 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account) Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement

FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

laptop, and leaving it running for the period until a permanent solution can be implemented. However,
this solution is reliant upon the provision of a working PSTN telephone line, and exceeds the design
criteria for the laptop, and as such can be unreliable in service and require frequent engineer attention.
It also may only be implemented with agreement from the Security teams, as it obviates certain security
protocols. Use of this solution occupies the branch PSTN telephone line permanently, and so
alternative telephone facilities (such as a mobile phone) must be provided.

The ISDN line has not been installed as part of
a new branch opening

It is not possible to download office configuration via the “laptop data retrieval” method described
above. Initial office configuration can only be achieved across an ISDN line.

ISDN is not available at a new location

Circumstance

Possible emergency solution

A branch has relocated, or is planned to open,
and ISDN is unavailable at the location (i.e.
ISDN is out of limits)

Initially, BT should be asked to complete a physical test at the proposed new location, which may find
that ISDN is, after all, available.

Where ISDN is unavailable, the only alternative comms solution is VSAT. The outlet configuration
needs to be changed to reflect this To change the communications type requires the full closure of the
branch, followed by stripping all details of the branch from all sub-systems, followed by processing a
“new open” for the branch under the new communications type. This process is lengthy, taking at least
a month to complete. A workaround to this delay is to process the “new open” for the branch using a
new FAD code, which can be processed concurrently with the closure of the original FAD code.
Installing a satellite dish requires an application for full planning permission, which can take several
months to be granted. However it is possible to install a satellite dish and to then apply for planning
permission retrospectively. Post Office Ltd is prepared to accept the costs and risks associated with
this; if planning permission is subsequently refused, then the dish will have to be removed (at a cost),
and no communications solution will be available at the location.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

Commercial in Confidence Page 40 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account) Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement

FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

If full use is made of both “workarounds” detailed in the last two paragraphs, then it may be possible to
implement a VSAT installation and keep the original planned Branch go-live date; even if this is not
possible, the delay to planned opening can be minimised by this approach:

The starting point for this emergency solution will be the notification by BT that an ISDN line is not
available at the planned location (even after the physical test mentioned above). This notification could
come at any point in the BT order process; for a new Open, the order is placed with BT by Cable &
Wireless at day —18, with an intended BT installation at day —8.

HNS can respond to an urgent satellite installation request in a “standard” location (i.c. no installation
difficulties, no listed building consent required, not on an island, not in the remotest areas of Scotland)
normally in 10 working days. Additionally, it takes 10 working days for Fujitsu Services to process a
new open through OCMS (to set up the new FAD code etc). Hence, once the decision is made to
progress a satellite solution, it will take a minimum of 10 working days to complete; if the decision is
made between Day —18 and Day —11, it may thus be possible to keep the original planned installation
date.

The end to end process for us implementing the new opening as a satellite installation (under these
emergency circumstances) would be as follows:

1. BT Advise ISDN is unavailable (Day 0)

2. Fujitsu Services team would advise POL ASAP, but assuming that BT notification is late evening —
this would be Day I

3. Post Office Ltd then need to decide that the site should be implemented as a VSAT site and advise
Fujitsu Services - Day 2

. Fujitsu Services advise HNS/Cable & Wireless as soon as possible — Day 3
5. There is then the 10 working days lead-time required, leading to the Satellite installed on Day 14
6. The Fujitsu Services engineer would then be targeted to attend site on Day 15

However, this is dependant upon Post Office Ltd being able to:

¢ supply and implement a new FAD code within these timescales

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 41 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account) Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

© accept the risks of putting up the dish in this location without planning permission having been
granted (and any subsequent costs to comply with planning conditions subsequently imposed, such as
painting the dish)

© accept the cost of any non-standard elements to the satellite installation (King Posts, mounting
brackets etc)

Within the timescales above, a new Gateway PC would also need to be dispatched to site. Whether

this would be on site prior to the scheduled attendance point of the Romec engineer for site lay-out will

be dependant on when we are advised by BT that ISDN is unavailable at the outlet., and this would

have to be treated on a case-by-case basis. However, if the base unit cannot be delivered to site before

Romec's scheduled attendance date, then it is likely that the most cost-effective solution for Post Office

Ltd would be for the Fujitsu Services engineer to lay-out and exchange the base unit during

commissioning — again this would be considered on a case-by-case basis.

Ultimately, where no communications solution is available, the location is unsuitable for an Horizon
installation.

Conversion on Site

Circumstance Possible emergency solution

To facilitate configuration of all nodes without I If there is sufficient space on the counter and electrical sockets are available then the Fujitsu engineer
experiencing undue delay. will configure nodes 2 and 3 on the Friday prior to the configuration of the slaves.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services Commercial in Confidence Page 42 of 44

Limited (Post Office Account) Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
FUJ00001986
FUJ00001986

Fujitsu Services Fujitsu Services/Post Office Ltd Operational Ref: CS/IFS/003
Limited Business Change — Branch Interface Agreement
Version: 7.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 20/12/05

APPENDIX 4- INCIDENT MANAGEMENT AND
ESCALATION

Issue received into

owe Wissr issue given _~ WIEST faises wih
exceptionally hiner iogs.on cas sue *]intormation an
pigetived trom * remedy and rainesI >< been alven an > avice

with Fujitsu H scoring?

Services OBC

Team y

NIE ST escalates to Line

¥

Manager. Decision taken

Nig ST updates — to escalate to Field IAM!

c ,, Field IPMINPM 4560s FS response CNM, copying in Head of
(end a ana closes issue (#1 Y88 ies cive eau Implementation and

on

Security (and POL OBC.
Process Manager) of
Issue status and history

¥
NI&ST escalates and allocates issue to
NIgST IPM with Issue history. NI&ST IPM
informs Field IPM INP that Issue has been
escalated fo them and liises on action being
Taken, including ertcal timescales ana th

they will liaise with them from now on
ee
NI&ST IPM escalates issue to FS OBC NI&ST IPM laises with
Service Delivery Tgam. Leader on "i Field IPMINPM for
H be Information and/or advice

/ \ NI&STIPM updates
(ena qj Feta 1PMIN PRM and
y updates Remedy

NI&ST IPM escalates to NIA.
history. NI&ST IM Informs
that issue has been escalated to them and

llaises on action being taken. including erttical
timescales and that they will aise with Field

TMINPM from now on

Field [PMINPM
escalates issue to
Field IM/C NI,
who then liaise
with NEST IM

¥

WIEST IM laises with Field (My

CNM and. if appropriate POL OBC

Process Manager for information
andor advice

NIg.ST Itt acsertains all facts and cont
OBC Service Delivery anager on I

WIEST IM updates

= Field IM/IPM and
(ena) See ee Yes
— updates Remedy
FS OBC Sorvice Dellvery Manager
Investigates, providing NI&ST IM with updates
at regularly agreed times
NIGST IM updates
Field MPM and II o>
NPM/CNM and
updates Remedy
Issue escalated to NIST IAM with issue
history, NI&ST IAM informs Field IM/CNM that Field Itt escalates
issue escalated to them and liaises on action to Field IAMwho
being taken. including eritical timescales and will then liaise with
that they will liaise with Fisid IAMICNM from NIESTIAM
NIGSTIAM , Field IAMICNM and FS NIg ST IAM aise
habs fe eet Peebovin tad tritdia NISST IAM ascertain alfcts andcopiacis CNM and, if
forward. Issue updated on Remedy vice Delivery Manager on { 3 appropriate. POL
RO land other relevant parties untiTissue™ OBC Process ¢——__I
FEBNed and way forward agreed. Updates Manager and
Remedy Head of
I Implementation &
‘Security

© 2005 Fujitsu Services
Commercial in Confidence

Page 43 of 44
Limited (Post Office Account) Operational Business Change — Branch, Interface Agreement
