FUJ00232818

FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL
SCHEDULE A2
RELATIONSHIP AND GOVERNANCE
Version History
Version No. Date Comments
1.0 31/08/06 Agreed version as at date of
signature of CCN 1200
2.0 24/01/07 Baseline copy of 1.2
3.0 30/01/09 Baseline copy of 2.2
60 15/06/09 Moving all schedules to V6.0 as.
I agreed with Fujitsu
61 23/12/09 Applying changes as per CCN
1268
62 30/03/10 Applying changes as per
I CON1271¢
70 10/05/10 Moving all schedules to V7.0 as
agreed with Fujitsu
80 21/02/12 Moving all schedules to V8.0 in
accordance with CCN1294d
9.0 13/01/14 Applying changes as per
CCN1400
10.0 10/09/15 Moving all Schedules to v10.0
in accordance with CCN1506
11.0 31/03/16 Applying changes as per CCN
1423c, CCN 1500, CCN 1600
and moving all schedules in
accordance with CCN1604
12.0 03/07/2017 Applying changes as per CCN
1607 and moving all schedules
to V12
13.0 Moving all Schedules to V13
140 Updating as per CCN1623b,
(ECN1649, CCN1678, CCN1700 ‘Commented [DH1]: CCN's conformed into V14 are: ]
and moving all Schedules to X_LOCN1628. CON1700
rl \\ (Commented [AP2]: CON1649 (21/07/21) )
{Commented [APS]: GON1676 (2007721) }

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 1 of 31
FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

+ (Formatted: Let }

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 2 of 31
FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

SCHEDULE A2
RELATIONSHIP AND GOVERNANCE

1. OBJECTIVES

14.1. The Parties intend that the relationship and governance arrangements under this
Schedule A2 will help achieve the aim of ensuring an effective working relationship
between the Parties and the overall success of the Agreement.

1.2. The relationship and governance arrangements under this Schedule A2 will be used, inter
alia, to monitor, and assist with the aim of achieving, the Joint Objectives set out in
Recitals E(d) to (g) (inclusive) of this Agreement.

2. THE RELATIONSHIP

2.1 Decisions shalll be taken through the following mechanisms (each a “Relationship”):

24.1 Systemetntegration Rarinership-and Executive Relationship-and; (Formatted: Strikethrough )

2.1.2 Service Management Relationship;

2.1.3 Commercial Relationship;

{A244 the Demand Board:and + [Formatted Strikethrough
(Formatted: Heading 3, Indent Fist Ine: 0 em
24.42.15 2.4.5 Programme/Release Relationship; (Commented [DH4]: Do we have such a forum in place?

Commented [VH5]: We do have a meeting and have
adjusted the wording below to reflect this.

24.52.1.6 the Demand Planning & Project Prioritisation Board,

2.4.62.1.7___ Horizon Defects Forum:

24-72.1.8 Information Security Management Forum, and

24.82.19 Spend Commitment Review.

by the Post Office Subject Lead and the Fujitsu Services Subject Lead for each relevant
Relationship.

2.2 Annex 1 to this Schedule A2 sets out in relation to each Relationship:

22.1 the Post Office Subject Leads of that Relationship and any other Post Office
appointed members;

2.2.2 the Fujitsu Services Subject Leads of that Relationship and any other Fujitsu
Services appointed members;

2.2.3 the responsibilities of that Relationship;

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 3 of 31
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

34

3.2

3.3

34

3.5

3.6

37

3.8

2.2.4 the frequency with which that Relationship will meet, unless agreed otherwise by
the Parties; and

2.2.5 certain other general information relevant to that Relationship.
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Save to the extent that a matter is one of the “Reserved Matters” described in paragraph
5 of this Schedule A2, Decisions agreed between the Subject Leads of each Party (or
their fully empowered deputies) for the appropriate Relationship will be effective and
binding on the Parties (whether or not such Decision is made at a scheduled meeting of
a Relationship), provided in each case such Decisions are within the scope of the relevant
Relationship’s responsibilities as described in Annex 1 to this Schedule A2 and such
Decision is recorded in accordance with paragraph 3.5

Each Relationship shall be conducted through “meetings", comprising, for the purposes
of this Schedule A2, face to face, telephone conferences, teleconferences-on-line
meetings or other means of discussion as the Parties consider appropriate from time to
time.

The Subject Leads for each Relationship will agree what (if any) regular or occasional
meetings they wish to hold (and their frequency), where otherwise not stated in Annex 1
to this Schedule A2, in order to discharge the responsibilities and purpose of the relevant
Relationship.

Members of a Relationship may, with the consent of the other Parly’s Subject Lead for
that Relationship (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), invite other
persons to attend meetings of that Relationship.

For any Decision of a Relationship to be effective and binding on the Parties, it must be
in writing and signed by the Subject Leads (or their fully empowered deputies) of that
Relationship.

At least once in every calendar year, the members of each Relationship shalll discuss and
review whether the frequency with which their Relationship meetings are held should be
altered,

The Parties agree that day-to-day operational issues arising under or in connection with
this Agreement will be managed through delegated authority, including through
operational review forums, project boards and problem management working groups that,
are established from time to time by the Parties, with a view to resolving them in a timely
manner.

‘Any operational issues which cannot be resolved in a timely manner in accordance with
paragraph 3.7 shall be considered by the relevant Subject Leads at the first available
‘opportunity.

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 4 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

3.9

3.10

3.11

3.12

44

42

5.1

The Parties agree to use their reasonable endeavours to make Decisions through timely
and effective communication through the appropriate Relationship and not to
unreasonably delay Decisions.

‘The Subject Leads of each Relationship will agree measurement criteria from time to time
for determining the effectiveness of the relationship between the Parties in meeting the
Joint Objectives set out in Recitals E(d) to (g) (inclusive).

In addition to the Subject Leads for each Relationship, each of the JT Operations Director
for Post Office and the Commercial Division Director for Fujitsu Services shall supervise
the Agreement and shall hold such meetings as they jointly consider necessary to monitor
the strategic direction of the relationship between the Parties under this Agreement.

Nothing in this Schedule A2 shall restrict either Party from exercising any right conferred
upon it under this Agreement and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Schedule A2, no decision to exercise or waive any such right shall require the
concurrence of the other Party.

PROGRAMME/RELEASE RELATIONSHIP

The Programme/Release Relationship shall:

44-4 provide a governance structure for each programme and/or Release under this
Agreement jhrough the following boards:

4.4.3. the ‘Acceptance Boardi(s)';

44.54.11 the ‘Joint Release Authorisation Board(s)’

44.6412 through each relevant board, it will, consider, inter alia, future work or
changes generated by ongoing and planned feasibility studies and other areas of
Potential work generated through the SIP.

Annex 1 to this Schedule A2 sets out the Subject Leads, other members, responsibilities

and frequency of meetings of each of the boards within the Programme/Release

Relationship.

RESERVED MATTERS

New, increased, reduced or modified obligations or responsibilities of either Party can
only be effected by making changes to this Agreement in accordance with the Change
Control Procedure. Nothing in this paragraph 5.1 shall restrict either Party from agreeing
Work Orders.

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 5 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

(Formatted: Underine )

(Commented [DH6}: Is that the correct role for Fujitsu?)

Commented [VH7}: I would propose changing this to the
Delivery Executive.
(Formatted: Stiketirough )
(Formatted: Strikethrough )
(Commented [DH8]: Are these all in place? )

(Commented [VH9]: Adjusted to reflect the simplified meeting I

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

5.2

5.3

8.1

Commitment of new expenditure by Post Office can only be approved through the
processes described in Schedule D2 or Schedule A3.

To the extent that a Decision under this Schedule A2 has had or will have an impact on:

5.3.1 the costs of Fujitsu Services (of an amount greater than £10,000) which Fujitsu
Services would have dealt with under the Change Control Procedure and
reflected in a change to the Charges had that impact been understood at the time
the Decision was made;

5.3.2 _ the achievement of any Service Level or other obligation of Fujitsu Services under
this Agreement;

5.3.3 any contractual or project date agreed between the Parties in relation to this
Agreement; or

5.3.4 any Post Office Responsibilities which would have been dealt with under the
Change Control Procedure had such impact been understood at the time the
Decision was made,

that Decision will be reversed (to the extent it is reasonably practicable to do so) by the
Relationship which made that Decision with effect from the date of such reversal, and the
matter dealt with under the Change Control Procedure. Each Party shall bear its own
costs of complying with such Decision until it is reversed in accordance with this
paragraph. Any disputes arising in relation to such reversal will be resolved in accordance
with the Dispute Resolution Procedure.

ESCALATION PROCEDURES
Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, including any matters
arising out of or in connection with this Schedule A2, shall be resolved in accordance with

the Dispute Resolution Procedure

RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT
The Parties shall jointly monitor the operation of the relationship and governance
arrangements under this Schedule A2 and initiate remedial action (including escalation if
required in accordance with paragraph 6) if these are not being followed.

ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS

The following CCDs are associated with this Schedule A2:

Document Reference Document Title
1 BP/STD/003 "Standard Terms and Conditions for
Work Orders"

Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 6 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

82

94

9.2

9.3

94

The following CRDs are associated with this Schedule A2:

Document Reference Document Title

NO CRDs APPLICABLE

GOVERNANCE FOR OPERATIONAL SERVICES AND THE TOWERS MODEL

Fujitsu Services acknowledges that the supplier that Post Office chooses as its Post
Office Service Integrator for the new Towers Model may act as Post Office's managing
partner. Subject to paragraphs 9.4 and 9.6 below, the Parties acknowledge and agree
that Post Office Service Integrator shall be entitled, on behalf of Post Office, to exercise
any rights or perform any obligations of Post Office under this Agreement, provided that
only Post Office shall be entitled to exercise its rights under Clauses 47, 58 and 66 of the
Agreement and paragraph 7 of Annex 2 to Schedule A2

For the purposes of the Post Office Service Integrator performing its role as a managing
partner for the Post Office and subject to paragraphs 9.1 and 9.4, references in this
Agreement to Post Office shall be interpreted to refer to or include Post Office Service
Integrator as relevant. Post Office's opinion shall prevail in the event of any dispute as to
whether a reference refers to or includes the Post Office Service Integrator. Delegation
to the Post Office Service Integrator shall be without prejudice to Post Office’s right to
exercise its rights under any provision of the Agreement on its own behalf. For the
avoidance of doubt, nothing in this paragraph 9 is intended to create a separate contract,
between Fujitsu Services and Post Office Service Integrator or to assign or novate this
Agreement or any part of it to Post Office Service Integrator.

In the event that Post Office appoints the Post Office Service Integrator to manage some
oF all ofits IT services on its behalf, Fujitsu Services shall perform all its obligations owed
to Post Office under this Agreement to the Post Office Service Integrator as if the Post
Office Service Integrator is Post Office. To the extent that Fujitsu Services fails to perform
its obligations under the Agreement, Post Office retains the ability to enforce its rights
against Fujitsu Services and require it to perform those obligations. In the event that
either Parly considers co-operation and collaboration between Fujitsu Services, Post
Office Service Integrator and other Tower Contractors is not in accordance with this
paragraph 9, then either Party may escalate the issue through the Dispute Resolution
Procedure.

Without prejudice to Post Office's right to exercise its rights under any provision of the
Agreement on its own behalf, in the event that Post Office Service Integrator exercises
the rights of Post Office under Clauses 23, 24 or 25 of the Agreement, Fujitsu Services
shall only be required to disclose details of the aggregated price of performing the
Services and not details of pricing for specific Services or details of the cost base it uses
to calculate such prices which may indicate Fujitsu Services’ pricing strategy or pricing
levels to Post Office Service Integrator.

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 7 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

Commented [DH10]: Unlikely that Post Office will appoint a
replacement Post Office Service Integrator but Im fine to leave
this Section in just in case’.

‘Commented [VH14]: That i fine with Fujitsu )

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

95

96

a7

98

9.9

Without prejudice to paragraph 9.1 above but subject to paragraph 9.6 below, the Parties
acknowledge and agree that Post Office Service Integrator shall be entitled to attend any
of the meetings described in this Schedule either in addition to Post Office or on behalf of
andas the representative of Post Office. The Post Office Service Integrator may in some
instances be the sole representative of Post Office at such meetings or governance
boards and will be responsible for the relationship relevant to those meetings or
governance boards. Where Post Office Service Integrator attends a meeting on behalf
of Post Office, Post Office Service Integrator shall be entitled to exercise such rights and
perform such obligations as Post Office would be entitled to exercise or perform at such
meeting.

Post Office shall ensure that it has a representative at the following governance boards
in addition to or instead of Post Office Service Integrator:

9.6.1 Executive Relationship;
9.6.2 Commercial Relationship; and
9.6.3 Acceptance Board Dispute.

As part of its transition to the Towers Model and in order to ensure the smooth and
effective delivery of end-to-end services to Post Office, Post Office may require its
suppliers of IT services to enter into good faith negotiations and agree non-disclosure
agreements with other Tower Contractors and/or other third parties (‘NDA(s)") and
operating level agreement(s) (“OLA(s)’) setting out each supplier's respective obligations
and dependencies to Post Office and each other supplier. Fujitsu Services shall, where
reasonably requested by Post Office, use its reasonable endeavours to enter into NDA(s)
and OLA(s) with Post Office Service Integrator and/or any Tower Contractors and/or any
other third parties within 3 months of such notification by Post Office. In the event that
Fujitsu Services has not or considers it will not be able to enter into NDAs and/or OLAs
within such 3 month timescale, Fujitsu Services shall promptly notify Post Office of any
issues preventing compliance with such 3 month timescale and the Parties shall work
together to address the issues in good faith within a reasonable timescale to be agreed
mutually. In the event that the Parties are unable to agree a reasonable timescale, either
Party may escalate the matter through the Dispute Resolution Procedure. For the
avoidance of doubt, Post Office shall not be a party to any such NDA or OLA.

Post Office may wish to make changes to the governance structure in this Agreement to
align with its new Tower Model and to implement changes associated with any OLA. All
such changes shall be managed as a change to the Agreement and implemented via the
Change Control Procedure. Fujitsu Services shall be entitled to charge for any additional
costs or risks as a result of changes to the existing govemance structure in accordance
with the Change Control Procedure

Fujitsu Services shall collaborate reasonably with Post Office Service Integrator and the
‘Tower Contractors by adopting Good Professional Practice in relation to collaborating and
co-operating with Tower Contractors to enable Post Office to maximize the benefit of the
strategic IT supply chain and optimal target operating model selected by Post Office for
its IT and change transformation programme including by:

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 8 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

(Commented [VH121

aia }

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

9.10

on

9.9.1 responding to and following the Post Office Service Integrator’s instructions,
including meeting all timescales, where provided in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement;

9.9.2 save as set out in the Agreement, reporting to the Post Office Service Integrator
as if it were Post Office;

9.9.3 co-operating with the Post Office Service Integrator where it seeks to manage
and resolve issues between the Tower Contractors including any Incidents;

9.9.4 providing the Services in accordance with collaboration requirements and
responsibilities set out in Schedule F.

For the avoidance of doubt, Fujitsu Services shall be entitled to charge Post Office for
its demonstrable additional costs in complying with this paragraph 9.9 which the Parties
shall agree through the Change Control Procedure to the extent to which such costs are
not covered by the (i) Charges relating to the other Services provided under this
Agreement and (ii) de minimis amount of time being equivalent to 15 man days of
additional effort (over and above those activities performed by Fujitsu Services prior to
the implementation of some or all of the Tower model) in any quarter (being January to
March, Aptil to June, July to September and October to December) incurred by Fujitsu
Services in complying with this paragraph 9.9.

Fujitsu Services shall at all times work with Post Office and Post Office Service Integrator,
in good faith, to develop governance processes, collaboration arrangements and meeting
structures in relation to the provision of the Services in order to:

9.10.1. facilitate consistent management, reporting, and sharing of information between
Fujitsu Services, Post Office Service Integrator and Post Office (as applicable);
and

9.10.2 support and assist the delivery of the Services to Post Office and the delivery of
other relevant Tower services by Post Office Service Integrator and other Tower
Contractors, to Post Office.

The Fujitsu Subject Lead for the Executive Relationship (or a suitable alternative in terms
of seniority, decision making ability and knowledge of this Agreement) shall attend
meetings of the governance board entitled “Supply Chain Member Board” instituted under
the agreement between the Post Office Service Integrator and Post Office.

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 9 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

Annex 4 to Schedule A2

Relationships.

The Parties acknowledge that the job titles of the Relationship members identified in this Annex
4 may change over time (particularly if either Party introduces any new internal management
structure) and that should this occur the appropriate attendees would be the persons holding the
equivalent position to those identified below.

Executive Relationship
Post Office Forte)
Members

Director, Horizon IT Purchasing Director for Post Office (Subject Lead for
Executive Responsibilities)

Head of Change and IS (Subject Lead for SIP-Related Responsibilities)
iso

Director, Service Operations, Enterprise IT and Vendor Management

{F-Cloud Services Director,

Fujitsu Services
Members

VP Digital Transformation & Innovation

Delivery Executive (Subject Lead)

ciso

Chief Technology Officer,

Responsibilities

Executive Responsibilities

* Monitoring the overall success of the relationship, including resolution

of any Disputes escalated for Executive Review under the Dispute
Resolution Procedure.

Review escalations from lower level meetings.

* Discuss the strateaic direction of Services.
‘Approval of new initiatives (HNG-X and non-HNG-X).

* Overseeing management by the Commercial Relationship of matters
atising in respect of Market Testing under Schedule D6.

* Monitoring the performance of Fujitsu Services’ obligations in
connection with this Agreement for the purposes of determining
matters relevant to Fujitsu Services’ appointment as Preferred
Systems Integrator and disclosing the results of such monitoring to
Fujitsu Services in accordance with Schedule A1

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0

Page 10 of 31

FUJ00232818

FUJ00232818
‘(Commented [VH13}: The CISO does not attend this )
(Commented [VH4}: Rob does not atend ths 7

(Formatted: Font: (Default) Arial, 10 pt, Not Bold, Underline I

(Formatted: Undertine )
(Commented [VH15]: )
(Commented [VHi6}: No )

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

_-{ Fort Fors 10 Fork coor Ato )

‘Commented [DH17]: Im meaning Sandie Bothwick ~ not
‘sure Ihave her role correct. Though?

CONFIDENTIAL
Executive Relationship
‘* Gain Share and Strive monitoring, including agreement of baselines.
ae ? ee
+ Strategic direction and use of SIP resource —(a} agreeing the quantity
and-type-of SIP resource to be provided by Fujitsu-Services-and_(b)
th — -initiatiioe towhiob tne SIR.
oF any Fujitsu Services SIP Team Members. shall be applied in-order
to-best-achieve the Joint Objectives. set-out in- Recitals E(d) to-(g)
(inclusive).
iative oF future development.work a" th-the-principI
4 Schedule-D3-relaling 1o-the Si and th
operation and delivery of the SIP-under Schedule B4.2.
Re ad. tunities for_the-Preferred_Syet
toh to—Fuiji aid —teohioal
expertise,
‘Service Management Relationshiy
Post Office Head of Operations CentrolHorizon Live Services (Subject Lead) and/or Rest
Members Office Service Integrator
Head of Horizon Commercial
Head of Horizon Security
Senior Service Manager
Fujitsu Services I Senior Service Delivery Manager Customer Service Director (Subject Lead)
Members
Service Delivery Manager
Service & Operations TeamI >
Responsibilities ‘* Ensuring continuous improvement in the service management
environment through pro-active management & prioritisation.
‘+ Reviewing Operational Services performance for the previous month,
including against agreed Service Levels and agreeing remedies

between Latin and Asian text, Don't adjust space between

"{ Formatted: Left, Space After: 14 pt, Dont adjust space
Asian text and numbers

I ‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0

Page 11 of 31
FUJ00232818

FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL
‘Service Management Relationship
payable (if any) in accordance with the relevant terms of this
Agreement.
+_Reviewing network performance
Discuss overview of Key performance indicators
+ Review Incident volumes, Major Incidents and resolution actions
Review Errors and Problem Management
‘© Reviewing operational reliability of jnfrastructure used to deliver the
Services (whether theI Infrastructure or the infrastructure used to I {Commented [VH18}: Amended by CCN1678 i)

deliver the Post Office Cloud) and considering/recommending
remedial courses of action (e.g. full or partial technological refresh or
Service Level relief).

‘* Resolving operational issues including, but not limited to, those
arising from non-conformance to agreed Service Levels.

‘+ Reviewing future change plans to ensure the live environment is
prepared for Operational Services.

‘* Capacity management in relation to Service Management Services.

‘+ Monitoring Operational Business Change processes.

Frequency Monthly

Other general __I There will be a monthly service review meeting for which Fujitsu Services

information shall prepare reports in the formats agreed from time to time. I ae! [DH20}: Do we want to mention the break-out }
Monthly SR for Banking?

Commercial Relationship

Post Office Purchselng-Mi bjoot Lead, kn tolation 4 tod nd

Members approval-of changes to the contract clauses-and-schedules).

Head of IT Contract Managementer (Subject Lead, in relation to commercial,
business, govemance and other issues)

andRost_Office_Serricentegrator+ any additional Commercial Team

Members (at Pos: Office's discretion)
Fujitsu Services I Director,Senior Commercial Manager (Subject Lead)
Members
Responsibilities + Management and administration of the Agreement.

© Agreeing amendments to the Agreement subject to the Change
Control Procedure.

© Overseeing the ordering, invoicing and payment process in Schedule
02

© Overseeing the carrying out of Work Orders.

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 12 of 31
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial Relationship
* Reviewing changes to the CCD entitled "Standard Terms and
Conditions for Work Orders” (BP/STD/003).
* Agreeing Change Work-OrdiersNotes in relation to Work Orders.
‘+ Reviewing performance of and, where necessary, improvements to
the Change Control Procedure.
* Management reviews of Open Book, Gain Share and Market Testing.
+ First level escalation for Disputes about the interpretation of this
Agreement, about invoice amounts or terms, and about other matters,
referred to the Commercial Relationship
* Monitoring, reviewing and reporting of events and progress and issue
resolution in respect of Market Testing under Schedule Dé
* Discuss and action legislative changes, compliance issues and audit
requests and Freedom of Information (FOl) requests.
Agree and approve contract conformance exercise
Frequency Monthly

Programme/Release Relationship

Each of the following boards shall be established for each relevant programme or Release
(including Project HNG-X save in relation to the HNG-X Acceptance Board and the HNG-X
Acceptance Dispute Board which shall be constituted as described in Schedule B6.3.)

Programme /Release Board(s)

Post Office
Members

Business Partner relevant to the subject matter of the programme or
Release (Subject Lead),

Programme and/or Release manager,

Design Authority (if appointed), and

Business change manager (if appointed), and/or
Post Office Service Integrator; and

Commercial manager (as required)

Fujitsu Services
Members

Fujitsu Services’ SI Director (Subject Lead)
Programme and/or Release manager

Others, as appropriate for the programme or Release.

Responsibilities

* _ Delivery of programmes and Releases to time and budget.

Managing and resourcing Work Packages which relate to major
development programmes.

‘+ Managing contingency budgets approved in Work Orders including,
where appropriate, delegating authority to appropriate managers.

* Directing the holding of meetings of the ‘Joint Release Authorisation
Board’

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0

Page 13 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

(Commented [DH2i}; Wes tis enoved by acon? +)

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

Programme /Release Board(s)

‘* Project management and governance in accordance with this
Agreement or, to the extent not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Agreement, PRINCE 2 standard practice. For example:

* review and resolution of operational issues arising in design,
development and testing; and

* review progress and performance against plan.

Notwithstanding the Parties’ use of PRINCE 2, or any other design or project,
management methodology, the provisions of this Agreement shall not be
vatied by such use unless the Parties agree otherwise in accordance with
the Change Control Procedure.

Frequency

As determined by the Subject Leads.

Other general
information

There will be one ‘Programme/Release Board’ for each major
programme/ Release.

The Subject Leads will discuss current and future demand for such
boards.

Acceptance Boards (for each Release)

Post Office
Members

Mandatory attendees:

Head of Change and IS (or designate) — Chair,

HNG-X Programme Manager (or designate),

Requirements & Acceptance Manager,

HNG-X Acceptance Manager,

HNG-X Design Authority, and/or

Post Office Service Integrator

Optional attendees:

Testing Manager in each case for the relevant Acceptance activity,

Post Office Commercial Manager

Fujitsu Services
Members

Mandatory attendees.

SI Director (or designate)

Commercial Director (or designate)

HNG-X Programme Director

HNG-X Acceptance Manager

HNG-X Solution Architect

Optional attendees:

Testing Manager

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0

Page 14 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL
in each case for the relevant Acceptance activity.

Responsibilities * To agree the Acceptance status of the relevant Release (including
distribution of HNG-A Application updates by Fujitsu Services to
the EUC Tower Contractor for onward release management) and _I_{ Commented [AH22]: Amended as per CCN1623b )
provide a recommendation to the ‘Joint Release Authorisation ‘(Commented [DH23}: Agreed 2107/21 }
Board’.

Frequency As required to monitor progress towards each Acceptance Gateway.

Acceptance Dispute Board

Post Office Mandatory attendees:

Members

Head of Change and IS (Chair)
HNG-X Programme Manager
HNG-X Acceptance Manager
HNG-X Design Authority; and/or

Post Office Service Integrator; and

Post Office Commercial Manager

Optional attendees:

Testing Manager in each case for the relevant Acceptance activity.

Fujitsu Services
Members

Mandatory attendees:
SI Director

Commercial Director

HNG-X Programme Director
HNG-X Acceptance Manager
HNG-X Solution Architect

Optional attendees:
Testing Manager

in each case for the relevant Acceptance activity.

Responsibilities

* _ Consider and resolve Acceptance disputes arising under Schedule B6.3.
* Consider and resolve Acceptance disputes arising under Schedule B1.1

Frequency

‘As and when required to resolve issues arising during the Acceptance
activity.

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0

Page 15 of 31
FUJ00232818

FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL
Post Office Head of Operations Control (or nominated representative) (Subject Lead)
Members Delivery Integration and Assurance manager, and/or
Post Office Service Integrator
Fujitsu Services I Fujitsu Services’ SI Director (Subject Lead)
Members Customer Service Director and the appropriate Customer Service
Introduction Manager.
Responsibilities the-criteria-and -by-which Releases willbe authoriced-f
release into-field-trial-or-live-operation-and-carry-out-readiness-reviews of
+ Agree the criteria and processes by which
Releases, of HNG-X Central Infrastructure updates or HNG-X Application
updates, will be authorised for release into field trial or live operation and
‘out readiness reviews of stakeholders accordinaly, (N.B. Joint Rele:
roval ¢ similar, held n P. Tc
Contractor members to authorise the release of HNG-A Application updates
may be held jointly or separately from those for HNG-X Central Infrastructure
updates _or HNG-X Application updates, but distinct authorisations for
Release must be given to the different parties) — (Commented [AH24]: Amended as per CON1623b )
Frequency ‘As and when directed by the 'Programme/Release Board’. Cofemvanved [DH25 Agrees 2407/21 J
Post Office Head of IT Enterprise Demand Management Head-of-Change-and1S
Members (Subject Lead)
+ other representatives as agreed from time to time, and/or
I Rost Office Service tntegrator
Optional attendee:
Head of IT Contract Management
Fujitsu ServicesI Development DireciorProgramme Manager (Subject Lead)
Members + other representatives as agreed from time to time
Optional attendee:
‘Commercial DirectorDelivery Executive, (Commented [VH26]: For weekly meeting DE is optional}
she at ach Poradtinaiiod

I ‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 16 of 31
FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

Responsibilities I * Review day-to-day Demands (includes New, In Progress, & On-Hold)

Review FJ Peaks a ‘Commented [VH27}: We do not review peaks inthis
+ _ Resolve any escalations and priorities

meeting. Do you mean maintenance releases?
Formatted: No bullets or numbering

+ Agreement of the Standing Team, (including any

F = ith Anpex-3-to- Schedule A2 initiate, monitor and.
devel tot definitions andi d-conditl

for additions to the contracted services

Re id addlioesto-ventnated ee
the 1 Te Out Toant_ce hear Ti
GCN)
© Oversight of agreeing Work Packages. ‘Commented [VH28]: What do you mean here? 1am not
‘Sure we cover this in a weekly session.
Frequency MonihiyWeekly
Post Office Head of Horizon Live Service (Subject Lead)
Members Horizon IT Problem Manager
+ other representatives as agreed from time to time, and/or
Fujitsu Services I ISO, __-[ Commented [DH29]: Not sure who exacty attends from FJ
Members 80 please feel free to amend.
a + other representatives as agreed from time to time
I ‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0

Page 17 of 31
FUJ00232818

FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL
Responsibilities I * Review progress of existing defects and (New defects discussed in
‘emergency meeting)
+ Review overall impact and prioritisation of implementation defects
+ _Aaree options, actions and timeline for resolution of each defects
+ Review and accept evidence of defect resolution and agree closure of
defects
A tion of any open and resolv.
4 Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.63 cm, Line spacing: single,
Keep with next, Keep lines together, Tab stops: 3.81 cm, List
Frequency Weekly tab
NB: An emergency meeting will be held for new defects «I Formatted: Left, Space After: 14 pt, Don't keep with next, ]
Don't keep lines together
Post Office Cyber Security Compliance Manager (Subject Lead), I -[Formatted: Font: +Body (Calibri)
Members ~ (Formatted: Normal, No bullets or numbering

Head of Horizon Security

Formatted: Font: +Body (Calibr)

Head of Horizon Commercial Team,

‘( Formatted: Font: +Body (Calibri)

Head of Security Architect

Optional: CIso, =I (Formatted: Normal,_No bullets or numbering

(Formatted: Font: +Body (Calibri), Font color: Text 1

__-( Formatted: Font: +Body (Calibri)

+ other representatives as agreed from time to time, and/or

~~( Formatted: Font: +Body (Calibri)

Fujitsu Services

Information Security Manager

Members

Security Architect
Optional: CISO,

+ other representatives as agreed from time to time

_-{ Commented [DH30]: Not sure who exactly attends from FJ
‘50 please feel free to amend.

Responsibilities

sess the current security posture of Horizon versus the ideal target state
by providing a forum that performs the following:

Assessment of compliance with relevant contractual clauses from the +}

Le I Formatted: Font: (Default) Calbr, 11 pt, Font color: Custom ]
Color(RGB(33,33,33))
~~{ Formatted: Font: (Defauit)Calibr, 11 pt, Font color: Custom
Color(RGB(33,33,33))

security schedule ~ where possible to be done offline

Assessment of the risk status of all items associated with transition to
the cloud including but not limited to EOSL risks, transition risks, SMS
RACI

* Assessment of incidents, root causes and resulting risks and actions

* Escalation to CIO and Fujitsu management of items for their attention

* Review of Status of actions & improvements plans to bring current
status into line with appetite.

\[ Formatted: Font: (Default) Calibri, 11 pt, Font color: Custom
I Color(RG8(33,33,33)), Kern at 8 pt
et Tage 0 ited eek Ao

at: 0.63 cm + Indent at: 1.27 cm

__-[ Formatted: Font: (Default) Calibri, 14 pt, Font color: Custom
Color(RGB(33,33,33))

I ‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0

Page 18 of 31
FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL
Frequency Monthly
I —{ Formatted: Justified, Space After: 6 pt, Keep with next, Keep
lines together
Quarterly Spend Review
Post Office Head of IT Contract Management (Subject Lead, in relation to commercial
Members business, governance and other issues)

IT Finance

Horizon Financial Analyst

+ other representatives as agreed from time to time
Fujitsu Services Finance Manager (Subject Lead)

Members Senior Commercial Manager

Delivery Executive

Responsibilities I * Rolling Actions from previous meeting

Review the actual/forecast category committed spend by Fujitsu
‘Serviceswith the supplier,

Review holistic view of Fujitsu Services supplier committed spend over
the period!

Review shortfalls where spend commitments are not met and agree how
to address financial challenges.

iy ne. tation of anv financial rick nd -oscalath
ee. Formatted: Left, Don't adjust space between Latin and Asian
text, Don't adjust space between Asian text and numbers
Frequency ‘Six Monthly,

~{ Commented [VH31]: This has been amended to match the
‘wording in the schedule I1

I ‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 19 of 31
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

1

1.2

13

24

22

34

Annex 2 to Schedule A2

INTRODUCTION

The Parties shall use the Dispute Resolution Procedure to resolve any Dispute.

There may, subject to the other provisions of this Annex 2 to Schedule A2, be up to five
stages (each a "Stage") to the DRP as follows:

1.2.1 _ the Subject Lead Review to be carried out in accordance with paragraph 2;
1.2.2 the Executive Review to be carried out in accordance with paragraph 3;

1.2.3 the Board Review (including facilitation by an expert) to be carried out in
accordance with paragraph 4;

1.2.4 provided that the Parties agree to such procedure, mediation (to be carried out in
accordance with paragraph 6) or expert determination (to be carried out in
accordance with paragraph 7); and

1.2.5 where any mediation does not resolve the Dispute or the Parties do not agree to
the use of mediation or expert determination, or as otherwise provided for in this
Agreement, resolution through the courts of England.

The Parties may relax the timescales referred to in the DRP by mutual agreement (such
agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed)

SUBJECT LEAD REVIEW

Subject to paragraph 2.2, as soon as either Party becomes aware of a disputed matter it
shall refer the Dispute to the Subject Leads best qualified to deal with the Dispute (taking
into account the nature of the Dispute and the responsibilities of each Subject Lead) for
resolution within five Working Days of the date of referral (the “Subject Lead Review’). If
the Dispute relates to the interpretation of this Agreement or to the amount or terms of
invoices, then the Dispute shall be referred to the Commercial Relationship for resolution.

As soon as either Party becomes aware of a disputed matter in relation to the SIP it
shall refer the Dispute to Executive Review described in paragraph 3,

EXECUTIVE REVIEW

In the event that the Subject Leads of the Relationship to which the Dispute is referred
under paragraph 2 fail to resolve that Dispute, the Dispute shall be referred to the
Systems Integration Partnership and Executive Relationship for resolution in accordance
with this paragraph 3 (the "Executive Review"). Each Party shall, no later than five
Working Days after such failure (or as soon as reasonably practicable if the Dispute is in
relation to the SIP), provide the other with a Statement of Dispute. If the Parties agree to

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 20 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

do so, such statements may be provided sequentially by one Party responding to the
Statement of Dispute of the other.

3.2 The Subject Leads of the Systems Integration Partnership and Executive Relationship or
other individuals nominated by each Party suitably empowered to deal with executive
matters (the "Nominated Executives’) will be responsible for collating all relevant
information relating to the Dispute and for progressing the Dispute through the DRP until
itis resolved or determined

3.3. The Executive Review shall take place within ten Working Days of the referral with the
object of resolving the Dispute by way of good faith negotiation

3.4 The Parties may agree, before the Executive Review referred to in paragraph 3.3 takes
place, or if that review fails to resolve the Dispute referred to it, to appoint an expert
facilitator (the “Facilitator’) to assist with resolution of the Dispute on the following basis:

3.4.1. The Facilitator will be appointed as soon as reasonably practicable;
3.4.2 The Facilitator shall be an individual who’

3.4.2.1 holds qualifications in respect of the subject matter underlying the
Dispute; and

3.4.2.2 is approved by both Parties (such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed).

3.4.3 _ In the event that the Parties fail to agree upon an individual as the Facilitator, the
Facilitator shall be appointed at the request of Post Office or Fujitsu Services
(whichever is the earlier) by the President for the time being of the Institution of
Engineering and Technology so long as such appointee shall meet the criterion
in paragraph 3.4.2.1

3.4.4 The Facilitator shall act as a facilitator and not as an expert or arbitrator and his
fees shall be borne by the Parties in equal shares.

3.4.5 Within five Working Days of appointment of the Facilitator the Parties shall submit
to the Facilitator:

3.4.5.1 each Party's Statement of Dispute (as amended to reflect matters
discussed so far), such statement also to be disclosed to the
other Party; and

3.4.5.2 a joint agreed statement describing the scope of the initial
guidance required from the Facilitator.

3.4.6 The Dispute shall be referred to the Facilitator to obtain such initial guidance and
the Parties shall request that the Facilitator gives such guidance within 15
Working Days of receipt of the Statement of Dispute from both Parties. The

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 21 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

44

42

43

44

54

Facilitator shall not be required to determine the Dispute unless the Parties agree
that he shall be appointed as an Expert in accordance with paragraph 7.

3.4.7 Once the Facilitator has given to the Parties his initial guidance on the Dispute,
the Nominated Executives shall meet within five Working Days of the initial
guidance being given and attempt to resolve the Dispute with the advice and
guidance of the Facilitator within ten Working Days of the meeting,

BOARD REVIEW

If the Dispute is not resolved by the Executive Review, the Parties may, if both Parties
agree, refer the Dispute for review by (i) either or both of the Operations: Horizon Director
and/or the CIO of the Post Office
ple-and (ji) the Commercial Division Director, Fujitsu Services (the “Board Review")I

The Board Review shall take place within five Working Days of the referral with the object
of resolving the Dispute by way of good faith negotiation

If the Dispute is not resolved within ten Working Days of the Board Review, the Parties
may, if both Parties agree, refer the Dispute to a Mediator (for resolution in accordance
with paragraph 6) or to an Expert (for determination in accordance with paragraph 7).

If the Parties do not reach agreement whether (a) to refer the Dispute for resolution by
Board Review, within 15 Working Days of completing the Executive Review, or (b) to refer
the Dispute to a Mediator or an Expert pursuant to paragraph 4.3, either Party may seek
resolution of the Dispute through the courts of England. Notwithstanding the requirement
in paragraph 4.2, if the Board Review has not taken place within 20 Working Days of
referral, either Party may seek resolution of the Dispute through the courts of England.

STATEMENT OF DISPUTE

‘A “Statement of Dispute” means a signed and dated statement of a Subject Lead
containing the following information:

5.1.1 the name, job title, postal address and contact telephone number of the Subject
Lead making the statement on behalf of one Party and that of the Subject Lead
of the other Party to whom the statement is given (each such Subject Lead
being a “Dispute Owner’);

5.1.2 an adequate description of the Dispute, from the perspective of the Party on
whose behalf the statement is made;

5.1.3. any dates by which an output or decision is required for operational reasons; and

5.1.4 any recommendation for the resolution of the Dispute which the Dispute Owner
considers appropriate

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 22 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

(Commented [DH32] Is this the correct rolelarea? )

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

5.2

61

62

63

7.2

73

74

Within five Working Days of the completion of each Stage of the DRP the Dispute Owners
of each Party shall, if the Dispute has not been resolved, prepare a joint statement
including

5.2.1 the findings of the Stage in question; and

5.2.2 _ the output or decision required from the next Stage of the DRP,
to be used by or in connection with the next stage of the DRP.
MEDIATION

At any time after the Executive Review, the Parties may agree that the Dispute shall be
referred to mediation. In the event that the Parties agree to mediation, the Parties will be
responsible for appointing the mediator (the "Mediator”), but in the event that they are
unable to agree on a Mediator either or both of the Parties shall request the Centre for
Dispute Resolution ("CEDR") to appoint a Mediator.

The Parties shall, with the assistance of the Mediator, seek to agree the mediation
procedure. In default of such agreement, the Mediator shall act in accordance with CEDR
rules. The Parties shall, within five Working Days of the date on which the terms of the
mediation are settled, meet the Mediator in order to agree a programme for the exchange
of any relevant information and the structure to be adopted for the mediation.

Subject to agreement between the Parties, the mediation shall take place within 30
Working Days of the appointment of the Mediator.

EXPERT DETERMINATION

At any time after the Board Review, the Parties may agree that the Dispute shall be
referred to an expert ("Expert"), appointed by the Parties, for final determination of the
Dispute.

The Expert shall be appointed as soon as reasonably practicable and shall be an
individual who:

7.2.1 holds qualifications in respect of the subject matter underlying the Dispute in
question; and

7.2.2 _is approved by both Parties (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed).

In the event that the Parties fail to agree upon the Expert to be appointed, the Expert shall
be appointed, at the request of Post Office or Fujitsu Services, by the President for the
time being of the Institution of Engineering and Technology so long as such appointee
shall meet the criterion specified in paragraph 7.2.1

The Expert appointed under paragraph 7.2 shall act on the following basis:

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 23 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

744

74.2

74.3

744

745

the Expert shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator;

the Expert shall decide the procedure to be followed in the determination of the
Dispute and shall be requested to make his determination in writing within 20
Working Days after his appointment or as soon as practicable thereafter;

the Expert's determination shall (in the absence of manifest error) be final and
binding on the Parties;

any amount payable by Fujitsu Services to Post Office as a result of the Expert's
determination shall be paid within ten Working Days of the Expert's determination
being notified to the Parties;

any amount payable by Post Office to Fujitsu Services as a result of the Expert's
determination shall be included in the next invoice for the Charges and paid by
Post Office in accordance with Schedule D2; and

the costs of the determination, including the fees and expenses of the Expert,
shall be borne by the Parties in such proportions as may be determined by the
Expert.

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0

Page 24 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

a)

b)

°

d)

a)

b)

Annex 3 to Schedule A2

Planning of Pre-Committed Resource

INNER CORE TEAM TO 31ST MARCH 2015

The Parties shall agree an Inner Core Team of resources for the period up to 31st March
2015 under the auspices of the Demand Planning Board. The Inner Core Team for such
period shall consist of those Fujitsu Services personnel who have specialist knowledge
and experience of the infrastructure and/or processes used to support Post Office's needs
under the Agreement and whose loss would cause a significant increase in cost or time
for the implementation of future change whilst new staff were trained in or re-discovered
that key knowledge

The Inner Core Team for the period up to 31st March 2015 is initially set at 9 full time
posts covered by 12 people. Post Office shall have the final say on posts, skill sets and
who is included within the Inner Core Team from the list of candidates recommended by
Fujitsu Services but shall not unreasonably refuse candidates and shall provide reasons
where it reasonably refuses. The Demand Planning Board shall record in its minutes
which areas of the business Fujitsu Services feel is not sufficiently covered to enable
mitigation actions to be taken if necessary.

Limited changes: The Inner Core Team shall be fixed (in terms of variety of skill sets and
numbers of posts and persons) from the date of signature of CCN1271c and such
elements may not be varied prior to 31st March 2015 other than under the process set
out in paragraph 3 below in relation to skill sets only.

The additional provisions regarding the Inner Core Team set out in paragraphs 11 and 12
below shall apply with effect from 1st April 2015 except that paragraph 11 will not apply
in the event that the Inner Core Team is terminated by Post Office pursuant to paragraph
12 below.

OUTER CORE TEAM TO 31st MARCH 2015,

The Parties shall agree an Outer Core Team of resources for the period up to 31st
March 2015 under the auspices of the Demand Planning Board. The Outer Core Team
shall consist of those Fujitsu Services personnel who have specialist knowledge and
experience of the infrastructure and/or processes used to support Post Office's needs
under the Agreement and whose loss would cause a significant increase in cost or time
for the implementation of future change whilst new staff were trained in or re-discovered
that key knowledge.

The Outer Core Team for the period up to 31st March 2015 is initially set at 15 full time
posts covered by 18 people. Post Office shall have the final say on posts, skill sets and
who is included within the Outer Core Team from the list of candidates recommended by
Fujitsu Services but shall not unreasonably refuse candidates and shall provide reasons
where it reasonably refuses. The Demand Planning Board shall record in its minutes

Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 25 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

which areas of the business Fujitsu Services feel are not sufficiently covered to enable
mitigation actions to be taken if necessary.

c) _ Right to cancel Outer Core Team: Post Office shall have the right to cancel the Outer
Core Team effective from the second anniversary of signature of CCN1271c. Post Office
may exercise such option in writing to the Fujitsu Services Commercial Director up to 21
months from signature of CCN1271¢ only. If such break option is not activated, the
Outer Core Team shall continue in place as normal until 31st March 2015.

d) Limited Changes: The Outer Core Team shall be fixed (in terms of variety of skill sets
and numbers of posts and persons) from the date of signature of CCN 127 1c and such
elements may only be varied:

i) _inrelation to numbers of persons and posts only, on Post Office giving 9
months’ notice after that date. Post Office shall not reduce the numbers of
persons and/or posts of the Outer Core Team as initially set by more than 20%
during the initial 2 years from signature of CCN1271c. During years 3-5 from
signature of CCN1271¢, assuming Post Office has not invoked the break option
at point 2(b) above, Post Office may reduce the numbers of persons and/or
posts of the Outer Core Team by up to 20% in total of the size existing at the
second anniversary of signature of CCN12711c during the remainder of the Term
of the Agreement. Should Post Office not have utilised the full 20% reduction
during the initial 2 years, then the remaining balance is not carried over to the
3rd-5th years.

ii) Inrelation to skill sets only, under the process set out in point 3) below.
3. VARIATIONS TO SKILL SETS OF THE INNER AND OUTER CORE TEAMS:

a)

Where forecast utilisation of a specified skill set within either the Inner Core Team or Outer
Core Team is less than 50% for three or more succeeding months, Post Office may request
at the Demand Planning Forum for that skill set to be exchanged for another skill set where
consistent demand is shown. Post Office may, after the first anniversary of signature of
(CCN1271¢, change 1 person in the Inner Core Team and 2 people within the Outer Core
team under this provision each year.

b)

Where the replacement persons are from the Inner Core Team, the Outer Core Team or the
Standing Team, it is expected that Post Office will normally backfill that post, leaving the total
within each team unchanged. Post Office's rights in respect of team size reductions under the
other provisions of CCN1271c would be unaffected.

°)

Post Office’s entitlement to discounts will be unaffected by exchanges of personnel under this
paragraph.

¢d

Only in the event that the Post Office has requested the substitution, any re-skilling
requirements for the replacement resource will be chargeable to the Post Office provided that
Fujitsu Services shall take all reasonable endeavours to minimise the need for such re-
skilling,

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 26 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

4.

Fujitsu Services undertakes to use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that the Inner
Core Team and Outer Core Team personnel are not removed or replaced for the duration
of the Agreement However, in the event that any of the Inner Core Team or Outer Core
‘Team personnel become unavailable for any reason (including without limitation death,
injury, sickness, career advancement or resignation), Fujitsu Services shall have the right
upon giving 30 days’ notice in writing to Post Office to replace such an individual with
another individual whose abilities and qualifications are appropriate for the services to be
performed by such individual. Fujitsu Services shall submit to Post Office the CV of any
such replacement and shall take any representation from Post Office in response under
due consideration, Post Office shall not be charged for any training required to bring such
staff up to the required standard of knowledge.

CONFIDENTIALITY

a) Post Office may reproduce, copy and disclose Personnel Information relating to the Inner and

b)

a)

Outer Core Teams:
i) to Post Office's Subject Leads for (i) the Systems Integration Partnership and
Executive Relationship, (ii) the Commercial Relationship and (iii) current members of

the Demand Planning Board;

to its professional advisers provided such reproduction, copying and disclosure is
necessary for the purposes of this Agreement; or

as required by law,

iv

provided that Post Office shall procure that the persons referred to in paragraphs (i)
and (ii) above shall not themselves disclose Personnel Information (except amongst
themselves) without the express written consent of Fujitsu Services.

Post Office may discuss Personnel Information with and disclose Personnel Information to
Fujitsu Services Listed Personnel.

‘STANDING TEAM TO 31st MARCH 2015

The Parties shall agree a Standing Team of resources for the period up to 31st March 2015
under the auspices of the Demand Planning Board. The Standing Team during such period
shall consist of an agreed number of personnel per grade sufficient to meet the Fujitsu
Services forecasted minimum level of resources required, over and above the Inner Core
Team and the Outer Core Team, to match the minimum Fujitsu Services forecasted
workload anticipated within the next rolling 9 month period. This is initially set at 20.9 full
time posts covered by 23 people. Post Office may terminate individual resource from this
team on 3 months' notice after completion of the first 9 months. Post Office shalll have the
final say on what quantity of personnel for each grade is included within the Standing Team
from the recommended list provided by Fujitsu Services. For replacements, Fujitsu Services
shall recommend its suggested candidate plus at least 1 other qualified candidate and Post
Office may request further candidates where, for good reason, neither of the submitted
candidates is acceptable. Fujitsu Services remains the final arbiter on who fills each post,
as long as they meet the required qualifications and experience.”

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 27 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

7.

8.

81

82

83

84

85

REPORTING

i) Fujitsu Services shall present to each Demand Planning Board the following reports.
The Demand Planning Board may request other reports as necessary to facilitate
resource management.

(1) Resource requirements for committed and projected business

(2) Allocation of Inner Core Team, Outer Core Team and Standing Team personnel
against the resource requirements at 7(i1) above.

(3) Requirements for additional specialist or volume-driven resources

(4) Shortfall in utilisation of any Inner Core Team, Outer Core Team or Standing Team
members. Fujitsu Services shall make available the CV of any personnel having
spare capacity to Post Office to facilitate their re-allocation.

(5) Actuals against Fujitsu Services forecasts in relation to resource requirements,
allocation ad utilisation.

(6) Such information as is required to allow Post Office to allocate costs to individual
changes for re-charge to internal customers.

ESTIMATING

In the event that forecast estimates prove inaccurate in practice, Fujitsu Services shall
identify:

a) any persistent causes of such inaccuracy
b) in extreme cases of inaccuracy, the cause(s) of such inaccuracy

In the case of any persistent causes identified under 8.1(a) above, the Party owning the
area from which the cause originates shall, with the reasonable co-operation of the other
Party where required (which shall be supplied free of charge), generate an action plan for
addressing the cause which shall be presented to the Demand Planning Board for
ratification

In the case of any extreme cause of inaccuracy identified under 8.1(b) above, the Party
‘owning the area from which the cause originates shall, with the reasonable co-operation
of the other Party where required (which shall be supplied free of charge), shall generate
an action plan for reducing or eliminating the chance of that cause re-ocourting which
shall be presented to the Demand Planning Board for ratification.

The Party owning the area from which the cause originates shall fund any action required
under the action plan.

The Demand Planning Board shall agree any further measures it deems necessary to
rectify continuing inaccuracy in estimates.

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 28 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

9.

10.

‘SPARE CAPACITY

i) Inthe event that a member of the Inner Core Team, Outer Core Team or the Standing
Team is unallocated to a particular task for any period, Fujitsu Services shall notify
Post Office as soon as possible, in any event at the next succeeding Demand
Planning Board. Fujitsu Services shall use all reasonable endeavours to locate work
either on or off the programme to utilise this spare capacity and report its findings to
Post Office. Where staff are used other than to support Post Office programmes or
services, charges shall be reduced accordingly and Post Office shall not pay anything
for any time any persons are working on non-Post Office matters or are unavailable
for reasons of sickness, corporate training, leave etc. Where staff are available but
are unable to be utilised or re-deployed, charges shall fall to Post Office.

ii) In the event that Fujitsu Services is unable to locate sufficient work to fill such spare
capacity, Post Office shall have the option to identify work for the individual, either on.
contract work, within the SIP or on work currently outside the Agreement. In the latter
case, such work would be brought within the contract scope to ensure that a
contractual framework was provided for the services performed

OFFSHORING

In the event that the Parties agree that it is possible to Offshore either a Standing or an Inner
Core Team or Outer Core Team role, Fujitsu Services shall

i) provide to Post Office a revised potential cost for that role to include the re-training
etc required. Fujitsu Services shall also provide all reasonable information in relation
to any potential risks from the Offshoring to allow Post Office to make an informed
decision on whether Offshoring is advisable in the particular case. Where the costs
of such investigation exceeds 2 man-days, such investigation shall be chargeable to
Post Office at the appropriate rate provided that the nature of this investigation
(including as to its scope and duration) have been agreed in writing by the Post Office
prior to the commencement of such investigation ; or

ii) consider the proposal under the Gain Share principles.

The choice between (i) or (ii) above shall be entirely at Post Office’s discretion.

11.

W4

INNER CORE TEAM FROM ‘st APRIL 2015

During the period from 1* April 2015, unless terminated in accordance with paragraph 12
below or increased or decreased in accordance with paragraph 11.3 below, the Inner
Core Team shall be set at 16 full time posts covered by 25 people. Post Office shall have
the final say on posts, skill sets and who is included within the Inner Core Team from the
list of candidates recommended by Fujitsu Services but shall not unreasonably refuse
candidates and shall provide reasons where it reasonably refuses. In selection of the
Inner Core Team Post Office shall take into account that during the period when
Transitional Support Services are provided and Post Office is in transition to the Towers
Model a different mix of skills may be required to retain the knowledge required to deliver
the Services while protecting the reputations of Post Office and Fujitsu Services. The

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 29 of 31

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL,

12

13

14

12.

124

13.

13.1

13.2

13.3

13.4

14.

14,

14.2

Demand Planning Board shall record in its minutes which areas of the business Fujitsu
Services feel is not sufficiently covered to enable mitigation actions to be taken if
necessary.

The Charges for the Inner Core Team shall be calculated on a discounted basis in
accordance with Schedule D1. This discount shall be applied monthly as a credit to the
operating charge.

Post Office may increase or decrease the size of the Inner Core Team before or after 1%
April 2015 by giving three (3) months’ notice to Fujitsu Services,

Removal of members of the Inner Core Team in accordance with paragraph 11.3 above
will impact the discounting as per paragraph 10.4B of Schedule D1.

TERMINATION OF THE INNER CORE TEAM

Post Office may terminate the requirement for the Inner Core Team with effect from 1
April 2015, without payment of any charge to Fujitsu Services, upon providing written
notice to this effect to Fujitsu Services on or before 30" September 2014. In the event of
any such termination, the provisions of paragraph 11 above shall not apply.

OUTER CORE TEAM AND STANDING TEAM FROM 1* APRIL 2015

During the period from 1* April 2015, the Outer Core Team shall be initially set as a
commitment to spend £150,000 per month on Development Resources.

The full time posts supplied in the Outer Core team can be changed but require a three
month notice period and Post Office must confirm its requirement for resources 3 months
in advance.

The discount structure for the Outer Core team is included in 10.4B of Schedule D1. This
discount shall be applied monthly as a credit to the operating charge.

There will be no Standing Team during the period from 1* April 2015.

CORE TEAM MODEL FROM 1* APRIL 2016

The approaches set out in paragraphs 11 and 13 shall expire at the end of31* March
2016.

From 1* April 2016 to 31" March 202 for the remainder of the term, Post Office commits
to funding the “Core Team” which shall comprise 16 on-shore full time equivalent posts
covered by up to 25 people. Post Office shall have the final say on posts, skill sets and
who is included within this team, from time to time, provided such persons and posts are
chosen from the list of candidates recommended by Fujitsu Services. Post Office shall
not unreasonably refuse candidates and shall provide reasons where it reasonably
refuses. In the event Post Office wishes to vary the posts, skill sets and who is included

‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 30 of 31

FUJ00232818

FUJ00232818
(Commented [VH33}: Amended by CCN1700 )
(Commented [DH34]: Agreed 110821 j

FUJ00232818
FUJ00232818

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL,

in the Core Team it shall do so by giving three (3) months’ notice to Fujitsu Services,
unless, in respect of who is included in the Core Team, a member of the Core Team is
guilty of misconduct, is underperforming or otherwise exhibits unacceptable behaviour, in
which case, Post Office may require the immediate removal by Fujitsu Services of that,
member from the Core Team. Where a member is removed from the Core Team as
described above, Fujitsu Services shall promptly replace them with a person satisfactory
to Post Office (acting reasonably)

15. CRITICAL SMEs FROM 1st APRIL 2023I __ (Commented [VH35]: Added by CON1700 3)
{Commented [DH36]: Agreed 110821 )

15,

From 1st April 2023, Fujitsu Services shall retain a list of Critical SMEs as identified and

eed between the Parties for the duration of the Term. These Critical SMEs shall be
utilised in the delivery of Development and/or Operational Services (including for the
purposes of any knowledge transfer to Post Office or a Next Supplier) as allocated from
time to time in accordance with the Parties’ demand planning arrangements and Change
Control procedure.

15.2 Fujitsu Services will not remove any Critical SMEs from delivery of the Services, except
for the following reasons: (a) the individual resigns, (b) the individual retires, (c) the
individual goes on long-term sick leave, (d) the individual is dismissed for conduct or
some other substantial reason, or (e) the individual refuses to continue performing their
duties in respect of the Services.

15.3 Fujitsu Services will seek Post Office's input and will use reasonable endeavours to
reach agreement on an appropriate replacement for any Critical SMEs.

15.4_In the event that any Operational Service activity to which a Critical SME is aligned to is
terminated, Fujitsu Services shall have no obligation to retain that Critical SME or provide
a replacement for that Critical SME. In the event that one or more of the Operational
Service activities to which the Critical SME is aligned are terminated but other such
activities continue, Fujitsu Services shall inform Post Office before removing or replacing
such Critical SME; however, the removal of such Critical SMEs shall remain at Fujitsu
Services sole discretion.

I ‘Schedule A2 Version 143.0
Page 31 of 31
