FUJ00243301
FUJ00243301

foe]
FUJITSU

Fujitsu
Fujitsu Services Limited
Lovelace Road, Bracknell. RG12 8SN

STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL

Simon Oldnall
Post Office

3°¢ Floor

100 Wood Street
London

EC2V 7ER

Date: 3 July 2024

Exit of the agreement between Post Office Limited ("POL") and Fujitsu Services Limited ("FSL”) dated 28
July 1999 (the “Agreement”)

Dear Simon,

I refer to FSL's letter of 15 April 2024 regarding the need for the parties to prepare for the end of FSL's
support of the Horizon platform when the Agreement expires on 31 March 2025 (the “Exit Date”).

POL has shared that it will not be able to move from Horizon to NBIT on the Exit Date and has asked FSL
to consider continuing to support Horizon for a further five years after the Exit Date, until March 2030.
However, FSL has not agreed to an extension and therefore, we must continue to plan for the end of FSL’s
Horizon support services at the Exit Date. Given the status of the delivery of NBIT and the associated
delays communicated by POL to FSL to date, this planning should be based upon a strategy for the
transfer of services in-house to POL.

We have seen limited formal engagement from POL to meaningfully progress the planning of exit at the
Exit Date. Post Office is instead focussed on seeking to secure an extension and planning for exit to occur
before the end of extended contract term.

The purpose of this letter is to escalate the position so that POL engages proactively with FSL to plan and
prepare for POL to take over the services that FSL is due to cease providing on the Exit Date. As
discussed, POL needs to assign an Exit Manager to prepare with FSL an exit plan.

We suggest a meeting occur during July to discuss this further with the relevant Post Office attendees
that will be responsible for delivery under the exit plan.

Yours sincerely

Dan Walton
Head of Post Office Account, Fujitsu

Fujitsu
Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office Fujitsu, Lovelace Road, Bracknell, England, RG12 BSN
