FUJ00174289
FUJ00174289

From: Gilbert Roger[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GILBERTR2]
Sent: Fri 02/04/2010

To:

Ce:

Subject: RE: Post Office Service Issues - Daily Update

My understanding on Belfast is that some very high and very short spikes in the Grid during the storm (power lines
crashing together) got through the smoothing and affected a few (a think a minority) of servers. They ran on diesel
(maybe still are) until fully understood. Doesn't sound like a HNGX design issue although the power surge stuff might
need looking at. Also it’s a rare event and probably within the spec of the Data Centre.

We need to wait for the RCA to get more.
David, Martin,

Am I right?

Regards

Roger

From: Bounds Gavin

Sent: 31 March 2010 10:59

To: Gilbert Roger

Ce: Tait Duncan

Subject: Post Office Service Issues - Daily Update
Importance: High

Roger,
Apologies for the delay — here is the latest update:

1: No outages yesterday

: Patch for current issue progressing through test

3: Rachel Daka has been assigned to conduct the internal review of our CS operations, interviews started yesterday
4: No Post Office Exec comms re the issues as of last night

5: No contact from POL Press Office to Fujitsu Press Office

NEW ISSUE

Last night Belfast Data Centre suffered a power surge, this impacted the Post Office estate. The Post Office ClO has
asked that this be escalated and wants to understand “how this can have happened when we have paid for a resilient
data centre”. This has very serious implications for us — it opens up concerns around our design and contractual
compliance. I have spoken to David Sillitoe, his team are investigating but don’t have a firm root cause as of yet. You
may get a call from POL — our position for now is that we are working with the National Grid to get to the bottom of the
cause, this make take 2-3 days.

RED ALERT
I have agreed with the team that we move to red alert status.

EXEC COMMS
Duncan is fully aware of the above.
May I leave you to decide whether Richard needs to be made aware.
FUJ00174289
FUJ00174289

Kind regards,

Gavin

