FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

o
Fujitsu Restricted FU} ITSU

Security Assessment Ref: LOC/CSO/Privilege Management
/PostOffice/220413

Issue:1.0
Date:26/07/2013

Assessment Control Page

Assessment I Internal Assessment Reference I Ref: LOC/CSO/Privilege

Type Management
/PostOffice/22042013

Area HNS Processes Assessed Privilege Management

Contact(s) Brad Warren Process Owner(s) Deborah Haworth

Planned 11/04/2013 Lead Assessor Gurbir Singh

Date

Start Date 11/04/2013 Full Report Title PostOffice Privilege
Management Assessment
Report

Assessment Summary
1. Objective of Assessment

Undertake an internal security review of the above unit and assess local privilege
management processes and working practice including:

Whether the Account is responsible for privileged account management, or has privileged
accounts, in the following areas:

e Domain administration;
e Servers;

e Firewalls;

e Networks;

e Applications;

e Any others.

Where devices and/or systems are managed centrally or there is no privileged access then the

assessment will not be applicable.

Fujitsu Restricted Page 1 of 8
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2012
FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

o
Fujitsu Restricted FU} ITSU

Each technology area will be checked to ensure:

Privileged accounts are identified;

The principle of least privilege is recognised and implemented;

The Delivery Exec has accepted accountability for the use of privileged access across
the Account;

Actions are being taken to minimise the number of privileged accounts;

A documented process is in place that contains the process steps in the high level
process flow produced by the office of the CSO;

Regular reporting is being produced which contains the elements listed in the Process
notes produced by the office of the CSO.

There will also be a check that the regular communications from the Fujitsu UK&I CSO on
this topic are being cascaded appropriately.

2. Scope of Assessment

Function / Role Interviewee
cso Brad Warren
Security Operations Manager - Post Office Account Donna Munro
POA BU Quality & Compliance Manager Bill Membery
Security Operations team Kumudu Amaratunga
Crypto Key Manager Andy Dunks
Security Operations Rajbinder Bains
Fujitsu Restricted Page 2 of 8

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2012
Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

Fujitsu Restricted

3. Management Summary
During this Assessment a total of: 1 Non-conformances, I Observations and 0 Good Practice Observations were raised.

Operations Overview

Findings are limited to the areas sampled during this visit. The context of the findings is described in the commentary below. In summary, the

main findings and recommendations are as follows:

foe)
FUJITSU

No I Category I Finding Recommendation Actionee I Completion
date
1 I Obs The details of the fields held within this I It is recommended that the user registration cIsO 11/11/2013
user register are shown in Appendix B of I process exhaustively specifies every PO systems
the procedure but states that “this is nota _I that the account manages access for. The
exhaustive list”. Privileged Access Process notes produced by
the office of the CSO may help.
2 I Obs It was noted that this procedure It is recommended that this procedure is CISO 11/11/2013
(SVM/SEC/PRO/0012) was last reviewed I reviewed and reviewed at least annually
in October 2011. thereafter.
3 I Obs The document “The Post Office Account I It is recommended that this document is cIso 11/11/2013
User Management LWI”, first produced I reviewed, approved and published.
in 2011 is still in draft.
4 INC Neither the user access procedure nor the I It is recommended that a matrix is established cIsO 11/11/2013
associated work instruction lists the listing all of the PO systems along with possible
matrix of privileges associated with the privileges that user accounts may have.
PO systems that users can potentially
request.
5 I NC There is no documented procedure on It is recommended that a section is added within I CISO 11/11/2013

how to process a request for a privileged
account in an emergency situation.

the user registration process that describes how a
request for a privileged user accounts should be
processed.

Fujitsu Restricted

Page 3 of 8

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2012

FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630
Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

Fujitsu Restricted

foe)
FUJITSU

6 INC The User Registration Procedure lists
references to several corporate
documents but the mandatory Security
Master Policy and the notes associated
with privileged access user notes are not.

It is recommended that the user registration
process and the associated work instructions
incorporate references to both the Security
Master Policy and Privilege Access
requirements.

CIsO.

11/11/2013

Please see Appendix I for details of observation categories

Fujitsu Restricted

Page 4 of 8

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2012

FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

Pre)

4. Assessment Commentary

4.1 Technology Status
Following this assessment the technologies have been RAG coded as follows:

Firewalls are provided centrally as a managed service and are therefore not applicable to this
assessment.

Networks are provided centrally as a managed service and are therefore not applicable to this
assessment. However, the PO security operations team manage the encryption keys used over
the WAN links, no additional privileged accounts are associated with this activity.

A Fujitsu global team based in India provides development and support for the primary
application Horizon Next Generation (HNG-X) application. Privileged accounts used by that
team are subject to the “POA User Access Procedure.doc”.

Domain and server administration is provided by a dedicated Wintel support team.

Other privileged accounts are used by contractors, third parties, Oracle, DBA, SAP and non
POA Fujitsu staff is subject to the user registration process.

4.2 Key Principles and Accountability
The PO account is large and has an appropriately large security team. It is clear that the DE
was aware that he is accountable for the for privilege access across the account.

Access Control procedures should be consistent with the Access Management guidelines on
page 4 of the Minimum Security Control document available here.

A new CISO has been recently appointed to this account. Additional key positions within the
security team have been filled but some remain vacant. A service improvement plan was
established in late 2012 ahead of a BV external audit. The external auditor was satisfied with
the plan and the audit concluded with a single non-security related finding.

4.3 Process Control

This is a large account requiring the support of several internal capability units. A user
account database is maintained which includes details of the privilege account. Authorisation
for the privileged access is provided each user’s manager. TfS is used to record all user
access requests.

There are two documents associated with user registration

Fujitsu Restricted Page 5 of 8
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2012
FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

o
Fujitsu Restricted FU} ITSU

The main procedure “POA Usser Access Procedure.doc - SVM/SEC/PRO/0012” and an
associated work instruction “The Post Office Account User Management LWI” which does
not have a document reference at this time.

The user register holds details about each user, the nature of the access and the system they
have access to. In addition it contains details of the authoriser, approver and dates that this
access was granted, last reviewed and revoked.

#1 Observation

The details of the fields held within this user register are shown in Appendix B of the
procedure but states that “this is not a exhaustive list”. It is recommended that the user
registration process exhaustively specifies every PO systems that the account manages access
for. The Privileged Access Process notes produced by the office of the CSO may help.

#2 Observation
It was noted that this procedure (SVM/SEC/PRO/0012) was last reviewed in October 2011.
It is recommended that this procedure is reviewed and reviewed at least annually thereafter.

A work instruction associated with the User Registration Procedure called “The Post Office
Account User Management LWI” appears not to be a formal document. It was first produced
in 2011 and is still in draft.

#3 Observation
The document “The Post Office Account User Management LWI”, first produced in 2011 is
still in draft. It is recommended that this document is reviewed, approved and published.

The security operation manager confirmed that each privilege access request is verified
monthly via an email to the team manager of the account holder. Third Party (including off
shore) engineers as well as SAP and DBA access are subject to the user registration process.

During the review the operational security manager confirmed that the user registration
process is integrated with the Joiners, Mover and Leavers process.

The operational security team is responsible for issuing and audit of the two factor
authentication used by system administrators.

Section 2.1 of the User Registration process links the revocation with the leavers’ process.

#4 Non Conformance

Neither the user access procedure nor the associated work instruction lists the matrix of
privileges associated with the PO systems that users can potentially request. It is
recommended that a matrix is established listing all of the PO systems along with possible
privileges that user accounts may have.

4.4 Process Reporting

Recently published guidelines require that privileged accounts are monitored and regularly
reviewed. During the review the operational security team indicated that a regular monthly
review of accounts with privilege access was in place.

Fujitsu Restricted Page 6 of 8
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2012
FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

o
Fujitsu Restricted FU} ITSU

A recent external report (Fujitsu-Post Office ISAE3402 Report - 1 April 2012 to 31
December 2012) confirmed that the principle of “Least Privilege” was implemented in the
user creation and management process. However, the term “Least Privilege” is not used in the
User Registration process or the associated work instruction.

Section 5.1 of the User registration states the following regular reporting associated with
processing of user account requests.

© access rights and roles with each functional area is carried out on a biannual basis as
minimum and will report findings in the Operational Security monthly dashboard

e all human (i.e. exclude system) accounts that have been unused for a period of 90
days will be disabled and the line manager contacted

© amonthly report detailing all joiners, leavers and movers on the account from RIOs
and ERICs.

e reports are reviewed jointly with PO Ltd at the regular Information Security
Management Forum (ISMF)

The process User Registration process clearly integrates the requester’s line manager, Fujitsu
HR Joiners & Leavers process and the PO operational security team that provide user access.

4.5 Ongoing Communication

The CISO confirmed that the DE is receiving and cascading the regular communications
from the Fujitsu UK&I CSO on the management of privilege accounts. The Fujitsu CISO
and customer CISO meet at least during the regular ISMF meetings but staff changes on both
sides has introduced a temporary break in the regularity of these meetings.

Although it is likely to be a rare request, there is no procedure to guide a request for the
creation of a privileged account in an emergency.

#5 Non Conformance

There is no documented procedure on how to process a request for a privileged account in an
emergency situation.It is recommended that a section is added within the user registration
process that describes how a request for a privileged user accounts should be processed.

During the review it was evident that the account team was aware of the issues associated
with the privileged level access. The following resources should be useful in the document
review and the establishment of the recommended user registration process.

#6 Non Conformance

The User Registration Procedure lists references to several corporate documents but the
mandatory Security Master Policy and the notes associated with privileged access user notes
are not. It is recommended that the user registration process and the associated work
instructions incorporate references to both the Security Master Policy and Privilege Access
requirements.

The following links should be of use.
e New Security Portal

Fujitsu Restricted Page 7 of 8
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2012
FUJ00080630
FUJ00080630

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

Pre)
FUJITSU

Fujitsu Restricted

Security Master Policy

Security Policy Manual PDF

Privilege Access Requirement

Privileged Account process flow and Process notes produced by the office of the
cso.

Appendix I — Observation categories

In terms of the Assessment Database, observations fall into 3 categories:
* Non-Conformance:
+ Definition: No evidence that documented policy, minimum controls or
mandatory process are being met.
e Observation:
« Definition: A business observation, usually made where substantial elements of the
requirements of the privilege management process are being met but there are clear
opportunities for improvement.

* Good Practice:
¢ Definition: A specific local process or general working practice, or the implementation of
a Corporate Process in such a way that it is regarded as being good practice, over and
above expected implementation, and worthy of adoption by other parts of Fujitsu.

Fujitsu Restricted Page 8 of 8
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2012
