FUJ00235737

FUJ00235737
From: Newsome Pete[/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=Blagg-NewsomeP]
Sent: Mon 02/09/2013 2:45:48 PM (UTC)
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Ce: Godeseth Torstei
Subject: RE: Update on Post Office Mediation Process for Sub-Post Masters
Gareth

Not sure how any cases will proceed in light of the new arrangements.
I will look at a call off CT for the Consultancy support.

Regards

Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Posi it, Fujitsu UK&l

E-Mail: {
Web: http:/uk.fulitsu.com

A Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 02 September 2013 15:00

To: Newsome Pete

Cc: Godeseth Torstein

Subject: RE: Update on Post Office Mediation Process for Sub-Post Masters

Pete,
Thanks for the update.

Comments below prefixed [GIJ].

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

Road,

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity
FUJ00235737
FUJ00235737

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

wy Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Newsome Pete

Sent: 02 September 2013 14:47

To: Godeseth Torstein; Jenkins Gareth GI; Warren Brad; Amaratunga Kumudu; Machin Leighton
Cc: Westfield Ken; Davidson James; Parry Nana; Kemp Alex

Subject: Update on Post Office Mediation Process for Sub-Post Masters

Hi to All

Lesley has asked Andy Holt (Head of Business Relationships) to pick up the next stage of the process in addressing the
concerns Sub Post Masters who still feel they have a grievance to be resolved with Post Office. The process they have
agreed is based on the following steps:

1. Post Masters have to register their intention to request mediation for their grievance with any evidence they
have (Currently Post Office expect anything from 100+ cases to be brought forward, 250+ SPMR’s have
apparently asked for forms).

2. A joint Post Office Second Sight Team will review and produce the evidence for the case. Fujitsu may be
asked to produce supporting evidence (Transaction Data, Help Desk Call Logs, or Consultancy Support).

3. The evidence is then sent to a Mediation Service that produces a binding ruling on the case. So far I have not
received conformation that any involvement will be required from Fujitsu in attendance at meetings or giving
of evidence.

[Gi] What about existing court cases in the pipeline? You’ve previously told me that Thomas Brown’s case has been
withdrawn, but I’m still scheduled for another case in October. Maybe I’Il drop the solicitors a line to enquire.

The intention is that any Fujitsu involvement will now fall under the existing charging arrangements. I have discussed
this with Andy Holt and intend to document the processes and commercial arrangements over the next week.

To this end I will need some help in ensuring I have documentations on the correct procedures and can ensure the
Post Office Team will have the instructions on how to use them:

1. Kumudu: Can you give me documentation (or point me to the owner of this documentations) on the ARQ.
process and how Post Office should invoke a change and how the charging procedure works
2. Leighton: Can you confirm that for Help desk call logs PO need to issue a CR through the standard process. If
this is true could we discuss a call off CT to reduce the paper work? If not what process should be used?
[GI] These used to be provided by the security team, but I’ll leave it to Kumudu / Leighton to describe the process.
3. Gareth: I assume for Consultancy support for Legal Cases we have a mechanism? Is this just for you or could
Torstein or Alan be included if they were picking up some of the workload?
[GU] This is not well controlled. I think what we need is a Call off CT to cover any work that Torstein Alan or I do.
What we currently have is that POL raised a Purchase Order to cover my support for a number of court cases. This
has meant it is difficult to track. Raj (in Kumudu’s team) and Matthew Church have managed this process based on
my timesheets and info I give raj each month re expenses. I have been booking all time for Support of Second Sight
to this same code. I’m not sure what (if any) is left.

Once the process is defined I will work with Andy Holt to produce a tracking process so we can understand the
workload and ensure we have an escalation process in place to ensure we meet our commitments.

Please feel free to let me know if you need clarification or help in pulling this information together. I would like to get
at least an outline back to Andy by the end of the week.

Thank you in advance for your help
FUJ00235737
FUJ00235737

Regards
Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Post i it, Fujitsu UK&l

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
