FUJ00156518
FUJ00156518

From: Thomas Penny[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=THOMASP]
Sent: Fri 13/01/2012
To: Munro Donn;
Ce: Dunks Andy;
Subject: FW: Swiss Cottage trial

Donna

It would appear you have a gaping hole as far as prosecution support is concerned; Andy being uncomfortable to support a basic
statement and Raj not being prepared to submit one.

Kind regards
Penny

From: Dunks Andy

Sent: 13 January 2012 08:36

To: Graham Brander; Thomas Penny
Subject: RE: Swiss Cottage trial

Hi Graham
Thanks for the update.

As far as standing in for Penny,, I do not think my knowledge is good enough to be able to do this to the level that Penny could
answer any questions. I would not be comfortable do it..

Sorry

andy

From: Graham Brander }
Sent: 12 January 2012 10:
To: Thomas Penny; Dunks Andy
Subject: FW: Swiss Cottage trial

Penny / Andy

I still haven't had confirmation as to whether either / both of you are required. The provisional batting order for
witnesses I was sent shows Penny being required on day 2 (Tues 17") and Andy on Day 3 (Wed 18").

Andy; can you confirm that if required, you are able to cover Penny's evidence in case she is unable to attend.

Penny; I have asked our legal person that if you are required that if possible can you give evidence on day 1 but I am
still awaiting a definitive response.

Regards
Graham Brander

Security Manager
Security Operations
FUJ00156518
FUJ00156518

Post Office Ltd

LidieVifie, SRO.

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
Ifyou are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message.

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail

From: Graham Brander

Sent: 09 January 2012 16:59

To: Frank Martin; Anjum R Zuberi; Dave Rodericks; Jacqui Swinney; Satish Shah; Paul. Harding; John Longman;
Christopher G Knight; ‘Thomas Penny’; ‘Dunks Andy’; Paul Singh; 'nber8400;_
"Robert.F.Button; Jas Gulati; ‘Condon, Neil’

Subject: Swiss

All

The trial is still due to commence on Monday 16" January at Blackfriars Crown Court. I am waiting for defence and
prosecution counsels to agree who is required to attend to give evidence in person and when.
I will advise you all as soon as I hear.

Regards

Graham Brander
Security Manager
Security Operations
Post Office Ltd

Hanevinie nnn 7

EVINE.

FUJ00156518
FUJ00156518

vo: i

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.

If you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message.

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail

Senna RRR RaRananan aaa Reval Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales

registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This email and any
attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender and then delete this email from your system, ****# thts n ERE RR RTE
