Ref:

FUJ00124313

FUJ00124313

Comments on Wylie - further requests for disclosure

g:\gij documents\poa\prosecution support\2b27.wylie\wylie - further requests for

disclosure.comments.docx
Author: Gareth I Jenkins

Date:

1.

2.

19/02/2013 10:58:00
Introduction

I have been asked comment on the document Report: Disclosure Requests Computer
Evidence provided by the Defence in the case of Regina v Kym Wyllie.

There seems to be some discrepancy in how the defendant’s name is spelt.

Is it Kim Wylie or Kym Wyllie?

In order to do that I have copied in the Report below in blue font and added in my
comments in black font.

In summary, it would appear that the Defence expert is looking for as much
information as he can to carry out a detailed analysis. I have no problem in him doing
that and am happy to assist in such an analysis (as I have done in the part with other
Defence Experts), since the data requested is proprietary to Horizon or Horizon
Online and is unlikely to be understood easily without some guidance.

Any such analysis is likely to require a lot of time and effort to analyse and therefore
incur considerable cost and elapsed time.

Report: Disclosure Requests Computer Evidence

1 Terms of Reference

1.1 Instructions

I was instructed by McKeag & Co Solicitors to the Defendant, to act as an expert
witness by letter dated 28 January 2013. My instructions require me to read a
bundle of prosecution statements and exhibits (about 100 pages) and to advise
on the evidential material that | would require to conduct an independent
investigation of the computer evidence relevant to the prosecution case. I have
not been instructed to conduct a computer forensic examination of any forensic
image copies and have not done so.

1.2. Charges

The Defendant is charged with two counts of Theft relating to cash shortfalls at the
Post Office at Winlaton, Tyne and Wear ("Winlaton PO").

1.3 Author's Qualifications
Tam Michael John Livingston Tumer MA (Cantab) FBCS CITP MAE FEWI of

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

g:\gij documents\poa\prosecution support\ishaq\ishaq.dcs.comments.docx

Page | of 7

© 2013 Michael J L Turner 1 T
FUJ00124313
FUJ00124313

Dulas Mill, Hereford. | am an experienced forensic computer examiner and an
established expert witness on computer evidence. I have over forty years of
experience of computing and have been in practice as an independent computer
consultant since 1977. Please see the CV at Appendix A:

1.4 Statement of Independence

Thave previously acted as an expert witness instructed by the Defence in
prosecutions brought by the CPS relating to the Post Office Horizon system. I had
no prior knowledge of the Defendant in this case. I believe I have complied with
my duty to act independently of the parties.

I note that the CV refers to another Horizon Case R v Julia Richards: Winchester
Crown Court July 2011. Ihave no knowledge of that case.

1.5 Expert's Declaration

Ihave made a Declaration at the end of this report.

2 Introduction to Computer evidence

Virtually all the documentary evidence in the case is ultimately derived from a
computer system —~- Post Office Horizon.

Computer data is highly volatile. Given this characteristic, there is a special duty of
care to protect the integrity of the available computer evidence. In practical terms
that means the evidence should be secured and/or seized at the earliest possible
opportunity and copied using a forensic copying process, so that all investigations
may take place on write-protected copies of the computer evidence.

The traditional approach to computer forensics has been to conduct a static post
mortem of the persistent data stored on hard disk drives or other non-volatile
storage media.

Computing equipment is seized; if the computer is tumed on, it is tured off (either
by anormal, graceful shutdown or by pulling the power plug). Using a hardware
write-blocker, a forensic image is made of the entire storage media and verified,
and all subsequent examination is on a copy of the forensic image.

The entire computer forensics process is documented, verifiable and can be
recreated by a third-party. That approach forms the basis of the ACPO Guidelines,

My understanding is that the approach that has been taken by the Horizon system for
securing evidence was agreed before Horizon was originally developed. However I
don’t have any specific documents that show this.

I should also point out that at the time of the Audit in September 2010, the system
would have been operation Horizon Online and so there would be no useful evidence
held on the local terminal.

2.1. ACPO Guidelines

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

g:\gij documents\poa\prosecution support\ishaq\ishaq.dcs.comments.docx
Page 2 of 7

© 2013 Michael jL Turner
FUJ00124313

FUJ00124313

Good Practice Guide for Computer Based Evidence is produced by the
Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO). It provides Guidelines for the
handling of Computer Evidence. The following quotations are from Good Practice
Guide for Computer Based Evidence, ACPO, Version 1.0, 25 March 1998.

I am not familiar with this, as I only claim expertise in the operation of the Horizon
system and not the general gathering of Forensic Evidence.

Two caveats are given on page 2:

(This document) is not intended as a guide for Officers dealing with
evidence produced by witnesses from third party computer systems.

Non compliance with this guide should not necessarily be considered as
grounds to reject evidence

I think we need to rely on these caveats.

Five Principles of Computer Based Evidence are set out with relevant
Explanations. The Principles recognise that computer evidence is of a highly
volatile nature that risks contamination:

Principle 1: No action taken by Police or their agents should change data
held on a computer or other media which may subsequently be relied
upon in Court.

I believe that this is true of the evidence provided as part of the Horizon Audit Trail.

That the processes for securing, preserving copying and examining the evidence in
an investigation should be transparent:

Principle 3: An audit trail or other record of all processes applied to
computer based evidence should be created and preserved. An
independent third party should be able to repeat those processes and
achieve the same result.

It is necessary to demonstrate to the Court how evidence has been

recovered showing each process through which the evidence was

obtained
I have attempted to outline the process in my Statement. The process is repeatable.
The current independent investigation into Horizon Integrity has been attempting to
repeat the process.

That all of the necessary evidence should be secured and copied:

In order to comply with the principles of computer based evidence a copy
should be made of the entire target device.

What is preserved is the Data upon which the accounting systems operate. This is not
CD 2013 Michael J L Turner 3 th
e
same as the entire target device, however I would contend it is sufficient as the
processes used to derive the reports upon which discrepancies are based are repeatable
on the data.

That an unbroken chain of custody is to be maintained:

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

g:\gij documents\poa\prosecution support\ishaq\ishaq.dcs.comments.docx
Page 3 of 7

© 2013 Michael j L Turner 4
FUJ00124313

FUJ00124313

It is essential to objectively show to a Court that the continuity and
integrity of the evidence has been preserved.

This is what I have tried to describe in my Statement.
That it is essential to observe the highest standards of preservation:

Evidence should be preserved to an extent that a third party is able to
repeat the same process and arrive at the same result as that presented to
a Court.

I believe that to be the case. It should be noted that I have not been shown any
evidence from this case and so have not attempted to repeat the derivation of any
results.

I understand that data has been obtained from Horizon covering data archived
between 26" June and 17" July 2010, but at this point I have not seen that data.

3 Disclosure Requests

In order to conduct a thorough, independent investigation it would be necessary to
apply to the court for disclosure of:

1. Post Office Incident Response procedure documenting the forensic
standards to be observed when securing/preserving computer data for use as
evidence in criminal proceedings in operation at the material time

This is covered in the standard Witness Statement produced by Fujitsu if requested
when transactional evidence is presented at court. My statement also covers this
process at a high level though I do not personally have access to the system to carry
out the process. I can certainly describe the operation of the process and how it
relates to the way the data is stored at the time of the original transactions.

2. Statements and exhibits relating to the forensic processes
(seizure/preservation, forensic imaging/processing and subsequent
handling) of all evidence relating to the alleged theft from Winlaton PO
emanating from Horizon, including transaction records and event logs

I have no knowledge of exactly what evidence has been collected, but am available to
assist in the interpretation of any such logs.

3. Statements and exhibits relating to Results of testing the
accuracy/synchronicity of the Winlaton PO system clocks:

e Horizon terminals/system
¢ Door alarm
e CCTV recording system

I can make a statement as to how the Horizon system clock is maintained. Other
information is outside my area of expertise.

Application should also be made to the court for disclosure in electronic, soft copy
format made to a forensic standard of all the following:

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

g:\gij documents\poa\prosecution support\ishaq\ishaq.dcs.comments.docx
Page 4 of 7

0 2013 Michael j L Turner 5 T
FUJ00124313
FUJ00124313

4. Transactions relating to the Winlaton PO from the date that the last
successful audit completed successfully to the date of detection of the
alleged second shortfall

Technically this is possible. However I would raise a point of practicality. In
previous cases I have found there to be close to 500,000 records per year in these logs
and it is thus quite difficult to see the wood for the trees in any such analysis.

5. Security and Application events relating to the Winlaton PO Horizon
system including logons/logoffs for the same period

The application events (such as Log On and Log Off) are normally included in any
such date retrieval exercise. Also Critical system events are available for examination
(but not normally returned as standard).

6. Horizon NBSC Support Incident/Issue/Call reports from Winlaton PO for
the same period

Does he mean HSD or NBSC? HSD Support logs are available on request for Fujitsu.
NBSC is Post Office Ltd’s responsibility and so outside my scope of expertise.

7. Horizon NBSC Support Incident/Issue/Call reports from all Post Office
branches for the same period relating to:

e Branch Trading Procedure
® accounting discrepancies
e balance discrepancies

e stock shortages

« cash shortages

¢ Known Problems

© Unrecovered sessions

© Balance Problems

Looking at this list, I would say these are all issues that NBSC should be handling
rather than HSD.

8. Schedule of Horizon NBSC Support Incident/Issue/Call reports from all PO
branches diagnosed as system or software errors for the same period

9. Schedule of Horizon version releases in use at Winlaton PO for the same
period
This is not something we normally provide. It may be possible to provide a cost for
providing this information.

10. Schedule of Horizon version releases in the 12 months after the date of
detection of the second alleged shortfall

As above. However I question the usefulness of this given that the alleged shortfall
was on Horizon and the audit was carried out on Horizon Online so fixes to Horizon

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

g:\gij documents\poa\prosecution support\ishaq\ishaq.dcs.comments.docx
Page 5 of 7

1) 9012 Michael TT Trhoerner K TT
FUJ00124313
FUJ00124313

online are not relevant to issue on Horizon as they are totally different systems as far
as the accounting is concerned.

11. Schedule of Resolved Issues in each of Horizon version releases identified
in response to the previous request

I don’t think this is at all easy to provide. I believe we have been asked this before and
have provided a (large) cost to POL for doing this, and it has not been pursued.

12. Horizon System User Guide for Horizon version release in use at Winlaton
PO at the date of the alleged shortfalls

This is down to Post Office Ltd. Note with Horizon Online, I believe that this may
have been replaced by the online Help System.

13. Horizon Operations Manual for Horizon version release in use at Winlaton
PO at the date of the alleged shortfalls

This is down to Post Office Ltd. Note with Horizon Online, I believe that this may
have been replaced by the online Help System.

14. POL Technical Evaluation (including in terms of systems performance,
reliability, recoverability, auditability) of the consequences of the change
from Horizon to HOL system architectures

I’m not sure if such a document exists, but will defer to Post Office Ltd.
15. HOL Branch Database High Level Design.
16. HOL XML Message Audit between Counter and BAL/OSR

These are document I refer to in my Statement. I’m not sure what the commercial
permission is in making such documents available, but I don’t see any problem in
doing so. I should point out that I don’t think they will be of any real help in carrying
out any further analysis.

4 Expert's Declaration
1. I understand that my overriding duty is to the court, both in preparing
reports and in giving oral evidence. I have complied and will continue to
comply with that duty.
2. Ihave set out in my report what I understand from those instructing me to

be the questions in respect of which my opinion as an expert is required

3. Ihave done my best, in preparing this report, to be accurate and complete. I
have mentioned all matters which I regard as relevant to the opinions I
have expressed. All of the matters on which I have expressed an opinion lie
within my field of expertise.

4. T have drawn to the attention of the court all matters, of which I am aware,
which might adversely affect my opinion.

5. Wherever I have no personal knowledge, I have indicated the source of
factual information.

6. Thave not included anything in this report which has been suggested to me

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

g:\gij documents\poa\prosecution support\ishaq\ishaq.dcs.comments.docx
Page 6 of 7

© 2013 Michael J L Turner 7
FUJ00124313
FUJ00124313

by anyone, including the lawyers instructing me, without forming my own
independent view of the matter.

7. Where, in my view, there is a range of reasonable opinion, | have indicated
the extent of that range in the report.

8. At the time of signing the report I consider it to be accurate. I will notify
those instructing me if, for any reason, I subsequently consider that the
report requires any correction or qualification.

9. J understand that this report will be the evidence that I will give under oath,
subject to any correction or qualification I may make before swearing to its
veracity.

10. I confirm that insofar as the facts in my report are within my own
knowledge I have made clear which they are and I believe them to be true,
and the opinions I have expressed represent my true and complete
professional opinion.

I would be pleased to provide further explanation of any of the above to the court.

Standard stuff. No comment required.

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE)

g:\gij documents\poa\prosecution support\ishaq\ishaq.dcs.comments.docx
Page 7 of 7
