FUJ00120587
FUJ00120587

SSC Offline KELs and KBs

Friday 10 Sep

HORIZON KEL acha508S (Version 7)

Status: ‘Authorised
Title: Differences between two rem out receipts problem PC143435,
‘Summary: Differences between two rem out receipts

Raise by Anne Chambers on 12/02/2007

Last updated: by Anne Chambers on 15/02/2007

Release: 730

System product: LFS

Status Authorised
‘Medium
PC143435

Tis: 702120346

Symptoms

PM reports problems with rem outs, in particular differences between the two receipts which are printed after the pouch barcode is
scanned. For example: 1 bag of £2 coins remmed out, and 2 bags of £1 coins - £1500 in total. The first receipt (Return Advice Note)
shows this. The second receipt (Office Copy) only shows one bag of each - total £1000. When they reversed the remittance, it again
showed only one bag of each. This problem can also affect rem out of stock. When the branch balances, they may have a receipts and
payments mismatch reported. They cannot do anything to clear this. They may also have a loss because not all the cash / stock that they
remmed out has been removed from the system.

Problem

The messagestore contains ProductNo 1 Qty 1 SaleValue 500 (£1 coin bag) ProductNo 1 Qty 1 SaleValue 500 (£2 coin bag) ProductNo 5610
SaleValue -1500 (cash in pouches) When reversed, the settlement is for £1000 only - hence £500 is stuck as Cash in Pouches. This will give
them a receipts and payments mismatch. The branch will also probably be on the overnight POLFS Incomplete Summaries report (unless only
volume stock was affected). The problem happens when the user rems out multiple numbers of the same product within a single pouch, and
instead of using the Quantity button, selects the same item more than once via the screen or keyboard. <b>To fix
TPS_POL_FS_SUMMARIES_INCOMP</b><br> SQL scripts were developed to add rows to TPS_POL_FS_SUMMARIES_INCOMP (or to
update if appropriate). Examples of these are in Subversion/Utilities under Garrett/POLFS_Utilities/Trunk with names starting with ‘fix’

Solution - Helpdesk

CALLS ABOUT INCONSISTENCIES IN STOCK REM OUTS SHOULD BE REDIRECTED TO NBSC. SSC have contacted all branches who have
had a problem with cash rem outs, quoting ref PC143435. The advice given depended on whether they had reversed the problem pouch or not. If
not reversed, they were advised to do a dummy rem out for the difference between what they intended to rem out and what was recorded on the
system, using a new barcode. Then the pouch was prepared for collection, but, before despatch, the PM should have crossed out the pouch
number from the collection receipt and destroyed the pouch. This corrected the cash in the stock unit so they no longer had a loss. If the rem out
had already been reversed, the cash in the stock unit was correct (so has not caused a loss) but an amount remained in the ‘cash in pouches’
within the suspense account. This cannot be adjusted by the branch. Post Office will in due course issue a Transaction Correction to remove
this. In either case, a warning about Receipts and Payments not matching may be displayed when the stock unit is balanced. This should be
ignored in this case. When the Branch Trading Statement is printed, the Trading Position line will not be zero. This is expected. The PM can
annotate the BTS with 'PC143435' in case it is questioned in future. SSC are sending a report of the affected branches to POL, including the
pouch ids for the dummy rem outs. If any branches phone in for further advice quoting PC143435, HSD may be able to reassure them by using
this information above. Otherwise send the call on to SSC.
