FUJ00121561
FUJ00121561

Message

From: Holmes Jan R [/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FELO1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HOLMESJ]

Sent: 12/03/2004 09:45:39

To: Lenton-Smith Colin [/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FELO1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LENTON-SMITHC]
Subject: Proposed response to Coyne email

Attachments: 04-03-04 Response to J Coyne Email.doc

Colin,

Draft email to Jim Cruise for you to consider. I've transferred the contentious statements from the paper to the email
because it's not in our interests to piss the Expert off. That said it has to be pointed out to Jim that his report is far from
impartial and, in truth, we have a problem because there is little we can do to dispel some of his assertions other than say
‘rubbish’. We can't demonstrate that everything worked correctly because we don't have the data. In addition, any proving
that we do now is at a 2004 system baseline and not a 2000 baseline. POL have to decide what they want to see
happening here. I understand the reputational aspects of the situation but I fear POA are on the back foot.

Revised paper attached.

04-03-04
Response to J C

Jim,

We have reviewed Jason Coyne's reply to our paper and are disappointed that the he was unable or unwilling to change
any of his original opinions based on our original submission. We are also concerned about some of the broad and
general statements made in his original report, for example ‘The majority of the system issues were screen locks, freezes,
and blue screen errors which are ......... most probably due to faulty computer hardware, software, interfaces or power.
Unless he is prepared to present objective evidence to support these vague assertions it is extremely difficult for Fujitsu to
respond in anything other than a broad a general manner.

With regard to his comments under the 'Reasonableness of Calls' heading his tone infers that we have only found this
data in order to respond to his report and suggests that we deliberately withheld information. We reject this inference.

The attached paper provides detailed feedback to his reply but in truth we can only re-iterate what has been already said.
Given that he has assumed the moral high ground, and appears not to want to shift his position, the next step is to make
available to him the people, data and resources at Post Office Account and allow him to address his doubts to the true
experts and practitioners.

In conclusion it has to be said that his analysis of the situation is at best selective and at worst simply wrong, and his
conclusions partial.

We are happy to accommodate him at any or all of our locations and arrange such interviews and access to data that he
requires, and would ask that you make this offer to him. + pect,-h that he-probably feels-he-h: thing-t

change and.will reject this offer.
Regards

Jen Holmes

Programme ASSURANCE. nnn eennnnnennnnnnnnnny
ae: = GRO
FELO1 I
Mob :
e-mail ¢
This e-mail tS contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that
this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

