FUJ00235390

FUJ00235390
From: Newsome Pete[/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=Blagg-NewsomeP]
Sent: Thur 13/06/2013 11:57:55 AM (UTC)
To: Davidson James} _

Subject: FW: In Confidence - Spot Review 5 Discussion

At last PO pushing back...

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Fujitsu UK&l

k fujitsu.com

BS Please consider the enviror
From: zz pete.newsom
Sent: 13 June 2013 12:
To: Newsome Pete
Subject: FW: In Confidence - Spot Review 5 Discussion
Importance: High

3d to print this email?

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Fujitsu

Liaisi t Office Ltd

From: Steve Allchorn
Sent: 13 June 2013 13:47.
To: Ron Warmingto

Cc: Ian Hendersot
Subject: In Confidence

Ron,

As part of the discussions that took place yesterday regarding the stated Mr Rudkin visit to the Bracknell site in August
2008 and the drive to get to the full facts from a POL perspective, I think it was recognised that the allegations made
within Spot Review 5 are absent of a level of detail which would help us immensely in this cause if they were known

and available.

I believe you picked up an action to re-engage with Mr Rudkin to test his memory again in relation to;

- The name of the individual who was his main contact on the day of his stated visit, who escorted him to the
various parts of the building and ultimately introduced him to the basement area? There may have been a

single person or a number of individuals involved in this tour.

- If Mr Rudkin continues to be unable to recollect the name(s) of those he met. Can he provide some form of
description around them e.g. gender, age, height, what role title they introduced themselves to Mr Rudkin as

conducting, their responsibilities etc.

- Can we clarify if Mr Rudkin was formally invited to visit Bracknell by a person outside of the immediate POL
resource sited in Bracknell, e.g. a project manager or business lead. If so, can he recollect the name of this

person?

- Can we clarify the exact purpose of Mr Rudkin’s visit — was he there for a specific reason relating to a project
FUJ00235390
FUJ00235390

and if so, can he remember which it was and what was the specific reason why Mr Rudkin was invited into the
basement area in Bracknell?

-  Itwas mentioned by you that Mr Rudkin had made hand-written notes relating to his visit to the site but that
these were residing at his then work location in Shoreham and as he no longer operates within the business
cannot access them. Can you establish whether these notes can be accessed somehow, either through the
existing NFSP governance or otherwise and with specific location details from Mr Rudkin?

Do we also have a view on Mr Rudkin’s understanding of the Bracknell site set-up and his technical knowledge in

relation to test environments and how these operated, prior to his visit i.e. was he conversant in test technology and
it’s workings or was Mr Rudkin’s experience limited to branch operations?

Thanks

Steve Allchorn I IT & Change Lead CPMO Manager

(2) 2™ Fir, Central Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

(=) Post Office stories

® @postofficenews

Je a ID ISSIR I IO IID IIS INO IIS IIS ISIS III IO III IIS III II IIIA.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

