FUJ00158114
FUJO0158114

From: Michael Whartonf”
Sent: Wed 06/12/2017 10:18:39 AM (UTC)
To: Defence i j; Lenton,

Matthew,
Ce: Andrew Parson:

Newsome, Pete[™
; Mark

Underwood (mark.
Subject: I RE: Legally Privileged - Fujitsu documents [BD-4A.FID26896945]
Attachment: EDQ Appendix - Fujitsu Documents.DOCX

Chris, Matthew, Pete

As discussed on Thursday's call, I have attached our draft appendix to the EDQ summarising the documents held by
Fujitsu — please could I ask you to:

1. review it generally and confirm that you are happy with it; and
2. confirm the specific points highlighted in yellow in the attached.

Please accept our apologies for the delay in getting this over to you such that this is now urgent, however, please can I
ask you to come back to me with your comments by 14.30 this afternoon, as the EDQs need to be exchanged

today. Your help is greatly appreciated.

Kind regards

Michael

Michael Wharton
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

) WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
“/ BOND
DICKINSON min)

From: Amy Prime

Sent: 28 November 2017 14:50

To: Defence Legal (Chris Jay); Lenton Matthew; Newsome Pete
Cc: Michael Wharton; Andrew Parsons; Mark Underwood!
Subject: Legally Privileged - Fujitsu documents [BD-4A.FID26896945]

Chris, Matthew, Pete

Post Office are required to inform the Court of the location in which potentially relevant documents are located.
"Relevant document" is a very broad term and will encompass pretty much all dealings which Fujitsu have had with
Post Office in relation to Horizon and HNG-X spanning emails (both with POL and internally), documents stored in
Dimension, Transaction and Event data, HSD logs, Peaks system and any other document produced by Fujitsu which
relates to Horizon. I appreciate that this may be a large volume of documents.

So as we can understand the documents held by Fujitsu and where they are stored, it would be helpful if we could
have call. Would you be available at 11am on Thursday?

Kind regards
Amy
FUJ00158114
FUJ00158114

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confides
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not pete.newsomef ”
use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this

\d may be legally privileged and protected by la

please notify michael whartorf
or attachments is prohibited ar

Jonly is authorised to access
soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised
wful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members! names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB 123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing,
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited does not practice law. Please see
swww..vomblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
