FUJ00172087
FUJ00172087

From: Barnes, Gerald[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=BARNESG]
Sent: Wed 21/05/2014 11:30:17 AM (UTC)

To: CSPOA SecurityI;

Cc: Muir, Jas

Kumudu[k _
Spurgeon,

Subject: RE: ARQ - Duplicate Data

Hi,

There is some problem with riposte where occasionally transactions are collected twice in different files. Alan
can probably add some more details on this.

Yesterday I identified the two files containing the duplicate transactions and confirmed that the first 4
duplicates and the last duplicate were all identical transactions.

It is almost certain that all the other duplicates are identical too but to be thorough you should really check
each and every one. I have still got the files out on one of the workstations (one of: i +I
cannot remember which) in a folder named duplicates so this can easily be done if desired.

The key point is duplicate identical transactions are a known issue which
does not matter. However you need to confirm that you have not got duplicate
transactions which are not identical because that would be a new issue of
concern.

Regards,
Gerald Barnes

From: CSPOA Security

Sent: 21 May 2014 12:20

To: Barnes Gerald

Cc: Muir Jason; Kay Alastair; Dunks Andy; Amaratunga Kumudu
Subject: ARQ - Duplicate Data

Hi Gerald,

Hope your well.

We recently sent some ARQ data to POL and in the events files there is duplicate data (similar to the one we looked at
yesterday). This latest occurrence was for ARQ 051-056 Caereithin FAD 166642, returned to them on 9" May 14.

POL have queried the duplicate data and we need to go back to them with an explanation.

Please could you put together a statement/explanation for us that we can send back to them that would explain the reason for
the duplicate data and alleviate any fears that may have arisen over the data?

I have the data available should you wish to review it prior to issuing a statement to POL.

If you need anything else from us then please don’t hesitate to shout.
Many Thanks,

Jason Muir

Security Operations - Security Analyst (POA)

Fujitsu
Floor 4, Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

FUJ00172087
FUJ00172087
