FUJ00224733
FUJ00224733

From: Newsome, Pete[/O=FUJITSU EXCHANGE ORGANIZATION/OU=EXCHANGE,
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=779E4A5CEAB04DCAB27A43C7FDB]

Sent: Thur 28/04/2016 1:11:22 PM (UTC)
To: Barnes,
Subject: FW: Project Sparrow - Code Review

Matthew

Can you provide the document below?

Gerald: Is the document suggested below the on you highlighted? If so can you give the reference to Matthew so he
can pull the latest version. If not any ideas?

Thanks
Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Post Office Account, Fujitsu UK&l

Tel: GRO

E-Mail a nninnnrnninnrmnniininnnrt
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Web: uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu named as
Responsible Business

of the Year

I-ClO: Global Intelligence for the ClO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
‘Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup

wv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Keating, Lewis (UK - Leeds) [mailt:
Sent: 28 April 2016 14:01
To: Newsome, Pete
Subject: RE: Project Sparrow - Code Review

Thanks Pete

In addition to the below we also discussed reviewing the code which supports the key inherent control operation
around ‘digitally signing transactions posted from the Counter to the Branch Database’. As well as the code which
supports ‘All transactions on counter balancing to zero’ and the ‘Atomic write and commit controls of transactions to
the Branch Database.’
FUJ00224733
FUJ00224733

Are we able to get Torstein’s input on the scale/complexity of this code also, as per below?

Am I also able to request another couple of documents I don’t think we have received yet?

-  DES/SEC/HLD/003 - HNG-X Key Management High Level Design
- The document we discussed in the workshop which documents all the separate feeds into audit store.

Thanks for your continued help.
Lewis

From: pete.newsome:
Sent: 26 April 2016 14:02
To: Keating, Lewis (UK - Leeds)

Cc: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester); Bartlett, Sam (UK - Manchester)
Subject: RE: Project Sparrow - Code Review

Lewis
I will discuss with Torstein and get back to you.
Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Post Office Account, Fuiit

eS

Fujitsu named as
Responsible Business
of the Year

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children
I-ClO: Global Intelligence for the CIO. Fujitsu’s online resource for ICT leaders
Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup

A Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Keating, Lewis (UK - Leeds) [mailt
Sent: 26 April 2016 13:50
To: Newsome, Pete

“} Bartlett, Sam (UK - Manchester)

Subject: Project Sparrow - Code Review
FUJ00224733
FUJ00224733

Hello Pete

Hope you are well.
Following up from our discussion a few weeks ago where it was confirmed an on screen source code review at Fujitsu
offices is feasible for the following areas / functionalities:

- Balancing Corrections Module (BRDBX015)
- Balancing Transaction Templates (9 templates)
- Transaction Corrections & Postmaster acceptance thereof

Are we able to get an idea on the scale & complexity of the code (how long it would take to review), & what coding
language (so we can line up appropriate technical expertise) each area is in? this will allow us to mobilise quicker on
our side if it is decided that the code review is to go ahead.

As always, happy to discuss.

Thanks
Lewis

Lewis Keating
Senior Consultant

Deloitte LLP

1 City Square. Leeds. LS1.,

Direct: }
Mobile: GRO

2AL, United Kingdom

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C303675. Its registered office is 2, New Street
Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited ("DTTL”), a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL
and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient(s), please (1) notify it.security.uk(” by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.
