FUJ00155387
FUJ00155387

From: Thomas Penny[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=THOMASP]
Sent: Mon 15/12/2008 11:22:11 AM (UTC)
To:

Cousins Adam[i

Ce:
Subject: RE: Proposed Slides for ARQ Service Issue
Attachment: ARQ Service V2.ppt

Graham, thanks for your comments. I have made some adjustments to the presentation and/or added comments below:-

Do we need to add to the last point on slide 2 that although we know of no instance when we will not get an error which will
indicate incompleteness we cannot guarantee this.

Tivoli event data is known to be incomplete, viz turn off TECs during event storms, gaps in the events sequences generated by
OMDB, there are occasional corrupt records within the events audit tracks

Do we need to add something about if we do find a gap we do not know what to do about this? If we do say this we will need to
say what we are doing to progress a solution to this or what the options are to tell POL that we can't provide data??
Added to slide 5

Slide 3 I think the second point should say 'prone to human error’ I am presuming if we automated this the error indicated in this
point would be removed.
It's not just human error, the process is not secure. But yes, that's my belief, partially automating will remove this point

Slide 3, why does the CP not suggest full automation or does it automate as much as possible in which case it should probably be
worded like that.
We cannot fully automate, we will always need someone to check unfiltered errors

Need a final slide saying what we want the audience to help with. I think we mentioned 2 things
1. Support the CP

2. Provide guidance on the immediate issue of the witness statements.

Item (1) added to slide 4, item (2) already there

Amended presentation attached. Please let me know if I havn't fully covered your comments, or if any others have been
identified.

Kind regards
Penny

From: Allen Graham (BRAO1)

Sent: 12 December 2008 08:59

To: Thomas Penny; Hinde David; Cousins Adam; Evans Steve (FELO1); Sewell Peter (FELO1); Holmes Alan
Subject: RE: Proposed Slides for ARQ Service Issue

Thanks Penny, a few comments.

Do we need to add to the last point on slide 2 that although we know of no instance when we will not get an error which will
indicate incompleteness we cannot guarantee this.

Do we need to add something about if we do find a gap we do not know what to do about this? If we do say this we will need to
say what we are doing to progress a solution to this or what the options are to tell POL that we can't provide data??

Slide 3 I think the second point should say ‘prone to human error’ I am presuming if we automated this the error indicated in this
point would be removed.

Slide 3, why does the CP not suggest full automation or does it automate as much as possible in which case it should probably be
worded like that.

Need a final slide saying what we want the audience to help with. I think we mentioned 2 things

1. Support the CP

2. Provide guidance on the immediate issue of the witness statements.

Graham Allen
Application Services

FUJITSU

Lovelace Road..Bracknell. Berkshire. RGJ2.8SN,
Tel: 4 GRO {
Mob: ‘SRO.

E-mail:

grat
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

5 Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW.

FUJ00155387
FUJ00155387

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does

not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

-Original Message-
From: Thomas Penny
Sent: 11 December 2008 10:33

To: Hinde David; Allen Graham (BRAO1); Cousins Adam; Evans Steve (FELO1); Sewell Peter (FELO1); Holmes Alan
Subject: Proposed Slides for ARQ Service Issue

Hi

Please find attached proposed slides for presentation to Wendy.

Do we have a slot yet?

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 8SN

al:
Mob’
Fax: f
E-Mail: penny.tt
Web: _ http://uk.fujitsu:com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 9
This E-mi

16, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.
only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
