FUJ00126062
FUJ00126062

Message
From: i aan ERO
Sent:
To:
ce:

“I David Parnell

Subject: RE: Reporting Requirements
Attachments: graycol.gif; ecblank.gif

Tony

The production of the Branch Trading Statement takes place following successful completion of all of the the "end of
trading period" activities required before the branch rolls-over to the next trading period, e.g. SU balancing activities,
resolving variances, making good, clearing dockets, etc. On completion of the statement, all trading across the branch is
performed in the next trading period.

We had understood that Ben's requirement for an "interim" Branch Trading Statement was to obtain a local branch
management view of the branch trading position during a branch trading period, i.e. not to roll-over to the next trading
period. Currently the Office Snapshot Report is used for this purpose and there is no “interim” Cash Account facility.

So, if I have understood your concern correctly, I suggest we need to consider what your current process is. If you
currently produce a Cash Account and roll the branch over to a new CAP, then you will be able to do the equivalent with
the Branch Trading Statement, i.e. this is not the situation that we had assumed was meant by Ben's "interim"
statement. If, however, you currently use the Office Snapshot to assess the branch position, then you would continue to
do so at S80.

So, in summary, I suspect that your requirement will be met through producing additional Branch Trading

Statements. This will have no effect on the back-end accounting system which will run from the daily trading summaries
produced by Horizon and not the trading statement which is different from the current situation where CBDB is driven
directly from the Cash Account. The daily trading summaries used by POL FS will include the results of any changes
needed to balance the branch, address variances, processing of Transaction Corrections, etc.

I hope that this explanation has clarified things but let me know if there are any outstanding issues.
Regards

Bob Gurney
Fujitsu Services, Post Office Account

FUJITSU SERVICES
Fores!
Mob
E-mail: bob gurne
Web: _chttp://uk fuljitsu_com>

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 26, Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1SL

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: tony.r.utting_
Sent: 04 March 2004 09:
To: Gurney Bob; john.duttort_
Subject: RE: Reporting Requi

Tam a little unsure about the query around interim trading statements.

In the case of an investigation, we would need to be able to go into an office and complete a full
FUJ00126062
FUJ00126062

office balance which in the absence of a cash account would mean a Trading Statement would be
required to provide a full office view.

If we then close the office down having removed an offender and the Retail Line replace the
subpostmaster and this happened mid period, then the office would need to produce another
Trading statement as usual at the end of the trading period.

Iam not sure that the second Trading statement would need to have the data from the first
included in this case, but we would need to be able to produce two statements within the same
period.

I believe we also discussed doing something similar for office where there was a large variance,
in order that the postmaster was able to get a view of his office situation after checking his stock
and cash, but this could be achieved through balancing all of the individual stocks and then doing
an office snapshot presumably.

If I am confused and have got this all wrong please let me know.

Regards
Tony Utting
~ Gurney Bob
01/03/2004 19:03
Phil
Subject? RE? Reporting Requirements
John

Whilst Ben is on leave this week, I understand that the
arrangements are

that we should direct these IMPACT branch related requirement
questions to

you for guidance.
FUJ00126062

FUJ00126062

1. Horizon Events to be Accessible via POL Sales MIS

We are trying to tie down exactly which branch "events" Horizon
needs to

pass to the POL MI System for the purpose of central reporting
(Item 3.1 on

the current Issues list). In the attached email, Gareth has
summarised:

* which events are currently passed to OPTip and which will
therefore

be available to MI

* the events that Horizon currently records that aren't passed
to

OPTip and which will therefore not be passed to MI unless there
isa

specific requirement

* new events associated with the IMPACT R3 requirement which it
is

understood should be passed to MI

Please could you review the attached and confirm whether there
isa

requirement to pass any additional events to MI other than those
indicated

above.

2. Branch Reporting
2.1 Reporting on "Previous" Trading Periods

Ben's email below confirms the requirement to be able to produce
reprints of
the following reports relating to the previous trading period:

Stock Unit Balance: Reprint

Cash Account: Reprint

Office Weekly Counters Revenue Schedule: Reprint

Office Weekly Inland Revenue Tax Credits P5589: Reprint
Office Weekly P&A P2311MA: Reprint

Office Weekly Redeemed Savings Stamps Summary: Reprint
Track and Trace Manifest: Reprint

Office Cash Variance Report: Reprint

ee ee

We understand that these are the only reports that are required
that relate

to a "previous" trading period. We are currently investigating
how we can

cost effectively meet this requirement given that the underlying
transaction

data will no longer be available to re-create the reports. (Note
for
FUJ00126062
FUJ00126062

David/Clive: The reprint for previous period facility was not
included in

our costing submission for the business case).

Ben added the Cash Variance Report to Gareth's list of existing
reports that

have the reprint option. Whereas the original list of reports
seem to

relate to particular periods, the Cash Variance Report can be
produced at

any time and so the question of which report should be reprinted
arises.

Should it be the position at the end of the previous trading
period?

The second question relates to the period which the original
reports relate

to. Once we move to a monthly Branch Trading Statement, what
period is

intended? Do the current weekly reports relate to a calendar, a
Cash

Account week or, in the future, a Monthly Trading Period? If
it's weekly,

when should we assume the start of week occurs? Please clarify.

2.2 Requirement to produce "Interim" Branch Trading Statement
within a
Trading Period

Ben has indicated that the requirement is to be able to produce
an interim

Branch Trading Statement at any time within a trading period.
The problem

is that the information from which the statement is produced and
the

associated process assumes that the Stock Units have previously
been

balanced. Currently there isn't a facility to produce an interim
Cash

Account report and the Office Snapshot is provided for this
purpose. In

view of the complexities/practicalities of meeting this
requirement, please

could you consider whether the Office Snapshot report would
provide

sufficient information to meet the intended requirement. If not,
we need

guidance on how an interim report should be constructed. Please
advise.

Regards

Bob Gurney
FUJ00126062

FUJ00126062

Fujitsu Services, Post Office Account

FUJITSU SERVICES
Forest_Road, Felth,
Mob : Internal
E-mail: Met GRO ~
Web: < http://uk.fujitsu.com <http://services.fujitsu.com/> >
Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056
Registered Office

26, Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1SL

Middx TW13 7EJ

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its
contents are

subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services

does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and
amended or

that it is virus-free.

-Original Message-
From: ben.gildersleve.

Sent: 27 February 2004 11:38
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Ce: 'Ben Gildersleve (POL)'; Gurney Bob; 'Clive Read (POL) ';
‘Dave Parnell

(POL) '; Boar.
john.dutto
Subject: Re: Reporting Requirements

tting (POL) ';

Gareth

My requirements are to keep all the reports below with re print
facilities,

except perhaps the redeemed savings stamps, depending on what
happens with

the remittance transaction for dockets and vouchers. Also, I
assume the Cash

Account reprint will become the Branch Trading statement
reprint? I would

also like copies of the Cash Variance report to be available as
well. You've

picked out the reports with reprint in their title, but are
there any

others? I've checked with John and he can't think of any.

I would like reports to be available from Period 1, until the
end of Period

2. Then when the Branch rolls into Period 3, the reports for
Period 1 become

unavailable.
FUJ00126062
FUJ00126062

I would like the reports to be available quickly and easily, so
whichever is

the best solution to do this is fine with me. If the idea of
storing the

report itself is the best for speed of production, but is hugely
expensive

then come back. I'm sure Dave and Clive will have a view on
this.

If you want to check anything today come back to me, but next
week while I'm

off can direct your queries to John please.

Ben

Post Office Ltd

Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540 Registered
Office: 80-86 Old

Street LONDON EC1V 9NN.

Inactive hide details for Jenkins Gareth GI"

<Gareth.Jenkin

Jenkins Gareth GI <Gareth. Jenkins. GRO

26/02/2004 16:28

. "'Dave Parnell
"Clive Read (POL)'"
"'Tony Utting (POL)'"

(POL) '™

Subject: Reporting Requirements

Ben,
Following our conversation.

You have indicated that there is a requirement to reprint old
reports, so we

potentially need to either store the raw data for a sufficient
time to do
FUJ00126062

FUJ00126062

this, or change the mechanism by which we produce reprints such
that we

store the original report and reprint the report rather than
regenerate it.

It is proposed that we do the latter.

* Which reports need to support this? The following list gives
all

the Horizon reports which have "reprint" in their title:

* Stock Unit Balance: Reprint

Cash Account: Reprint

Office Weekly Counters Revenue Schedule: Reprint

Office Weekly Inland Revenue Tax Credits P5589: Reprint
Office Weekly P&A P2311MA: Reprint

Office Weekly Redeemed Savings Stamps Summary: Reprint

Track and Trace Manifest: Reprint

* How long we need to maintain such reports (ie 1, 2 or 3 Branch
Trading periods or preferably number of days from when report
first

produced)

He He HF

I've copied this to Tony in case he has any input to the
requirements here
from the security viewpoint.

Note for Dave and Clive: No changes in this area were originally
forecast,
so these are all "extras".

Regards
Gareth

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its
contents are

confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee

that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it
is

virus-free.

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications TDA

Post Office Account

Fujitsu Services
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
Tel:y
Mobile
email: Gareth.Jenkins
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com <htt

/uk.fujitsu.com>

FUJ00126062
FUJ00126062

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056
Registered Office

26, Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1SL

FOI II ICI ICI II II III II II ICI ICI ICI II ICI II I AI I I ICI da I AG de ae
*keke This

email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee

only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose,

reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you

have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this

email from your system.
FOI ISIC III III II ICI II ICI ICI I Id I a i ea ae

RR KEK

Message-ID:
<753F1E41ACB9D51190C00090277218D802B66823@WWMESSD206>
From: Jenkins Gareth GI { a - GRO ne

"Daniel Hawthorne (POL - Parity)'"

Gurney

i Boardman Phil

Subjec Horizon Events
Date: Fri, 27 Feb 2004 10:35:38 -0000
MIME-Version: 1.0

X-Mailer: Internet Mail Service (5.5.2653.19
Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary="----
_=_NextPart_002_01C3FFBF.E98BB730"

All,

I've put together a note on events generated within Horizon and
those
currently sent to OPTIP.

<<events.doc>>

I'd appreciate some feedback as to what is required from the MIS
system for

inclusion in the CD so that we can include the necessary work in
the S80

developments.

Regards
FUJ00126062

FUJ00126062

Gareth

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its
contents are

confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee

that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it
is

virus-free.

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer

Applications TDA
Post Office Account

Fujitsu Services

Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire,
Tel: Internal:
Mobil

email: Gareth.Jenking I
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056,
Registered Office
26, Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1SL

>>>> C.htm attachment was removed from this email <<<<
>>>> graycol.gif attachment was removed from this email <<<<
>>>> ecblank.gif attachment was removed from this email <<<<
>>>> C1 .htm attachment was removed from this email <<<<

>>>> events.doc attachment was removed from this email <<<<
Jncdbsaioinciiiniiibincioieciioinni dolsciioisciaieink folic dolbiciibiniiiibiciiisiniciaickaisiciciiectisieca This
email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this

email from your system.
28 oe 2 2 ae 2 2k ie 28 ae 2 fe 2k ae oie 2 fe 28 a fe 2 ae 2 fe 2k ae 2c 2k 2k a ofc 2k eof ae ofc 2c of ae aie ake 2k eae a afc 2 cake ae 2k ak fe ai ae ae a ake 2k ae ake ake
