FUJ00120486
FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

Document title:

Document type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document status:

Owner

Author & Dept:

Contributors:

Authorised by:

Comments by:

Comments to:

Distribution:

CS Operations Services Operations Manual

Operations Manual

N/A

This is the top-level document describing the activities carried
out by the Operations Services Unit within ICL Pathway
Customer Service

Approved

Paul Curley

Gavin Hamilton, A&TC, Technical Centre

Mike Stewart, John Wright, Paul Curley

Martin Riddell

Mike Stewart, John Wright, Paul Curley

Paul Curley

Customer Service Director

CS Operations Services Manager
CS Support Services Manager

CS Infrastructure Services Manager
ICL Pathway Document Library

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 1 of 1
ICL Pathway

CS Operational Services Departmental Operations

Manual
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00120486
FUJ00120486

Ref:CS/QMS/005
Version:2.0
Date:24/01/01

0.0 Document control

0.1 Document history

Version No. [Date Reason for Issue Associated
(CP/PinICL No.

(0.1 (25/09/00 Draft for comment
1.0 (07/11/00 Issued with updates to reflect

organisational changes in CS
2.0 (24/01/01 Issued as Approved

0.2 Approval authorities
IName Position Signature Date
Martin Riddell (Operations Services
Manager

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 2 of 1
FUJ00120486
FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

0.3 Associated documents

The version numbers and dates the following table shows are those that were
current when this document was written. If you wish to look at one of these
referenced documents, search for the document in the ICL Pathway Document
Library (PVCS) and refer to the latest version.

Reference Version [Date itle Source

IAP/PRD/001 1.1 (05/03/99 JAP Client Take On ICL Pathway
Process

IBP/IFS/007 4.1 13/07/99 Application Interface POCL

‘Specification Reference
Data to ICL Pathway

ICS/FSP/016 2.0 2/07/99 IAPS Token Verification {ICL Pathway
‘Service Description for
release 2
ICS/IFS/001 2.0 (07/06/99 IReference Data Change {ICL Pathway
Control
ICS/QMS/001 ICS Policy Manual ICL Pathway
ICS/QMS/002 (CS Process Manual ICL Pathway
ICS/QMS/003 ICS Overview Manual ICL Pathway
ICS/QMS/004 (CS Support Services ICL Pathway

Operations Manual

ICS/QMS/005 (CS Operations Services {ICL Pathway
Operations Manual

ICS/QMS/006 CS Infrastructure ServicesICL Pathway
Operations Manual

ICS/MAN/006 (CS General Information ICL Pathway
Operations Manual

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 1
ICL Pathway

CS Operational Services Departmental Operations

Manual

FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

Ref:CS/QMS/005

Version:2.0
Date:24/01/01

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

\CS/PLA/O11

Business Continuity Test
Plan

ICL Pathway

ICS/PRD/021

ICL Pathway Problem
Management Process

ICL Pathway

ICS/PRD/030

Process for Operational
Business Change —
Product (POCL reference
data)

ICL Pathway

ICS/PRD/031

ICL Pathway CS Business
(Continuity Management

ICL Pathway

ICS/PRD/032

\Cross-Domain Problem
Prioritisation

ICL Pathway

\Cs/PRO/063

Problem Management
Procedures to support the
(Customer Service,
‘Service Operations
Manual

ICL Pathway

(CS/PRO/074

Receiving Type A
Reference data

ICL Pathway

ICS/PRO/O75

Receiving Business
(Change Requests

ICL Pathway

ICS/PRO/O77

(Assessing the Impact of a
(Change Request

ICL Pathway

\CS/PRO/078

Requesting, Managing
land loading Type B and C
Reference Data

ICL Pathway

\CS/PRO/079

IAPS Token Verification
Procedure

ICL Pathway

\CS/PRO/080

Internal Verification of
reference data at RDIV
(Counter

ICL Pathway

\CS/SIP/002

Business Continuity
Framework

ICL Pathway

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE

Page: 4 of 1
ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations

Manual
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00120486
FUJ00120486

Ref:CS/QMS/005
Version:2.0
Date:24/01/01

0.4 Abbreviations

Abbreviation Definition

AIS Application Interface Specification

AP Automated Payment

APS ‘Automated Payment Service

ICCP (Change Control Proposal

ICD (Counter Development

CEM (Call Enquiry Matrix

ICM (Configuration Management

ICS (Customer Service

(CTO (Client take on

IDM IDuty Manager

IDN Draft note

IEPOSS Electronic Point of Sale Service

IHSH [Horizon System Helpdesk

IHSRF Horizon Service Review Forum, a joint review of the service held
between POCL and ICL Pathway

IMSU Management Support Unit

OBC. (Operational Business Change

OLA \Operational Level Agreement

(OSG [Main ICL Pathway contact in POCL for product change

(OTT (Operational Test Team

IPinICL (A problem incident notice raised by ICL Pathway

IPM IProblem Manager

IPMD IProblem Management Database

IPOCL Post Office Counters Ltd

IRDCC IReference Data Change Catalogue

IRDMC [Reference Data Management Centre (a ICL Pathway database)

IRDS IReference Data System (a POCL database)

IRDT Reference Data Team

ISLA Service Level Agreement

ISMC System Management Centre

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE

Page: 5 of 1
FUJ00120486
FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0
Date:24/01/01

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

SSC System Support Centre
ITIP [Transaction Information Processing

0.5 Changes in this version

Version Changes

2.0 Reissued as approved following review

0.6 Changes Expected

(Changes

This document will be reviewed annually or when a significant organisational changeI
joccurs.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486
ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01
0.7 Table of Contents

1 INtrODUCTION..... eee eee ececeeseeeeeeececeeeeeeeeeeeneeseeeeeeieiseneneeeeeneseneeeeeteeaeee 9
2 SCOPC Looe eeeeccecceccceseseeseseescesessesseseeseseseeseseeeceeeseeseeseaeeeeseceeeaeeeeeeeeeeaes 9
3 Overview.

3.1 Availability management
3.2 POCL Interface management.
4 Availability management.

41 Duty Management... eee cece eceeeeceeceeeeeeeceeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeesereeeneeeees 11
41.1 OVOPIOW. 0. cece cece cece es eceeeceeeeeeeneneecececeeseeeecacseseeeneateneeseeees 11
4.1.2 Types of Call... cccecccececeeeeceseseceeeseeseseceeeeceeeseseeeeeneeeeaeees 11
4.1.3 Duration Of COVER... eecececcecececeeesceceeeseeeseeeecseeeseesnenseeseeeeeees 12
4.1.4 Duty management procedure...

4.15

4.2 Problem management.

Deciding whether a problem exists...............0..:c:ceceseeseeeseeeeeees 13

4.2.1 Overview
4.2.2 Problem Recording
4.2.3 Problem review
4.2.4 Customer Problem reviews..............:.:ccccsesesseeeesesesesreeeeeeeeeeees 14
4.2.5 Escalating a problem. ..............c cece cece cee ce eeeee eee eeeeeceeteeeeee 14
4.3 Business Continuity... cece eee eceeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeceeereneeneees 14
4.4 Supplier management... eceseseceeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeee 16
4.4.1 Overview -16
44.2 Daily. -16
44.3 Weekly 16
4 AA Monthly... cece cece ccsesseeeseeeeseeneseeseseseeesteseseeseeenseeeneeneees 16
4.5 Operations Support... eee eee eee es eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeteeeneeeeeeeeeeee 17
45.1 Overview 17
4.5.2 Change management administration............0.0..::ceeeeeeeee 17
4.5.3 Problem Management..............2020.c0:c:cecceeecesceeceeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeee 18
4.5.4 Duty Management. .18
4.6 Change Management .19
46.1 Overview -19

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486
ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01
46.2 Change timetable... ceeeececceeeceeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeseeseeeeneeneeeeee 19
4.6.3 OCP Changes............ceeecceceeceeceeeeeseneeeeesceseseeeeeeeseeseeeeeeeneeeeeeeeees 19
4.7 Performance Management...............::cceeceseceeeeeeseeeeeeseseeeeeeeeteeeeees 20
5 POCL Interface Management..................:cecceeececeeeeseeceeeeeceeeeseeeeeeeeeeees 20
5.1 Reference data management................:..:ececeseeeseesceeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeees 20

5.1.1. Overview.

5.1.2 I Product change activities

5.1.3. AP Client service change:

5.1.4 AP Client Management. ............cccccceccseeseeeseeeeeeseeeseeeseeeteeseaeseee 25
5.2 Application Service Management................:cccceeeeseseeeesesrereeesees 25
5.2.1. The Service Introduction Plan (SIP)............:.::ccceseeeseeseeseeeeeeees 25
5.2.2 Pre-Live Activities (Generic)... eeecceeeseeceseseeeeeeeeeeeseseeeees 25
5.2.3 Post-Live Activities (Generic)..........0....seceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeees 27
5.2.4 Ad-Hoc Projects (Non-Genefric).............ececeeceseeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeenee 27

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 1
FUJ00120486
FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

1 Introduction

The objective of this manual is to provide an overview of the operations
performed by ICL Pathway Customer Service Operational Services
Department in support of the operational service.

2 Scope
The operations described in this manual apply only to the Operations
Services Department and are divided into the following areas:
e Availability management
« Change management
e POCL interface management

This document forms part of a framework of documents covering the
overview, processes and procedures surrounding the operation of this
department.

The operations performed by the other units in Customer Service are
described in the following manuals:

© CS Support Services Operations Manual (CS/QMS/004)

e CS Infrastructure Services Operations Manual (CS/QMS/006)
Directorate-wide operations, such as booking leave, are described in:
« CS General Information Operations Manual ( CS/MAN/006)

An overview of the whole of Customer Service and its operations is given in
the manual:

e CS Overview Manual (CS/QMS/003)

e CS Policy statements are contained in the CS Policy Manual
(CS/QMS/001)

« CS Process definitions are contained in the CS Process Manual
(CS/QMS/002)

3 Overview

The Operations Services Unit is responsible for all aspects of live service
operation. The unit is divided into a number of units as shown in the following
diagram.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

3.1

3.2

The following sections summarise the objectives and specific tasks of each
team.

Availability management

The overall objective of this team is to ensure that the end-to-end day’s
operating is successfully carried out by the service operators and that all
service disruptions are resolved in a timely manner. Specific tasks are as
follows:

e Providing a Duty Manager who is the single point of contact for live service
issues. This is covered 7days/week, 24hrs/day.

« Problem Management
« Business Continuity

e Supplier Management of ICL Outsourcing (SMC/SMG/SOS) and Energis,
including regular service reviews

e Liasing with APS, TIP and LFS operations and support units on
operational issues

e Operational support for change and problem management
« Change management

e Performance management
POCL Interface management
POCL Interface management covers implementing new business application

services, supporting existing business application services, and also
reference data changes. Specifically:

Reference data management

The overall objective of this team is to manage, in conjunction with the RM team
and OTT, all aspects of Reference Data delivery to the live environment.

Message distribution

The unit manages the distribution of messages to the outlet counters.
e Application service management

This unit is responsible for the introduction and ongoing management of
services relating to interfaces, such as APS, LFS and TIP, ensuring the
service is delivered within the agreed parameters and operational
timetables. Its responsibilities are:

e Service development including the preparation and review of
processes, procedures and documentation, client liaison (including
Client Take On), developing support arrangements and participation in
test programmes.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

41

4.1.2

e Service introduction including the development and delivery of a
Service Introduction Plan containing details of delivery milestones,
SLA and OLA targets and support requirements.

« Ongoing Service Management support for implemented services
covering operational reviews and service improvement planning, MIS
analysis and problem escalation.

Availability management

The following sections describe the different areas of availability
management.

Duty management
This section describes operations relevant to the Duty Manager (DM).

Overview

The Duty Manager (DM) role is undertaken by Service Managers in CS
Operations Services on a rota. A Duty Manager handbook contains phone
numbers of Service Managers and other contacts, and copies of relevant
procedures.

The DM receives escalated calls from:
e The Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH)
« The System Management Centre (SMC)

« The Management Support Unit (MSU) or the System Support Centre
(SSC)

e POCL Service Management

The DM decides whether or not the incident needs to be managed through
ICL Pathway Problem Management procedures.

The document DSP/PRO/HH/010 Horizon System Helpdesk Incident
Procedures explains the types of calls that are escalated to the DM.

Types of call

The prioritisation of calls is described in Horizon System Helpdesk Incident
Prioritisation CS/FSP/005.

The DM receives calls from the HSH for the following circumstances:

¢ Specific A priority incidents (the different priority categories are described
in CS/FSP/005)

« After the action times in the SLAs for both A and B priorities have elapsed

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

When necessary, the DM also receives calls out of HSH working hours from
the SMC/SSC or the ISD Duty Manager.

Duration of cover

The daily DM rota, (Weekdays only, Operational Hrs 0800-1800), is operated
by the Availability team.

At other times the OOH DM is resourced from a pool of ICL Pathway Service
Managers. Operational times are 1800-0800 weekly and 24 hour cover at the
weekends Sat/Sun.

There is a Daily update at 0800 from the OOH DM to the Daily DM to hand
over any outstanding calls or issues.

There is a daily update at 1800 from the Daily DM to the OOH DM to hand
over any outstanding calls or issues.

The handovers at the end of each shift on any outstanding problems or
issues, are by phone or in person to the relieving DM, although a DM may
see a particular problem through to completion, even after their duty period
has ended.

Duty management procedure
The overall duty management procedure is as follows:
1. The DM receives a high priority call that may indicate a possible problem

2. The DM finds out the details of the incident, problem or multiple incidents,
and may make initial phone calls to the support units to help decide
whether a problem exists (see 4.1.5 below).

If the incident is not a problem, the DM informs the caller to deal with it
through the normal A priority channels, ending the procedure.

If the incident is a problem, the DM initiates the Problem Management
Process as in the following steps

3. If the Problem Management Process is initiated, the DM (or maybe the PM
Problem Manager, currently under review in PM forum) enters the details
of the problem as a progress commentary in a new PinlCL call in the
PinICL Problem Management Database. The PinlCL call is assigned to the
Problem Management stack. However, if the problem needs to be dealt
with immediately, the DM enters the details on to the database following
completion of the immediate action. (If the incident occurred out of hours,
then the problem is recorded at the earliest opportunity)

4. The DM appoints the Problem Manager (PM) most capable of handling the
problem. In some cases, due to the levels of personnel available, the DM
may be the PM, particularly if the incident has occurred outside normal
working hours.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

41.5

4.2

4.2.1

If the appropriate PM is unavailable or unable to manage the problem, the
DM escalates the problem to the appropriate Customer Service Manager
who will help to decide who the PM should be

5. Following nomination, the DM enters the PM on to the Problem Database
as the new owner (assignee) of the problem (this may already be done,
see note in 3, currently under review). The PinlCL record is updated,
closed and possibly reviewed but remains on the Problem Management
stack.

Deciding whether a problem exists

To help decide whether an incident is a problem, the DM considers the
following areas:

(Areas of consideration Problem criteria

Business impact le Adverse publicity on ICL Pathway.
le Possible affects upon Release dates.
[Time scales le The predicted time to resolve an incident isI

unacceptable.
(Customer dissatisfaction Ie Widespread customer dissatisfaction.

[Breadth of problem le The incident affects more than 10 outlets.
le Does the problem classify as an MBCI
(Cost le The financial cost to ICL Pathway to resolve the

incident is excessive and possibly impacts theI

ICL Pathway budget.

(Complexity le A variety of resources that need managing areI
needed to resolve the incident.

le Resources external to ICL Pathway are required,
such as input from POCL.

Security le The incident has possible security implications.
llmpact on other le The incident impacts other organisations such asI
lorganisations POCL, and they need to be informed.

If the DM is in doubt as to whether an incident is a problem, the incident is
resolved as a problem.

Problem management

This section describes the operations performed by the Problem Manager
(PM).

Overview

The prime function of a problem manager is to manage the identification and
removal of root cause of any problem. Problem managers are allocated from
any unit with Customer Service depending on areas of responsibility or
expertise.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

4.2.2

4.2.3

4.2.4

4.2.5

Once a problem has been allocated the problem manager will co-ordinate the
resolution of the problem and acts as a point of contact for everyone involved
with the problem.

This role is part of the end-to-end process described in the /CL Pathway
Problem Management Process (CS/PRD/021). The PM procedure is
described in Problem Management Procedures to support the Customer
Service Operations Manual (CS/PRO/063)

Problem Recording

Each problem will be entered onto the Problem Management Database. The
PM will enter the problem details, an initial impact statement and closure
criteria. Each problem will also be allocated a priority depending on the
impact.

The Problem Management Database enables the PM to keep a diary of
events pertaining to each problem and the PM is responsible for keeping the
problem database up to date.

The problem manager is responsible for managing progress against the
agreed plan and achieving closure. Problem closure should be with
agreement from the originator and be in line with the closure criteria.

Problem review

The PM will agree a plan to resolve the problem and then update the plan in
line with any dates agreed. Additionally, selected problems will be reviewed
at a regular problem review meeting.

Issues that are brought to the attention of the Horizon Service Review Forum
or of a serious nature will be reviewed at the weekly operational (prayers)
meeting.

Customer Problem reviews

Problems that have a business impact will be escalated to the Customer and
registered on the Customer problem database.

Problems that are escalated to ICL Pathway from the customer domain will be
registered onto the Problem Management Database.

These problems are reviewed with the Customer at a monthly meeting. This
meeting is held in advance of the Horizon Service Review Forum to enable
suitable escalation to the HSRF.

Escalating a problem

The conditions under which problems are escalated are described in Problem
Management Procedures to support the Customer Service Operations
Manual (CS/PRO/063).

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

4.3

Business continuity

A key requirement in the ICL Pathway solution is that of business continuity,
which is effected by producing operational processes and procedures to
ensure that any component failure has minimal effect on the service provided.
Refer to CS/PRD/031 (ICL Pathway CS Business Continuity Management)
which defines how Business Continuity is managed.

POCL and ICL Pathway recognise the term Business Continuity as having
three closely related components:

« Resilience
Steps taken to avert a loss of service or disaster or reduce the likelihood
of a disaster or loss of service

e Contingency
Interim processes and procedures adopted during the loss of service

e Recovery
Business and technical arrangements to restore a lost system or service
and manage the process of reversion to normal processing and full
resumption of service

The principal requirement with respect to the provision of contingency plans
is that they should conform to an overall service continuity framework. The
document Business Continuity Framework (CS/SIP/002) and associated
contingency plan documents for each component service of the ICL Pathway
solution have been produced and are regularly reviewed to ensure they meet
the changing requirements of the service continuity framework.

The Business Continuity Framework document does the following:

e Provides a definition of the Business Continuity Framework and
contingency plans as specified in Requirement 830

e Provides a detailed definition of ICL Pathway deliverables associated with
business continuity and the methods of review and assurance

e Defines the contents and format of the contingency plans

e Defines the overall test strategy adopted for testing of the contingency
plans

e Defines the management processes for the management of Major
Business Continuity Incidents

There are contingency plans for all the service elements of the ICL Pathway
solution. Most plans cover service elements but a few cover individual ICL
Pathway sites, which provide more than one service to the Horizon service.

Each contingency plan provides a summarised description of the service or
services within its scope. It also describes the measures already taken to
minimise the risk of not being able to provide those services.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 15 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

44

4.4.1

4.4.2

44.3

4.4.4

The contingency plan then sets out what actions the relevant service
managers need to take to instigate any recovery or contingency procedures
specific to the provision of the service or services.

Each business contingency plan defines the initial and on-going test
strategies. For each test, a test script has been produced which clearly
explains the objectives of the test exercise and all details necessary to
ensure that those objectives are achieved.

The document Business Continuity Test Plan (CS/PLA/011) brings together
the testing requirements of all the contingency plans that have been
generated and documents the schedule and methodology to be adopted for
business continuity testing, both before National Rollout and on an ongoing
basis.

Supplier management

Overview

The Service Managers within the availability team perform supplier
management. The suppliers involved are ISD (Network management,
Operations and support), Sequent/IBM (mainframe systems) and Energis
(Network provision). Suppliers and service performance is monitored and
reviewed on a daily, weekly and monthly basis.

Daily

Regular telephone contact between the Service Managers and suppliers is
undertaken. This contact is used to manage issues and incidents that arise
on a sometimes, daily basis. The service managers utilise management
information from incidents and trends to support this regular contact.

Weekly

The service (and supplier) performance is reviewed at a weekly meeting
(names “prayers”). This weekly review looks at the issues and problems
arising from the operation of services throughout the week identifying issues
and placing actions on suppliers to address those issues.

Monthly

Supplier performance is reviewed formally on a monthly basis, each supplier
provides a monthly management report containing the supplier view of
service availability, service exceptions, trends analysis and performance
statistics. Additionally, ICL Pathway produce monthly MIS statistics giving a
view from an incident and problem perspective.

A monthly meeting, chaired by the Operations Services Manager, is held with
all suppliers present to review overall and individual supplier performance.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 16 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

4.5

4.5.1

4.5.2

Operations Support

Overview

The operations support unit provides administrative support for the Change,
Duty and Problem Management processes. Its key responsibilities are to
ensure that the Change and Problem databases are kept current and
administration activities required by managers with Customer Service are
kept to a minimum.

Change management administration

The operations support team is responsible for the following processes with
change management:

e Registration of change proposals (CP) from within ICL Pathway that
require impacting by Customer Service staff or/and their suppliers.

e The collation and filtration of all impact statements and the response to
Change Management with the impacts in a timely manner.

e Reception of supplier change proposals (SCP) for impact within ICL
Pathway

e Tracking of approved CP action through to implementation or completion

« Management of actions arising from CP impacting and approval
processes

« Production of change management MIS reports specific to Customer
Service and its suppliers

All CP or SCPs within Customer Service are managed by the operations
support team. The team is the prime interface between customer Service and
its suppliers into the ICL Pathway change management system. All CPs or
SCPs are recorded onto the CP database and managed through its lifecycle
from a Customer Service viewpoint.

CPs are issued daily at various priorities and the team identifies who within
CS or its suppliers needs to provide an impact statement. The impact
statements are chased and then collated into a CS response, these are
provided to CM for review by the PCCB.

A weekly CP review meeting is held prior to the weekly PCCB to review
outstanding actions, impact statements and the CP’s to be discussed at the
PCCB. A nominated manager from with Customer Service attends the weekly
PCCB to represent Customer Service.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

4.5.3

4.5.4

Problem Management

The operations support team is responsible for the following processes with
problem management:

e Administration of the problem management database
« Weekly reviews of problems with problem managers
e Monthly reviews of problems with the customer

« Management of actions arising from those reviews

e Defining and implementing standards for problem management across
customer Service.

e Production of problem management MIS reports

Problem Managers are responsible for the progress of problems that are
entered onto the Problem Management Database (PMD). The Operations
support unit provides a weekly update to the POCL Problem Database and
ensures that regular updates to problem diaries.

The Operations Support unit provides an agenda for the weekly problem
review meeting, which is held with selected problem managers to review
progress of “hotspots” or specific problems.

The problem database administrator has a regular interaction with the POCL
problem database administrator to ensure that the two database remain “in
sync”. Database updates from each organisation are sent weekly to ensure
that consistency is maintained with problem titles, priorities and problem
numbers.

The operations support manager is responsible for defining problem
management standards across the Customer Service organisation and
ensuring that problems are managed in a professional and consistent
manner.

The Ops support unit produces weekly management reports on outstanding
problems.
Duty Management

The operations support team is responsible for the following processes with
duty management:

e Production of duty management rota on a monthly basis
e Processing of duty managers expenses for out of hours cover

e Maintenance of duty managers folder, which is reviewed monthly to
ensure that information is kept current.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 18 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

4.6

4.6.1

4.6.2

4.6.3

The OST produces and publishes the duty management rota and maintains
the duty managers “handbook” which contains up-to-date information on
escalation, support contacts etc.

The OST also collates and processes duty managers expenses for out of
hours cover claims.

Change Management

Overview

The Service Manager is responsible to the programme for all changes from
an Customer Service viewpoint by gaining an impact view from all units within
CS and reviewing those impacts on a weekly basis. Ensuring that CPs
submitted by CS staff meet the required criteria, have TDA support and are
targeted at the correct release date. This role also requires liaison with the
Release management team (RMT), Operational Test Team (OTT) and the
rest of the Pathway programme units.

Change timetable

Weekly CS change review meetings are chaired by the Service Manager and
are attended by management representatives from Infrastructure Services,
Operations and Support. The objective of these meetings is to review the
latest position regarding CPs on the PCCB agenda and ensure that all
impacts and actions are completed. These meetings are not minuted.

The Service Manager also attends the weekly Project Change Control Board
as the CS representative.

OCP changes

An operational change process (OCP) is also in operation. This process
covers changes required to the live operation and provides an audit trail for
all changes made to the operational estate (Not counter changes). The OCP.
service is managed and run by ISD on a daily basis. The Service Manager is
responsible for the management processes within CS for this service and any
service developments.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

4.7

5.1

Performance Management

This is a developing area within CS and is currently being established. A
performance management system is being implemented to capture
performance management data from the live estate. The first phase of the
plan involves data capture only and data collection performed on an adhoc
basis. The second phase involves automated data collection and an
automated feed into a performance database.

The implementation is being conducted against an implementation plan. A
meeting is held regularly, generally fortnightly to measure progress against
plan and confirm if any new developments are required. It is anticipated that
this meeting will develop into a regular performance review of the live
systems.

POCL Interface Management

Reference data management

The Reference Data Team (RDT) is responsible for the management of
Operational Business Change (OBC) for all reference data.

The RDT is responsible for the control of product reference data, as follows:

« POCL product changes, such as the price of stamps

e Horizon product changes, such as the menu hierarchy

e AP Client and services changes

The RDT is also responsible for delivering a service to the OBC manager for
reference data changes to support outlet change.

The end-to-end process is described in Process for Operational Business
Change - Product (CS/PRD/030)

5.1.1 Overview

5.1.1.1 Change types

The reference data changes that are covered by this process fall into two
types: basic and advanced.

Change [Description
type
Basic Basic changes are those that ICL Pathway can implement without

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 20 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

prior notice. They consist of changes to reference data that can
lbe implemented with no more than the basic control and release
lactivity by ICL Pathway. The data that forms the content of these
changes is referred to as ‘Class 1’ data.

Advanced

(Advanced changes are those which need additional activity by
ICL Pathway before the change can be implemented for example,
lupdating the EPOSS screen layout with a new button. Different
ladvanced changes require different activities by ICL Pathway.
IThe activities may be:

le Load Type B data (see below for definition of Type B data)
le Create Type C data (see below for definition of Type C data)

le Manage additional information (see below for definition of
additional information)

le Test the change
le Maintain documentation
le Formal acceptance

The types of changes that fall into each category are defined in the
Reference Data Change Catalogue (RDCC) (CS/IFS/001).

5.1.1.2 Lead times

In order to successfully implement a change, ICL Pathway need notice of the
proposed change in advance of the start date. This allows time to carry out all
the necessary activities to implement the change; this notice period is the

lead-time.

Different Basic and Advanced changes require different activities to
implement the change. The combination of activities affects the lead-time for
that type of change. More information about lead times is included in the ICL
Pathway/POCL Interface Agreement for Operational Business Change —
Product document (CS/PRD/058).

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

5.1.1.3. Types of data

[Data type

Description

[Type A data

Data that is sent electronically from the POCL RDS system to
jthe ICL Pathway RDMC system, over an agreed interface, as
defined in the AIS document (application interface specification)
lsee Application Interface Specification Reference Data to ICL
Pathway (BP/IFS/007)

[Type B data

Data that is sent from POCL to ICL Pathway, but not over the
interface from the RDS to the RDMC. For various reasons, this
\data has not been included in the Type A AIS, although the
intention is that it becomes Type A data in the future for
lexample, scales tariffs. Type B data is received either via the
\gateway between POCL and ICL Pathway or as an electronic
ifile by email or on floppy disc, will be passed as an electronic
ifile for example, over email or via a floppy disc

Type C data

Data that ICL Pathway must create to support requested

Ichanges to the Horizon system for example, changing EPOSS

iscreen layouts, cash account and other report layouts. POCL

Imust explain what result is expected for ICL Pathway to

implement the change, for example, for a new core product,
here the new button should go in the menu hierarchy

Additional
information

Several changes require additional information or ‘objects’ I
(Additional information may be needed as follows:

le To allow ICL Pathway to create Type C data, for example
POCL may have a bitmap for a new icon to go on a button

le For contractual reasons, for example, the list of current AP
Client Services needs to be updated as part of requesting or
accepting the change

le Because objects such as tokens are needed for ICL Pathway)
to complete the testing phase

5.1.1.4 Activities

The following activities are involved in implementing Reference Data

changes:

1. Receiving Type A data - Basic change data
2 Receiving Business Change Request

3. Receiving Type A — Advanced change

4 Receiving Type B data

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of 1
FUJ00120486
FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

5. Receiving additional data

6. Monitoring progress

7. Receiving confirmation

8. Requesting and loading Type B and C data
9. Verifying Reference Data changes

10. Acceptance
11. Releasing change

The activities performed depend on the type of change and are defined in the
RDCC (CS/IFS/001).

5.1.2 Product change activities
RDT carry out the following activities to implement product changes:

e Receiving Type A (and B) data - Basic change
Basic changes require only simple reference data changes and can
typically be implemented quickly and easily. The document Receiving
Type A Reference Data (CS/PRO/074) describes the procedure for the
RDT to receive and process Type A Reference data. Some Type A
changes now have type B Files (where Item_Version records are updated
Type B Migration items are contained as well). These should be
progressed together.

e Receiving a Business Change Request
The document Receiving Business Change Requests (CS/PRO/075)
describes the procedure for the RDT to process Business Change
Requests from OSG received via the PC notebooks that are located in the
RDT office area.

Again Assessing the impact of a change request (CS/PRO/077) describes
the procedure for the RDT to assess the impact of a Business Change
Request and to create a plan for implementing the change

e Receiving Type A data - Advanced change
Advanced changes require ICL Pathway Customer Service to undertake
additional activities, such as creating Type C data, and take longer to
implement. For Advanced changes, POCL submit a Business Change
Request to Customer Service.

e Receiving Type B data
As described in Receiving Type A data. Type B data is only received as
migration items and progressed along with Type A data.

e Receiving Additional Information
Some changes require additional information or objects from POCL.
Additional information may be needed

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 23 of 1
ICL Pathway

FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

Monitoring progress
The RDT monitor progress on BCRs using the RDCC tool and the RDMC
NT workstation

Receiving confirmation
The RDT checks that all reference data files, and content, have been
received from POCL and alerts them if data is missing

Requesting and loading Type B and C data

The document Requesting, managing and loading Type B and C
Reference Data (CS/PRO/078) describes the procedure for the RDT to
create a request for Counter Development to create Type B and C
Reference Data, and to load the data when received from Counter
Development on to the RDMC database

Verifying Reference Data changes

For product changes the data is tested internally and then a verification
Report is sent out to OSG who then verify the data and either accept or
don’t accept it.

For outlet changes the verification report is produced and sent to the
Network Change Authoriser (NCA), of the territory the change is
concerned with, who either accepts or doesn’t accept the change by
returning an OBC24 form.

The service description for the APS Token Verification Service is
described in APS Token Verification Service Description for Release 2
(CS/FSP/016).

The RDT verify APS Client data changes provided by POCL by carrying
out the activities described in the document AP Token Verification
procedure (CS/PRO/079)

Acceptance
POCL OSG verifies changes to reference data associated with BCRs.

Releasing change

Once Reference Data has been verified by OSG, it is released to live by
the RDT. This procedure is described in Releasing Reference Data to the
Live Environment (CS/PRO/081)

5.1.3. AP Client service changes

POCL notify Customer Service of AP Client service changes the same way as
other reference data changes. Full details are given in AP Client Take On
Process (AP/PRD/001).

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 24 of 1
FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005

Manual Version:2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

5.1.4 AP Client Management

5.2

5.2.1

The AP Client Migration Manager will coordinate and manage all the AP
Client Migration activities and will provide a focal point for liaison with POCL
and Clients.

Key responsibilities are to update and issue revisions to programme plans, to
report project and stage achievement, to co-ordinate acceptance by the
customer, and handover to the follow-on ICL customer services team, and to
ensures that all risks to the project are identified, logged, assessed and
managed.

Application Service Management

There are a number of interfaces in place that facilitate the delivery of
transaction files between the ICL Pathway and POCL infrastructure. These
are different to the ISDN connections to POCL Outlets. The service is
responsible for ensuring that transactions, harvested from the POCL Outlets,
are delivered to POCL, through the appropriate interface, in accordance with
the Service Schedule Agreements. Each interface and its corresponding SLA
is managed as an individual service, but in some areas may involve other
interfaces.

The service provided is based on the contents of the Service Definition
Agreements (Schedule n01), Service Levels and Remedies Agreements
(Schedule n08) and the Service Management Agreement (Schedule 05).
These are contract controlled documents and separate schedules are in
place for each interface (n = character depicting specific interfaces).

There are three interfaces:
APS, TIP and LFS.

The Service Introduction Plan (SIP)

As an aid to the Service Manager in delivering a full operational service
around the interface in question, a Service Introduction Plan (SIP) is prepared
by the Service Manager (where appropriate), which documents related
information, requirements and actions.

For example, a SIP includes plans to date and milestone timescales, work still
to be done, relating documentation, SLAs and OLAs, support requirements,
contacts and links between interested parties.

There are no pre-defined contents lists for SIPs. These are determined for
each individual SIP, depending on the type of service.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 25 of 1
ICL Pathway

FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

5.2.2 Pre-Live Activities (Generic)

The following activities take place for each interface in preparation for Live
service. Some of the activities may over-spill into Live operation of the
service.

Liaison with the Development and Design teams to understand the
Application Interface and Technical Interface Specifications created.

Liaison with the Requirements team to review all agreements made and
any service descriptions in place, if produced.

Liaison with the client to commence the production of the OLA based on
the SLA and specification details. Eventually to become a formal
Operational Review meeting once the service is Live.

Participation in Workshops to prepare or review procedures (if and when
applicable).

Liaison with internal support services to ensure that they are aware of the
SLA and OLA commitments.

Set up of ICL Pathway/POCL Steering Group with agreed Agenda.

Liaison with Business Continuity Manager to ensure Business Continuity
and Disaster Recovery procedures are documented.

Involvement in any operational test programmes, where requested.
Produce or review any related documents within ICL Pathway.
Review of any related documents produced by third party suppliers.

Review of any related documented produced by the customer, if
requested.

Participation in the production and review of Incident Matrix.
Creation of risk registers.

Creation of project plans, if required.

Creation of new call categories within CEM, if required.

Processing of Change Requests submitted through the Change
Management process, if required.

Set up and agreement of Client Take On (CTO) procedures, OLA and
schedules (outside of normal service management activities and relating
in APS only).

General, ad-hoc communication with the customer, other internal teams
and third party suppliers through phone calls and Email.

Completion of actions arising from meetings held.

Production of internal Period Reports, for inclusion in high level
Management Reports.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 26 of 1
ICL Pathway

FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

Implementation of Disaster Recovery solutions, where appropriate (and in
accordance with Change Management Procedures)

5.2.3. Post-Live Activities (Generic)

The following activities either take place as standard processes or are
managed on an ad-hoc basis in order to maintain or improve services.

Chair or attend Steering Meetings (if appropriate and at agreed intervals).
Chair or attend Operational Review meetings (usually held monthly).

Escalation point for service related Incidents and Problems. To be
managed as per the standard procedures in place. Generally a reactive
service.

Escalation point for service related customer complaints. To be managed
as per the standard procedures in place (Incident or Problem Management
procedures). Generally a reactive service.

Review of OLA as part of Operational Review, as and when appropriate.

Processing of Change Requests submitted through the Change
Management process, if required.

Review of daily transaction delivery reports produced by third party
suppliers.

Review of daily Non-Polled Office Reports produced internally and
submitted to the customer (by MSU).

Review of monthly SLA Management statistical reports produced internally
(by MSU).

Completion of any outstanding Risk Register actions.
Completion of actions arising from meetings held.
Manage or review any relating plans, where appropriate.

Production of internal Period Reports, for inclusion in high level
Management Reports.

Ongoing review of procedures in place (any changes to go through
Change Management process). Usually highlighted through Workshops or
Operational Review meetings.

Implementation of Disaster Recovery solutions, where appropriate and in
accordance with Change Management procedures.

Participate in scheduled Contingency Tests, where appropriate.

5.2.4 Ad-Hoc Projects (Non-Generic)

On occasions additional activities require managing as individual projects, but
which relate to a generic service that is included in the Application Service
Management objectives.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 27 of 1
ICL Pathway

FUJ00120486

FUJ00120486

CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

AP Client Migration is a mini-project within APS (definition of ‘Client’ being
one of the customer’s clients that ICL Pathway are to interface directly to). As
a mini-project it has a separate set of objectives as follows:

Maintenance of the Strategy document (contract controlled and agreed
between ICL Pathway and the customer).

Provide Project Management to deliver the project as per the agreed
Strategy and detailed project plans.

Produce and maintain project plans, both internal and customer facing.
Produce and maintain Risk Register.

Produce and maintain process and procedural documentation.
Facilitate the production of client interface specifications.

Produce and maintain client OLAs.

Facilitate the surveying and preparation of client sites in accordance with
the Technical Interface Specification requirements.

Escalate project issues or missed deadlines and milestones through
formal routes.

Promote internal awareness to support teams and third party suppliers.

Facilitate the input and maintenance of client data into the Service
Management Software module.

Facilitate the delivery of software and equipment in accordance with the
specifications.

Review and maintain OLA between customer and ICL Pathway relating to
changes to the service.

Hold internal project reviews on a regular basis.
Hold reviews with the customer, through AP Steering Meeting.
Completion of actions arising from meetings held.

Processing of Change Requests submitted through the Change
Management process, if required.

Production of internal Period Reports, for inclusion in high level
Management Reports.

Ongoing review of procedures in place (any changes to go through
Change Management process). Usually highlighted through Workshops
or Operational Review meetings.

Processing of Change Requests submitted through the Change
Management process, if required.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 28 of 1
FUJ00120486
FUJ00120486

ICL Pathway CS Operational Services Departmental Operations Ref:CS/QMS/005
Manual Version:2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:24/01/01

e Escalation point for service related Incidents and Problems. To be
managed as per the standard procedures in place. Generally a reactive
service.

e Escalation point for service related customer or client complaints. To be
managed as per the standard procedures in place (Incident or Problem
Management procedures). Generally a reactive service.

e Agree Operational testing activities and produce procedural
documentation.

e Agree cut-over procedures with customer.

e Renegotiate deadlines and milestone dates, where required.

© 2001 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL - in - CONFIDENCE Page: 29 of 1
