FUJ00155274
FUJ00155274

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: Wed 15/10/2008 8:49:28 AM (UTC)
To: Thomas Penny/

Subject: RE: Event Errors “ARQ Service
Attachment: Counter Audit CP

Attachment: RE: Counter Audit CP

Penny,

Here they are:

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

Wet hittp:/uk fujtsu.com

wh Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services
does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 15 October 2008 09:33

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: FW: Event Errors - ARQ Service

Hi Gareth

I didn't get a copy of Alan's draft or your comments, could you please forward to me so I can read before the
meeting.

Kind regards
Penny

From: __ Birkinshaw Roy
Sent: 15 October 2008 09:29

To: Thomas Penny

Ce: Jenkins Gareth GI; Holmes Alan; Sewell Peter (FELO1); Meek Steven; West Adrian; Burton John; Evans Steve (FELO1)
Subject: RE: Event Errors - ARQ Service

Sorry

Have just re-read Gareth's notes & there are some good points in there.

The R2 question is the million dollar one - which of course the programme will be keen to understand
So it underlines the fact that we have to have the 3 sets of costs:

Costs of manual extra work right now.
Cost for the devt change - and how quickly it can be rolled out.
FUJ00155274
FUJ00155274

Costs of the ongoing additional manual costs to operate.

I have added Steve to the meeting, and am asking him hereby to manage the devt (& design) contribution to this
CP.

Regards Roy B

From: _ Birkinshaw Roy

Sent: 15 October 2008 09:16

To: Thomas Penny

Ce: Jenkins Gareth GI; Birkinshaw Roy; Holmes Alan; Sewell Peter (FELO1); Meek Steven; West Adrian; Burton John
Subject: Tentative: Event Errors - ARQ Service

When: — 15 October 2008 11:15-11:45 (GMT) Greenwich Mean Time : Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London.

Where: CR2, 4th floor

Something big has blown up.
This meeting is obviously important so I will attend but only for the first 15 minutes.

I noted Gareth's comments on Alan's draft CP.

Can I leave it to the meeting to decide the extent to which it needs changing.

The biggest issue I see is the climate into which this CP is being launched - ie a really bad time to be going to the
programme with such news. However we have no option.

The draft CP is plenty good enough as a document to start discussing the issue with higher management.

What they will insist on is a view of all the cost options and the outline plan via which we would implement it, and
by when.

I have copied Adrian West on this, as he is currently runnign with sanitizing all the CPs that come under Jon
Jukes governance.

Although we agreed that Peter S would be the change owner - a good thing - all the devt work would come out of
troops that are involved in Jon Jukes deliveries so he would need to buy into the picture.

Adrian - Alan's draft CP follows.

Regards Roy B
