FUJ00156902
FUJ00156902

From:

Sent:

To:
Ce:

Subject:

Michael,

A quick update:

Will keep you posted.
Regards,

James Davidson
Delivery Executive
Post Office

Fujitsu
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.c

Davidson James[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=DAVIDSONJ2]
Thur 31/10/2013 05 AM (UTC)

Bell Gavin
David Mf"
RE: Post Office - Terms of Reference for Expert

I have discussed the content for a revised TOR with Gareth and we are goping to reuse a scoping document
that was created last year when we were looking to engage KPMG to do an independent review of the
integrity of the audit trail. This will need some re-work but will give us what we need for discussions with POL.
Gareth is tied up for the next few days supporting the Channel Integration release so the soonest we can get a
draft will be next Thursday (7").

Matthew Lenton is in the process of setting up a SharePoint site for all documentation relating to data
integrity to be stored. Gareth has a lot of data which is on his laptop and on a server share currently but this
will proved us all with a place to keep drafts / wip and historical documentation.

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Harvey Michael

Sent: 25 October 2013 09:57

To: Lamb Helen; Davidson James

Cc: Bell Gavin; Newsome Pete; Jones David M
Subject: Post Office - Terms of Reference for Expert

All

Helen, James and I had a discussion about this matter this morning. The outputs were:
FUJ00156902
FUJ00156902

1- The current terms of reference are unacceptable and unworkable. We would be unwilling to provide
assistance based on these terms.
2- Weare therefore going to rewrite the terms of reference
a. Mike is to re-write paras 1-5
b. James is to look at paras 6-8 (based on what we previously agreed for the Second Sight audit
scoping). The questions we can answer is in respect of data integrity (audit data capture process) and
any specific questions from postmasters (or verify our answers). It cannot be an “definitive” review of
all of the system.
c. Draft to be consolidated in w/c 4" Nov and shared with David Jones for comment.
3- Regarding the Mediation process, James highlighted the key concern that POL are allowing cases that have
been through court to fall within the mediation process too. We would like David J’s view on this.
4- It was agreed we will need a repository of previous expert testimony given which we can build up with
documentation provided for the Mediation and Expert determinations to ensure consistency of response.
5- Once the draft is agreed with David J and call will be set up with the team to discuss
6- Mike will send a holding email to Rodric indicating that we will be redrafting some of the ToR.
7- Ameeting will be set up with POL either for end of w/c 4 November or w/c 18" Nov (unless we don’t need
me as I’m away on my course w/c 11")

David — could you give me a call to discuss sometime today.
Thanks
Mike

Michael Harvey
Commercial Director

Fujitsu
22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Kw Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
