IMPACT R3 Branch Trading Issues

FUJ00126058

FUJ00126058

Ref ISSUE STATUS
1.2 Taking into account the requirements for a monthly Branch Trading Statement, confirmation FS provided assessment to Clive Read/ David
is required concerning the impact on the Horizon infrastructure of increasing the retention of Parnell on 12/2/04. Following POL review of cost
transaction data at the branch from the current 35 days to 49 days. In particular, the impact implications, Clive Read requested (24/2) impact
assessment should consider branch and central storage requirements and processing times I assessment of 49 days data retention at branch and
for branch reports. 35 days at data centre to try and avoid data centre
storage upgrade. GJ issued notes (26/2) reporting
investigation results with options for POL
consideration.
Following consideration of GJ note, DP/CR
confirmed working assumption for CD should be
based on Option 3:
Extend the data retention at the counter to match
maximum possible at the Data Centre (say 42 days
- to be confirmed). This avoids any unforeseen
“mismatch” issues. Could introduce a calendar of
13 four-week months in the year for Branch Trading
periods and therefore maintain same level of safety
zone at the branch. Assumption to be reviewed with
POL Stakeholders on 4/3.
Action: PB to incorporate working assumption in
CD. Issue Closed
1.3 Confirmation is needed concerning the POL requirement to use the rem out Proposal circulated by Philip Godden on 10/2/04.
dockets/vouchers functionality. It is understood that some sub-set of the following may be Consideration needed regarding POL FS
involved: requirement for rems. Suggestion that could
1 Losses (various categories) and gains assume no rems and drive from cut-offs.
2 Postage costs Following review with DP, following proposed as
3. Petty cash expense / purchases working assumption for CD:
4. Robbery & Burglary clearance Existing process for handling dockets/vouchers is
5. Write offs (various categories) retained with the addition that Horizon forwards an
6. Intruder Alarms (Directly managed only) event to central system when a related cut-off report
7. Counterfeit Notes (DM only) is produced. This will enable POL to configure
8 MVLs to car hire companies (DM only) reference data to define which items are to be
9. Obsolete Stock (Agents only) handled in this way and the availability of the event
10. Customer Goodwill (Agents only) within POL MI will support back-end control
. processes.
Vsn 10.0 Page 1 of 4 2/03/2004
IMPACT R3 Branch Trading Issues

FUJ00126058

FUJ00126058

Ref ISSUE STATUS
11. Spoilt Postage Labels (Agents only) Action: John Dutton/Chris Allen to review/confirm
12. Redeemed savings stamps (BBC, DVLA..) acceptance of working assumption for CD (also
This information is required to assess the impact on associated reporting, e.g. opportunities need to address related issue 1.4 below).
to remove or implied change required to existing product specific reports. (see also FS CD
review comment 18/2 Nos. 2 & 4)
1.4 Confirmation is needed concerning how stock/ vouchers/ dockets items are required to be Action: John Dutton/Chris Allen to confirm POL
mapped onto accounting and will they be represented on branch reports/accounts. requirements (see related issue 1.3 above).
This information is required to help identify/confirm associated migration requirements.
1.5 Confirmation is needed regarding requirements concerned with the reconciliation of Notes produced from POL review (23/2) have not
transactions to be supported by Horizon automation. finalised requirement. Following POL/FS review
This information is required to enable the assessment to progress with the identification of (24/2), GJ circulated a proposed CD working
scope for the reconciliation simplifications and associated cost savings anticipated by assumption covering proposed APS/TPS merge
Schedule 12 of the Fujitsu contract. (see also AW CD review comment 18/2 No. 3) which DP confirmed should be used for CD
Action: PB to incorporate working assumption in
CD. Issue Closed
1.8 Confirm re-engineering of DVLA product, to enable it to be controlled by Horizon, is out of POL/FS 24/2 review confirmed working assumption
scope for IMPACT and will be addressed by a separate CR if required, i.e. DVLA product will I for CD should be that MVLs are treated as a single
remain uncontrolled (non-value) at S80. stock type for the purpose of reporting to POL FS.
Investigations have shown that, compounded by S60 changes to DVLA product handling Action: Dave Parnell/Clive Read to review working
incorporating use of ADC, it cannot be changed to controlled stock simply by changing the assumption with Davyd Nash.
associated reference data and would require non-trivial re-engineering to achieve the Action: PB to incorporate working assumption in
change. CD. Issue Closed
24 Following discussions between Tony Marsh and Clive Read, a review meeting has been Stakeholder review on 26/2 did not appear to
arranged for 18/2/04 to examine a proposal to remove the current method of posting address all issues. Review with DP proposed that
discrepancies into a branch Suspense account. working assumption for CD should be that POL will
withdraw Suspense products that enable cash
discrepancies to be posted to Suspense requiring
branches to make good or obtain pre-authorisation
for discrepancies that special treatment. It is
assumed that this requirement will be met by
existing Horizon functionality and POL will revise
reference data to obtain required effect.
Action: DPto review/confirm wording of working
assumption.
Action: PB to incorporate working assumption in
cD.
Vsn 10.0 Page 2 of 4 2/03/2004
IMPACT R3 Branch Trading Issues

FUJ00126058

FUJ00126058

Ref ISSUE STATUS
26 Review meeting in London on 11/2/04 confirmed that TMS/AIS requirements are not As agreed at POL/FS 24/2 review, GJ issued note
expected to be completed on a timescale compatible with scheduled CD production. (27/2) detailing working assumptions and details of
Decision taken to include sufficient information in CD regarding TMS/AIS to enable solution “missing” information that needs to be in CD to
design work to proceed. (see also 3.5 below) enable DP/CT work to proceed in lieu of finalized
TMS/AIS requirements.
Action: AH/CR to review/confirm working GJ
assumptions for CD and provide working
assumptions for “missing” information by close of
business 2/3.
3.4 Confirm Horizon events POL require to be forwarded to POL MIS (Data Flow Item 2 from GJ forwarded (27/2) list of Horizon events to POL to
11/2 S80 design review). (see also JD/BG CD review comments 18/2 No. 40 & 41) assist with requirement identification. Follow up
note sent to JD 1/3.
Action: JD to confirm POL requirement
3.4 Requirements to be confirmed concerning carry forward into TMS of existing feed of Camelot I Action: To be addressed under issue 2.6 above.
related data to Martins. (Data Flow Item 10 from 11/2 S80 design review)
3.5 Confirmation of DPI, Parcel Force TMS feed requirement (Data Flow Item 13 from 11/2 S80 Action: To be addressed under issue 2.6 above.
design review)
3.7 Confirm requirements for handling non-accounting data (including centrally identified Problems identified with proposal to handle in POL
corrections). (“Other Functionality” note from 11/2 S80 design review) FS. GJ provided note (27/2) detailing list of services
that require support for non-accounting data. GJ
following up with CA to clarify current progress
whilst PG is on leave.
Action: Dave Parnell/Chris Allen to confirm
requirement working assumption for CD
3.12 I Confirm cheque handling requirements (FS CD review comment 18/2 No. 6) CR confirmed (24/2) comment “cheques should
work like this in future” should be removed from
section 10.1.2.5 (under automation entry) of the
draft CD.
Action: DP/CR to review POL cheque handling
requirements.
Action: PB to incorporate agreed working
assumption in CD. Issue Closed
3.13 I Confirm requirement for trigger condition that enables Horizon/OPTip feed to be switched Review with DP confirmed this should be addressed
off(FS CD review comment 18/2 No. 8) within context of overall migration requirements.
Issue Closed
44 Confirm requirement for start/end period of weekly reports now that Branch Trading Action: JD to confirm requirements.
Vsn 10.0 Page 3 of 4 2/03/2004
IMPACT R3 Branch Trading Issues

FUJ00126058
FUJ00126058

Ref

ISSUE

STATUS

Statement is to be produced monthly.

4.2

Given that the new Cash Variance Report does not cover a fixed period, clarification is
required regarding what report the reprint functionality should refer to within a previous
period

Action: JD to confirm requirements.

43

The requirement for an interim Branch Trading Statement has been tabled. However, the
production of the BTS assumes completion of SU balances has taken place. Given that
there currently the Office Snapshot report is given to obtain an interim branch trading
position, confirmation/clarification is required concerning the interim BTS requirement.

Action: JD to confirm requirements.

Vsn 10.0 Page 4 of 4

2/03/2004
