FUJ00174180
FUJ00174180

From:
Sent:
To:

Subject:
Gentlemen,
For your information, here are the notes from my meeting first meeting with Mike Young:

Present: Mike Young, Mike Wood, Gavin
When: 29" Sep, 10:00 til 10:40
Where: Old Street
Discussion Points:
Following introductions Mike Y expressed his desire to see some stability in the Fujitsu team and mgmt, he understood
why the changes but was looking for some comfort. GB responded with the plan for his role, his priority commitment
would be PO and reinforced the commitment from Duncan.
Mike Y commented that he would rather scrap HNG-X than see it screw up his operations, that Horizon was great,
stable and the users had nothing but praise — he accepted that there would be some issues with the new roll-out but
that these had to be minor.
Mike W confirmed that he would be staying on the account and would be maintaining accountability for the HNG-X roll-
out up to 21 April 2010. He also spoke re the scrutiny/focus that HNG-X was getting throughout the senior mgmt
team and would continue to do so.
It was made clear that GB would also be focussing on new business, Mike Y confirmed there ‘certainly is’ more
business to be had.
Mike Y said he had an open and honest relationship with Andy Hall and that he wanted this continue - GB assured him
it would.
Mike Y then went on to comment on his four key priority areas:
1. He needed to start thinking re the end of the current Fujitsu contract in 2015, he saw us taking a big role in
helping him shape his vision. He confirmed that it would have to go to public procurement and that through our
work with him we would be strongly placed re the outcome.
2. He needs to reduce his costs now. A significant short term win would be to consolidate the counters field
support vendors under Fujitsu. He wanted us to come to him with a proposal to bring together these separate
support contracts asap.
3. Queuing - tied to customer experience, he stated that the branch/counter experience was poor, PO needed
to attract young people (without disaffecting the older/current client base), he mentioned web-enabled services,
quicker service times, also that a member of his mgmt team had come from Argos where they had posed an
idea around ‘take a ticket, watch a screen to get a place in line’ as a poss way forward. He was clearly
passionate re the need for change/modernisation but was looking for ideas and guidance.
4. Automation — he asked the general question ‘what more can be done to develop automation?’ This was an
end-to-end observation, including client experience and post office staff experience.

GB agreed to take these away and come back with a plan to engage on each area.
Meeting closed.

Post meeting notes:

The PO/RMG relationship wasn’t explored — needs to be at subsequent meeting.

GB is looking to get a Sales campaign underway to address points 1, 3 and 4 with the following headline ToR:
A. We need to understand and demonstrate understanding of the process flows (data, people, materials, etc)
going on inside Counters.
B. We need to define the end/future state in Business terms, with Mike Y and his team.
C. We need to define and agree a roadmap with Mike Y to get us from A to C, and. Ideally it would be
constructed to form a trail of future-proofed building blocks that gradually phase out the services delivered under
HNGxX thus making a public tender unnecessary — i.e. ‘something’ has evolved along the roadmap under
separate terms and bite-sized budget chunks allowing Mike to sign-off.

The extent to which this is a ‘defend’ vs ‘defend/grow’ play will become clear as we progress with Mike Y.
Point 2 above is being worked already by Andy Startin.
FUJ00174180
FUJ00174180

Duncan and Gavin scheduled to meet Mike Y on 16" Oct.

Please call me if you have any questions.
Kind regards,

Gavin
