FUJ00122683
FUJ00122683

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 02/02/2010 09:18:24

To: Thomas Penny [/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=ThomasP]; Lillywhite Tom
[/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=LillywhiteT]

Subject: RE: West Byfleet - JUDGE ORDER - URGENT, URGENT

Attachments: 0202.Gareth - West Byfleet.doc

Penny / Tom,

I've finally managed to go through the Witness statement that you kindly put together for me. I've
tidied it up a bit using "Revisions" (attached). Should all the bits "POL to Comment" just be removed
from the Witness statement?

I don't know anything at present about Falkirk

I'm not aware of issues in Horizon other than the event timeouts. Not sure how to cover that in the
witness statement.

I've read Eleanor Nixon's statement. I'm not clear what response I need to give.

I'm OK in principle talking to the POL Solicitor / Barrister. However, this is a very busy time with
HNG-X (though I suspect this may be considered an even higher priority). I'l] come and talk at 2pm.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road....Reacknall..Reckshice...RG12..29N..

Mobile:
email:
Web:

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, w1uU
3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of
confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been
intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
-Original Message-----
From: Thomas Penny
Sent: 01 February 2010 16:30
To: Lillywhite Tom; Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: FW: West Byfleet - JUDGE ORDER - URGENT, URGENT

Tom/Gareth
Please see e-mail below; this is now extremely urgent. Please advise availability for discussion.

Kind regards
Penny

01 February
To: Thomas Penny
Subject: West Byfleet

Penny
At a pre court hearing today the judge has ordered that all the defence
requests for further information be answered by 4pm on Monday 8th February.

Our solicitor in the case has asked that Gareth's statement is completed by
Wednesday of this week so that he and our barrister can examine the
statement.

Gareth's statement needs to cover the following four points.

1. Our defence barrister has asked for all of Gareth's replies in
relation to the Defences 2nd Interim Report (see attachment below) to be
produced as a witness statement. I would suggest that the question from
the defence is reproduced and then Gareth's replies are recorded
immediately after for clarity purposes.

(See attached file: 9c15.misra - 2nd interim technical expert's report
19.11.09.doc)

2) + ~My barrister telephoned me yesterday evening and requested that I find
out_any information that Fujitsu may hold in relation to an office called
Callender Square in Falkirk. Apparently, Anne Chambers a Systems
Specialist employed by Fujitsu was cross examined and it is said that she
had full knowledge of an error in the Horizon system at this Post Office.
our barrister would like Gareth to deal with this matter and expand upon
whatever issue Anne Chambers raised at court within his witness statement.

3) when Gareth completes his statement could he also mention whether there
are any known problems with the Horizon system that Fujitsu are aware of.
If none could this be clarified in the statement.

4) Could Gareth read the statement from Eleanor Nixon attached below and
respond in his statement to the points raised by Eleanor Nixon about
Horizon.

(See attached file: Eleanor Nixon Statement.rtf)

In addition our barrister would like to speak to Gareth directly and would
be grateful if in the first instance whether Gareth could either send him
his contact details or give him a call on his mobil bi

called warwick Tatford. and bis =wail address is

and mobile number ist i ‘

(Embedded image moved to file: pic31632.jpg)

{SEH Yes Sees sedis esses esta rae se sea eae deed dear a irae seeder sees ea desea ese setae a arse

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this I email from, your system.

senneen ¢ hen beanie en

FUJ00122683
FUJ00122683

