FUJ00182166
FUJ00182166

From: Defence Legal (Chris Jay) _
Sent: Mon 22/10/2018 4:

To: Jones, David _. i
Subject: I RE: Project Bramble - Witness Statement - Legally Privileged and Confidential
Attachment: 181022_Project Bramble_Gareth Jenkins__ gij.Witness statement of Richard Roll 11.07.16.docx

IMPORTANT - This email or attached documents contains legal advice (or relates to litigation or anticipated litigation) and is being provided in
circumstances for which Legal Privilege may be claimed. Do not copy or forward this document without permission

David,

Forgot to include Gareth Jenkins commentary on Mr Roll’s WS. Now herewith.
Best Regards

Christopher Jay, Senior Counsel

FUJITSU

Fujitsu is proud to partner with

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Defence Legal (Chris Jay)
Sent: 22 October 20:
To: Jones David M
Subject: Project Bramble - Witness Statement - Legally Privileged and Confidential
Importance: High

IMPORTANT - This email or attached documents contains legal advice (or relates to litigation or anticipated litigation) and is being provided in
circumstances for which Legal Privilege may be claimed. Do not copy or forward this document without permission.

David,
Per our earlier conversation this morning.
The Claimants and Post Office are at the stage of exchanging Witness Statements.

One of the Claimants witnesses is a Richard Rolls. He used to work for Fujitsu and left in about 2004.His Witness
Statement is attached.

We have checked to see if he left under a shadow and have no evidence that he did. He did however appear on the
Panorama Programme a couple of years ago about the Post Office and Horizon, which I did not see, but from which
Womble Bond Dickinson believe that the Claimants and their lawyers Freeth’s, determined that he may be able to
assist with their case.

One of our team, Steve Parker, worked with Mr Rolls and gave him a positive reference. Steve is now involved in
assisting Post Office the defence and has commented on Mr Rolls WS (see attached) but has made clear that he does
FUJ00182166
FUJ00182166

not wish to give a WS and appear in Court as he saw the effect on another colleague. See attached correspondence
with Jonny Gribble of WBD on the latter point.

I also attach Gareth Jenkins commentary on Richard Roll’s WS for information.
I had a conversation this morning with Andrew Parsons , the partner at WBD handling the case, and he made it very
clear that it was absolutely essential for the Post Office case that Steve Parker appear as witness to rebut Mr Rolls WS.

WBD did make clear that Steve would receive witness training and support.

He also said it was extremely urgent that we convince Steve to be a Witness and asked if I could respond today on
this.

I have left a message with Garry Stewart (the Account DE) to call me. I tried Nigel Naylor Smith (the Account CE) but
he is on holiday until 5" November.

Hope this gives you a sufficient picture pro tem. No doubt you will let me know if you require further information.

With many thanks.

Best Regards

Christopher Jay, Senior Counsel
FUJITSU

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com
GoOeo

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children,
Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

wv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
