Fujitsu Services

Engineer Service: Service Description

Commercial in Confider

nce

Ref:
Version:

Date:

FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732

CS/SER/005
1.0
19 Dec 2002

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Originator & Dept:

Contributors:

Internal Distribution:

Engineer Service: Service Description

Service Description

N/A

Service description of the Engineer Support Service provided

under contract to Post Office Limited

APPROVED

Reg Barton, Fujitsu Services Customer Service

Reg Barton; Martin Riddell; Richard Brunskill

PVCS, Reviewers

External Distribution: Post Office
Approval Authorities:
Name [Position Signature Date
\Liz Tuddenham [Post Office: Network Support -
Supplier & Service
Performance Manager
[Richard Brunskill [Fujitsu Services: Pathway +
Infrastructure Services Manager
© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: I of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
Fujitsu Services

Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005
Version: 1.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732

0.0 Document Control
0.1 Document History

\Version No. (Date iReason for Issue

IAssociated
(CP/PinICL

1.0 19/12/02 First authorised version introduced under contract

jnegotiations and agreed between Fujitsu Services andI
Post Office

0.2 Review Details

[Review Comments

by: [Date

[Review Comments

to: Originator

Mandatory Review Authority Name

Service Performance

Post Office: Network Support — Supplier &ILiz Tuddenham

Manager

\Operations Manager

Post Office: Network Support —ServiceJulian White

[Fujitsu Services:
Services Manager

Pathway —-  InfrastructureRichard Brunskill

[Director

[Fujitsu Services: Pathway — Customer ServiceMartin Riddell

Fujitsu Services: UKME Manager [Bill Burrows

Optional Review / Issued for Information

(*) = Reviewers that returned comments.

0.3 Associated Documents

Reference

Version IDate Title Source

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE,

CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page: 2 of I
Fujitsu Services

Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005
Version: 1.0
Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current
approved versions of the documents.

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions:

unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms have the following meanings:

(Abbreviation Definition

IHSH [Horizon Systems Helpdesk

HSH Customers Post Office staff and staff of Post Office Clients having a direct!
interface with the Horizon Service Infrastructure, providing that the
satisfy the relevant validation criteria.

ILAN ‘Local Area Network

IES [Engineer Service

MTBF ean Time Between Failure

PAT Portable Appliance Testing

[Post Office™ Post Office Ltd

SLA Service Level Agreement

SLT Service Level Target

‘Support Engineer an individual (who is an employee of Fujitsu Services or a sub)
contractor) appointed by Fujitsu Services or a sub-contractor t
provide Branch Equipment Engineer Support Services

IWAN ide Area Network

Note: Terms defined in the [Codified Agreement] shall have the same meaning where used in

this CCD

0.5 Changes in this Version

[Version (Changes

0.1 (First issue

0.1a Second issue following agreement between Post Office and Fujitsu Services
0.2 Final draft following review by Fujitsu Services & Post Office Ltd

© 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE,
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page: 3 of I

FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732

FUJ00001732

Fujitsu Services Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005

Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

0.6

Changes Expected

(Changes

0.7

1.0

Table of Contents

SERVICE SUMMARY.
GENERAL. ..0...cccceseesseeeeseeeeeee
SERVICE ELEMENTS.......00:.000:+5

SERVICE PRINCIPLES.

SERVICE DEFINITION

ON-SITE REPLACEMENT / REPAIR OF FAULTY EQUIPMENT
REPAIR AND RECYCLING OF FAULTY EQUIPMEN
HARDWARE ASSET TRACKING..

LocAL AREA NETWORK SUPPOR’
PORTABLE APPLIANCE TESTING...
TRANSACTION RECOVERY.

SERVICE AVAILABILIT

SERVICE TARGETS & LIMITS...

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: 4 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732

Fujitsu Services Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005

Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

1.0 Service Summary

1.1 General

Ll The Engineer Service (ES) comprises an on-site replacement or repair service for
broken or faulty Equipment at Branches and Other Authorised Locations, for
example; training centres, NBSC, Head Office locations, together with associated
backup, support and administrative functions. The Horizon System Helpdesk
(HSH) will attempt initial diagnosis of faults reported to it prior to initiating
deployment of a Support Engineer.

1.2 Service Elements

1.2.1 On-site replacement of faulty equipment;

1.2.2 Repair and recycling of faulty equipment;

1.2.3 Hardware asset tracking;

1.2.4 Local Area Network support;

1.2.5 Portable Appliance Testing

1.2.6 Transaction recovery as a result of communications outages

2.0 Service Principles

2.1 General

2.1.1 Support Engineers will use reasonable endeavours to minimise disruption to a
Branch

2.1.2 Support Engineers will be appropriately trained to carry out the ES

2.1.3 Maintenance and repair of the elements of Horizon Service Infrastructure involving
on-site attendance at Post Office Premises by Fujitsu Services’ engineers shall not
interfere unduly with the ability of a Branch to serve Customers, even where
Branches have a single Counter Position and/or extremely limited physical space

2.1.4 Ifa maintenance or repair operation is predicted to take longer than twenty (20)
minutes then Fujitsu Services shall replace the whole unit or module to minimise
disruption at the counter

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: 5 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732

Fujitsu Services Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005

Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

2.1.5

3.0
3.1

3.1.1

Fujitsu Services shall carry out visits for maintenance or repair in line with the
Service Levels described in Schedule 15. Optionally, a Branch Manager shall elect
to defer a visit to a more convenient time. For example, in a larger Branch, ifa
fault occurs at the busiest time of day then Post Office may specify the start time
from which Fujitsu Services may carry out the maintenance or repair. In these
circumstances, the request for service shall be diagnosed fully but not carried out
until the preferred appointment time. In this case the time in suspension shall not
count towards downtime as defined in Schedule 15.

Incidents related to the Wide Area Network (WAN) once identified are managed
by the Data Centre Operations Service as defined within the CCD entitled “Data
Centre Operations Service” (CS/SER/007).

Service Definition

On-site replacement / repair of faulty equipment

Upon determining that a fault has occurred, the Post Office Branch will contact the
HSH, providing as much detail concerning the nature of the fault as possible.

Where appropriate the HSH will complete diagnostic checks to attempt to resolve
the fault prior to committing a Support Engineer to attend the Branch. The Branch
will be asked to participate in this diagnostic check where possible.

If the fault cannot be cleared and service cannot be restored following the initial
diagnostic checks, the HSH will obtain detail of the access times to the Branch,
which are not necessarily linked to Branch opening times, and a visit by a Support
Engineer will be scheduled in accordance with the severity of the incident (Priority
A or Priority B) and the location of the Branch (Local, Intermediate or Remote).
Definitions of Priority and Local, Intermediate or Remote locations are set out in
Schedule 15.

Prior to their first visit to a Branch, Support Engineers will undergo security
validation by Post Office

Support Engineers visiting Branches to repair faults will provide proof of identity
to the Branch Manager or representative.

The Support Engineer will carry service exchange hardware components and will
be appropriately trained in the fitting of such components.

The Support Engineer will assess and seek to diagnose the Equipment fault and
where possible, will rectify the fault through simple adjustment, reconnection,
cleaning or advice to Post Office Branch personnel.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: 6 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732

Fujitsu Services Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005

Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

3.1.8 Where there is a hardware fault involving a faulty component the Support Engineer
will exchange that faulty component with a replacement.

3.1.9 The Support Engineer will ensure that the Equipment is working correctly prior to
leaving the Post Office Branch

3.2. Repair and recycling of faulty Equipment

3.2.1 Where faulty Horizon system hardware is replaced as part of the ES Fujitsu
Services will, where economically viable, ensure that it is repaired and rendered fit
for re-use in the Post Office estate.

3.2.2 Fujitsu Services reserves the right to inform Post Office where the equipment is
determined to be beyond economic repair, and not to repair that equipment item or
return it for re-use in the Post Office estate.

3.2.3 Each item of equipment returned for repair will be examined, and the fault
determined. The fault will be repaired, and the equipment cleaned and tested,
including a check for electrical safety.

3.2.4 Where base units have been replaced, Fujitsu Services will clean Horizon base units
of all data and apply a new software build.

3.2.5 Fujitsu Services may, at its discretion, use a third party to complete the repair
works, which may include, but is not limited to, the equipment manufacturer.

3.3. Hardware asset tracking

3.3.1 Fujitsu Services will ensure that all equipment residing in Branches and other sites
owned or managed by Post Office will be recorded, by serial number, as whole
units (a PC base unit is classed as one whole unit even though different
components may be utilised for spares). Such whole units will include:

a. PC base units
b. Counter printers
c. Bar code readers
d. Back office printers
e. Keyboards
f. LAN hubs
g. Pin Pads
© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: 7 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001732

FUJ00001732

Fujitsu Services Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005

Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

3.3.2

3.3.3

3.4

3.4.1

3.4.2

3.5.2

Fujitsu Services will record all serialised assets listed in paragraph 3.3.1 of this
document and the exchange of serial numbers as a result of ES visits.

Not withstanding the above sections 3.3.1 to 3.3.2 inclusive, Fujitsu Services will
exercise control over all equipment including component parts held by them on
behalf of the Post Office, at a level appropriate for the ongoing provision of the
ES.

Local Area Network support

Fujitsu Services will maintain the Horizon Service Infrastructure within the Branch
including, LAN hubs, cabling and PC cross over leads.

Fujitsu Services may choose to sub contract the maintenance of the LAN cabling to
a third party as appropriate.

Portable appliance testing

The ES provides for one Portable Appliance Test (PAT) to include the inspection,
test and labelling of each item of electrical equipment, in situ within each Branch
over a period of 3 years commencing January 2004. To provide the ES, Fujitsu
Services will complete the following activities:

a) Conduct a visual inspection of all Fujitsu Services installed equipment and
mains cords within the Branch.

b) Test systems within the Branch using the appropriate tools and test equipment.
The testing of each item shall be undertaken by application of the relevant test
procedure.

c) The attachment of a colour coded sticky label to each item inspected and tested
to indicate success (of the inspection and relevant test) or failure.

d) To replace faulty detachable mains cords, incorrect value fuses and damaged
plugs.

e) To re-terminate plugs where necessary.

f) To render inoperative, any electrical item which fails the inspection and test
and brings this to the attention of the customer and arranges for its
replacement.

g) To record test results against a unique identifier for each item.

Once these activities have been completed, Fujitsu Services will provide the Branch
Manager with the test results. Test results for each Post Office Branch will also be

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: 8 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732

Fujitsu Services Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005

Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

3.5.3

3.6

3.6.1

3.6.2

3.6.3

3.6.4

3.6.5

made available to Post Office within one month of the test being completed at that
Branch and will be maintained in a Fujitsu Services database.

The ES is delivered during Working Hours, however Fujitsu Services may agree to
provide the ES outside those hours on request. The schedule for safety test visits
will be agreed in advance with Branch Managers and Post Office.

All remedial maintenance work carried out on site will comply with the standards
prescribed and will ensure that the requirements of the Electricity At Work
Regulations 1989 continue to be met upon return to service.

For the avoidance of doubt, PAT is not covered by any SLT described within
section 5.1.1, nor shall PAT visits count to the monthly limit on engineer visits.

Transaction Recovery

When the ISDN line is not available at a Branch or a Fujitsu Services Support
Engineer (or other suitably qualified person authorised by Fujitsu Services) will
visit that Branch (a “Recovery Visit”) and connect the working gateway PC with
the Data Centre via an ISDN emulator, a Support Engineers laptop (configured to
communicate with the Data Centre via PSTN), and the Branch’s existing PSTN
line.

Connection with a Data Centre will be achieved using the ISDN emulator in such a
way that the Branch gateway PC communicates with that Data Centre as if it was
using an ISDN line. Such connection shall be achieved using a free phone
telephone number.

Once communication has been established between a Branch and a Data Centre
(via ISDN emulator, laptop and PSTN line) normal two-way Riposte message
replication will occure. This will result in both delivery of Transaction data to the
Data Centre and delivery of Reference Data changes and OBCS Stop List changes
to the Branch.

The connection between a Branch and the Data Centre using the ISDN emulator
and its subsequent disconnection after successful transmission of messages to and
from the Data Centre shall be carried out such that if the ISDN line is restored
before Fujitsu Services arranges another Recovery Visit to that Branch (in
accordance with paragraph 3.6.5 below) normal service to that Branch using the
ISDN line will resume.

Connection between a Branch and a Data Centre via ISDN emulator, laptop and
PSTN line (as described in paragraph 3.6.1 above) will only be applied if that
Branch has a PSTN line and a a standard telephone socket that the Support
Engineer is allowed access to.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: 9 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001732
FUJ00001732

Fujitsu Services Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005
Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

3.6.6 Fujitsu Services shall use reasonable endeavours to arrange and undertake each

Recovery Visit (in order to carry out the activities described in paragraphs 3.6.1 to
3.6.4) on or before the eighth working day that an ISDN line is not available, and
at intervals of not more than two working days after until the ISDN circuit is
restored. Each Recovery Visit shall be arranged by prior agreement with the
Branch in question (which may be on the same day as such visit ) to commence
with the Post Office Core Day or, if the hours that a Branch would normally be
open for business extend beyond the Post Office Core Day, within that longer
period or at such other time as Fujitsu Services and the Branch may agree. In
making that arrangement with the Branch, if the Recovery Visit might reasonably
be expected to extend beyond the time that Fujitsu Services is aware that Branch
would normally close for business, Fujitsu Services shall inform that Branch. The
period of access to a Branch for each Recovery Visit shall be that which is
reasonably required for that visit to be successfully completed.

3.6.7 The Support Engineer will visit the Branch to ensure all transactions are collected
and distributed to Post Office Clients by ‘Day J’ as referred to in the SLT’s
documented within section 5.1.1.

3.6.8 The detailed procedures for arranging and executing Recovery Visits are described
in the CCD entitled “Process for Laptop Data Retrieval” (CS/PRD/105).

3.6.9 Fujitsu Services shall ensure that an appropriate solution to allow Recovery Visits
in respect of ADSL connected Branches be developed by the date set out in row
28 of Schedule 12 for the implementation of ADSL in Branches. ADSL Recovery
Visits shall be in accordance with the same procedures and criteria detailed in
paragraphs 3.6.1 to 3.6.7.

4.0 Service Availability

The ES will be available between the hours of 08:00 to 18:30 Monday to Friday excluding all
bank holidays, as applicable on a regional basis within the United Kingdom.

5.0 Service Targets & Limits
5.1 Targets

5.1.1 Schedule 15 includes SLT’s within the following areas against the ES:
¢ Call to Fix: Priority A — Local, Intermediate & Remote
e Call to Fix: Priority B — Local, Intermediate & Remote
e Average Downtime

¢ Engineer visits completed within 20 minutes

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: 10 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001732

FUJ00001732

Fujitsu Services Engineer Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/005

Version: 1.0

Commercial in Confidence Date: 19 Dec 2002

5.2 Limits

6.0
6.1

6.1.1

6.2

6.2.1

Visit volumetric limits are detailed within Schedule 15, Annex 5

Should any item of hardware within the Horizon Service Infrastructure within
Branches or other designated sites reach a decrease in the Mean Time Between
Failure (MTBF) of 20% against the MTBF quoted for December 2002, (as
documented within the CCD entitled “Calculating Mean Time Between Failure”
(CS/PRO/149)), Fujitsu Services shall be relieved from any applicable SLT failures
to the extent that such failures are caused by the failure of that piece of hardware
and the engineer visit limits referenced in paragraph. 5.2.1 above have been
exceeded.

Should any item of hardware within the Horizon Service Infrastructure within
Branches or other designated sites reach a decrease in the Mean Time Between
Failure (MTBF) of 30% against the MTBF quoted for December 2002, the
provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 17 (Infrastructure) shall apply.

Ongoing calculation of MTBF rates will be against a rolling twelve months
average.

As an exception, MTBF measurement for Pin Pads, will begin in April 2004. The
applicable baseline shall be the average for the previous 12 months.

Service Dependencies & Post Office Responsibilities

Dependencies

In respect of each fault the ES will be initiated by a call made by the HSH
Customers and internally within Fujitsu Services, to the HSH.

Post Office responsibilities

The Support Engineer will have access to the Branches, within the agreed access
times under paragraph 3.1.2 above.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE, Page: 11 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
