FUJ00174708
FUJ00174708

From: Apte Amit{/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=APTEA]
Sent: Thur 04/07/2013 11:32:30 AM (UTC)
To: Phillips Mark (HOM99)

Ce:

Subject: RE: Paula Vennells meeting with DT this morning

Mark
Thanks for sharing this. I am happy to coordinate this from the account team. Just to clarify...

- where the current system is addressing these issues eg Horizon Anywhere/Horizon Business Services, batch
re-engineering and

in above statement, which issues do you want us to highlight or address?

- Best Regards
Amit

Amitabh Apte
Chief Technology Officer
Post Office Account

Fujitsu
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN
Mob: 7”
Email: amit.apted

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

From: Phillips Mark (HOM99)

Sent: 04 July 2013 12:24

To: Davidson James; Apte Amit; Sharma Manu

Cc: Bell Gavin

Subject: Paula Vennells meeting with DT this morning

James/Amit/Manu,
Duncan met Paula Vennells this morning to discuss the role of Horizon in POL’s future strategy and the IPR issue.

As part of that Duncan shared the contents of his brief inc;
- Horizon is an invested and stable platform
- Very low cost per transaction
- Second sight has shows it to be safe, secure
-  Benchmarked
- we have an industry littered with disasters of service outages, programmes taking twice as long as planned
with massive costs where organisations have replaced systems like this eg RBS, Coop, Nationwide etc
FUJ00174708
FUJ00174708

There was quite a lot of discussion around this and Paula said...”that all sounds good but why do my team tell me that
working new reference data through the system take a long time and the platform is not agile”.

DT as part of his de-brief to Paul Patterson and myself asked that we produce some information for Paula (in easy to
digest language) that would talk about;
- where the current system is addressing these issues eg Horizon Anywhere/Horizon Business Services, batch
re-engineering and
- where the evolve strategy will address this further

He would like if possible to ‘strike while the iron is hot’ by getting a short summary of this back to Paula by the end of
this week.

Could we please produce no more that 2/3 of a side of A4 which summarises this?

I’m not sure if this is a difficult task or not but as you will appreciate we have to respond to this with some urgency
and the story needs to be good.

View on how hard, how long and who can own please?
regards,
Mark

Mark Phillips
Sales Director, Strategic Sales
FUJITSU UK & IRELAND

22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com
GLOBAL INTELLIGENCE FOR THE CIO

Visit i:cio.com

I Global Intelligence is produced on behalf of Fujitsu, the leading provider of IT and communications solutions for the global marketplace.

This e-mail is for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this e-mail has not
been intercepted and amended or that it is virus free.
