FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway

Bringing
Technology Monthly
to Post Office Progress

Counters & Report y,
Benefit Payments (CL

i

April 1998

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O2S
Version: 1.0

Date: 21/05/98

Document Title: Pathway Monthly Report - April 1998

Associated Documents:

Reference Vers Date Tide Source
(1) PM/PRO/0002 1.0 26/09/96 Pathway Programme - Project .
Planning, Reporting and Control fe

Approval Authorities:

Name Position Signature Date

J. H. Bennett Managing Director

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page I of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Monthly Report

Contents:

za Managing Director’s Summary
=

wae Systems Report.

=

= Commercial and Financial Report.
fe Customer Requirements Report.
= Customer Service Report,

ay

ayy

{

Quality and Risk Report.

7 Business Development Report.

International Sales Report.

)

{

Organisation & Personnel Report,

(

te

a

Post Office Client Report
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

AJEUIUENS
§ 101991
SsuIseUurY[

{NMI
(ng

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PAVREP/025

Managing Directors Summary Version: syas/88
ate: 21/05

Managing Directors Summary

MANAGING DIRECTORS SUMMARY

. Release 1¢ continues its solid operational performance with all the
key SLA’s now being met with important improvement with the
meeting of the reconciliation objectives which are now in excess of
99.9%. There is an issue however within CAPS where they have
ceased rollout of cards leaving us some 10,000 card short of where
would expect to be today. This is being pursued.

e@ The cutover over of CAPS to NILE 1.0 went well and. there was
good teamworking between Pathway and CAPS.

e This has been a busy month to reshape the NR2 planning to achieve
the January Live Trial date, which, due to stress points within
EPOSS/Reference Data, has meant a-moving around of internal
milestones and the need for all parties to reconnect on a different
schedule for Model Office testing. The most difficult area here will
be with BA who saw the contingency owned more by them than by
‘us and are therefore somewhat reluctant to co-operate.

¢ — The question of continuing implementation work whilst, waiting for
arbitration on the poor condition of the POCL estate moves slowly
forward. Providing the lawyers can agree the arbitration process,
we might get letters sent to the Regional General Managers within:
the next ten days or so.

° After a rather long delay, the Treasury Review has now started in
earnest and it is clear that the officials intend to push on. vigorously
to complete this within their 40 day period. All party presentations
and submissions of documents have shown no great surprises and
unchanging attitudes by the three key parties. We should co-
operate fully with the review but must press for a clarity as to how
and when meaningful commercial discussions can take place. All
parties want a resolution before parliamentary recess at the end of
July.

. Getting sign-off of the Acceptance Test specs looks difficult with the
first group receiving fairly hostile and adversial comment. To
counter this however, Horizon have taken on board more resources
who we know, who we hope will bring a more constructive and
timely attitude towards these key documents. The prominence of
this topic will, of course, increase rapidly over the next few months.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE ‘ Page 2 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

Managing Directors Summary Version: sos 98

° Work with the Horizon programme team in terms of integrating
Pathway activities with theirs has made solid progress‘and the
formal and informal communications is considerably better than it
ever was in the days of the PDA. However the skills and resources
within the Horizon team are still fairly light and this is attracting
and will continue to attract fairly vitriolic criticism from BA. We
need to help wherever we can.

e We were able.to host an important two day workshop with Fujitsu
staff from Tokyo to understand and review how a process of skills
transfer could take place on key elements of the programme. Three
areas have been highlighted, all of which would be tseful and a
position on each of these should be clear by the end of May.

° A busy period with the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters at
their annual conference where their positive support towards
Pathway was evident both in the conference, in the exhibition area
and in the informal meetings. Frank Field delivered a paper
presented by Kate Hooey which was well received by the delegates.
Pretty much a political speech but with a lot of positive comments
.carefully caveated.

PROGRESS

e Although the contents for NR2 have been stable for quite some
time and are the basis for all work, formal signoff has still not been
achieved due to the introduction of unacceptable contract
conditions from BA/POCL. These issues have been flagged for
review within the Treasury audit.

e Although there is pressure on us to commit ‘to a date for NR2+
which is currently targeted for July 1999, we have had to remind
the sponsors that there are obligations on them to, sign off details of
the smart card interfaces for bill payment as well as the processes
and procedures to be applied to Soft EVP. Communication within
the sponsor organisation is often very poor on these issues with the
left hand not knowing what the right hasn’t-done.

° Work with POCL and Girobank towards a joint paper covering the
strategy for a social banking service is probably the most significant
politically sensitive initiative we can take and this is due to be
available to the three parties.by the end of June. It is essential that
we achieve a solid buy in to this plan and then jointly and
separately promote it strongly across government.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

Managing Directors Summary Version: Me 05/98
ate:

° Colin Baker from the Federation of Sub-Postmasters has written to
all MP’s in whose constituency the live Post Offices are located,
briefing them on the position. and inviting them to visit a suitable
Post Office. So far some’six responses have been received and we
are working with the Federation to best handle such visits.

° We are working under the ICL Government banner to‘assist in the
building of a demonstrator for CafeExpress and this is an important
initiative to give substance to our better government vision.

° We are also joining. in the work within ICL on fraud looking at the
total government benefits fraud area which includes housing
benefit, such that a one ICL response can be given to the welfare
reform green paper. This needs submission by the end of July.

° Considerable effort goes into our permanent resourcing activities
made difficult by the high number of vacancies, short lead times
and often in key skill areas where there is a very volatile
marketplace. We are.considering a road show style recruitment
campaign which might improve both cycle time and effectiveness.

e Plans are in hand to launch an employee opinion survey, which for
Pathway will cover both contractor and permanent staff to help
measure our people issues.

ISSUES

° Giving full comprehensive and thorough support to the Treasury
Review is absolutely essential but.this does of course interfere and is
highly invasive for key people on the plans to achieve the
programme milestones, which are themselves of course confidence
tests for the Treasury Review. Careful management of this over the
next four weeks is the most important management task in
Pathway.

° We need to achieve signoff of the NR2 plan for Live Trial in
January and get all parties:to accept the readjustment of internal
milestones.

e Forcing the completion of the specification for NR2+, its contents
signoff and committed date are. becoming increasingly urgent.

° Progress with international opportunities over the last 12 months
has been both expensive and very disappointing. Time will need to
be found to review carefully our initiatives in this area and how to
manage them in a way which is supportive of Pathway.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

Version: 1.0
Systems Report Date: 21/05/98

Systems Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e The recovery plan designed to complete the activities necessary to
commence the Model Office Rehearsal 8th June was presented to the joint
sponsors on 8" April. They accepted the plan, even though it was
recognised that it was high risk and only had a small chance of success. A
parallel exercise was commissioned with the objective to identify the
earliest possible date for Live Trial and National Roll-out.

e April was a very busy time for the development teams who were engaged
in clearing a large proportion of the software errors identified by the
testing teams in an attempt to met the very aggressive time scales
associated with the Recovery Plan.

eT & I team worked very hard, long hours and weekends to keep us on the
Recovery Plan schedule and we are much closer than anticipated and have
succeeded in drawing back some of the slippage-caused by EPOS / Ref
Data. -

¢ It was also an intensive period for the Design team who continue to
struggle with a shortage of high calibre resources. Even so, they produced
several.important documents for review, finalised much of the work on
NR2 functional hangouts, dealt with a number of change proposals and
commenced work on Release 2+. ‘

e¢ Not a lot of new issues, but slow progress. on some old ones.

PROGRESS

e Although the Recovery Plan, which was classifiéd as extremely high-risk, is
not being fully met, good progress has been made on system test i.e.

APS and OBCS main pass complete.

BPS main pass cycle 1 heading for completion early May.
EPOSS and TPS both 60% through main pass cycle 1.
MIS main pass cycle 1 started w/c 27" April.

¢ Other testing progress includes Migration, where proof of concept has
now been achieved, Model Office, where we have now obtained scripts
along with Y2K and Penetration / attack testing where plans are
progressing well.

¢ — The development tail was greatly reduced during the month with Release 2
drops to PIT of EPOSS drops 7 and 8, 1c to NR2 migration agent, 2
Oracle increments, FTMS, Training Mode Counter and Crypto - TIP.

Remaining Release 2 development work now chiefly consist of late CP’s
and PinICL fixes. (But see ISSUES)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL. Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O2S

Version: 1.0
Systems Report Date: 21/05/98

e The Frame Relay “Proof of Concept” environment has been set up and
proved. Discussions are well advanced with Horizon that will lead to a
decision on whether Frame Relay is intercepted at NR2 or NR2+.

e Given. the issues with NR2 and the associated replan activities, reviews
have started on the provision of resources to support NR2+. Level 1
mangers are working on a plan to support NR2+ activities in parallel with
NR2. This activity will complete by end of May.

¢ Pathway Light was presented to Horizon. During the meeting it was
agreed that a “light” solution was not feasible for sponsor business reasons.
We made a formal proposal on how to handle Non- ISDN outlets and
mobiles and await.a response.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEM

. We have still not been able to find an acceptable resolution to the use of the
FAD code in the Pathway solution. Neither POCL or. ICL Pathway can
afford the substantial costs or the time involved bringing the process in line
with the other. Recent discussions with senior managers within POCL
suggest that there may be a way forward. This must be documented and
agreed within the next few weeks.

e The size of. the Riposte message store has become.a source for concern. It is
causing difficulties for the test rig builders and testers during recovery
activities. There are also performance issues related to applications which
scan the message store. Escher are working on compression algorithms
which will help if we can intercept this version without undermining all the
testing carried out to date. We are also redesigning the storage of reference
data at the counter to avoid unnecessary replication of messages.

ISSUES

e The performance of the system and our ability to test certain areas is
becoming an issue. Some believe that-the hardware and time available in
insufficient to confirm the behaviour of the system when fully loaded. There
is also a concern that the sponsors will require ‘proof’ of compliant
performance before giving ‘Acceptance’ rather than proof of scalability.

e The issue of ‘turnover’ training i.e. new staff in Post Offices, has still to be
resolved with POCL.

e Despite the good progress in development there is still devélopment to.be
completed. The largest of these is changes t reconciliation. These are
being factored into a detailed plan to control the introduction of changes

. and PinICL’s and the management of baselines. This will be integrated into
the replan during May.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25S

Version: 1.0
Systems Report Date: 21/05/98

° Although reference data has moved on in terms of meeting-.requirements for
testing and its overall management there are still concerns. These are being
actively managed both internally and with Horizon. The development of
the new enrichment tool is still to be completed.

° Progress on establishing whether we can intercept the use of flat-screens to
reduce space requirements in Post Office outlets has not been good. This
needs to be resolved one way or the other during May.

° Progress at TSC has been slower than expected due impart to late product
availability. New management arrangements that increase interaction and
communications with TSC are being put in place.

COSTS

* The budgets for the Systems Directorate continue to be refined and
regularly reviewed but are now being used to monitor expenditure on a
monthly basis.

ete

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

JIOdsay]
[ebIsWWIOT)

—_—
—==
———_—_===

I

Hl)!

I

=————
—a—
—

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O2S

rcial inancial Rey Version: 1.0
Commercial & Fina port Date: 21/05/98

Commercial & Financial Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e The Treasury review is underway, and with it comes a positive sense that
we have engaged in a way which affords a good chance of a reasonable
outcome.

° There is a lot of work to-do first, over and above business as usual.

° The second order commercial issues around counter space and training,
etc. have. moved-forward a notch or two but there have been no
breakthroughs.

¢ — Ric.goes from strength to strength and thereby provides the solid
underpinning we need.

e The NR2 RCD is still not signed off. The impasse on caveats remains
unresolved, has been escalated via CNT to legal interpretation and in
parallel has been flagged to the Treasury Review panel. The central issue is
how long (and how many post offices) before NR2+. BA/POCL concerns ™
have to do with both features and, although not formally declared, NR2
performance and scaling.

° Serious bilateral differences temain between POCL and BA in at least 4 key
areas.

© NR2+ is being delayed because POCL have been unable to define the AP
Smart interfaces or sign off LFS. In addition, they still have issues with
casual agents, such that they are objecting to the otherwise agreed Soft
EVP definition (one of at least four POCL versus BA issues). These input
delays do not sit easily with POCL’s declared concerns about the NR2+
availability date.

e The backlog on CRs and CCNs is improving slowly. There are now more
in POCL/BA’s court than in ours. All backlog represents programme risk.
This is a priority task for Hilary Forrest (welcome Hilary).

° Despite progress on A2As, the numbers show that there are still far too
many outstanding for comfort. Every one of the top 50 represents
programme risk until it is baselined. Baselining must be confirmed by
CCN, generally as Contract Controlled Documents (CCDs). Martin
Johnston is doing 4 fine job of pulling through fledgling agreements, but
precious few are close to formal sign off. Hilary will contribute to the
CCD baselining task.

¢ Horizon appears to be grasping the question of Acceptance in programme
management terms: provisionally, good news. But to get the scripts right,
we first need all of the following CCNs signed off: SADD V4, SFS, ACP,
Audit FS, NR2 RCD, CCN234 (updated requirements and solutions), soft
EVP, Reconciliation reports, and probably others as well.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

Commercial & Financial Report Version: 1.0
P Date: 21/05/98

° As expected, the latest departmental inputs have confirmed that headcount
and Programme spend will rise significantly in 1998 and 1999as
compared with Budget: either that or programme timescales are at-risk
because the additional resources will not be brought to bear quickly
enough.

PROGRESS

° Ic going well
¢ — working relationships generally good despite:the pressures
« — CCNs and A2As getting better - but a lor still to do

° New contractual baseline (CCN234) produced and being reviewed by BA/
POCL - but by no means agreed

° Preparation for Acceptance

EXTERNAL, COMMERCIAL FORUMS

CNT

° The phoney war continues pending direction from the Treasury review
e Meanwhile, the focus remains on second order matters - usefully so

e This includes Acceptance (from the contractual standpoint), and
baselining. Baselining includes the creation and agreement of an up-to-
date contract set (which will be the first since May 1996) and the full set of
Contract Controlled Documents (probably around 100 by the time all the
A2As are dealt with).

. We should now be close to an arrangement on the counter space issue
whereby we go ahead with preparation work and settle who pays via
arbitration later. (The actual resolution of the ‘counter space issue itself
remains as daunting as ever, with more work going on in the background).

e Lines of communication remain open, ready for business.
FINANCE AND COMMERCIAL FORUM:

° We have formally lodged at the POCL F&C that POCL are now delaying
NR2+ because they are unable to sign off the AP Smart, LFS and.Soft EVP
baseline documents.

e A nuimber of CCNiissues have been moved forward

° The BA representatives have committed to try to free up the’ provision of
the DIDVR and also key BA data/ volumetrics denied us for reason of
‘confidentiality’ - but until they are successful, these are both issues

. The commercial framework for operational business change has been
agreed - good progress

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 36

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

i ‘i ial Repo! Version: 1.0
Commercial & Financ port Date: 21/05/98

° The way EPOSS and MIS measure transaction metrics is in dispute - this
could become a key commercial issue: there is a risk that late resolution
could require prodict design/ development change to EPOSS.

° Discussion around NR2. RCD caveats revealed that POCL are more
concerned about performance ands scaling, and.BA about system security
than they are about new features, hence their insistence on having NR2+
available after just 4000 post offices - new input and a Surprise.

° POCL have agreed to defer Pisces and Talexus (both AP Smart) and
messaging out of NR2+, and asked us to quote for bringing them in later:
this will need to be the subject of a CR, but the recognition is there that
they have failed to meet their CAR commitments.

° The close eye over reconciliation and audit continues - we still have work
to do for NR2.
CONTRACT BASELINING AND ACCEPTANCE PROCESS

. CCN234 put forward (conforming Solutions to the SADD etc.) -
consistent with CNT agreement in principle on outstanding CCN117 $
resolution, but several iterations are to be expected.

e¢ CCN234 represents the baseline for Acceptance scripts, so there is risk of
rework until CCN234 is signed off.

° This risk extends to all contract controlled documents, AZAs and CCNs
outstanding. As of now, there is too much scope for mismatches and
therefore apparent faults which are not real.

. CCD work: is actively underway, with Hilary leading.

EXTERNAL, WITH SPONSORS

° Stalled pending HMT review

° Interim arrangement now agreed which-will enable post office preparation
to move forward.

EXTERNAL, WITH SUPPLIERS

° In the past month, meetings have been held with Girobank, WTL, Oracle
and De La Rue, all leading to:further costs relating to delay. These are now
beginning to exceed the substantial budgetary provisions made for this
eventuality. .

. Discussions with WTL and Oracle are currently tense: in both cases we
have rejected their propositions. They will need careful managing.

° It should be viewed as likely that we will have more supplier tensions over
the. summer. Cumulative delays are testing their patience and they are
increasingly looking for near term cash returns.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

‘ a Version: 1.0
Commercial & Financial Report Date. 21/05/98

e The new ICL trading rules have caused us to review arrangements with
some of our ICL suppliers: there will be a welcome reduction in costs in
some areas, but most will not cut in until July. We need to ensure that the
change does not result in our losing key skills'to external work
opportunities at much more lucrative rates.

INTERNAL TO ICL PATHWAY

«© — Departmental Forecast reviews have confirmed the significant increase in
1998 and 1999 headcount and spend rates anticipated last month. The
development and test peaks are higher and the duration longer.

e The new intercompany trading rules-mitigate the impact somewhat and are
welcome.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

e The baselining of A2As (at least the top 50), CCRs (SADD 4, Soft EVP,
etc.) and change CCNs (CCN234, etc.) is now critical and urgent. The risk :
to Acceptance of not securing a good solid baseline cannot be overstated.

ISSUES

° Pathway Business viability tied to HMT review .

e The risk register makes for a sobering read. Some risks are new or are
newly defined. The majority have a time component. Many involve quite
complex trade offs, always assuming we have the freedom to make such
trade offs. Some could blow us right off course. We need to find the time
to attack them with new and effective mitigating actions.

e —-NR2 versus NR2+: Should the pressures mount, the temptation to hold to
NR2 dates at all costs is immense. If we were to (purely theoretically)
compromise NR2 quality in order to hold the timescales, we would almost
certainly be worse off in the long run. We are only allowed 11 high or
medium severity Acceptance faults in total: if we fall foul of Acceptance,
we will have to do remedial work and go round the loop all over again:
the delay would be greater than if we had got it right first time. Unless
NR2 is truly scalable it will need to be replaced very quickly. If we push
too much work out of NR2 into 2+, the time gap between 2 and 2+ will
inevitably increase. Having NR2 available early but with a dependency on
a rapid follow-on NR2+ does us no good whatever. There is no point
starting rollout unless we know we can keep it going: start/stop/start
would kill us.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11. of 36
ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report
Commercial & Financial Report

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

Ref: PA/REP/O25

Version: 1.0

Date: 21/05/98

e The input delays to the DIDVR,.AP Smart definitions, LFS, Soft.-EVP, and
other A2As areiall now contributing directly to design and development
delays to NR2+. Mitigation actions are required, including consideration
of NR2 maintenance releases to deal with any risks from too long a gap

between NR2 and NR2+.

COSTS

ICL PATHWAY - APRIL 1998 - FINANCIAL SUMMARY

Revenue

2 32
Net Project Costs 8 137 8524
Declared PBT 143 190 47
Losses
Capitalised into 7994 8 334 340
WIP . :

Virtually all main financial measures were slightly better than
forecast in April. However, many of the apparent cost
‘savings’ in the month were caused by timing variances on
inter-company charges

Headcount
Permanent 125 130 5
Freelancers 156 163 7

Although recruitment activity was high, month-end
headcount was below forecast levels, with a higher than usual
number of leavers from the company

Borrowings 128 664 129 409 745
Revenue 21 32 (11)
Cost of Sales 1501 1 586 85

Forecast interim invoicing to Singapore did not happen.
Agreement now signed and will be invoiced in May. Charges
from several suppliers slightly lower than forecast, particularly
Peritas and De La Rue. Still includes large accruals for field
support activities.from Sorbus. Charge.for subcontractor
compensation will have to be revised upwards

Staff Costs 611 597 (14)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 12 of 36
ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report
Commercial & Financial Report

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

Ref: PA/REP/O25

Version: 1.0
Date:

21/05/98

Actual Forecast Variance
Freelancers 1570 1734 164

Training costs high in the month. Lower than forecast
number of heads and lower number of average hours worked.

ICL Subcontracts 1220 1438 = 218

Solutions Centre charges £160k lower than forecast (still at
‘old’ rates) and no charges from CFM re. Oracle skills transfer
or NUMA/Q testing, causing £251k favourable timing
variance. Some individual consultants now being charged at
the lower 'profit-neutral’ rates.

Other 616 760 144
Subcontracts

Main elements were lower than forecast Oracle
development/support costs £62k and no charges for RODB
activity £63k. ©

Professional Fees 253 66 (187)

Late transfer of charges for Masons‘ work from Group HQ.

Other Costs 380 315 (65)

Adverse exchange variances of (£100k) partly offset by lower
than forecast maintenance costs

Interest 839 890 51

Lower than forecast daily borrowings levels. Latest tranche of
AssetCo money is at interest rate of 7.9875%

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 13 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

——
—
=a
—=_
—»
—_

—

hh.
in

Customer
=F Requirements
Report. :
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

Customer Requirements Report Version: 1.0
Date: 21/05/98

Customer Requirements Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e Acceptance was again the principal activity. We have progressed the
Acceptance Programme to the maximum extent afforded by availability of
HLTPs and other inputs. s

° Of the 23 Acceptance Test Specifications (ATSs) required, 20 have been
produced and are in various stages of review. Of the three remaining
DSS/POCL have partial versions of those for Reconciliation and Audit,
where additional test material is necessary, and that for EPOSS is
dependent on agreeing detailed treatment of the BES/EPOSS relationship
and Report & Receipt formats.

. The comments so far‘are many and sometimes adversarial.

e On the plus side, the Horizon Programme is making a significant
commitment to Acceptance by bringing in two good managers and there
are signs they will impart disciplines v within DSS/POCL and, in effect, ite
lower some of the fences.

PROGRESS

DETAILED PLAN ACTIVITIES

RELEASE 1 / NEW 2

° We have helped clear up the backlog of CCNs / rejection letters.

e Tony H has progressed CPs to get us in good shape with DSS Reference
Data. For NR2 we will download Post Office and Benefit Office data
automatically, and manually maintain other DSS reference data files.

. An updated Post @ffice Closures document was agreed.

e Tony H and Dave H have updated the Foreign Encashments specification
for CCNs 117, 220, 234, clearly defining the rules for Temporary Tokens,
Temporary Agents and proposing how to handle Signing Agents.

e The “PIAT”, which determines whether problems should be fixed or
deferred during the latter stages of a Release, has.been reconvened for
NR2.

RELEASE NEW 2/3

° We have just received an early sight of the:changes to the-CAPS Interface
for CAPS Release 4, but these are still being reviewed elsewhere in BA and
will almost certainly change. We have made it clear that the Authorities
have missed the NR2+ deadline.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

Version: 1.0

Customer Requirements Report Date: 21/05/98

Tony H had to rework thé CAPS contingency specification received from
CAPS and this has been agreed.

We have kept up to date with the business ftamework documents,
responsibility for which has now been transferred from the PDA to CAPS.
These will be used in creating the Model Office scenarios and these
scénarios will themselves be reviewed by us 20/21 May.

The joint CAPS/PDA/Pathway reviews are continuing to work welf and are
proving a good basis for clearing up issues including DSS Reference data
and CAPS Release 4 requirements.

CARS
No work this month.
A2AS

T&I has been asked to commission the additional performance
measurement testing required for A2As.869, 885, and 887.

“CCNS

There is no further definite progress on getting CCN 117 approved.
Although the CNT has agreed our use of Solutions text for Acceptance,
where applicable, CNT is not involved in Acceptance Test Specification
reviews and this agreement is just.about to be tested.

We have had no reaction to our response to CR P76 (uncarded casual
agents) where the impact on Pathway was registered as very high. CR
P36a (removal of clerk id from impound and nil receipts requires BES
changes. CR P21a (inclusion of Temporary Agents in MIS encashment
reports) requires’ the recognition of the Temporary Agent role within
CAPS.

ACCEPTANCE

Horizon Programme has hired Naresh Mohindra, known to us from the
bid phase as a competent and positive-minded consultant, and has
transferred Cathy McCrohan from T&I. commitments, to work on
Acceptance, initially towards a scoping study, with Mary Reade backing
off to contractual-type duties. This appears to be a very positive
development. The terms of reference'indicate Horizon Programme has
recognised it needs to get Acceptance done and is trying to lower some of
the fences by considering whether all Criteria are in fact necessary for
Acceptance.

Tony H output the PAS, CMS and CAPS Interface ATSs. Comments were
received back for PAS and CMS and responses produced for PAS. Late
comments have just been received for CMS. Some changes to testing are
required and have been specified.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

j Version: 1.0
Customer Requirements Report Date: 21/05/98

e John P produced new versions of the Reference Data and TIP ATSs, which
~ the customer had rejected because Acceptance by way of Trials was
preferred.

e Output of the EPOSS ATS depends on having final Business Thread and
‘HLTPs to encompass functions currently being designed and implemented,
and an agreed version of the Reports & Receipts document which covers
EPOSS and drop 8. The comments on these additions were very heavy.

. Dave C output ATSs for POCL Infrastructure, OBCS and APS and has
comments in on all threé with the latter two responded to.

e Dave H output the BES ATS and has responded to the 93 comments.
Significant issues mostly concern the placement of BES/PAS. functions.
POCL staff are very sore about the removal of Casual Agents: the
Requirements are actually from DSS, but the Solution is within BES and
hence for, Acceptance by POCL. A further issue is the boundary between
BES and EPOSS which affects two ATSs, one of which we cannot output.

e Pam Barlow output three Implementation ATSs and started on the first set
of comments.

e Anha Campopiano has secured approvals for the Customer Education
ATS, although a CR is needed to get the contract to conform with reality.

¢ Peter Burden output the Help Desks ATS and is working through the
comments.

¢ John D output the political ATSs plus one for Security, the latter eliciting
78 fairly “oppositionist” comments. A paper supporting the ‘
Reconciliation ATS has come back with lots of negative comments: the *
solutions are subject to renegotiation and change.

e - The ATS standard will need'to be redone for the next.round and ‘the
Criteria database extended and maintained and made available to
DSS/POCL for completeness checking.

MASONS

e The team did another round of Masons work, we'think to support the
final papers.

NEW BUSINESS SUPPORT

° LFS: POCL has said that this will be signed of by 15 May. Dave C is
producing a proposal on how to handle-MVL tax discs. CCN raised, and
draft contract schedules being prepared by POCL contracts.

e — AP Smart: It now looks very unlikely that Key Budget/Talexus and Pisces
will be included in NR2+. Neither has a significant user base, and POCL
has not been able to meet the CARs which lock down all of the design
requirements.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: “PA/REP/025

i Version: 1.0
mi
Customer Requirements Report Date, 21/05/98

e Final versions of all NR2 PUNs, Receipts and AtP were agreed with
POCL/DSS and included in Horizon OPS Reports and Receipts document.
Dave C spotted that ES had changed theif logo unannounced.

OTHER TEAM ACTIVITIES

e Dave H presented to FJ. -

e John D contributed to the Treasury paper.

Offers have been made for the Bracknell Customer Requirements staff.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

e None
ISSUES
° None “

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

Service
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

. Version: 1.0
Customer Service Report Date: 21/05/98

Customer Service Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e Service performance in April was excellent and no new problems were
reported.

° The number of payments received in April continued the upward trend as
BA continued to roll-out payment cards. There were 77,973 transactions
with a cumulative value of more than £2.2millions. BA have now
apparently finished their card roll-out.prematurély and it.seems unlikely
that the target of 40,000 cards will be reached. No satisfactory explanation
of this has yet been received.

¢ Service performance in April continued to improve and particularly
important was beating the BA.target of 0.1% for transaction reconciliation
errors - in April we achieved 0.06%. We also achieved the target of 100%
of reconciliation errors cleared within 5 days.

e The principal focus of attention in April was the implementation of the
CAPS Nile 1.0 release over the Easter weekend. The upgrade went very
well and once again demonstrated effective teamwork between Pathway
and the BA CAPS team.

RELEASE 1C VITAL STATISTICS

Installed base : 204 Post Offices, 334 counters

Number of Cards issued 30,574
Number of Active Cards in use 26,091
Total number of BES Transactions to date 475,812
BES Transactions in April 77,973
Total value of Benefit Payments received to date £7.2m
Value of Benefit Payments received in April £2.4m
Total value of Benefit Encashments made to date £6.5m
Value of Benefit Encashments in April £2.2m
Total number of OBCS Transactions to date 3,810,506
Number of books impounded 12,656
Potential fraud avoided to ‘date £1.5m

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

i Version: 1.0
Customer Service Report Dare: 21/05/98

PROGRESS

OPERATIONS

e A fix for the Tivoli event adapter problem is expected by 8 May. Tivoli are
being seen to be co-operating very closely with CFM to finally resolve this
problem but contingency plans are being prepared should their fix not
work.

e Work is progressing well establishing the processes and procedures for a
reference data management capability in Customer Service. The volume of
work to be done in steady state is considerable with possibly more than

e 200 changes per week coming through from POCL.

e The CAPS interface problems are being progressed without significant
problems. David McLaughlin (POCL) will be presenting an update to the
CAPS board in June from Martin Riddell showing significant progress in
all areas.

BUSINESS SUPPORT

e — The total volume-of transaction reconciliation errors has remained
constant but the number of transactions has risen yet again by nearly 50%
to 77,973. This represents a further improvement in the error rate which
is now below 0.06% (contract Minimum Acceptable Level is 0.1%)

° Most of the outstanding errors have been analysed and fixes identified and
I am confident that we shall make further significant improvements.in the
next few weeks.

BA & POCL SERVICES

e The service trial of the process for Royal Mail / POCL card package hand-
over was completed at the end of April. A review of the trial is to be-held
on 11 May.

¢ Thermal labels are now in use at De La Rue - this enables the number of
labels to be reduced from two to one and acts as a prototype for Track and
Trace capability at NR2.

e — An additional process improvement at De La Rue is the introduction of an
automated docket (rather than manual) used for the hand-over of items:to
Royal Mail.

° Approval has been given to De La Rue to use Hi-Co (ercivity) cards.

e — Anamended draft contract for the supply of Temporary Tokens has been
issued to De La Rue with sign-off targeted for early in May.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

Customer Service Report Version: 1.0
Date: 21/05/98

e¢ — The NR2 training system for Girobank is now forecast to be available by
the end of May - this is an improvement on the status Jast month and
should now allow plenty of time to be ready for Model Office.

e — Work is under way with POCL on developing incident management
procedures in relation to HAPS.

CUSTOMER SATISFACTION

e The formal presentation on the-results of the interviews held with 20
Postmasters over their perception of R1C has now been received and has
been distributed within Pathway. Most of the actions arising need to be
undertaken by POCL but Pathway will be taking the research results as
input into future training events.

° An analysis and commentary relating to service visit reply cards is
available. The percentage. of satisfied responses in April was 93%. Ona
few occasions. Post Masters do not seem to be receiving information on
when to expect the engineer - this issue is being taken up with CFM.

OPERATIONAL BUSINESS CHANGE

° POCL are not well placed with respect to their organisation and
assignment of responsibilities in this area . Responsibility is likely to fall
within Graham Beck’s unit but no decision has been communicated to
Pathway.

e A proposal, which is essentially a matrix defining services that Pathway
will offer, will be discussed with POCL in early May.

SYSTEM SUPPORT

° Work by CFM to complete the build of the test:rigs is now complete.

In April there were 222 customer calls opened and 265 customer calls
closed.

INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES (MIS / PROCESS ENGINEERING
/ PERFORMANCE / IT)

° The Benefit Payment End-to-End Reconciliation Process Part 1 (Incident
Management) document has now been baselined and signed off by all
parties.

° The Service Level and Contract Administration systems are making good
progress with most problems now resolved. Interest has been shown in
these products from other business within ICL and they are being seen as
leading the field in service management.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

{CL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

fi Version: 1.0
Customer Service Report Dare, 21/05/98

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

° None

ISSUES

e Recruitment remains a problem with important roles across Customer
Service still vacant - Pippa O’Brien is now taking the lead with our HR
sub-contractors to improve the recruitment processes.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

a . Version: 1.0
k Repo:
Quality & Risk Report Date: 21/05/98

Quality & Risk Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

° FRM progress. Girobank are now producing FRM reports. Two suspect
incidents have been investigated -and closed. The requirements document
for ‘Soft EVP’ has been completed and submitted for sign off.

e Risk Management. Progress continues with Programmes Risks and’the
NRO beat rate risk analysis. ‘Attack’ testing activities have been identified
and are being discussed with T&I.

. System Security. Contractual compliance of suppliers to security
requirements is under discussion. Security Standards (needed for
Acceptance) are hear completion internally. Operational processes
continue to be developed eg PACE, key managernent-and handling. The
Security Acceptance Test Specification has been réviewed by Horizon -
with negative comments compared with 1997 version. This may cause
some problems!

e Quality.-Self Assessments have been Customer Services and Senior
Management Team. Both resulted ‘in reduced overall scores compared with
1997; as a result of Processes, Business Results (CS) and Business Results
and Customer Satisfaction (SMT).

° Audit. MSQAs continue to highlight issues with following of process and
quality of output. A consolidated report is being produced. Progress on
corrective actions is painfully slow. The Audit design is now very late and
offers considerable risk to the delivery of audit functionality to schedule.

e Year 2000 Conformance. Two particular supplier conformance issues
have arisen - Sequent Dynix:and Microsoft NT and-are being followed up.

° QRM is now significantly short of resource (5 heads). Recruitment has
been underway for 3 months with no result yet. In the meantime, external
resource is being used, including Girobank as part of the FRM contract
(which is not fully committed). It is proving more difficult.to meet even
the highest priorities.

PROGRESS

FRAUD RISK MANAGEMENT

RELEASE 1C

e Production of Fixed Reports. Horizon Project Fraud Investigation Team
(FIT) reports has now been handed over to Girobank. FRM analysts at
Girobank have been trained and provided with documentation, and two
CD's have been dispatched.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O2S

i isk R Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date: 21/05/98

° Lost/Stolen Cards Report. The-lost and stolen cards report and testing was
reviewed. An Oracle fix was applied on the 27 April and run on the 30
April. One error now remains for investigation.

e Investigation Support. The two incidents under‘ investigation during March
have been closed. One incident was raised during April which has been
closed and passed to reconciliation with a recommendation that ICL
Pathway do not accept liability.

NEW RELEASE 2

* Release 2 Procedures. The task has been scoped and the requirements for
new procedures identified. The required software upgrade for Process
Charter was obtained and installed.

Fraud Incident Categorisation Procedure; the first draft of
this document has been produced.and is currently in review.

Investigation of Reconciliation Fraud Procedure; this process
is nearing completion with the dependency resting on the
process for liability being developed by Horizon Programme.

° Develop Extended Verification Process. The final version of the
requirements document has been completed and submitted for sign off.
The first version of the EVP SOD has been reviewed and will need change
to meet the requirements document.

RISK MANAGEMENT

. Programme Risks. A full risk report.is in preparation, due for release
before end of May. This will act as the baseline for regular reporting.

° NRO beat rate risk analysis. The first cut of low level risks has been
developed. A joint process and method of quantification has been agreed
with Horizon Programme. The final populating the database and ensuring
consistency and accuracy of the input is scheduled for early May.

° Attack testing. Two kcy activities have been identified:

Counter attack, to identify circumstances in which users
may inadvertently find-‘holes’ in the system. Girobank
FRM will supply resource. Further definition of timescales
and scope are required to be produced with input.required
from C/S and T&I and QRM. The PPDs have been
obtained in order to pass to Girobank for review and high
level scripting to be started.

Security vulnerabilities. T&I impacting of the Admiral
paper is awaited.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

. , Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date: 21/05/98

SYSTEM SECURITY

e Pathway IT Security Standards. These are modelled on BS799 (by which
we are.contractually bound). Draft copies have been distributed for
internal-‘review. The intention is to make the standards available in an
HTML format on the proposed Pathway Intranet Server.

¢ — A risk analysis associated with the introduction of Frame.Relay was
conducted and presented to the Horizon Technical Assurance Group. It is
being revised to address the resultant queries.

e Customer Service, FRM and Audit have defined access requirements to
MIS, SLAM, FRM and audit workstations. Changes that are needed in the
ACP and scripts etc are being conidered.

e A process for the provision of PACE certificates to support evidence and
witness statements in fraud prosecutions has been agreed with CFM.

RELEASE ic

° A two day site security review in Wigan was undertaken with Horizon FSG te.
to audit the Release 1c mitigation’s. No significant issues:arose.

NEW RELEASE 2

e Baselined versions of the ACP and SFS have been provided to all relevant
third parties in support:of CP’s 969 and 970 - Contractual compliance.
Meetings are being held to discuss and agree the approach.

° The delivery, handling and introduction of key material.at the POCL TIP
site at. Huthwaite is under discussion with Horizon Service Management. A
member of PO IT staff is required to enter a cryptographic key component
in the event of power down or expiry. Operating instructions are being
drafted.

e — Significant'security events-for all operating systems and applications have
been identified and categorised and provided to Tivoli designers for
inclusion in the security event management solution.

NEW RELEASE 2+

° Key Management Application. Hardware requirements and design for the
for Release 2+ are being discussed, including the content, format and
frequency of standard KMA-related reports.

* Meetings were held with Horizon Service Management representatives to
progress the ‘social’ aspects of enforced key change (through compromise
or expiry) in the outlets. An inclusion in the relevant. PPD and Counter
Procedures is being drafted.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/02S

a _ Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date: 21/05/98

QUALITY

¢ ISO 9001 Registration. A high level process identification has been
circulated to identify incomplete processes, and assess risks.

¢ Self Assessment/BIP - 1998.

CS. Total score (528) was slightly down on 1997 (543) as a
result of particularly Processes (-18) and Results (-3).
Reductions in Business Results (-9) and People Satisfaction (-
5) were offset by an improvement in Customer Satisfaction
(+10).

Senior Management Team. Overall, the Enablers score
improved marginally over last year (+8) as a result of
improvements in the Leadership (+20) and People
Management (+7) scores. The Results-score showed a
marked deterioration (-60) resulting from reductions in
Customer Satisfaction (-13), People Satisfaction (-9) and
especially, Business Results (-40).

e Acceptance. Support to Acceptance Test Specification activities
maintained. 20 of the planned 23 Specifications are available in draft for
review, representing a significant Documentation Assurance activity during
the next few weeks. The customer response to the Security Acceptance
Test Specification is underway - there are significant concerns in ;
comparison with the document produced last year; agreement will be
tortuous.

PROCESS MANAGEMENT

° Support for a number of processes continues:

The End-to-end Implementation Process. Establishment of
the framework and rules for sub-contractor inputs is
underway; Plan, Schedule, Management Framework and
Document Composition documents have been reviewed.

Asset Data Collection process. The complexity of the
process requirements.and the limitations:of data collection
/ management systems are becoming clear, leading to
further examination of. whether supplier information can
be relied. upon to assist our responses to.anticipated recall /
rework scenarios.

Operational Business Change Process has been reviewed.
This will be used to manage PO moves and temporary
closures, avoiding the need for full Change Control via
CPs.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 25 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

i i Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Dare: 21/05/98

AUDIT

e — Archive/Audit Design. The Audit Archive design specification has been
delayed by up to 3 weeks following-the encroachment of the
Correspondence Server recovery requirements onto the Audit Archive.
This is apparently an architectural requirement, ie internal technical, and
Frank Womack has lost.time struggling with the extra layer of complexity
that it has introduced. This is now a significant risk to achievement of
NR2 dates.

° Develop Audit Function. A number of documents are being developed,
including the Audit Data Manual, the Guide to Audit Data and Standards
and Procedures. There is a meeting of the Audit Forum, with the
customer, on 14" May, at which the. acceptance criteria will be discussed.

e — Audit PC’s. CP1121 has been passed to upgrade the Build Scripts and
attach the CD-W @ FELO1 and Wigan. The regular transfer of the
Sequent data from the Data Centre to the FELO1 analysis PC has restarted.
Understanding of the data is being developed so that we are in a position
to respond to any legitimate request made by BA.

° A process and proposed audit plan for 1998 has been circulated to the
Management Team for comment.

¢  ARED audit is planned for May. TOR’s have been issued to Girobank
who will be conducting the audit for us.

. MSQA#1. Actions are progressing very slowly. Dick Long has completed a
strawman on Document Baseline Management which.is due to be
workshopped in early May. A report from OpenFramework Consulting on
document structure has been receieved but lack of concrete action.

° MSQA#2. A follow up meeting was held on 24" April. Actions were
agreed and issued, and are under continual review.

¢ —MSQA#3. Report issued 17 April. Follow-up meeting to be organised for
early May although I suggest that the actions are.subsumed in those that
will emerge from MSQA#4.

e MSQA#4. Draft report is planned for w/e 7" May.

° Consolidated NR2 MSQA. Report. As the MSQA’s have progressed it is
clear that benefit will only be obtained if the recommendations are linked
so that they form a coherent set across the whole lifecycle. A Consolidated
MSQA Report is'planned for 14" May.

° Release 1c Post Implementation Review. This was cancelled due to the
position adopted by BA Contracts regarding the sharing of results for all
parties.

YEAR 2000 CONFORMANCE

° Product Suppliers. Two significant issues have arisen:

“COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 26 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

i isk Report Version: 1.0
Quality & Riek Roe Date: 21/05/98

Sequent declared Dynix V4.2.2 as the only warranted
compliant version (we use 4.4.1 with repairs) but have
somewhat eased that position. We have yet to align his with
the product suppliers who declare a dependence on Dynix
(e.g. Oracle).

Microsoft have made a shift from “fully compliant” to
“compliant.with repairs (date TBA) plus one optional
product (date TBA)”. The latter has a- potential security
impact.
. Internal Testing. Progress has been made with compiling a test coverage
matrix showing which components are covered in which phase of Year
2000 testing. Y2K confidence tests of standard products continues.

° Development and Support Capability. TSC have supplied a list of all
Pathway owned equipment installed at BRAO1. Twenty two non compliant
PCs are on the list - but possibly obsolete anyway. T&I have been
requested to declare proposed future . usage of this equipment. Both
Development and T&] are now-addressing the Inventory Issue and lists ate
expected by the end of May.

° DSS/CAPS. Dates for DSS compliance have changed; their programme
extends well beyond the time-scales for NR2. In particular CAPS on-line
will not be assured until Q1/99. From a Year 2000 compliance position,
this is‘not a major issue as it would not fail until late 1999.

CROSS GOVERNMENT FRAUD

e A review of the Green Paper ‘A New Contract for Welfare’ summarising
IT opportunities has been prepared. This will form an input into an ICL
workshop, 11" May, which has thé objectives of agrecing how to respond
to the Green Paper.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

e MSQa’s. There is now evidence that lack of adherence to process and
focus on quality is resulting in additional rework further down the
lifecycle, additional cost and is contributing to programme delays.

. The delivery of Audit functionality for NR2 is at risk, as a result of delays
in producing the Design and the impact of other technical requirements.

e Year 2000 compliance issues with Sequent Dynix and Microsoft NT may
impact schedules.

~ COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE - Page.27. of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

: ’ Version: 1.0
Quality & Risk Report Date: 21/05/98

ISSUES

° QRM is now short of 5 heads to maintain progress on current workload.
This is causing considerable pressure and backlog. Whilst recruitment is
carried out, support is being sought,-from eg Girobank.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

Business
Development
Report.
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

i Version: 1.0
ines mi
Business Development Report Date: 21/05/98

Business Development Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

. Yet another month keeping the reporting community at bay. Press interest
limited to four articles this month: two in Computer Weekly, one in the
Public Finance Journal and:in the Times. Comment is still largely
ambivalent and not being helped by the sheer silence on the sponsors’
behalf. No positive press activity can be undertaken until we are sure that
the government is committed to this project. We must increase our level of
activities aimed at ensuring that key government members are positively
influenced as to the value and benefit of this project. A paper is being
prepared with proposals for a more direct campaign.

e A successful presentation and demonstration was given to lan MacCartney, .
Minister of State at DT] and five of his senior civil servants. It is obvious
that we must maintain the momentum with the DTI as Post Office will
not/cannot/don’t know how to.

e The Federation of Sub-postmasters have written to every MP in whose
constituency Horizon is already installed alerting them to this fact and
inviting them to'visit a post office to see: the-system first hand. Six
responses have been received so far and we are discussing with the FED
how we can help with the visits.

. The Federation Annual Conference takes place in Bournemouth 11-13
May. Pathway will demo as usual. Frank Field will address conference as
will Jonathan Evans, Network Director of POCL.

° Two meetings have taken place with McKinseys, one with Keith Todd and
the other in Feltham where we demonstrated the system. McKinseys are
looking at the possible shape of the Post Office in 10-15 years time. Their
views so far are very similar to ours, i.e. there is a potential gold mine here
in terms of the scope and reach of the post office across the nation. If Post
Office accept the need to change, then people change will have to play a
significant role.

° Progress continues on Business Development. Logistics Feeder Service
(LFS) is nearing sign-off. More work is being undertaken on the
Household Budgetting demo to make it more robust. This demo has
received very good reaction from both POCL and their Clients. The design
work on Generic Banking continues and will culminaté with a design
review during May. :

* A very successful Pathway Senior Management team event took place in
Hedsor. Very good feedback was received from all attendees who
confirmed the usefulness of such an event and another will be arranged for
later in the year.

. Work continues on Agreements to Agree and this has now been expanded
to apply pressure to getting the CCN (contract Control Notices) sorted.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 29 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

‘i Version: 1.0
Business Development Report Date: 21/05/98

PROGRESS

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

LOGISTICS FEEDER SERVICE

. Of the outstanding issues list, we have closed down SLAs, Pouch Delivery
Tracking, and Operational Schedules,-and have agreed a way forward on
Secure Stock. We still have considerable concerns with respect to POCL’s
relaxed approach to Service Introduction, and we are still awaiting
confirmation or discussions: re. our commercial proposals.

e — Itis the POCL NR2+ release manager’s view that the BRD will be signed
off by 15 May, which would freeze requirements, allow contract schedules
to be completed and facilitate CCN sign-off.. Based on progress to date
these timescales seem optimistic. Our aim is to keep the pressure on
POCL, and facilitate the sign-off process.

- SOCIAL BANKING (INCLUDING FAMILY BUDGETING SERVICE):

° Work is progressing with POCL and Girobank towards creating a joint
paper detailing strategy, product development and action plans for
delivering social banking. This.is due to be authorised by the
POCL/Girobank partnership board by the end of June.

BILL PAYMENT:

. Work on moving AP Smart.forward continues. The goal remains to see AP
Smart in NR2+. POCL have informed us that they do not believe they
can deliver the information that we need for Talexus (no commercial
agreement with client), or Pisces (no client), and accordingly these
products have been removed from NR2+. Progress is being made on
Quantum and GEC Watercard, and although we do not yet have all the
information we need, we believe that POCL are finally giving this the
priority it requires, and that the information will be available in the next
few weeks.

MARKETING SUITE:

e — The Marketing Suite has been fully operational this month with 16 events
including NatWest, Fujitsu Australia, and McKinseys. We are having to
deliver more and more external events, and are looking to enhance our
equipment accordingly. We are in discussion with Escher to enhance.our
demonstration offerings to a full multi-channel one including web access,
HTML help, future mails products, ete.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 30 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

Busin Report Version: 1.0
ess Development Rep Date: 21/05/98

BBC OUTSOURCE:

° ICL Outsourcing has.decided not to bid for this contract. On that basis we
have contacted SSL (a subsidiary of the Post Office), the current contract
holders, and offered them what ever support they need from ICL Pathway
in order to ensure they retain the contract: Our aim is to protect the 13
million transactions per annum which currently take place in Post Offices.

GENERICS:

° We have commenced discussions between POCL’s ADT and ICL
Pathway’s Design team. Initial feedback is that, at the current high level,
we are in agreement as tothe way’ forward.

. To support this activity we are looking to find a dedicated resource to turn
this initial work into a deliverable stream of products definitions and
designs.

CUSTOMER EDUCATION

° First draft of creatives submitted to sponsors - feedback positive; ideas
now being amended before market testing starts. Activities on track against
agreed plans.

° A first for ICL Pathway! Customer Education Acceptance specification for
CE elements of contract accepted; PDA have reserved right to raise a-
change request for the contractual requirements where costs were asked
for, but it was agreed that the costs.would be scorecarded.

. Positive and good working relationships ongoing with CAPS. BA district
office visited and some useful input to customer education gleaned.

. A very positive and useful meeting took place with the communication
professionals in each ICL Pathway supplier organisation: key
communication processes were agreed and the communication’ profile of
ICL Pathway was raised.

° ICL Pathway Senior Management Team Network event organised. Support
given to the organisation of the NFSP conference: brochure and stands
produced. The Fujitsu briefing was organised

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

. As the use of the media is not prudent we must create understanding of
this project in government, during and beyond the current review. We
need to bring together the good work done to date - audit progress and
success, and confitm who else needs to be seen and.in what manner.
Activity must still be fronted by Keith, John, George & Liam - but the four
fronts must be better co-ordinated. A paper is being produced with
recommendations.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 31 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

“ "yoday
ce) 129

[euoneussluy

idly
wifi

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report
International Sales Report

FUJ00058171

FUJ00058171

Ref: PA/REP/025
Version: 1.0
Date: 21/05/98

International Sales Report

SUMMARY

PROGRESS

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

ISSUE

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 32 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

Organisation
& Personnel
Report.
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O2S

Organisation Per: Version: 1.0
5 and Personnel Dare: 21/05/98

Organisation and Personnel

MONTHLY SUMMARY

° In general this has been a good month with the annual pay review being
the major activity

PROGRESS

e Pippa O’Brien has joined as Personnel Manager and is settling well. As
well as dealing with some of the moré complex employee relations activity,
Pippa is focused.on some key outstanding issues which will be handled as
projects:

A complete review of the current approach to resourcing,
with special focus on permanent recruitment, resulting in a
proposal as to how to approach a very volatile market place
in a more effective manner

Completion of a comprehensive salary survey covering all
ICL Pathway permanent roles, using both internal and
external benchmarking

Implementation and analysis of an Employee Opinion
Survey, encompassing both contractor and permanent staff

e The annual pay review for permanent staff is now underway, following the
issue of guidelines and spreadsheets to enable payroll modelling: There is a
strict timetable for this activity to achieve linkage to payroll run. Support
is available from the Personnel team.

° Permanent resourcing continues to be difficult due to a high number of
vacancies and short lead times, combined with a very volatile market place.
Recruitment methodology may need to change to adapt to these
conditions and work has been done to define some innovative approaches.
Serious consideration is being given to roadshow style recruitment.- where
we go to the candidates and sell the opportunities at Pathway - and this
proactive method is now being worked up into a practical initiative in
conjunction with Hays IT Recruitment. Although yet to be confirmed as a
preferred approach, implementation would be targeted for early Summer
{i.e. as soon as it could be mobilised)

° A number of people. have been transferred to Project Management
Professional Community status within the Implementation team. The
professional community model is being applied more widely within
Pathway and we need to consider whether to accelerate this trend. Group
Remuneration will be assisting Pathway personnel in an analysis of this
next month

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 33 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

Organisation and Personnel Version: 1.0
Date: 21/05/98

° In the Autumn of 1998 ICL will undergo an external assessment for the
Investors in People quality standard. Initial assessments have been carried
out-around the Group in the past few weeks. Rather than Pathway
participating in the. standard assessment of a series of interviews with
selected staff, Julian Page met with the assessor to reflect Pathway’s
approach to people management. This engendered a good understanding
of the Programme environment and the current status of the organisation’s
development from a people management perspective.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

. There are no critical problems, although as outlined above resourcing
remains a significant challenge

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 34 of 36°
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

. ‘woday
ys
SHIO 480d

i
il
Cat

FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

ICL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/025

Post Office - Client Director Version: 1.0
The Post Offic Date: 21/05/98

The Post Office - Client Director’s

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e The major work this month has been preparing for the HMT Review of
the BA/POCL Project.

TREASURY REVIEW

e The work was completed on time to deliver both the ICL Pathway 10-
page paper to the Treasury Panel, and the accompanying slide
presentation. Work is now pressing ahead on how we can take advantage
of the opportunity to input our Future Views, taking in both financial
services and better government . We await the outcome of the Panel’s
deliberations on which Outstanding Issues they wish to investigate - this
should be known this week. The workload impact of their investigations
will most likely be on our technical teams.

DESKTOP

. A Letter of Intent was received by ICL Multi-Vendor Division (ne Tplc)
May 1“ and the first orders have been taken, with deliveries to PO IT
Services, Royal Mail and POCL. The Contract has since been signed by PO
and is with ICL. The decision on a second hardware supplier, to
accompany Compagq, will not be made until the summer - Fujitsu are
bidding for this contract.

* The ICL business estimated for 1998/9 financial year is in excess of £20m.

CALL CENTRES

¢ The decision by SSL at the Project Board on April 2™ is reported to have
been deferred. SSL were unwilling to discuss reasons but PO Procurement
report that the rest of PO Group were not happy to sign up to the idea of
Call Centres being procured and operated for them, in the future, by SSL.
A team has been set to persuade the various business units across PO
Group. We also understand the debate is running at Group level.
Procurement say no decision has been made on supplier and ICL is still on
the shortlist.

. This is all very disappointing as we had asked the specific question, during
the bid phase, of Group support and were given reassurances that this was
not an issue.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 35 of 36
FUJ00058171
FUJ00058171

(CL Pathway Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/O25

" ‘ Version: 1.0
The Post Office - Client Director Date: 21/05/98

BETTER GOVERNMENT

© — Work is progressing, inder ICL Government, to build a demonstrator of
CafExpress. We have hosted the selected subcontractor, Julia Schofield
Associates, to Feltham to identify a. Pathway position.

¢ — The ICL working group on Fraud, looking at the total govt benefits fraud
area including Housing Benefits, is preparing a broader view of ICL
capabilities/offerings, in line with a planned response to the Welfare
Reform Green Paper. Martyn Bennett is on the steering group.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

¢ — The OJEC RFI ad for supply of architecture and tools for Systems
Management was handled by

- @ CFM for Phase 1 and The Solution Centre for Phase 2. As expected the
Phase 1 order goes to an enctimbent supplier to complete the HP ITO
implementation started 3 years ago.

e = We still await news on Phase 2.

° In response to a requirement for DCE_middleware we submitted a non-
compliant paper recommending a revised, non-DCE approach. This has
opened the door to-a wider dialogue, utilising the DAIS team.

° Royal Mail are planning to extend their pilot Trusted Third Party Secure
Transactions Service into a commercial offer. ScottishPower and Lloyds of
London are rumoured to be about to sign up. This Service is being built
for RM by Entrust (Consultancy arm of Nortel) and utilises the ICL i500
Directory. I have arranged to meet the RM Electronic Services Director to
assess what further opportunity there might be for ICL.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 36_of 36
