FUJ00174530

FUJ00174530

From: Bell Gavin[/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=BellG]
Sent: Wed 28/11/2012 4:13:26 PM (UTC)

To: Tait Duncani I} Patterson Paull

Subject: Briefing for POL, Fujitsu ‘meeting with Sue Barton and Lesley Sewell on Thursday 29th at 9.00 at
148 Old Street. Meeting scheduled for 1 hour

Duncan, Paul

Briefing for POL, Fujitsu meeting with Sue Barton and Lesley Sewell on Thursday 29th at 9.00 at 148 Old
Street. Meeting scheduled for 1 hour.

Meeting is positioned as an introduction to Sue Barton and the timing is very good as the whole of the ET
were offsite today on a Strategy day so a good opportunity to see where they are. Sue’s focus is the next 5
year plan that runs from 2015-20. Our understanding is that they need to have scoped this by about March
next year and then developed the plan and costed it to be submitted in line with the Governments funding
cycles, by September next year.

The points we are looking to cover in this session are:

e Introduction to Paul and to outline how we will work while searching for the right replacement for
Stephen. Lesley is aware that Paul will be her exec sponsor with myself playing a bigger role day to
day.

e Confirm our focus on getting the 2 year Transition Service (TSS) signed and looking for confirmation
from POL that there are no issues that will stop the approval process from running slowly. Is there
anything else we can help with to expedite that process? The background in how we have positioned
the TSS :

e is that this an enabler for the Towers and new business as well as a safety net for any delays

e Approach is to roll the Ts and Cs forward without changes to charges

e Where FJS can identify savings based on the R&R project (the supporting project to ensure
platform is supportable in out years of extension) then FJS will pass these on to POL. This
gives Lesley and Brian a win as part of their business case but the reality is these are minimal

e If we don’t agree in December through the CCN we are jointly developing then we have said
that our exec will stop further investment in the TSS and we would wait for POL to determine
their strategy and respond at that point.

e Explain how we have structured our response teams for the Towers, bringing in new people and
setting up dedicated bid teams for each tower, working alongside the BAU team. That this comes
together at the CE/ Paul level. This should provide the new faces, fresh thinking as well as protect the
BAU delivery.

e Weare also keen to engage proactively around the eventual Horizon replacement (Recognising this
will be a competitive process) and looking for some guidance as how best to develop our thoughts so
that they align with the IT and Business planning you are doing for 2015-20

Currently there are no service issues but they could raise the following project:

e Pin Pad roll out recommencement. IUK have developed the new casings to fix the fault with false
tamper alerts and these will be coming to Fujitsu for testing shortly. The roll out plan has been
developed and is the process of being agreed with POL, to meet their timescales to be PCI compliant
by March and roll out completed before next Christmas freeze.

e Collect and Returns — this is a project to allow individuals to nominate via the web to nominate a
FUJ00174530
FUJ00174530

post office to pick up a parcel, check availability of space, whether it has been delivered to the
branch etc and we will need to develop changes to Horizon to support this. POL made commitments
to Royal Mail without scheduling a project with us and the requirements were late coming to us.
Unfortunately this is quite an involved project as it involves introducing a diary, storing availability
etc but it is sponsored by Alice Perkins who made commitments to Royal mail. We now have a plan
to develop this change to meet POLs requirements on date, but it requires POL to make a priority call
on other projects (namely Channel Integration). Lesley will ask us to see how we can further
minimise the impact which we are looking at.

We are pushing POL to sign the Blades CT in support of the TSS contract extension. Value £500k.
Order with our suppliers needs to be made at the end of the month as manufacture of these blades
will cease. POL have been aware of this for several months formally and informally since the
beginning of the year. We have pushed POL this week on this point and we understand this is coming
to Lesley for signature on Thursday.

A 3rd party commercial organisation (called ‘Second Sight’) have been carrying out a forensic audit
(mainly on PO processes) as part of Paula’s attempt to quash (once and for all) the class action being
taken by about 70 sub-postmasters. We have been impacted by various media reports quoting sub-
postmasters, some of whom are blaming Horizon for their financial irregularities. POL should be
pleased with the way we have supported them through this difficult challenge.
