FUJ00182096
FUJ00182096

From: ParkerSPi___
Sent: Tue 16/10/2018 6:18:31 AM (UTC)
To: Jonathan Gribbent,
pete.newsome'
Subject: RE: Richard Roll - Privileged & Confidential - Do Not Forward [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Jonny / Pete

The minutes of our meeting are being turned into a witness statement. I have seen this process previously where a
colleague signed such a statement which resulted in a very stressful court appearance. I am happy to continue
supporting the process and refining the information but I will not be signing a witness statement, we need to find
another way to use this information.

Steve

From: Jonathan Gribber
Sent: Monday, Octobi
To: Newsome, Pete ¢
Cc: Parker, Steve I

; Ibbett, Dave
Lucy Bremner

Subject: Richard Roll - Privileged & Confidential - Do Not Forward [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Pete,

Thanks again to you and the team for your time on the phone on Friday. It was helpful to flesh out the comments
provided in relation to Mr Roll's statement.

I attach a draft response to Mr Roll's statement that is based on Friday's discussion. You'll see that there are several
comments and questions where further detail is required. Please would you provide the information requested by
close of play tomorrow?

Let me know if there's anything you want to discuss.
Kind regards
Jonny

Jonathan Gribben
Managing Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND

DICKINSON w ©

FUJ00182096
FUJ00182096

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any d may be legally privileged and protected by law. parkersp

mail and any attachments. If you are not parkersp4 ' please notify jonathan. gribbe:

distribution, publication or copying 6T This coftnithication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how

ies. Unauthorised use,
e use personal data is in our

ched to this e-mail will have be:

y hecked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may

bbe caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, wher
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT n

list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee
istration number is GB 123393627

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing,
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world, Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obl another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.
This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.
