FUJ00117507

FUJ00117507
Fujitsu Services Ref: PA/TEM/004
COMPANY IN-CONFIDENCE Version: — 13.0
Date: 03-Apr-2002
CHANGE PROPOSAL CP NO: 3240
CP TITLE: Replace the proposed tape silo with EMC DATE RAISED: 10" May 2002
Centera cubes
DATE BY WHICH CP TO BE IMPACTED: ORIGINATOR:
15" May 2002 Simon Fawkes
SPONSOR:
TARGET RELEASE FOR CP TO BE IMPLEMENTED: I Jan Holmes
BB Graham Hooper
TECHNICAL SPONSOR:
Simon Fawkes (RECEIVED)
CP CLASSIFICATION: Line Manager Approval
FAST -FRACK/URGENT/ROUFINE Gill Jackson (RECEIVED)

CP CATEGORY: ARCHITECTURE

RELATED PinICLs: None

RELATED CPs: None

MAESTRO SCHEDULE CHANGE REQ’D: YES

1. Description of Change Proposed:

EMC have recently announced a new product, Centera, that uses massive disc arrays, known as Cubes,
to provide a secure, mirrored, self-maintaining and self-repairing storage capability at a Mb cost
equivalent with tape.

It is proposed that this technology is incorporated into the audit solution instead of the proposed tape
silo. Work on the tape silo introduction it is at a very early stage; no effort will be wasted by making this
change. The tape silo is included in the overall Network Banking solution to support the increase in
audit retrieval requests brought about by the introduction of the Network Banking Service. The
following changes are required to achieve this proposal:

* Installation of the Centera API and management software on the audit server.

* Enhancement of the audit application: Centera store, retrieve and purge functions will need to
be added to appropriate points within the audit application.

* The Fujitsu Services Core Services group in Manchester, under the direction of the IPDU
system test group, will carry out the system test implementation. The Core Services —
Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions group in Manchester offer integration and test services
supporting EMC in the introduction of the Centera technology. The cost of this activity will
be covered by the tape silo introduction consultancy budget. The current plan anticipates the
Core Services consultancy budget would be consumed in May, this will be moved to a July /
August timeframe; the activity is referred to as ‘HPS services support’ within the current
plan.

«The purchase of a number of Centera cubes for both the live system and test rigs. To meet the
full audit requirement to keep 7 years of audit data 2 cubes will be required at each data
centre. Up front costs can a saved by not purchasing the second cube until it is required; it is
estimated this will not be required until after contract renewal in March 2005. One cube will
be purchased to support the development and test activities. The purchase of the tape silo
will be cancelled.

* It may be necessary to purchase two small tape libraries, one per data centre audit server,
replacing the current 3 Compaq tape libraries (the tape silo would have replaced these in the
current plan). Whether to purchase the additional libraries depends upon whether the
introduction of service pack 6a improved the reliability of the current tape libraries. The
current tape libraries have proved unreliable, causing greater than expected operational

©Fujitsu Services 2002 Page: I

COMPANY IN-CONFIDENCE
FUJ00117507

FUJ00117507
Fujitsu Services Ref: PA/TEM/004
COMPANY IN-CONFIDENCE Version: — 13.0
Date: 03-Apr-2002

support call outs. Core Services are asked to comment on the need for the tape library
replacement. The new tape library will support the Audit server backup activities. The total
cost of two tape libraries will be ~ £30,000.
= It is expected minor changes will be required to the Audit Maestro schedule in support of:
o Changes made as a result of this CP to the audit application;
o Gathering performance data from the Centera cube forwarding to the Short Term PDB.
* — The Centera cube will be connected to a private campus network, access to which will be
restricted to just the audit servers.

This CP has been approved for raising by the 12:05 club.

2. Reason for Change:

The audit solution has suffered from a number of tape corruption problems, one incident
resulted in a break in the audit trail which put Fujitsu Services (Pathway) in breach of contract,
and required a rectification plan to be put in place:

= Keeping 4 copies of the audit trail. This entails creating cloned copies of the tapes
once produced by the normal process.

= Manual procedures to replace corrupted tapes once they are detected.

The Fujitsu Service Core Services Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions group have advised that
in addition to the current rectification plan it will be necessary to refresh our audit tapes 3 times
during a 7 year period. The refresh activity requires all audit data is read and written to new
tapes. This activity has not been designed or planned and will require supporting development
within the audit application, as well as being a manually intensive activity.

The replacement of the tape silos by Centera cubes totally mitigates the risks associated with
relying on tape media to hold the Horizon audit data, and allows the project to make savings in
terms of effort to implement both the current rectification plan and avoid the cost of developing
and implementing the tape refresh program. Technology employed within the Centera product
minimises the risk of data loss by continuously monitoring internal components, effecting
automatic recovery on fault detection. This process includes a data integrity check that will
detect and repair corrupt audit data files.

A secondary but nonetheless important benefit to accrue will be improved audit retrieval time —
no tape load and seek times with Centera.

Current indicative costs from EMC show the Centera product to be cheaper than the tape silo. The
budget for the tape silo is £700,000. The indicative price provided by EMC is £70,000 per 5 TB cube.
Live hardware cost estimate is £280,000 and test will be £70,000. Up front costs will only be £140,000
as the second cube at each data centre is not required until after contract renewal in 2005.

The budget for this CP is containable within the current tape silo budget and frees up some budget for a
proposed further improvement, which will be the subject of a separate and secondary change proposal.

3. Consequences if Not Approved:

The current solution does not fully mitigate the continuing risk of audit data loss as a consequence of
tape failure.

©Fujitsu Services 2002 Page: 2

COMPANY IN-CONFIDENCE
FUJ00117507

FUJ00117507
Fujitsu Services Ref: PA/TEM/004
COMPANY IN-CONFIDENCE Version: — 13.0
Date: 03-Apr-2002

Fujitsu Services will be unable to realise the cost savings associated with the change in technology.

Additional costs will need to be spent in implementing a tape refresh strategy.

©Fujitsu Services 2002 Page: 3

COMPANY IN-CONFIDENCE
Fujitsu Services

COMPANY IN-CONFIDENCE

FUJ00117507

FUJ00117507
Ref: PA/TEM/004
Version: — 13.0
Date: 03-Apr-2002

4, Internal Impact Assessment Distribution:
Business Development, APDU, IPDU, ASD, PTU, Q & A, Customer Service, Commercial & Finance,
Sofiware Configuration Management.
5. External Impact Assessment Distribution:
Name: Organisation: Contact No:
Janet Reynolds _I ISD (CS)
6. Impact On Pathway
Man-days Man-days Non Labour Schedule
(CP Analysis) (CP Implementation) Cost
N/A TBA TBA TBA
TOTAL
7. Impact On Documents
Document I Title Version to be Version to Schedule
Reference Changed be Delivered
To be advised by Impactors
Change Administration Use Only
SCP No: TBA [CR No: N/A [CCN No: N/A

©Fujitsu Services 2002

Page: 4

COMPANY IN-CONFIDENCE
