FUJ00152941
FUJ00152941

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: Fri 05/02/2010 4:07:41 PM (UTC)

To: ChambersAnneO!SSSSss”s*é<“<«<~GRRS—<CSststStS I

Subject: I FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged
Attachment: Eleanor Nixon Statement. rtf

Anne,

I think I'm going to need to talk to you next week about Callender Square in Falkirk. This is all getting very messy!
Please can you did out anything you have about it.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
Tel: } Internal:
(Note new external number -
old number will not work after 31/12/2009)
Mobile: i I:
email:
Web: http://uk. fujitsu.com

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.

On Behalf Of
jarnail.a.singI .
Sent: 05 February 2010 15:50
To: Jones David M

Cc: Jenkins Gareth Gl; Thomas Penny

Subject: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged

Dear David and Penny,

On first glance points 2 - 4 have not been answered which I reproduce
below.

2) My barrister telephoned me yesterday evening and requested that I find
out any information that Fujitsu may hold in relation to an office called
Callender Square in Falkirk. Apparently, Anne Chambers a Systems
Specialist employed by Fujitsu was cross examined and it is said that she
had full knowledge of an error in the Horizon system at this Post Office.

Our barrister would like Gareth to deal with this matter and expand upon
whatever issue Anne Chambers raised at court within his witness statement.

3) When Gareth completes his statement could he also mention whether there
are any known problems with the Horizon system that Fujitsu are aware of.
If none could this be clarified in the statement.

4) Could Gareth read the statement from Eleanor Nixon attached below and
respond in his statement to the points raised by Eleanor Nixon about
Horizon.

(See attached file: Eleanor Nixon Statement.rtf)

Could you please give this matter your urgent attention and look forward to
hearing from you.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Team

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

FUJ00152941
FUJ00152941
