FUJ00122300
FUJ00122300

Message

Sent: 06/09/2006 18:54:49

To: Peter.Sewell@ _. i
Subject: FW: WS Marine DriveDOC.DOC

Attachments: WS Marine DriveDOC.DOC

Lets see what he says to this...

seeee Original Message:
From: Stephen Dilley
Sent: 06 September 2006 18:33
To: Pinder Brian

Ce: Dunks Andy; Gareth. Jenkins¢
Subject: RE: WS Marine DriveDOC.DOC

Tom Beezer

Dear Brian and Gareth,

T've been working on Andy's draft statement with him today (latest version attached). Andy didn't have any contemporaneous
involvement and essentially the statement is about putting the HSH call logs into plain English for a judge who might not be too I.T
savvy.

Andy has raised the valid point that he would not be able to answer any technical queries on the HSH calls, if he is asked them at
trial, He says you'd almost need a different engineer to explain all the different types of call, (which may be true, but would of course,
be impractical to have too many people involved).

There's two answers to Andy's concern:

1. We're not asking Andy to be the technical expert because both sides in this dispute have been given permission to call an
independent IT expert to give evidence. In due course, they'll probably need to meet Brian and Gareth at Fujitsu to bounce off any
technical queries with you. It is the independent IT expert who will have to deal with technical points. As an expert, they can also
give their opinion on sthg rather than simply sticking to the facts.

2. We've also tried to head off any technical questions being directed Andy's way by saying in his statement that he's not a technical
person.

However, I can't rule out the other side's barrister trying to stretch things and naughtily slipping in some technical queries. This would
not be fair on Andy.

Upon reflection, as Gareth has the real technical know how, I wonder whether he would be willing to give evidence in place of Andy
about the HSH call logs? That way, he'd be capable of dealing with most of what the other side's barrister could throw at him and I
imagine, they'd have a hard time of it. If so, then I could amend the attached draft statement into Gareth's name.

Please let me know your views on this. (Gareth, either way, I confirm that you won't have to attend the conference on Monday).
Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley

Solicitor
for and.on-behalfof Bond Pearce LLP...

= GRO

oom Original Message,
From: Dunks Andy I

FUJ00122300
FUJ00122300

Sent: 06 September 2006 16:30
To: Stephen Dilley
Subject: WS Marine DriveDOC.DOC

Please see my comments in paragraph 14, I have tried to explain/answer your queries within the call descriptions but I am unable to
answer you question in paragraph 17 as the NBSC is a POL support team.

Hope this is OK..

Andy Dunks
CS Security

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road. Bracknell. Berkshire RG12 8SN
Mob; H

= GRO

E-ma
Web: hip ik TaisiconT

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office
22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

<<WS Marine DriveDOC.DOC>>

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law. The intended
recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as
soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is
prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. You should carry
out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be
caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number OC311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP means a Member
of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.
