ICL Pathway Memorandum

To: EFTPOS ITT Distribution

From: Chris Plunkett

Date: 5 December 1997

Re: EFTPOS ITT Assessment Process

FUJ00117515
FUJ00117515

REF: EFCORO02

1 ASSESSORS LIST

Assessor
Tony Openheim
Steve Reed

Dominic Barton

Graham King
Barry Procter
David Groom
Ian Honnor
Jan Holmes

Dave Cooke
Peter Wiles
Pete Jeram
Phil Crowther
Dave Quick

Gareth Jenkins

Simon Palladino
Mark Taylor

Mik Peach
Martin Riddell

Perspective
Pathway
Commercial

Business
Opportunity

Risk Assessment
Security
Quality

¥R2000
Procurement
Process

Requirements
Architecture
Rel.3 Programme
Design

Host Devt.
Agent Devt.
System Testing

Bus.Inte
Testing

Confirmed
Confirmed

Confirmed

Confirmed

Assproc.doc

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 1 of 4
41

FUJ00117515

FUJ00117515

OBJECTIVE

The objective of the assessment is to shortlist the most suitable EFTPOS Host
software product and supplier from the 3 suppliers’ proposals against the requirements
stated in the ITT. This involves an assessment of their proposal documents, taking up
customer references, individual supplier meetings and shortlisting based on the
outputs of these activities.

Subsequently we will evaluate the shortlisted supplier’s product, do credit checks ete:
and negotiate a contract. These activities have to be completed successfully before any
contract is signed.

TIMETABLE
Assess Proposals 8-17 December
Assessors’ Meeting 18 December
Document Conclusions 19 December

Christmas Break
Supplier Meetings 5-14 January
Shortlisting 15-23 January

PROPOSAL ASSESSMENT

WHICH REQUIREMENTS SHOULD YOU ASSESS?

Each assessor should assess each proposal from their own perspective (identified
above); this means assessors need only evaluate responses to a subset of the
requirements.

I have devised an assessment form which includes a requirement / assessment
perspective matrix. If you feel you should add or remove requirements from your
subset, please identify the changes and be consistent in assessing the same subset for
all suppliers. This will enable us to score the responses fairly.

Suppliers that do not provide a positive response for mandatory requirements will be
excluded.

4.2 SCORING

The purpose of scoring is to check suppliers’ proposals meet the requirements in the
ITT so, even if the prose is weak, if a response meets the requirement it scores 5. The
assessors meeting is the forum to discuss any soft assessment criteria you may have. If
in your view the supplier is proposing some future product or service development,
please add a comment to this effect as we need to understand the risk.

Assessors will be required to score each response:

0 Doesn’t meet requirement

Assproc.doc COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 4
FUJ00117515
FUJ00117515

3 Partially meets requirement

5 Totally meets requirement

Weightings will be applied to scores using the following multipliers:
9 (M) Mandatory

3 (1) Important

1 (D) Desirable

Functional and commercial aspects will be assessed separately — we don’t want to buy
fully functional software from a weak supplier.

If you have any comments regarding a supplier’s response to a requirement, please
note them on the assessment form. We will discuss these at the assessors’ meeting.

Importantly, if you need clarification, you should note questions you wish to ask at the
supplier’s meeting on the assessment form. If you need urgent clarification we can
contact suppliers immediately. I need to know about any supplier contacts we make
during the assessment.

4.3 ASSESSMENT FORMS

Please complete the assessment forms either electronically or in blue ink.
Please identify the supplier and your name on each assessment form.
Please note your scores, comments and questions for each proposal.

Please return your assessments to me by close of play 17/12/97.

5 CUSTOMER REFERENCES

These will be taken up during the assessment period and reported at the assessors’
meeting.

6 ASSESSORS’ MEETING

This meeting is to share verbal feedback on the proposals.

We need to capture any issues or questions for suppliers. This is particularly important
so we don’t forget anything during the Christmas break.

7 SUPPLIER MEETINGS

A core of 3-4 assessors will attend these meetings. Any documented questions will be
asked and the responses will be noted and distributed along with a more general
assessment gained through the meeting. If there are questions requiring specialist
knowledge you may be asked to attend a particular meeting.

Assproc.doc COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 4
FUJ00117515
FUJ00117515

8 SHORTLISTING

The outputs of the preceding activities will be analysed from both a functional and
commercial perspective and a short report will be produced that will recommend
which supplier to shortlist. The core of 3-4 assessors will meet to review the report.

Assproc.doc COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 4
