FUJ00211295
FUJ00211295

From: "Matthew.Lenton(_
Sent:

To:

Cc: .
Subject: RE: Queries arising out of Dr Worden's evidence - URGENT [WBDUK-AC.FID123944863]

Steve,
Sorry, I failed to spot to that you had failed to answer the exam question...

Q: Privileged User Access logs - Is there anything worth looking at or referring to in the PUA logs fi

A: We don’t believe that the logs help here because up to July 2015 we only logged obtaining and relinquishing
privilege.

Matthew Lenton
Post Office Account Document Manager
Business & Application Services

Fujitsu

} Michael
Newsome, Pete

4; Katie Simmonds
‘arker, Steve ¢
3 Ibbett, Dave 3
ueries arising out of Dr Worden's evidence - URGENT [WBDUK-AC.FID123944863]

Subject: RE:

Matthew,
Thank you for the responses, which we are discussing with Counsel.

One immediate follow up point — the question about privileged user logs is whether there is anything useful in the logs
from 2015 to the present day. Your response relates to the pre-2015 logs. Please would you let me know if there is
anything worth looking at or referring to in the 2015 to present day logs.

Kind regards

Jonny

Jonathan Gribben
Managing Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Manage your e-alert preferences

womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON ) (in)

From: Matthew.Lentoni...
Sent: 19 June 2019 11:56
To: Jonathan Gribbe

Katie Simmonds I
3S ParkerSPi  G

Jonny,

Please see the responses added below, and the attachments to which they refer.

Matthew Lenton
Post Office Account Document Manager
Business & Application Services

Fujitsu

Michael

Hi all,

One more request:-

FUJ00211295
FUJ00211295

Ibbett,

- Controls around remote access — Green took Worden to some examples of the two pairs of eyes policy not

being followed:-
o OCP 21918 (raised by and monitored by Anne Chambers)
o OCP 23896 (raised by and monitored by Anne Chambers)
FUJ00211295
FUJ00211295

o OCP 26361 (raised by and monitored by Vishnu Ramachandran)
Is there a reason why the policy was not followed in these examples?

[Lenton, Matthew] In his cross-examination PG has been incorrectly interpreting the information in the “Monitored
by” section of OCPs. His interpretation is that this records the name of the person who witnessed the change in the
context of the “four eyes” rule, when in fact, the “Monitored by” field was used to record the person or team that

would monitor the effect of the OCP, in particular where the OCP would affect the live service. See CS/PRD/019 2.2.

The “four eyes” rule was (and is) only mandated for changes that impact the financial integrity of the system. The
change vehicle for these was {in the vast majority of cases) an OCR which will record the name of the person who
witnessed the change in the context of the “four eyes” rule. Where an OCP was used, the name of the person who
witnessed the change would be explicitly recorded in one of the updates since the OCP system did not have a
specific field for this purpose.

See CS/PRD/019: Section 2.2: on the use of “Monitored by”: “Complete the “Responsibility for Monitoring” box. This
should specify the name of the person(s) or team(s) who have the responsibility for monitoring the effect of the OCP
once implemented. In particular the monitoring should be checked that there is NO detrimental effect on the “Live
Service”. If necessary the details of the monitoring to be undertaken can be specified in the “Details & Purpose of
Change” section.”

CS/PRD/019: Section 6.0:
On the differences between the OCP and OCR processes and how they are used:

“The OCR process involves the correction of customer data on the live system, and because user data is involved,
requires different approvals and auditing

Only the SSC has the authority to make changes to the data on the system, and therefore only SSC staff can action an
OCR.

In most cases, an OCR does not involve the financial integrity of the system. Under these circumstances one of the SSC
Manager, the Support Services Manager or the Customer Service Duty Manager can approve an OCR. If the data to be
changed has a financial impact on Post Office, then approval must also be given by a senior Post Office Manager.

When an OCR has been approved, and has been actioned, it is necessary for two users of the OCP system to confirm
that the work has been done — an actionee and a witness. The actionee will always be an SSC staff member, the
witness can either be an SSC staff member or a development staff member.”

On the specific OCPs above:

a) OCP 21918 (raised by and monitored by Anne Chambers)

Actioned by Anne on 03/03/2009 09:32.

As explained above, this would be a manual process as the OCP does not have a witness field (the OCRs do).
Looking at the OCR relating to the same Peak (PC0175821) you can see the Witness field used:

Approval

Approved by Mik Peach (19/02/2009 12:29) for POA SSC Support
Action

Actioned by Catherine Obeng (02/03/2009 17:16) for POA SSC Support
Witness

Witnessed by Anne Chambers

The evidence is still attached to the Peak and we can see that the inserted messages are recorded there (before
insertion and the resultant messages afterwards).
FUJ00211295
FUJ00211295

These messages have the identifier tag (<Comment:PC0175821>) attached to demonstrate where that have been
created.

There is also an email chain which shows that Anne will contact the SPM before and after the correction, which is
scheduled to be done at the quietest time of day.

Overall we believe that such a substantial change would have been witnessed but there is no proof on the OCP that
it was, however the SPM was kept in contact while the change was made and all changes have been recorded on
the Peak to allow them to be reviewed.

b) OCP 23896 (raised by and monitored by Anne Chambers)

Raised by Anne on 16/10/2009, actioned by Anne on 28/10/2009

This change is for a migration object and is not financially affecting so does not need to be witnessed.
a] OCP 26361 (raised by and monitored by Vishnu Ramachandran)

Vishnu raised the OCP on 14/04/2010

Ed Ashford actioned the OCP on the same day.

His output is shown in the OCP:

Ed Ashford (Core Services Unix Support) wrote at 14/04/2010 18:32: Change committed after confirming output
with development.

Kind regards

Jonny

Jonathan Gribben
Managing Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

Ma

\ womblebonddickinson.com
DICKINSON &) (in)

From: Jonathan Gribben
Sent: 18 June 2019 12:07

To: pete.newsomée.,...
Dave. Ibbett!”
Cc: Lucy Bremnet

FUJ00211295
FUJ00211295

“Subject: Queries arising out of Dr Worden's evidence - URGENT [WBDUK-AC.FID123887118]

Hi all
There are some points arising out of Robert's evidence last week that we'd like some further information on please:
- Service audits eg F/1041 attached:

© [1] Is there a document setting out how the control objectives are decided/defined. It was put to Worden
that Fujitsu define the control objectives. It would be helpful to know to what extent, if at all, this is true
and if so, what process was undertaken to select these control objectives.

[Lenton, Matthew] Yes, that is correct, as stated in the letter from Ernst & Young contained in the report says:
“Fujitsu is also responsible for providing the services covered by the Description, specifying the control objectives,
identifying the risks that threaten the achievement of the control objectives, selecting the criteria stated in the Assertion
and designing, implementing and documenting controls to achieve the related control objectives stated in the
Description.” It goes on to state “A reasonable assurance engagement of this type also includes evaluating the overall
presentation of the Description, the suitability of the control objectives stated therein and the suitability of the criteria
specified by the service organisation and described in the Assertion.” So E&Y check and confirm that the definition of
the control objectives is suitable.

The objectives setting was however done in discussion with and by agreement with Post Office: the attached
document “2011-10 SAS70 Audit presentaion BM.pptx” is an early presentation (we believe it to be an internal
presentation to the then Fujitsu Account leadership, but it shows the process) putting the case for providing a
SAS70/ISAE3402 report, and which shows that the controls would be based on those that other standards-based
audits had reported on previously; a more fully worked out update was presented to POL on the attached “2012-09
POA EY ISAE3402 Update for PO Ltd”.

© [2] Which provisions of the service audits are relevant to remote access (privileged users, SSC.
inserting transactions etc.). It was put to Worden that the service audits do not cover issues that are
relevant to remote access. Any control objectives that do address aspects relevant to remote access
would be useful.

[Lenton, Matthew] In the report that you attached, Control Objectives 10, 11, 13 are relevant.

- Privileged User Access logs - Is there anything worth looking at or referring to in the PUA logs from 2015 to
present? Is there a way of demonstrating that privileged users have not edited or deleted transaction data or
added transaction data.

[Lenton, Matthew] We don’t believe that the logs help here because up to July 2015 we only logged obtaining and
relinquishing privilege.

- APPSUP - which table(s) could it write to?

[Lenton, Matthew] The short answer is that the APPSUP role can do anything to any schema in the branch
database. A detailed list is in the attachment “APPSUP_role.txt”.

- The Transaction Correction Tool - please review the questions and answers set out on Day 20, pages 159 to
160. Is what Worden says here true? If not, why not?

[Lenton, Matthew] Please see comments appended to the attached version of the transcript.

As the deadline for closing submissions is fast approaching, please would you get back to me by midday tomorrow. If
you think that is going to be an issue, please let me know ASAP.

Kind regards

Jonny
FUJ00211295
FUJ00211295

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

muthorised to
any copies.
‘BE unlawful. Information about how we use

The information in this e-mail and a
access this e-mail and any attachments, If you are not matthe
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying OY UHi3 Cominiini
personal data is in our Privacy Policy

please notify jonathan.eribber) GR

on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any

loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members! names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB12

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Lin
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obl another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www. womblebondd nson.com legal notices for further details.

ed, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.
