FUJ00175204
FUJ00175204

From: Alisdair Cameronf._

Sent: Fri 15/05/2015 12:09:37 PM (UTC)
To: Keegan Michaelf.
Ce: Clayton Steve
Subject: RE: Fujitsu and POL

Thanks Michael. Let’s try and get together Tuesday or Wednesday. Ruth, can you work some diary magic. Al

From: Keegan Michael }
Sent: 15 May 2015 10:40
To: Alisdair Cameron

Cc: Clayton Steve
Subject: RE: Fujitsu and POL

Alisdair,

Our teams have been working hard to ensure that our proposals for the Horizon 1 year extension and accompanying
Belfast refresh programme together with the Homephone and Broadband 3 year extension are ready for appropriate
Post Office approvals and the Post Office board on the 21* of this month. When we met last we agreed that these two
initiatives plus any settlement would be approved together and completed by the end of June. Ensuring our two
organisations are aligned on these issues and that any outstanding issues from your perspective are fully understood
by Fujitsu is important so that we can address any barriers to moving forward is clearly very important for both
organisations at this juncture. With this is mind this seems a good time for you, Steve and I to meet again before your
Board. If you agree could you please suggest a time for us to meet? We will of course come to you.

Best

Michael

Sent: 25 March 2015 09:07

To: Keegan Michael

Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Geoff Smyth
Subject: Fujitsu and POL

Michael,

It was very good to meet you and Steve yesterday. I just wanted to drop you a note to confirm our conversation. I
echo your views that we can re-build a successful, joined-up relationship to underpin the following agreements.

(1) Our teams will work together to agree a one year contract extension on front office and data centre support to
end March 2018. This should include sensible incentives for both of us to encourage us “out” as quickly as can be
sensibly managed. We recognise that you have commercial requirements in this conversation but our ability to
fund this is limited and we cannot make significant investments in data centres that will shortly be demolished.
An explicit conversation about risk and funding may be helpful. This should be agreed in time for our Board
meeting on 21 May.

Our teams will work together to complete a three year contract extension on the Telco arrangements. This should
also be completed in time for our May Board meeting. Without unpicking the commercial arrangements, the SLAs
should reflect its nature as a service business.

You agree to pay us £4m in full and final settlement of the various historical disputes. As part of that settlement,
we will not pay the £2.9m invoice originating from BT IP. This will be finalised in time for our May Board meeting.

(2

(3
FUJ00175204
FUJ00175204

In addition, you may be able to help us by buying IBM Creedence licences on our behalf. We will revert on the need -
and we appreciate the help.

I recognise and appreciate your concern for POL and its approach to IT development. However, you agree that,
particularly given your exit, we have no practical alternatives at this stage. Our combined efforts will be focused on

making the plan work, together.

Could you confirm that is also your understanding? Please don’t hesitate to call me if anything is different from your
expectations.

Kind regards

Al

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Financial Officer

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.
FUJ00175204
FUJ00175204

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street,
London EC2Y 9AQ.
