FUJ00095049
FUJ00095049

To:
Ce:
From:
Sent: Wed 3/31/2010 12:13:00 PM (UTC)
Subject: RMGA Corporate Red Alert.

To Whom It May Concern:

In agreement with Gavin Bounds (BUD) we are raising RMGA Service Delivery to a corporate red alert. This is in line with the
current guidelines

1. We have significant customer dissatisfaction and various letters have been received from POL Directorate and from the
National Federation of Sub-postmasters expressing their concern in regards to the instability of the new system.
2. There have been 4 major outages affecting the customer's business running on Horizon on-line over the last week

The Corporate Alert Manager assigned is Phillippa Verity-Davies who will own the problem streams to be addressed. We have
corrective actions in place to address stability and specific concerns from the customer. These are

- Enterprise Management: Eventing for Horizon on-line is perceived as not fit for purpose as the Incidents are picked up by
the customer (end-user or central POL team) before Fujitsu are aware

- Stable Service: Significant volume of Major Incidents which has impacted the horizon on-line pilot users.

- Lack of Configuration management: there are gaps in the tools, people and processes.

- Resource profile to be reviewed across Service Delivery based upon current levels of Incidents and Defects in LIVE
Service.

Alert Structure is as follows

Philippa Verity Davies
Alert Manager

Pete Thompson
Gaetan Van Achte ‘
Live Service Stabilisation Enterprise & Event
Resource Management oe

[Configuration Management

KPI for stable service have been defined and review of EM KPI are currently under review.
Kind Regards,

Gaétan Van Achte

Service Director, Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU

Fujitsu Services, Lovelace Road, Bracknell RG12 8SN

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
