FUJ00156889
FUJ00156889

From: Harvey Michael[/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=HarveyM]
Sent: Thur 24/10/2013 11:17:44 AM (UTC)

To: Jones David Mf_
Ce: Roberts David
Subject: I FW: Expert on the Horizon System - Subject to Common Interest Privilege
Attachment: CV 2013.pdf
Attachment: Dr Dulay_CV.PDF
Attachment: content.pdf computer xpert.pdf
David J,

Something we probably need to discuss. I am trying to set up a meeting with the Post Office Account team and I
thought this is something we should involve you (or one of the team) with.

Kind regards,

Mike

From: Rodric William:
Sent: 23 October 2013 19:17
To: Harvey Michael

Subject: Expert on the Horizon System - Subject to Common Interest Privilege

Michael,
Thank you for your time on the phone last week.

As we discussed, Post Office Limited is considering appointing an expert to prepare a report on the integrity of the
Horizon Online system. I attach the Draft Scope of the work which the expert may be asked to undertake, along with
the CVs of two potentially suitable experts, Professor Jeffrey Kramer and Dr. Naranker Dulay, both from the
Department of Computing at Imperial College London.

In order to progress this, it seems sensible to have a meeting to discuss how Fujitsu can work with Post Office Limited
to achieve the aims set out in the Draft Scope. This meeting would be attended by a member of the law firm we use
to prosecute alleged criminal conduct.

If you agree, could you please let me know when we could meet (ideally as soon as possible), and whether you think it
would be useful to have a technical person from Post Office at the meeting. I can then look to fix attendees, agenda
etc.

We also discussed the possibility of us sharing with you the advice we have received on the evidence which Gareth
Jenkins has previously provided in support of Post Office Limited criminal prosecutions. I hope to be able to provide
you with a substantive response on that request very shortly.

I look forward to hearing from you. Thanks for your support.

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

FUJ00156889
FUJ00156889

i) 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Post Office stories

@postofficenews

JE III ISI SI IKI III III III I III ASIII I DIS ASI ASI OS SSIS SOS SIS AIS SII

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

