FUJ00094958
FUJ00094958

To: Jeram Peter! D'Alvarez Alani’
From: Keeling David[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KEELINGD]
Sent: Sat 3/27/2010 7:40:22 AM (UTC)

Subject: FW: Horizon On Line

DSmith response.doc

Alan, Peter
Please see Gavin's note below and Dave Smith's mail.

I have attached a draft note in response and would appreciate any comments you may have. If you could let me have any comments
by midday on Sunday, I will then respond to Gavin.

Thanks

Dave

-----Original Message-.
From: Bounds Gavin
Sent: 26 March 2010 18:42
To: Keeling David

Subject: Fw: Horizon On Line

Dave, please see below. Can you prepare a response for me by end of Sunday, I will need to respond by CoB Monday. I suggest you
involved Alan and Pete Jeram in your considerations - thanks.

_— Original Message -----
From: zz david.x.smith
To: Bounds Gavi

Keith Graves!

_} Dave Hulbert indy

Subject: Horizon On Line

Gavin,
I want to follow up our earlier telecon rather more formally.

Whilst we don't yet have a root cause of today's issue given recent events
it is difficult not to suspect that it might be related to the introduction

of a change. Quite simply there have been too many incidents where poor
execution of change has caused a problem in live. The situation demands
that Fujitsu take action that is game changing whether that be increased
rigour, an injection of differby skills or change in mindset.

I also have to be concerned that we seem to be ahead of you and finding out
for ourselves that there has been an incident in live rather than hearing

from you. We have been here before and I will take a lot of convincing that
this is not symptomatic of a reactive mindset. Again we need to see action
that is game changing to a proactive style of management.

The wider POL business and major stakeholders have been incredibly patient
thus far. I believe we are now on the cusp of losing them and if we do then
experience tells us that we could well end up on the front page of the

Daily Mail. That will do damage to the reputation of both our businesses.

Where my mind is at the moment is as follows. If I don't have something
that convinces me that you have identified and have in train actions that
change your game why would I not demand a review by an independent third
party? Furthermore I don't see why I should be going beyond Monday to be
convinced.

I do realise that your people are working incredibly hard and are no doubt
every bit as disappointed as the POL team. I'm sure you will agree the
situation demands something rather more if we are to restore confidence,

Regards,
Dave

Dave Smith
Head. Of C&lS, Post Office Ltd
Sent from BlackBerry

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

SORIA ISO I IIA IIIT DAI ABI TDI STII DI ASI III AIS OOS OS SOI SSIS OP SOSA.

FUJ00094958
FUJ00094958
