FUJ00075720

FUJ00075720

ICL Pathway Memorandum
To: John Bennett Date: 28 May 1998

Mike Coombs

Liam Foley

Tony Oppenheim
From: Dominic Barton c.c.
Subject: QUESTIONS RAISED AT TREASURY REVIEW PANEL PRESENTATION.

For information, please find detailed below the questions raised at the Treasury Review Panel
presentation that took place on Thursday 28 May 1998 in the Marketing Suite here in FEL 01

Present:
Questions:
1. AM:
2; BR:
3 AW:
4. BR:
5. BR:
6. AW:
7 AW:
8 AM
9. AM:
10. AM:
11. DR:
12. AM:

Adrian Montague - ‘Treasury Review Panel
Bill Robins - Treasury Review Panel
Alec Wylie - Treasury Review Panel
Peter Copping - PA Consulting
David Rees - PA Consulting

How does the size of the smart card estate (38,000 terminals) compare with other
smart card terminal estates around the world?

ACTION: Business Development
Who is the certifying authority for AP signing, and what is the certification
process/mechanism?
Is there a mismatch between POCL and BA’s requirements on ‘Uncarded Casual
Agents’ (UCA)?
Do POCL have specific issues with UCA, or do we not know why they will not sign it
off?
Is UCA actually showing a very fundamental service philosophy difference between
POCL and BA, particularly if the point of the system for BA is to eliminate fraud?
Have you a list of sponsor dependencies for Release 2+?
Can you provide a list of the 6 issues, the dates by which you need resolution, and the
impact if you do not get resolution?

ACTION: Programmes
Please also mention how long these issues have been outstanding.

ACTION: Programmes
What is the contractual mechanism for resolving these issues?
Is there a mechanism for driving these things to a resolution to a timescale?
Will the ‘Wigan Data Centre’ diagram need to be changed for non-ISDN offices?
How many non-ISDN offices are there?

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Business Development, ICL Pathway Page 1 of 3
FUJ00075720

FUJ00075720

QUESTIONS RAISED AT TREASURY REVIEW PANEL PRESENTATION 28 MAY

1998

13. PC: How will you deal with non-ISDN offices.

14. AM: Can you please explain to me what the difference is between ISDN, PSTN, and frame
relay?

15. PC: Does soft EVP cover non-ISDN offices?

16. AM: Why does soft EVP cover non-ISDN offices?

17. BR: Are there urban, multiple position non-ISDN offices?

18. AW: Do you have test beds for all releases?

19. All: Copy of Frank Fields NFSP conference speech to Treasury Review Panel.

ACTION: Business Development

20. AW: Can you confirm that 40% of calls to the payment card helpline are not relevant?

21. BR: Is the frustration mentioned in the customer satisfaction slide about not rolling out
more services or about problems with the current service?

22. BR: Is ICL a certification authority on any other big programmes (question about AP
signing)?

23. BR: What is the end to end process for creating and discharging acceptance criteria, and
how is it going?

ACTION: C&F/CR?

24. BR: Since our ISDN lines are dial up and not fixed, how do we stop someone coming into
Post Offices - what is the security?

25. BR: Would you provide some consolidated written feedback on reaction of users to the
implementation and operation of 1c?

26. BR: Has there been any progress on resolving the 11 week live trial issue?

27. BR: How many Post Offices do we believe can be rolled out before R2+ is accepted and the
sponsors have assured themselves? Are we any nearer to reconciliation on this issue?

28. BR: What tools do you use for resource planning, profiling and costing for the programme?

29. BR: Excluding the areas where requirements have not been defined, do you feel you have
an accurate view of costs and resources to get to the ‘end’ of the programme (implied
end of National Roll-out)?

30. AM: Why do you think the actual resource requirements has so surpassed the planned
resource requirements - staff increasing from 60 to 270?

31. AM: Has requirement complexity OR sponsor intrusion in specification been the major
problem?

32. AM: Ifyou had a better decision making process from the sponsors, how much difference
would it have made?

33. AM: This appears to be a case of dealing with people who see half empty, not half
full - is this an approach you have come across before in large systems projects?

34. BR: Are you getting changes input to you from outside of the POCL and BA change
control mechanisms? How can you change this in the future? In a programme of this
size, that’s death.

35. BR: What are ICL’s Programme Director’s 3 biggest issues in terms of ICL’s internal
ability to deliver this programme?

36. BR: Can you confirm that the 5 biggest programme issues are i. security, ii. scalability,

iii. deliverability and operability of soft EVP, iv. R2+ approval, and v. stopping roll-
out once it has begun?

37. BR: Are you creating a negotiation position for these issues to cater for if you are put into a

room where a decision can be made?

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Business Development, ICL Pathway Page 2 of 3
FUJ00075720
FUJ00075720

QUESTIONS RAISED AT TREASURY REVIEW PANEL PRESENTATION 28 MAY
1998

38. AW: Did the BA security committee say unofficially/informally that they ‘Don’t know what
all the fuss is about’ with respect to security?

39. BR: We need to pull out all the various agendas, agree whether they are valid or not, and
then change the programme accordingly.

40. BR: _ Itis profoundly disturbing that R2+ is about to go to a ‘no forecast’ because we can’t
get a grip on the requirements.

41. BR: Soft EVP is therefore not an ICL issue, it is a sponsor issue.

42. BR: The ‘Summary’ slide is a bit bullish - would we agree it needs an extra bullet to reflect
the dip on confidence between R2 and the Future Vision? (Comments about the
problems associated with ICL not getting full contractual acceptance/sign-off).

DA Barton
28 May 1998

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
Business Development, ICL Pathway Page 3 of 3
