FUJ00154727
FUJ00154727

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: Mon 31/07/2006 2:46:04 PM (UTC)

To: Pinder Brian[Brian.Pinder:_

Ce: Sewell Peter (FELO1)[P: Thomas
Penny[Penny.Thomasi_”

Subject: I RE: P.O -v- Castleton: Transaction logs

Brian,

I guess it is the sort of analysis that I could do if required. However it is fairly time consuming and the problem is in
adjusting my priorities to find the time to do it. I don't know how many transactions are involved and I would need copies
of the Cash Account before and after the period to carry out the analysis. I also might need to get hold of the Ref Data
that was current at that time (which I appreciate is probably quite difficult).

Given the volume of data, I would expect this to take anything between 2 days and a week (it is difficult to tell in advance
given that I'll probably need to feel my way), and I'll probably need help from Penny in carrying out extracts from the
relevant message stores. (If we get the complete message store for the period, then I can probably analyse the lot rather
than construct new queries.)

As for timescales, I can't spend more than a couple of hours on it this week and probably can't start in earnest until the
week of 14th August (unless I'm told to stop doing some of my HNG-X activities). I'm also on leave on 10th and 11th
August.

Anne Chambers might be able to do a similar analysis (and she may well have some tools to help and could well have
done something similar before). However she's on leave this week.

Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Post Office Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road,
Tel: r
Mobile: I
email: Gareth.Jenkin
Web: http://uk. fujitsu.com

G12 8SN

Internal: i GRO

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.

-----Original Message-----

From: Pinder Brian

Sent: 31 July 2006 14:46

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1); Thomas Penny
Subject: FW: P.O -v- Castleton: Transaction logs
Importance: High

Gareth

Please see email from Graham below.
FUJ00154727
FUJ00154727

Is this something you can provide?

Regds Brian

-----Original Message--
From: graham.c.ward....
Sent: 28 July 2006 08:43
To: Pinder Brian
Cc: Peter.Seweli__.
Subject: P.O -v- Castleton:
Importance: High

mailto:graham.c.wardi_,

ransaction logs

Brian

Stephen Dilley (representing the Post Office) is asking if it is possible that someone undertakes an analysis of the figures
recorded on the transaction logs supplied by Fujitsu against the figures on the completed cash account for CAP 42
(08/01/04 - 14/01/04). It appears that the solicitor's for Castleton are saying that they've compared the transaction logs
with the cash accounts for week 42 themselves (just for an initial

analysis) and that they don't match. They conclude that Horizon is therefore only recording half the transaction. I've
attached below the letter dated 25th July from Castleton's solicitors which outlines details of the anomalies.

(See attached file: eCopy scanned document.pdf)

Given this is a 'test' case and that the integrity of the Horizon system is being challenged, my own opinion is that this
exercise should be completed by an ‘expert’ from Fujitsu. However it will obviously be extremely time consuming as all
the figures recorded will need to be methodically and carefully analysed. It is also important that we complete the
analysis and respond formally to the points raised as soon as possible, therefore my first question is :

1/\s this an exercise that Fujitsu could undertake, possibly by Gareth perhaps, who would presumably have a thorough
understanding of the figures recorded on both the transaction logs and the figures on an office cash account ?

2/ If the answer is yes, how soon could this exercise be performed and a formal response prepared ?

3/ Will there be a cost involved and if so how much ?

I would appreciate an early response

Regards

Graham

Casework Manager
Post Office Ltd Investigation Team

PO BOX 1, CROYDON, CR9 1WN

Postline: N/A.-STO.Phone:
N/A, Mobex_ GRO_ I, Mobil

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
