FUJ00152298

FUJ00152298
From: Pinder Brian[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PINDERB]
Sent: Thur 23/11/2006 9:32:35 AM (UTC)
To: Chambers Anne O[Anne.Chamber: /
Ce: Peach Mik[Mik.Peachi Dunks

Andy[/]; Jenkins Gareth Gl[Gareth.Jenkins;
(FELO1)[Peter.Sewelf~ ~—

Subject: I RE: Update on trial, P.O -v- Castleton

Ann _ cirest

Thanks for the update. ....It does appear that there are still things to come out of this and it could still all change again.
I believe that sacking ones own solicitor at this late stage shows there are problems and representing oneself I would
think to be pretty stressful and challenging to say the least.

We will wait and see what transpires (as usual).

Regds Brian

From: Chambers Anne O

Sent: 23 November 2006 09:20

To: Peach Mik; Pinder Brian; Elliott Naomi
Subject: FW: Update on trial, P.O -v- Castleton

michael.d.johnson

wendy.n.smith. ul.Williamson:
Cc: Tom Beezer; mandy. t.
tony.h.kane@postoffice.co.uk
Subject: Update on trial, P.O -v- Castleton

Ladies and Gentlemen,

By way of update, Mr Castleton has now disinstructed his legal team and is acting in person. He is
going to seek an adjournment of the trial and there will be a procedural hearing on Monday 27
November to consider this amongst other matters. We will oppose any adjournment.

I had been hoping to agree with Mr Castleton's solicitors that many of you would not have to attend
the trial because you were not all involved at the time and can probably in practice add little to what
you've already said in your statements. However, as Mr Castleton is now representing himself, I
consider it far more likely that if the trial proceeds he will require all the P.O's witnesses to attend.
You should all shortly receive from the Court a witness summons requiring your attendance at the trial
on 4 December 2006 plus a payment towards your costs such as travel and accommodation. In fact,
the date you actually need to attend will change from 4 December and once Monday's hearing has
concluded, we will be better placed to prepare a timetable and give you a more precise time of when
you will be needed.
FUJ00152298
FUJ00152298

I apologise for any inconvenience occasioned by this late development and will revert to you on
Tuesday with an update.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
,-for.and_on_hehalf.of.Bond.Pearce JP.

GRO I

¢ informati ‘and any at ents are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP
accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number OC311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce
LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.
