FUJ00152902
FUJ00152902

10
Thomas Penny

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 02 February 2010 09:18

To: Thomas Penny; Lillywhite Tom

Subject: , RE: West Byfleet - JUDGE ORDER - URGENT, URGENT
Attachments: 0202.Gareth - West Byfleet.doc

2202.Gareth - West
Byfleet.doc...

Penny / Tom,
I've finally managed to go through the Witness statement that you kindly put together
for me. I've tidied it up a bit using "Revisions" (attached). Should all the bits
"POL to Comment" just be removed from the Witness statement?

I don't know anything at present about Falkirk.

'm not aware of issues in Horizon other than the event timeouts. Not ‘sure how to
ver that in the Witness statement.

I've read Eleanor Nixon's statement. I'm not clear what response I need to give.

I'm OK in principle talking to the POL Solicitor / Barrister. However, this is a very
busy time with HNG-X (though I suspect this may be considered an even higher
priority). I'll come and talk at 2pm.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect

Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Read...Bracknell..Berkshire..

Tel: O

dobile: G R ;
email pipette I
Web: Jitsavcom

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker
Street, London, W1U 3BW ‘

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject
to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.
Original Message-----

Thomas Penny

Sent: 01 February 2010 16:30

To: Lillywhite Tom; Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: FW: West Byfleet - JUDGE ORDER - URGENT, URGENT

Tom/Gareth

Please see e-mail below; this is now extremely urgent. Please advise availability for
discussion.

Kind regards
FUJ00152902
FUJ00152902

fanny '

---+- Original Messaces=n=-
From: john.longman!
Sent: 01 February 2010 16
To: Thomas Penny

Subject: West Byfleet _

Penny

At a pre court hearing today the judge has ordered that all the defence requests for
further information be answered by 4pm on Monday 8th February.

Our solicitor in the case has asked that Gareth's statement is completed by Wednesday
of this week so that he and our barrister can examine the statement.

Gareth's statement needs to cover the following four points.

1. Our defence barrister has asked for all of Gareth's replies in

relation to the Defences 2nd Interim Report (see attachment below) to be produced as a.
witness statement. I would suggest that the question from the defence is reproduced
and then Gareth's replies are recorded immediately after for clarity purposes.

\see attached file: 9cl5.misra - 2nd interim technical expert's report
19.11.09.doc)

2) My barrister telephoned me yesterday evening and requested that I find
out any information that Fujitsu may hold in relation to an office called Callender

Square in'Falkirk. Apparently, Anne Chambers a Systems Specialist employed by Fujitsu i
was cross examined and it is said that she had full knowledge of an error in the b
Horizon system at this Post Office.

Our barrister would like Gareth to deal with this matter and expand upon whatever

issue Anne Chambers raised at court within his witness statement.

3) When Gareth completes his statement could he also mention whether there are any
known problems with the Horizon system that Fujitsu are aware pf. ae)

If none could this be clarified in the statement. ( Sea ——KeL_s. ’

4) Could Gareth read the statement from Eleanor Nixon attached below and respond in
his statement to the points raised by Eleanor Nixon about Horizon.

(See attached file: Eleanor Nixon Statement.rtf)

‘n addition our barrister would like to speak to Gareth directly and would be grateful
f in the first instance whether Gareth could either send him his contact details or

give him a call on his mobile,.Qur barrister is called Warwick Tatford and his.e-mail
address is warwicktatfor GRO ‘and mobile number is!

(Embedded image moved to file: pic31632.jpg)

FOI ISI IIS IG III JOISTS ICI SII III IGE EI III II I te

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you.must nét use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this

email from your system.
TESS OCS SISO G GOSS SSSI SISSISEISS SIRS ISSI ISIS SSSI Ia i iis
