FUJ00081545
FUJ00081545

Atkinson Tonyf_

hompson

Tue 2/22/2017 ‘AM (UTC)
RE: Receipts & Payments Issue

Thanks Tony much appreciated. In Rod's absence we need to co-ordinate with another P&BA member (Matt Hibbard) so I'll check
he's available.

Mike Young was briefed yesterday by Andy McLean so we just need to make sure that P&BA (Rod) is happy with the document and
responses, plus any comms/responses we make should we be challenged on this matter.

Thanks also to the team for reacting so quickly to this.
Regards

Will Russell
Commercial Advisor

Service Delivery - Post Office Ltd

From: Atkinson Tony [mailto;

Sent: 22 February 2011 10:30

To: Will Russell

Cc: Jenkins Gareth GI; Salawu Saheed; Thompson Peter; Long Stephen
Subject: RE: Receipts & Payments Issue

Will,

As discussed, we are treating this as a high priority issue. A follow up meeting with Gareth has been arranged for 14:30 today, and
he has replied this morning to the points in Rod’s email of Friday afternoon.

If there is anything you need in the meantime please give me a call.
Regards,

Tony

Tony Atkinson
Royal Mail Group Business Unit

Web: Hitpiu7uk fusion

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office: 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.
This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has
not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free

From: Will Russell [mailto
Sent: 20 February 2011 15:27

To: Thompson Peter

Subject: FW: Receipts & Payments Issue

FUJ00081545
FUJ00081545

Peter,

James has an out of office on, hence I have forwarded to you for action please.
Regards

Will Russell
Commercial Advisor

Service Delivery - Post Office Ltd
148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ

= GRO

Cc: Andy Z Mclean
Subject: FW: Receipts & Payments Issue

James,

Dave Hulbert is off as you're no doubt aware and I need to make you are of an issue that’s bubbling away, and likely to escalate
quite quickly.

Salawu and Tony Jamasb on our side have been dealing with the Receipts and Payments issue that happened in Sepetember 2010.
There was a small team dealing with this and had got to the point of resolution. However, given the current noise in the press over
Horizon, Rod Ismay has picked up this issue and is concemed that there are still some unanswered questions around what
happened in branches. Can I ask you to get involved please as I need to brief Mike on the implications of this issue so that we can
check it against statements we have previously made. One of Rod's concerns was that this issue could be detrimental in how we
approach future comms and cases pending.

I know Salawu and Gareth are confident that events generated on the system can prove this is nothing unusual, however we will
need to articulate that simply and quickly to senior management and no doubt the legal team. Unfortunately Gareth was pulled from
the call with Rod on Friday, due to the POLSAP issue. However, I need to make sure that we give this one the priority it needs over
next few days.

Can you please give me a call Monday to discuss.

Many thanks.

Will Russell
Commercial Advisor

Service Delivery - Post Office Ltd
148 Old Street LONDON.EC1V. 9HQ

From: Will Russell
Sent: 20 February 2011 15:09
To: Mike Young
FUJ00081545
FUJ00081545

Cc: Andy Z Mclean
Subject: RE: Receipts & Payments Issue

Mike,
I will pull you together a summary on Monday.

The issue Rod refers to, and outlined in the paper, was an issue that occurred in September 2010, post Go-Live of HNG.
This issue was not encountered during testing, model office or pilot, and came to light in live through Fujitsu alerting. As
per the normal process, Fujitsu reported the issue into the SD Live Service Desk once the discrepancies were identified by
the HNG system. SD pulled together a team of stakeholders to assess the issue and track through to resolution, this
included; Fujitsu, P&BA, IT&C, Security, Network and Legal.

This issue affected 62 branches and a peak was raised and quickly closed by Fujitsu. The issue only affected branches that
followed a set sequence of button depressions, and this sequence was not a normal action that branches would have
followed. The resultant error arising from the unusual events caused the receipts and payments line on the branch accounts
to mismatch (eg they were not equal as they should be). This can be seen in the reports in the attached document.

Letters to branches had been prepared, and signed off by legal, and the team were looking to issue these shortly, as we
need to communicate to the branches involved what has happened. However, these letters have been held back, pending

Rod’s intervention.

Fujitsu are confident that they can show and prove that nothing has been lost on the system, as events have been generated
to show what has happened for each individual branch. However I have escalated the concerns into Fujitsu at senior level.

I will make sure nothing happens on communication until you have been briefed.

Regards

Will Russell
Commercial Advisor

Service Delivery - Post Office Ltd
148 Old Street LONDON EC1

From: Mike Young

Sent: 18 February 2011 19:58

To: Will Russell

Ce: Andy Z Mclean

Subject: Fw: Receipts & Payments Issue

Will
I need to sit down with you and possibly several others just to understand these latest issues on Horizon and where we are
with them. This is very important as there's a lot of media interest in

Horizon at the moment.

What would be helpful is if you could send me a written summary on what the integrity issues are and what's been done
about them.
FUJ00081545

FUJ00081545
Thanks
Mike
From: Rod Ismay
To: Mike Young
Sent: Fri Feb 18 17:48:26 2011
Subject: Receipts & Payments Issue
Mike — please find attached the paper from Fujitsu that I referred to.
In particular please see the last 2 paragraphs of page I and the trial balance on page 13.
Thanks, Rod
Po GRO I

“Head of Product’& Branch Accounting - Finance - Post Office Ltd

sac Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered

number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ This email and any attachments are
confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email

from OUT SyStem, *# ste Ho tHE RARER E HD IODA IIR ARR RA

Shonen EERE RETA Roval Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered
number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This email and any attachments are confidential
and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the
contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
