FUJ00080083

FUJ00080083
(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support

FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Document Title: Operational Level Agreement for 4" line support of HNGX

Document Reference: SVM/SDM/OLA/0017

Document Type: Operational Level Agreement

Release: Not Applicable

Abstract: This OLA is a description of the 4" line HNGX Operations Service

provided under contract to Royal Mail Group Account & Post Office
Limited

Document Status: APPROVED

Author & Dept: Seth Rhodes, Royal Mail Group Account

External Distribution: None

Security Risk None

Assessment Confirmed
Approval Authorities:

lame Role Signature Date
Graham Allen Applications Engineering
Manager, RMGA
Gaetan Van Achte Service Director, RMGA
Dave Keeling Operations Director, RMGA
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version: 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 1 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

0 Document Control

0.1 Table of Contents

DOCUMENT CONTROL

Table of Contents
Document History
Review Details .
Associated Documents (Internal & External).
Abbreviations

Glossary
Changes Exp .
Accuracy ....
Security Risk Assessment ..

SERVICE SUMMARY

ie Io

= ISIEISISIFIEISISI
[e0 Foo Na Jos Leon} feo Lo

SERVICE PRINCIPLES

ALS Service Team.
Service Hours
Service Targets.
Incident Management - Core Hours.

iN In

polio a [s

sy
ne

ITIL SERVICE AGREEMENT .........cssesseseseeeseeenes

Incident Management
1.4 System Incident.
Maior Incidents.

ie ie

3.2 SSC (3" Line) obligations to 4"" line suppo:
3.3 4" line support obligations to SSC (3 Line) 14
3.4 Customer Services Reference Data obligations to 4" Line support 15
3.5 Obligations between RMGA GOVERNANCE and 4" Line support 15
3.6 Obligations between LST and 4" Line support... 16
3.7 Obligations between Integration (PIT) and Counter 4" Line support. 16
3.8 Obligations between INFREL DEV and 4" Line support. 17
3.9 Obligations between Audit, Host and EM Sysman and 4th 17
3.10 Problem Managemen’ 17
3.44 Change Management. 18
3.11.1 Change Proposals (CPs) 18
3.11.2 Managed Service Change (MSC)

3.12 Configuration Management...
3.13 Release Management...
3.14 19

Availability Management and IT Infrastructure support for 4L.
3.14.1 Operating system configuration .

3.14.2 Event Log file monitoring

3.14.3 Hardware Monitoring. 20
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version 4.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 2 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

3.14.4 Third party management..
3.14.5 Operating system housekeeping .
3.14.6 Problem diagnosis and resolution
3.14.7 Backup and restore...

3.14.8 Operating system patch management.
3.14.9 Anti-virus software maintenance
3.14.10 I Capacity monitoring.
3.14.11 Recording service histor
3.14.12 Firewall Management
14.43 4S Counter build...
Business Continuity ...
Service Level Managemen
Financial Management
Capacity Management.
Service Improvements
Supplier Management
Security Management.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 3 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

0.2 Document History

Version No. Date Summary of Changes and Reason for Issue Associated Change -
CP/PEAK/PPRR
Reference
1 1/6/2009 New OLA created to reflect the operational levels agreement
between 3 and ODC 4" line HNGX support
2 9/6/2008 Updated with Tony Little's comments
3 25/6/2009 Updated with information from Adam Cousins
4 3/7/2009 Updated following review with Steve Godson
5 5/08/2009 Updated following information provided by Infinite on ITSG
support.
15/8/2009 Updated follow latest round of reviews and to include firewall
proposal
7 25/8/2009 Updated to include comments from Graham Allen
8 26/8/2009 Updated following formal review with Infinite and 4LS UK
9 7/10/2009 Updated following review with lan Turner
0.11 26-Nov-2009 I Reviewer list updated, draft version number applied
0.12 11 Jan 2010 I Update from Infinite review — change CIS to 4LS on page 30
0.13 12 Jan 2010 Updates from RMGA review
1.0 14-Jan-2010 Approval version

0.3 Review Details

Review Comments by

Review Comments to

Mandatory Review

Role Name
Service Support Kirsty Gallacher
Head of Service Management Gaetan van Achte
ssc Mik Peach
Head of Service Change & Transition Graham Welsh
Counter & BALIOSR Steve Evans
Counter Infr. and Packaging Karen Morley
Host Reference Data Duncan MacDonald
integration Team Manager Peter Okely
infrastructure Design Pat Lywood (or nominees)
Testing Manger Debbie Richardson
Programme Manager Geoff Butts
Service Architect Jim Sweeting
‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE venion rane
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 4 of 27
FUJ00080083

FUJ00080083
(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
Service Network Jan Mills
Business Continuity ‘Adam Parker
Information Govemance Brian Pinder
Security Peter Sewell
cro Roger Wright
Service Director David Keeling
Host Dev Management David Harrison
Development Graham Allen
Issued for Information — Please
distribution list to a minimum
Position/Role Name
(*) = Reviewers that retuned comments
0.4 Associated Documents (Internal & External)
eferen Version Date Title Sour
PGMDCM/TEM/0001(D_ I 4.0 21-Nov-2008 RMGA HNG-X Generic Document Dimensions
© NOT REMOVE) Template
SVM/SDM/PRO/0018 RMGA Customer Service Incident Dimensions
Management Process
SVM/SDM/PRO/0001 RMGA Customer Service Major Dimensions
Incident Management Process
SVM/SDM/SD/0003 Data Centre Operations Service Dimensions
Description
CS/FSP/002 Horizon Service Desk Call Enquiry Dimensions
Matrix and Incident Prioritisation
SVM/SDM/PRO/0025 RMGA Customer Service Problem Dimensions
Management Process
SVMI/SDM/SIP/0001 RMGA Customer Service Business _ I Dimensions
Continuity Framework
PGM/CHM/PRO/0001 RMGA Change Management Process I Dimensions
(for CPs)
PA/PRD/019 RMGA Customer Service Change Dimensions
Management Process (for OCPs)
C-MSvi.6 Managed Service Change (MSC) Café Vik
Process
SVM/SDM/SD/0004 Third Line Support Service: Service I Dimensions
Description
SVM/SDM/SD/0005 Application Support Service(Fourth I Dimensions
Line)
CS/FSP/006 End to End Support Process, Dimensions
Operational Level Agreement
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version 4.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 14-Jan-2010
STORED PageNo: 5 0f27
FUJ00080083

FUJ00080083
(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
Reference Version Date Title Source
DEV/INF/LLD/0112 LST Test Services Dimensions
DEV/GEN/TEM/0009 Counter Support Risk Management Dimensions
Process
C-MP 1.2 Fujitsu Services Risk Management Café Vik
Process

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current approved

versions of the documents.

0.5 Abbreviations

Abbreviation Definition

ADSL Asynchronous Digital Subscriber Line

AP Automated Payment

ccD Contract Controlled Document

CIT Continuous Integration and Test

cP Change Proposal

csIP Continuous Service Improvement Plan
DVLA Driver Vehicle Licensing Agency

EM Estate Management

GDC Global Delivery Centre

HSD Horizon Service Desk

ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network

ITIL Information Technology infrastructure Library
ITSG GDC IT Support Group

KEL Known Error Log (and support knowledge entries)
LAN Local Area Network

LsT Live Support Testing

msc Managed Service Change

NNM Network Node Manager

Peak RMGA proprietary call management system
PIT Post Office (Fujitsu) System Integration Team
PVB Product Version Baseline

ODC Off- Shore Delivery Centre

ocP Operational Change Proposal

OLA Operational Level Agreement

RMGA Royal Mail Group Account

RADIUS Remote Authentication Dial In User Service

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ret
Version:
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date:

STORED

Page No:

SVM/SDM/OLA/0017

1.0
14-Jan-2010

6 of 27
FUJ00080083

FUJ00080083
(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
Abbreviation Definition
SLA Service Level Agreement
SLT Service Level Target
ssc Software Support Centre
4Ls 4 line support for HNGx
SMC Service Management Centre
MOR Model Office Release
WAN Wide Area Network
0.6 Glossary
Term Definition
Branch For the purposes of this document “Branch” shall mean all Post Office Premises with
the Horizon Service Infrastructure. For the avoidance of doubt, this excludes stand
alone Horizon terminals.

0.7 Changes Expected

0.8 Accuracy

Fujitsu Services endeavours to ensure that the information contained in this document is correct but, whilst every
effort is made to ensure the accuracy of such information, it accepts no liability for any loss (however caused)
sustained as a result of any error or omission in the same.

0.9 Security Risk Assessment

I consider there are security risks related to the content of this document, and I will follow Fujitsu Services Risk
Assessment Process as described in C-MP 1.2 on Café VIK, and will insert into Section 0.4 (above) a cross-
reference to the resulting documentation.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 7 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

1. Service Summary

4* Line Support Service

The Application Support Service (Fourth Line) provides:

(a) Application support in terms of Software fixes to the Business Capabilities and Support
Facilities using appropriately trained operational staff;

(b) Investigation and resolution of new Software Problems within the Branch Infrastructure and
HNG-X Central Infrastructure environments and application code, which cannot be
otherwise resolved by the Third Line Support teams. The initial investigation and resolution
of known Software Incidents, which is classed as "first line", "second line" and "third line"
support respectively, is described in the Contract Controlled Documents (CCDs) entitled
“Service Desk Service: Service Description” (SVM/SDM/SD/0001), “Systems
Management Service, Service Description” (SVM/SDM/SD/0006), “Third Line Support
Service, Service Description” (SVM/SDM/SD/0004);

(Cc) Programme support, the detail of which is set out in Annex A in the Applications Support
Service (Fourth Line) Service Description(SVM/SDM/SD/0005)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 8 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

2 Service Principles
2.1 4LS Service Team

4LS functional
organisational chart

2.1 Service Hours

The Application Support Service (Fourth Line) is not directly available to Post Office. It is a service
internal to Fujitsu Services and is available between 09:00hrs to 17:30hrs Monday to Thursday and
09:00hrs to 17:00hrs Friday. The Application Support Service (Fourth Line) is available on-call during
other times only at the specific request of the Third Line Support Service.

2.2 Service Targets

The following service targets have been identified to underpin the service by the team. These service
targets will be measured at 95% achievement over a rolling 3month period.

2.2.1. Incident Management - Core Hours

Definition of call priorities
The fourth line service is not subject to SLAs or SLTs.

The call window clock will start from the point that 4LS receives the call in Peak and the clock will stop
when the call has been resolved in Peak.

The commitment with regard to resolving software calls is as follows and shall be used as the 4" line
performance metrics target.

A Priority - 2 working days
Incident Transferred by SMC to SSC not later than 0.5 hour after being logged
4 line to resolve not later than 2 working days after initial receipt.

B Priority - 4 working days
Incident Transferred by SMC to SSC not later than 1 hour after being logged.
4th line to resolve not later than 4 working days after initial receipt.

C Priority - 7 working days
Incident Transferred by SMC to SSC not later than 2 hours after being logged.

4" line to resolve not later than 7 working days after initial receipt. If a workaround has been
generated for the problem, then this may be deferred to the next release of the software if
agreed with the customer

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 9 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

D Priority - 28 working days
Incident Transferred by SMC to SSC not later than 4 hours after being logged.
4th line to resolve not later than 28 working days after initial receipt. If a workaround has

been generated for the problem, then this may be deferred to the next release of the
software if agreed with the customer

It is expected that although calls may enter the SSC at high priority, in the majority of cases the SSC will
produce a workaround for the incident, at this stage the incident will be marked as resolved and 4LS will
work on a permanent fix.

For the avoidance of doubt it is incumbent on the SSC to provide a work around for the incident where
possible and for the 4LS units to produce a final code solution to any software problem.

Note by definition resolve means that the peak has been received, actioned and updated with the
required action to be progressed to release.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 10 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

3 ‘ITIL Service Agreement

3.1. Incident Management

The Application Support Services of Fourth Line and Third Line work closely together in the identification
and resolution of Software Incidents requiring bug fixes.

The Application Support Service ( Fourth Line) will provide Software support by:

(a) Receiving from the Third Line Support Service, Software related Incidents which cannot be
resolved by the Third Line Support Service. Such Incidents will have been originally logged
by the Service Desk following a call from a Branch, or having been logged by the Systems
Management Service, the Central Network Service or the Data Centre Operations Service.

(b) Ensuring the internal Fujitsu Services Incident management systems are updated with the
Incident resolution details prior to return to the Third Line Support Service together with the
method of recreation of the problem;

(Cc) Ensuring that the known error log is updated with the detail of the resolution for that error.

(d) Ensuring that any resolutions or workarounds which are returned to the Third Line Support
Service have been tested as defined in section 3.5 of this document and have been
correctly authorised in accordance with the Release Authorisation Process (REF!)

(e) Providing the Third Line Support Service with documentation relating to new Releases in
sufficient time to enable the Third Line Support Service to become familiar with the new
product or service prior to its Release into the Branch Infrastructure or HNG-X Central
Infrastructure environments. This documentation will be in the form of a “support guide”
which is defined in the Working Document entitled: “End to End Support Process —
Operational Level Agreement” (CS/FSP/006); I and a_ template provided in
DEV/GEN/TEM/0009

(f) Provision of training support if required, dependent on the nature of any approved software
change

It is essential that calls are proactively managed and that regular updates are provided to ensure that all
parties are kept informed on progress to resolution.

3.1.1 System Incident

The 4th Line team will assist 3 Line Support and the Systems Management Centre (SMC) to resolve
any system incidents in accordance with the incident management process (as described in
SVM/SDM/PRO/0001 and detailed in section 3.16 of this document - Service Level Management).

Allincidents must be logged in Triole for service (TFS). It is the responsibility of the HSD or SMC to
understand the severity and status of the incident - then the call is passed to Peak for SSC if necessary.
It is the responsibility of the SSC to determine the status of the incident and whether it requires further
analysis in which case the analysis details will be logged in Peak.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 11 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

Fe)
FUJITSU

Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

3.1.2 Major Incidents

Major incidents affecting the HNGx service delivery to Post Office Itd

In the event of a major incident affecting the HNGX services an incident will be logged and managed in
accordance with the SVM/SDM/PRO/001 and Fujitsu CPM31 processes to ensure that all communication
is clear, concise and occurs quickly. For a definition of a Major incident please refer to section 3 of
SVM/SDM/PRO/001.

Investigation and diagnosis of the fault may require attendance in the technical bridge teleconference.
The team will be required to provide updates on the current impact of the fault, perform corrective actions
and record information in the major incident template at regular intervals for the duration of the incident.

As part of an on-going service assurance activity team members will be mandatory participants in regular

Major Incident and Post Incident Reviews.

Major incident affecting the delivery of the 4LS service from IND44.

These are incidents that affect the provision of the 4LS service from IND44 and should be raised by the
GDC Operations Manager to the UK 4LS Applications Manager.

3.2 SSC (3 Line) obligations to 4 line support

Obligation

Measurement/Metric

To ensure that all calls passed to 4" line are
logged on a call management system (currently
Peak)

No calls are progressed or chased with the 4" line
support that are not first passed on Peak.

To “filter” all calls for which the problem is already
known to the support community and for which a
resolution is already known or has been generated.
This includes problems for which a resolution is
known to the SSC but not yet incorporated into the
known deficiencies register available _— to
HSH/HIT/SMC.

No calls passed to 4 line support which are
subsequently identified as known errors, except in
cases where the resolution was known to 4" line,
but this information had not been passed to the
ssc.

To retain in the Peak system, under the SSC
“stack” duplicate incidents - i.e. incidents which are
repetitions of an incident which has already been
passed to the 4" line support, and to ensure that
when the resolved incident is received by the SSC,
the duplicated calls are closed. Under normal
circumstances, where a duplicate incident is

No duplicated incidents passed to 4" line support.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010

UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY
STORED

Ref: SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
Version: 1.0

Date: 14-Jan-2010

Page No: 12 of 27

Fe)
FUJITSU

Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

identified by the SSC, this will be reported back to
the HSH/HIT/SMC and closed as a duplicate
incident on Peak.

To ensure that the correct evidence for any
problem is collected prior to the incident being
passed to 4" line support for investigation. This
should also contain the method of recreation of the
problem.

No calls rejected by 4 line support on the basis
that the evidence was inadequate. Specifically
excluded from this measure are instances where,
although the evidence was inadequate, 4! line
support had not indicated to the SSC that the
evidence that would be required for such an
incident.

To ensure that any incident which requires
investigation by 4" line support is assigned to the
correct Peak team dependent on the specific
product in which the incident has occurred.

No calls misrouted because of incorrect

assignment by SSC.

To ensure that any calls passed to 4" line support
units are passed in a timely manner.The timings
will vary according to the total time allowed for
resolution of the problem in the contract between
Fujitsu Services RMG Account and the customer.
These timings will therefore be dependant on the
priority of the incident, with (for example) less time
allowed for an “A” priority call than will be permitted
for a “C” priority.

Calls are passed within the times specified in
section 2.3

To ensure that the priority of any incident is
assessed and recorded correctly

No calls passed to 4" line support whose priority
does not conform to the specification defined in
section 5.1

To “filter” all calls for which the problem is not one
of the following -

i) Software error

ii) Documentation error.

No calls passed from the SSC to 4" line units to be
subsequently resolved as anything other than
software errors or documentation issues.

To ensure that for any incident passed to 4" line
support, the exact area of the problem has been
identified, and wherever possible a workaround

No cases identified by 4th line support staff of
inadequate diagnosis by SSC

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010

UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY
STORED

Ref: SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
Version: 1.0
Date: 14-Jan-2010

Page No: 13 of 27
Fe)
FUJITSU

FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

already produced and the peak updated.

To create and maintain a register of known
deficiencies with the RMG Account solution, and
the resolution for these problems (where known),
and to allow access to this register to 4" line units
so that they can enter details of resolutions created
within their area

“Known error” record to be created and populated
by the SSC with access provided to all of the
support community.

3.3 4" line support obligations to SSC (3 Line)

Obligation

Measurement/Metric

To ensure that any incidents so received are
maintained on the call management system used
by Fujitsu Services RMG Account (Peak).

No cases of lack of updates on incidents on Peak.
e Priority A and B updated daily.
e Priority C and D updated weekly.

To ensure that the incident reported is correctly
resolved and the resolution recorded on the Peak
system and the incident and resolution passed
back to the 3" line support.

No cases of calls being passed back without clear
and correct resolution recorded on the Peak.

To ensure that the SSC is made aware of the
evidence requirements for any form of incident.
This will be documented by the SSC and
maintained in accordance with the SSC obligations
to HSH/HIT/SMC.

No cases to arise of SSC not knowing the evidence
required to be collected for any call. A specific
exception to this would be the situation in which a
completely new type of call was received, causing
the SSC to update the relevant documentation
following specification of the evidence from 4" line
support.

To enter resolution information into the known error
register maintained by the SSC.

No discrepancy to arise between the known
resolutions for problems and those, which are
documented, on the known error log.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010

UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY
STORED

Ref: SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
Version: 1.0

Date: 14-Jan-2010

Page No: 14 of 27

Fe)
FUJITSU

Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

To ensure that the SSC is supplied with
documentation relating to new releases of the RVG
Account solution in sufficient time to enable SSC
staff to become familiar with the product prior to its
release, and in sufficient time to enable the SSC to
adequately train HSH/HIT/SMC staff. The SSC
preference for this documentation would be a
support guide. An outline description of the
contents of a support guide is given in
DEV/GEN/TEM/0009

SSC to be supplied with such documentation for

any release at least 3 weeks prior to MOR for that
product release, and preferably as a continual
process during the course of development.

To ensure that the SSC is supplied with access to
source code developed within RMG Account
development.

All source code for a release to be made available
to the SSC prior to the Release of that product

3.4 Customer Services Reference Data obligations to 4"

Line support

CS Reference Data team are responsible for ensuring that the 4LS systems are kept up to and in the

same state as the live service.

RTD will provide an automated delivery mechanism for files to be transferred to the 4" Line support
RDMC workstation in Bra01. This uses processes to clone the release state of live data onto the 4" line
support RDMC (Similar to the existing process for LST)

4! line support must provide evidence that the data update has been completed successfully and

confirm this with Reference Data before proceeding.

3.5 Obligations between RMGA GOVERNANCE and 4" Line

support

4' Iine support are responsible for providing RMGA Governance with proof of adherence to process and
procedures for each defect fix delivered and for providing evidence of each mandatory step having been

carried out.

RMGA Governance are responsible for prompt review of such evidence and feeding back to 4" line
support any divergence from process or any issues with quality of fixes.

Details of the evidence for each defect (PEAK) fix are:

e Evidence of Release Management approval to supply the fix (email confirmation)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010

UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date:
STORED

Ref: SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
Version: 1.0

14-Jan-2010
Page No: 15 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

e Updates to the relevant PEAK, detailing the fix that has been made (in sufficient detail to identify
the code changes to facilitate easy code review from RMGA Governance)

e Evidence of successful unit testing (having created and run appropriate Junit tests and/or
automated tests) (test scripts and results supplied)

* Evidence of successful CIT testing (successful test results produced)
* Evidence of any necessary changes to the Support Guide (updated support guide produced)

« Updates to KELs, if appropriate (confirmation of KEL updates produced)

3.6 Obligations between LST and 4" Line support

Live Support Testing (LST) provides the testing service as part of the release management process.
Further details on LST can be found in the LST service description DEV/INF/LLD/0112 in PVCS.

LST will interact with 4LS in the event that problems/issues arise in the testing phase of a release
management in which case a defect would be raised in Peak and passed into 4LS.

4LS will be required to investigate any defect peaks passed from LST. It is expected that 4LS will action
these in accordance with the priority of the release.

3.7 Obligations between Integration (PIT) and Counter 4t
Line support
4LS Counter Team obligations to PIT

a) To inform PIT well in advance of a delivery of a release so that they can plan it in. The
timing dependant on the nature of the release but should be at least 3 weeks for a
scheduled release.

b) To give PIT an initial idea of the number of baselines in the delivery.

C) To ensure that a Release Note is delivered prior to a delivery stating all PVB’s and any
dependencies.

d) To deliver all software into PVCS or Dimensions using agreed process and naming
convention.

) To ensure that all package handover notes give accurate information including any special
instructions (e.g. files / folders to delete, directory set up and access rights etc.

f) To work with the PIT team during the processing of delivery.

PIT obligations to 4LS Counter Team

Q) To raise calls for any software delivery issues.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version: 0

1
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010
STORED PageNo: 16 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

h) To check software delivery including each package handover note.

i) To ensure that all dependant packages are integrated together as per Release Note.

3.8 Obligations between INFREL DEV and 4* Line support

e _INFREL Dev package all Counter deliveries for distribution to the Live Branches and for software
catch-up for spares, prior to LST testing. As such they require the handover notes from 4LS to
provide the correct level of information including how to roll back the change and notification of
any errors which maybe encountered during installation.

« INFREL Dev will facilitate the delivery of a release into the live estate. INFREL Dev has limited
obligations to 4LS.

e INFREL Dev may raise a Peak on the handover if the information is not adequate

3.9 Obligations between Audit, Host and EM Sysman and
4th Line support

e Audit: Key obligation of 4LS to audit is to ensure that messages between Counter and BAL and
other 4LS teams are controlled for Audit purposes. These messages are tracked and therefore it
is essential that they don’t change without prior agreement and coordination with the Audit team.

e Host Reference Data Team: 4LS and Host Ref data must pre approve any reference data
changes before they are packaged into a release.

e Host Database Team: The Host Database team will have the obligation to deploy database
patches onto the CIT RIG, whilst maintaining a patch register and being responsible for archiving
and DBA activity on the CIT RIG.

e  4LS Rig runners in IND44 will pick up any changes to Agent with updates from the HOST team
provided via Dimensions

e Whilst there is no direct obligation for EM Sysman 4LS teams will liaise with Estate Management
teams as required through maintenance operations.

3.10 Problem Management

The 4LS team will be actively involved in the problem management process (as described in
SVM/SDM/PRO/0025) to proactively perform investigations into the root cause of incidents. All known
errors should be recorded and changes should be proposed to resolve problems. These will be discussed
at the regular service review.

Identifying a “known error” following receipt of the Incident from the Third Line Support Service, where
this information will be communicated to the Third Line Support Service and the appropriate Known Error
Log (KEL) will be updated and the information disseminated to the Service Desk to enable the resolution
of similar Incidents;

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 17 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

3.11 Change Management

This section covers both Change Proposals for change that will affect the whole service delivery model
and Managed Service Change (MSC) for operational change in the delivery of the service by 4LS teams
(for example changes in infrastructure/operation in India44).

4LS will follow the defined framework for Royal Mail Group Account change management (as defined in
PA/PRO/001) Change Proposals (CPs)

As part of the major release process 4LS teams will participate in, provide feedback to and undertake the
activities identified during the planning of major releases.

For operational change (MSC) 4LS teams will create and impact MSC's (Managed Service Change
Process on Café Vik) for operational changes being carried out on the Royal Mail Group Account
infrastructure for the services. Operational change is defined to be changes to the operational
infrastructure that will impact the 4LS service, including that provided in IND44.

3.11.1. Change Proposals (CPs)

The 4LS will impact CPs (as described in PGM/CHM/PRO/0001) with an accurate prediction of the time
and expenses required to perform the proposed activities. Where there is ambiguity then team will seek
to clarify with the CP author before submitting their impact.

3.11.2 Managed Service Change (MSC)

The 4LS will create and impact MSC’s (Managed Service Change Process on Café Vik) for operational
changes being carried out on the Royal Mail Group Account infrastructure for the services (as described
in 1 Service Summary).

« No changes will be carried out without an approved MSC unless the change is to resolve a
service affecting incident. Any changes related to an incident should be authorised via MSC/OCP.
- ONLY if the change is extremely urgent and there is no chance to approve the change should
the MSC/OCP be raised retrospectively.

e Nochanges will be carried out that will cause an interruption of service.

e The change originator is responsible for ensuring that the change is completed in accordance to
best working practices and operational standards. Appropriate levels of implementation,
communication, regression and test planning must be completed.

« Team members may be required to support MSC's raised by other teams.

e Following the successful completion of an MSC, the team will update any localised working
instructions and documentation to ensure the detail reflects the service being provided.

e The change originator is responsible for ensuring that the change is completed in accordance to
best working practices and operational standards. Appropriate levels of implementation,
communication, regression and test planning must be completed.

3.12 Configuration Management

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version: 0

1
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010
STORED PageNo: 18 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

4 jine support will comply with the RMGA Configuration Management procedures and policy
statements: Ref

PGM/CM/PRD/0001 - HNG-X Software Configuration Management Process Definition
PGM/CM/MAN/0004 - Software Configuration Management (SCM) User Guide
PGM/CM/STD/0001 - Dimensions Naming Standards

4LS are expected to maintain a high level inventory for the purposes of call-logging, security vulnerability
checking etc. Each member of the team is expected to work with other teams to gain a good working
knowledge of exactly how the Infrastructure underpins the delivery of services to Royal Mail Group
Account.

4LS is to create and maintain and asset register of all inventory associated with the 4LS service
This knowledge may be called upon to assist in the resolution of an urgent major incident.
This includes any additions and amendments to, and removals from:

« A supported Infrastructure Host, Server or process

« Changes to the configuration of the existing Software/ hardware configurations across the
Infrastructure.

e Backup Schedule.

3.13 Release Management

The team will support the Release Management function within Royal Mail Group Account in consulting
on planned releases. All new releases will be implemented as planned changes performed under the
MSC Process and in accordance with the RMGA Release Management Procedure:
SVM/SDM/PRO/0030.

4LS will support the Release Management function by attending the Release Management/Fault
Management forums on a regular basis. The forum will review the forward schedule of releases and
discuss prioritisation.

3.14 Availability Management and IT Infrastructure support
for 4LS.

The 4LS will assist the RMGA Service Manager by ensuring that the service provided underpins the
service level targets underpinning the HNGX contract and will notify the RMGA service manager of
specific issues in aspects of the service being managed by the team and will recommend appropriate
service improvement through CSIP activities for the life of the service detailed in section 4.1.

As part of the 4LS service ongoing support for the 4LS infrastructure will be provided for both WINTEL
and UNIX infrastructure. This ongoing support shall include the following key elements:

3.14.1 Operating system configuration

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 19 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

4LS will implement:

Any Goldbrick standards

Swap file and dump file configuration

Operating System parameters and settings for individual system components
RAID settings

System configuration policies

3.14.2 Event Log file monitoring

4LS will use the Enterprise Management (EM) tools to proactively monitor event log files every five
minutes or at agreed intervals, and will take remedial action on any alerts or failures.

3.14.3 Hardware Monitoring

4LS will proactively monitor event log files relating to hardware created either by the Operating System or
by the hardware manufacturer's logging system. 4LS will take remedial action in response to reported
failures or warnings. 4LS will raise Incidents on any third parties (see section 3.14.14) where this is
necessary to resolve a problem that is related to the Supported System. 4LS will manage any site visits
by the third party's engineers.

3.14.4 Third party management

4LS will manage any third party involvement in the Supported System. This will include raising Incidents
and escalating them to the third parties. Strict controls will be used to ensure that any changes that third
parties make to the Supported System meet the requirements of both the HNGx service and Fujitsu.

3.14.5 Operating system housekeeping
4LS will carry out housekeeping tasks including:

Deleting temporary files

Trimming event log files

Maintaining task schedules

De-fragmenting disks

Where configured, managing the Active Directory of Windows 2000 and Windows XP,

Deleting and archiving Application Data where there is an agreed instruction from the Customer
or Application vendor to do so

e 4LS will regularly tidy up any system log files, ensuring that the file system thresholds are kept to
a manageable level. 4LS will add crontab entries to the relevant UNIX administration accounts to
automate housekeeping routines as appropriate.

4LS will carry out each of these tasks according to a schedule agreed with the Customer/Service
Manager for HNGx.

3.14.6 Problem diagnosis and resolution

4LS will endeavour to diagnose and resolve any Incidents raised by other support units, the customer or
by the EM. The resolution may take the form of:

« Provision of a known repair

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 20 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

e Escalation to third party if the Incident has not been raised before
e Circumvention of the problem until such time as a permanent solution is available

See section 3.14.14 and 3.14.15 for details.

3.14.7 Backup and restore

4LS will work within the backup and recovery design framework produced by the account to conduct
regular backup and recovery activities of its underpinning data repositories and server environments that
are used to deliver the 4LS service

e Ensure the successful completion of backups and respond to backup failures raised through the
monitoring systems raising appropriate incident calls

e Recover data from the most recent backup set in the event of data loss.

« Test the successful restoration of backups at regular intervals where the account has provided a
suitable test environment to carry out this activity

3.14.8 Operating system patch management

4LS will maintain the operating system at the patch level in accordance with the HNGx patch
management policy in section 3.23.

3.14.9 Anti-virus software maintenance

4LS will maintain anti-virus software on the Supported System to the latest virus signature.

3.14.10 Capacity monitoring

4LS will proactively monitor the Capacity of the Supported System so that issues can be addressed
before they become critical and affect the availability and performance of the Support System. Fujitsu will
raise an appropriate Request for Change with the customer to implement corrective actions should any
problem areas be identified.

See section 3.18 for more details

3.14.11 Recording service history

Fujitsu will maintain records of all changes made to the supported infrastructure during the lifetime of the
Service. A summary of the most important changes will be included in a monthly Service Report to the
HNGx service manager.

3.14.12 Firewall Management

4LS ITSG in India will be responsible for the management of 4LS firewalls in IND44. The firewall will be
housed within the facility of GDC, India at Bangalore and will be confined within the secured RMGA-4LS
server room. The IT Support group, in collaboration with GDC management for RMGA & 4LS will assign
a team specifically to cater towards this service.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 21 of 27
(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

Firewall management is detailed in the proposal below:

FS GDC(INDIA)
RESPONSE- RMGA 41.

Key responsibilities include:

1.Monitoring & Reporting of Firewall
o Monitoring of availability

= Configuring through SNMP

* — Monitoring through Orion (Solar winds)
Setting up of SYSLOG server
Capturing of the Log for any investigation purpose
Update to RMGA team any anomalies are found
Monthly report for availability

0000

2.Patch management (vendor -released patch)
o Evaluating the patch
co Testing of the patches
o Implementation of the patches.

3.Backup
The support will include backing up of configuration files/data on the firewall

3.14.13 4LS Counter build

Full counter rebuilds will be required from time to time on HNGx and as part of this process its essential

that Red Pike is removed from the build before it is sent out of the UK to 4LS in IND44.

The attached process MUST be followed for all new counter rebuilds being sent to 4LS in IND44.
Essentially the process is that encryption is switched off with the RED Pike binary for Utimaco VPN

removed.

Red Pike removal
process version4

The HNGX system test team (LST) re responsible for applying the Red Pike removal process to any new
counter builds before shipping it via CD to the 44S GDC manager in IND44. 4LS RIG Runners in IND44

will then complete the build.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version:

UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date
STORED Page No:

SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

3.15 Business Continuity

4LS should ensure that events indicating a potential Major Business Continuity Incident are proactively
detected (as described in 3.1 Incident Management) logged, classified and prioritised to ensure that
escalation occurs correctly to the RMGA Duty Manager during Core Hour and Non Core Hours.

4LS will provide documentation and staffing resources when called upon to assist with Business
Continuity test schedule (SVM/SDM/PLA/0003) and to provide updates to the Operational Procedures
Manual Index (SU/MAN/018).

Ownership of all contingency actions shall be identified in the Business Continuity Plan (BCP).
Contingency actions to be undertaken by Infinite in the event a Business Continuity Plan is activated shall
be agreed by the Parties before inclusion in that plan. The plan will be documented in the 4LS OLA.

Security, the Infinite Business Continuity plan, Test plan and processes will be established to comply with
the Business Continuity requirements of 15027001, IISO9001 and SVM/SDM/POL/0032.

The 4LS Business Continuity Plan shall be based on impact and risk assessments and agreed by Fujitsu

The 4LS Business Continuity Plan shall include, without limitation, the following

a) Business Continuity Plan ownership
b) Service Description (a section containing a technical and service description for the 4LS)
C) Prevention measures
d) Preparedness measures
e) Contingency measures
f) Testing Strategy
g) Recovery of normal service
h) Risk and Business & Service Impact Analysis
i) Contacts list’
j) Escalation List
In addition to the above the plan shall include details of the individual sub-services, references to the

relevant operations manual and references to the underlying resilience strategy document and/or

technical design documents, where appropriate.
Ownership of the BCP:

The Infinite Business Continuity Plan will clearly state the owner of the plan who is responsible for the
definition, maintenance, testing and review of the plan.

In addition to this, the /nfinite operations manager will have overall responsibility for the development, co-
ordination and integration where appropriate of all Business Continuity Plans and providing a single point
of contact.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 23 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

4LS will work within the backup and recovery design framework produced by the account to conduct
regular backup and recovery activities of its underpinning data repositories and server environments that
are used to deliver the 4LS service.

e Ensure the successful completion of backups and respond to backup failures raised through the
monitoring systems raising appropriate incident calls

e Recover data from the most recent backup set in the event of data loss.

e Test the successful restoration of backups at regular intervals where the account has provided a
suitable test environment to carry out this activity

The following documents detail the Business Continuity Plans and procedures in place for the HNGX
service.

SVM/SDM/PLA/0001 HNG-X Support Services Business Continuity Plan
SVM/SDM/PLA/0002 HNG-X Services Business Continuity Plan
SVM/SDM/PLA/0030 HNG-X Engineering Business Continuity Plan
SVM/SDM/PLA/0003 HNG-X Business Continuity Test Plan

3.16 Service Level Management

Refer to section 2.3 Service Targets

3.17 Financial Management

4t line support will use SST for the purposes of timesheet logging for all support activities.

Amonthly meeting will take place between all parties to review these costs and actions may be assigned
to resolve any queries or discrepancies. Any actions from this meeting should be completed in a timely
manner.

3.18 Capacity Management

4LS will ensure adequate controls are in place to ensure that there is sufficient capacity to run the
services (as described in Service Summary).

4LS will implemented a simple script based performance monitoring approach on the 4LS servers in
IND44 to ensure that server utilisation does not exceed acceptable levels. This will be part of the
standard server monitoring activities to be provided by the GDC server support team. Alert thresholds will
be defined for the servers to clearly set out circumstances requiring escalation to management.

4LS will ensure that they have the appropriate resource the necessary to deliver the 4LS service.

4LS ITSG will use the BT Reporting Facility to monitor the ODC to UK connection

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 24 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

3.19 Service Improvements

The team will provide suggestions to improve the quality of the service and reduce operational costs to
Royal Mail Group Account. Any proposed improvements will be reviewed for CSIP activities in line with
the Royal Mail Group Account standard governance process.

Successful CSIP activities will be raised as CPs or MSC's depending on their scope and complexity. The
team may be required to participate in these changes.

In addition the 4LS team members may be required to attend meetings to work on developing new
ideas in areas of high customer visibility.

3.20 Supplier Management

The team will be responsible for supporting RMGA Service Management at 3 party supplier service
reviews and working alongside 3% parties to resolve incidents across the system

The team have no direct ownership of suppliers underpinning the HNGX service; all contracts with 3°
parties are managed by the RMGA Service Manager.

3.21 Security Management

The 4LS teams will be responsible for working within the framework provided by the account in relation to
the Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability of the services (as described in 1.0 Service Summary) and
will adhere to security policies defined by the account and Corporate Infrastructure Services and the
RMGA security policy.

The GDC is a shared space environment, providing a number of shared services including user Anti
Virus, Active Directory, Email and printing.

To meet Post Office security requirements the 4LS ODS environment will be physically separate
environments.

The Developer users in the ODC will be members of the GDC domain, and will use the existing domain
controllers and exchange servers for authentication and email traffic. PGP encryption has been identified
as a requirement to encrypt any confidential data sent via email. Two instances of PGP will be deployed
within the environment in the ODC on relevant Administrator/Managers desktops. If at that point the 4LS
support team need to send any confidential documentation, this will need to be packaged up using the
PGP desktop software to be a self extracting mechanism. Passphrases must be issued by a second
means of communication and follow the RMGA Security Policy standards (e.g SMS).To ensure that any
data being printed does not leave the secure 4LS LAN a dedicated Print Server will be provided.

The RED Hat and Solaris servers in the environment will not integrate with either Fujitsu or GDC Active
directories or any other LDAP server for authentication or access control. Consequently all user accounts
and groups will be local ones.

The 4LS LAN will be protected from the GDC network by the Cisco ASA pairs, which will in turn be
protected from outside the GDC by the Checkpoint firewall pairs in the GDC.

The GDC firewalls will control access to the 4LS Services and to the internet. Incoming access to the 4LS
network will be restricted to the reference data team in Bracknell. A restricted internet access will be
allowed to named sites from the 4LS LAN.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 25 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

The internet VPN for backup of the main MPLS WAN link will use agreed security parameters, with the
shared key issued and communicated by Fujitsu Services Core ISP implementation team to the partner
company engineers on phone

3.22 Risk

4LS will work alongside the RMGA CS management team to produce a risk register, identify risks and
provide appropriate input when required to maintain the risk register.

The risk register will be reviewed regularly as part of the monthly service review meeting. RMGA CS
Service Manager will own the risk register.

Infinite 4LS will work with the UK 47 line support team and RMGA CS Service Manager to introduce
Fujitsu Services ‘Best Practice’ Risk Management practices.

3.23 Maintenance and Housekeeping

The team will ensure that appropriate tasks associated to maintaining the service are carried out ona
periodic basis and potential activities requiring service outages will be notified to the service manager.
Appropriate MSC's will be raised for this type of activity.

4LS will adhere to the HNGX patch management policy ref SVMSECPRO009.

3.24 Documentation

4LS will be responsible for the maintenance and management of local working instructions and IS
support documentation and will perform the following associated activities

e Regular review of all operating procedures, relating to this Service, updating and re-issuing
those procedures when appropriate.

e Produce a full index of documentation in relation to supporting the live estate detailing the
following elements:

e Shift Operations documentation
e  Technical/Operations Work Procedures

e Backup and Recovery Procedures provided by the account detailing recovery
requirements for each application stream.

e All documentation supporting the management of the respective Infrastructure must be
currently aligned to operational requirements within the live estate.

e Support Agreements and appropriate contact details of those respective parties

e All documentation supporting the management of the respective application must be
currently aligned to operational requirements within the live estate.

* Access Control list produced monthly for sign off by RMGA Security.
e 4LS are responsible for maintaining the design documentation associated with the 4LS

service.
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 14-Jan-2010

STORED PageNo: 26 of 27
FUJ00080083
FUJ00080083

(oe) Operational Level Agreement HNGx 4" line support
FUJITSU COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

3.25 Service Reviews/Service Reporting

RMGA Service Manager will perform a service review at prescribed intervals with the team to review
performance against the OLA and the overall service being delivered by the team

The RMGA Service Manager will produce a service book in advance of the service review this will also
cover account performance and detail any changes on the account and updates to the service on-going.

The RMGA service manager will feedback to the team on the performance through the review and also
through the formal Core IS scorecard produced quarterly.

ALS will report against the following activities:

* Monthly Service level report including:

© Percentage service level achieved against targets (RAG status against targets in
service level management and service level targets)

© Management summary
o Incidents/issues summary
o Changes/forward schedule of change

© Number of man hours including overtime in relation to time spent in performing CP
activity

e Sickness, training ,holiday and overtime hours
Peaks
e Risk Register

* Update progress against Problem Management actions assigned to the team provided
by the account

* Continuous Service Improvement Plans

e Time recording against CP activities

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Ref SVM/SDM/OLA/0017
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited 2010 Version. 1.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY Date 14-Jan-2010
STORED PageNo: 27 of 27
