FUJ00232542

FUJ00232542
Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004
Document Title: HORIZON SECURITY POLICY
Document Type: Policy
Release: BI3 S75 onward
Abstract: This security policy specifies mandatory security requirements to

be applied throughout Post Office Account.

Document Status: APPROVED
Originator & Dept: Bill Mitchell (CS Security & Risk)
Contributors: Pete Sewell, Stephen Probert, Mik Peach, Alex Robinson
Internal Distribution: Pete Sewell; Stephen Probert; Alan D’Alvarez; Peter Jeram;;

Graham Chatten; Reg Barton; Dave Baldwin; Peter Burden; Carl
Marx; Richard Brunskill; Clive Morgan; Liam Foley; Mark
Ascott: Alex Robinson; Jan Holmes

External Distribution: Sue Lowther — Post Office Ltd.

Approval Authorities: (See PA/PRO/010 for Approval roles)

Name Position Signature Date

Clive Morgan Business Unit Director

Colin Lenton-Smith Director, Commercial

Peter Jeram Director, Programmes

Alan D’ Alvarez Director, Development

Dave Baldwin Director, Customer Service

Sue Lowther Post Office Ltd

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 1 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542

FUJ00232542
Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004
0.0 Document Control
0.1 Document History
Version No. I Date Reason for Issue Associated
CP/PinICL
0.1 27/5/96 Initial draft issued for comments
0.2 31/5/96 Revised draft issued for comments
0.3 26/6/96 Incorporates comments from the Pathway
Management team
1.0 16/8/96 Incorporates comments from DSS/BA and POL
2.0 23/9/96 Incorporates further comments from Authority
3.0 8/10/96 Approved
3.1 24/11/97 I Revised for internal review purposes
3.2 10/01/98 I Incorporates comments from internal review
3.3 23/2/98 Incorporates further comments
3.4 28/9/98 Minor updates
4.0 30/4/99 Approved
4.1 24/6/99 Removal of references to DSS/Benefits Agency
relating to Contract changes.
42 03/10/00 I Incorporates changes following internal review and
re-organisation of responsibilities.
5.0 13/11/00 I Approved Internally
5.1 20/11/00 I Incorporates clarification in respect of DPA and
OBCS.
6.0 20/11/00 I Approved Internally
6.1 08/08/01 I Incorporation of changes in organisation. For
review and circulation as a baseline to inform
NWB contractual negotiations.
6.2 30/04/02 I Change from ICL branding to Fujitsu Services
7.0 28/05/02 I Approved
71 12/07/02 I Incorporation of the Network Banking Service.
Minor typographical and contextual changes.
7.2 15/08/02 Incorporation of comments from review.
8.0 03/09/02 I Approved
8.1 Jan 2003 Updates in line with BS ISO/IEC 17799 and
© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 2 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
Fujitsu Services

HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref:
Version:
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date:

FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

RS/POL/002
10.0
11" Nov 2004

inclusion of the Debit Card System

9.0 24/01/03 Approved

91 30/4/04 To reflect change to Post Office Account and
incorporate planned new products and services
introduced by $50, $52, S52R, S60, S70 and S75.
Introduction of Vulnerability Management and
Technical Compliance Testing.

9.2 30/9/04 Additions to legal compliance to cover Financial
Services Authority requirements and Money
Laundering Regulations.

10.0 11/11/04 I Approved

0.2 Review Details

Review Comments by : I 28" Oct 2004

Review Comments to: I Bill Mitchell

Mandatory Review Authority Name

RASD Security Stephen Probert*

Director of Customer Service Dave Baldwin

Director of Programmes Peter Jeram

Director of Development Alan D’ Alvarez

Director of RASD Tony Drahota

CS Security Project Manager Peter Sewell*

CS Service Implementation Manager Reg Barton

Cryptographic Development Alex Robinson

Audit & Risk Jan Holmes*

Post Office Limited Sue Lowther

Optional Review / Issued for Information

Customer Services Peter Burden

Carl Marx
Richard Brunskill*
( * ) = Reviewers that returned comments
© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542

FUJ00232542
Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004
0.3. Associated Documents
Reference Version I Date Title Source
BS ISO/IEC Information Technology -— I British
17799-1: 2000 Code of practice for I Standard
information security
management
BS 7799-2 2002 Information security I British
management specification for I Standard
information security

management systems

PA/TEM/001 Fujitsu Services Document I PVCS
Template
Fujitsu Services Group I Fujitsu
Security Policy Services

RS/PRO/028 Post Office Account I PVCS
Security Management
Procedures

RS/POL/003 Post Office Account Access I PVCS
Control Policy

KH2879 Post Office InformationI Post — Office
Systems Security Policy I Ltd.
Document

BP/POL/002 Post Office Counters I Post — Office
Information Systems I Ltd
Security Policy
(SSR Appendix 4-1)

BP/ION/002 A Code of Practice for Post I Post Office
Office Information Systems I Ltd
Security

CR/FSP/004 System Architecture Design I PVCS
Document

RS/FSP/001 Security Functional I PVCS.
Specification

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current

approved versions of the documents.

© 2004Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
Fujitsu Services

HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

Abbreviation Definition

APS Automated Payment Services

CESG Communications-Electronics Security Group
CLEF Commercial Licensed Evaluation Facility
COTS Commercial Off The Shelf

DCS Debit Card System

DSS Department of Social Security

EPOSS Electronic Point Of Sale Service

Iso International Standards Organisation
LFS Logistics Feeder Service

NBS Network Banking Service

OBCS Order Book Control Service

PFI Private Finance Initiative

PIN Personal Identification Number

PPP Public Private Partnership

SEM Security Event Management

0.5 Changes in t

his Version

Version Changes

9.0 Minor amendment to Diagram in paragraph 4 to reflect revised Post Office
Organisation

9.1 Amended to reflect change from Pathway to Post Office Account
Changes to document distribution and approval
Incorporation of planned new products and services at S60 and aspects of
$70 and S75,
Introduction of Vulnerability Management and Technical
Compliance Testing.

92 Additions to legal compliance to cover Financial Services Authority

requirements and Money Laundering Regulations.

10.0

Minor amendments to correct typos and reflect correct abbreviations within
the document.

© 2004Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 27

Contract Controlled Document

FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

FUJ00232542

FUJ00232542
Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004
0.6 Changes Expected
Changes
None
© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542

FUJ00232542
Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

0.7 Table of Contents

1.0 FOREWORD...

2.0 INTRODUCTION

2.1 SERVICE OVERVIEW. 10
2.2 SCOPE...
2.3 POLICY REVIEW.

3.0 OBJECTIVES.

3.2 IT SECURITY OBJECTIVES. 12
3.3. LEGAL OBLIGATIONS. 13

4.0 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR SECURITY.

4.1 DIRECTOR, CUSTOMER SERVICES. ......c0:oes0
4.2, Post OFFICE ACCOUNT SECURITY FORUM.
4.3. SECURITY MANAGER...

4.4. SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

4.5 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PHYSICAL SECURITY.
4.6 ALL PERSONNEL... os

4.7 REPORTING SECURITY INCIDENTS

5.0 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR AUDIT.....
5.1 AUDIT MANAGER’S RESPONSIBILITIES...

6.0 PERSONNEL SECURITY...

6.1 RECRUITMENT SELECTION. 18
6.2 JOB DESCRIPTIONS, CONTRACTS AND AS seseteeetnseeeee 1B

(UARDING Post OFFICE LTD. RECORD:
3CTION OF HORIZON DOCUMENTATION.
7.3.1 Protection of Magnetic Media.
7.3.2 Protection of Paper Documents.
7.3.3 Protection of Back-up Media.

7.4 PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY
7.5 SYSTEM ACCESS CONTROL...
7.6 CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT.
7.7 CRYPTOGRAPHY.

8.0 ADMINISTRATION OF SECURITY.

8.1 SYSTEM AND NETWORK MANAGEMENT 21
8.2. AUDIT MANAGEMENT. 22
© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542

FUJ00232542
Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004
8.3 SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE. 22

8.4. CHANGE CONTROL PROCEDURES.
8.4.1 Change Control..
8.4.2 Operational Changes...
8.4.3 Operating System Changes.
8.5 VULNERABILITY MANAGEMENT POLICY
8.6 MALICIOUS SOFTWARE CONTROL POLICY.
8.7 INFORMATION EXCHANGE CONTROL.
8.8 CONTROL OF PROPRIETARY SOFTWARE.
8.9 EXTERNAL CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS...

9.0 BUSINESS CONTINUITY.

9.1 CONTINGENCY PLANNING..........
9.2 TESTING CONTINGENCY PLANS .
9.3. SUBCONTRACTOR’S CONTINGENCY PLANS

10.0 COMPLIANCE.

10.1 COMPLIANCE WITH Post OFFICE ACCOUNT’S SECURITY POLICY...
10.2 COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATIVE REQUIREMENTS.....

10.3 TECHNICAL COMPLIANCE CHECKING..
10.4 COMPLIANCE WITH BS ISO/IEC 1779

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Noy 2004

1.0 Foreword

This document defines Post Office Account’s policy for the protection of its assets (including
hardware, applications, databases, network, people and documentation) against loss of
confidentiality, integrity and availability. It also enables Post Office Account to comply with
legislative and commercial requirements.

Post Office Account’s policy statement (which is essentially the same as the Corporate Policy
statement used by Group (Fujitsu Services)) is:

It is the policy of Fujitsu Services, Post Office Account to provide a secure working environment
for the protection of employees, and also to ensure the security of all assets owned by or entrusted to}
Post Office Account.

This document fits into the structure illustrated below, with the BS ISO/IEC 17799 Code of Practice
being used as a basis for Post Office Account’s Security Procedures. Lower level implementation
standards are incorporated as appropriate.

: Fujitsu Services Post Office Ltd
Corporate Policy Policy Policy
T 7
. . Horizon
Detailed Policy Security
Policy

Horizon Security

Security Procedures Procedures
Based on
ISO / BS 17799
Operating System Security Physical Security
Application Security Personnel Security
+ dali Database Security Risk @ Fraud Manzgement

Standards & Guidelines ietwork Secunty Contingency Planning

Desktop Security Systems Management

Key Management, et. Health and Safety. eto

Post Office Account’s Security Policy, Procedures and Standards

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

2.0 Introduction

In May 1996, Fujitsu Services, Post Office Account, formerly ICL (Pathway), was selected to set up
and operate the services to automate counter transactions at Post Offices throughout the UK.

The requirement to implement a Benefit Payment Service for the Benefit Agency was removed when
the UK Government’s major Private Finance Initiative (PFI) project was changed to a Public Private
Partnership (PPP) project during 1999.

In July 2002, Post Office Account was awarded a contract to provide a Network Banking Service
(NBS), which initially supports several On-line counter transaction types. In September 2002 this
contract was extended to include a Debit Card system interfacing with National Westminster
Streamline as Merchant Acquirer.

The purpose of this policy document is to lay the foundation that enables Post Office Account to
protect the integrity, availability and confidentiality of all assets associated with the services. It also
enables Post Office Account to comply with legislative and commercial requirements.

2.1 Service Overview

The agreement is a PPP project, whereby Post Office Account automates approximately 16,000 Post
Offices and provides the infrastructure which enables users to make automated payments at outlets
throughout the UK.

e Automated Payment Services (APS) and (AP ADC).
e Electronic Point Of Sale Service (EPOSS).

e Order Book Control Service (OBCS).

e Logistics Feeder Service (LFS).

e Network Banking Service (NBS).

e The Debit Card System (DCS).

e Pin Pad authentication for NBS, DCS, incorporating EMV Chip and PIN.
e Bureau de Change.

e E Top Ups.

° NS&I.

e DVLA, incorporating PAF.

e SAP Hosting

The services are designed to provide secure transaction, accounting and payment facilities; hence
particular attention is focused upon the security aspects of the services throughout their life cycle.

The SAP Hosting solution is jointly managed by Fujitsu Services and Prism who share operational
responsibility for the system. Security of the solution will be based on the current security agreement
between Post Office and Fujitsu Services for running the Horizon systems. Areas deemed relevant
to SAP are:

¢ Identification and Authentication

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

e Access Controls
e Audits and Alarms
e Network Security

¢ Virus Protection

2.2 Scope

This Security Policy specifies mandatory security requirements to be applied throughout Post Office
Account.

Post Office Account has overall responsibility for the design, development, implementation, roll-out,
operation and support of the service throughout the contract period. Specific activities are
subcontracted to appropriate organisations, which are required to work within the security
framework defined by Post Office Account.

Post Office Account’s Security Policy must be compatible with Post Office Ltd. Security Policy. The
interfaces between Post Office Account and all external organisations must be clearly defined and
formally agreed with the organisations concerned.

Security obligations for subcontractors involved in development activities are subject to individual
agreements with Post Office Account. Commercial off the shelf (COTS) products are provided by
the appropriate product suppliers.

2.3 Policy Review

Once approved, this policy document will be formally reviewed at least annually and after any
significant security incident or occurrence of fraud, and updated whenever necessary.

Responsibilities for approval, review and issue of Post Office Account’s Security Policy and
Procedures are defined in section 4

3.0 Objectives

This document provides a definition of Post Office Account’s high-level Security Policy.

Post Office Account will establish an infrastructure that will minimise and control liabilities to itself
and Post Office Ltd.

The Security Policy defines the requirements for Post Office Account enabling it to protect the
integrity, availability and confidentiality of information used and produced by the services. This
includes making adequate provision for:

e Business Continuity, and
¢ Compliance with relevant legislation.

The responsibilities for policy implementation are defined (in section 4) in order that the policy
requirements can be communicated throughout Post Office Account. This ensures that all parties are
fully aware of their responsibilities and legal obligations.

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

Post Office Account has stated its commitment to ensuring that it encompasses the very best
commercial practices for security. Post Office Account’s aim is to be fully compliant with BS
ISO/IEC 17799.

Compliance with legislative requirements (including the Data Protection Act 1998) and BS /
1SO17799 is considered under “Compliance” (in section 10).

3.1. Business Objectives
The business objectives are:

1. Identifying and managing risks
Protection of information assets
Protection of IT assets

Provide continuity of services

vp. yn

Maintenance of Post Office Account’s reputation.

3.2 IT Security Objectives

Post Office Account’s overall IT security objective can be summarised as achieving the requirement
expressed in the following policy statement:

It is the policy of Fujitsu Services, Post Office Account to protect its investment in IT assets and to
ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all information conveyed, processed or stored,
yy the services.

1. Security measures in Post Office Account’s IT systems will ensure appropriate confidentiality,
integrity and availability of services, software components and data, whether in storage or in
transit.

2. Physical and logical access to the IT systems will be controlled, with access granted selectively,
and permitted only where there is a specific need. Access will be limited to persons with
appropriate authorisation and a “need to know” requirement.

3. Authentication, whereby a user’s claimed identity is verified, is essential before any access is
granted to any IT system. Authentication mechanisms are also required to ensure that trust
relationships can be established between communicating components within, and external to,
Post Office Account’s services.

4. All users of Post Office Account’s services will be individually accountable for their actions.
Accountability for information assets will be maintained by assigning owners, who will be
responsible for defining who is authorised to access the information. If responsibilities are
delegated then accountability will remain with the nominated owner of the asset.

5. Audit mechanisms are required to monitor, detect and record events that might threaten the
security of the Post Office Account services or any service(s) to which it is connected. Regular
analysis of audit trails is essential to facilitate the identification and investigation of security
breaches.

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

6. Alarm mechanisms are required to alert security personnel to the occurrence of security
violations that could seriously threaten the secure operation of Post Office Account’s services.
These alarms will be used to trigger prompt investigation and remedial action in order to
minimise the impact of any security breach.

7. Post Office Account will monitor all developments and operations to maintain assurance that its
services are performing in accordance with approved security procedures and controls. This will
give a high level of confidence that all information is being protected during processing,
transmission and storage.

3.3 Legal Obligations

Post Office Account must remain fully compliant with all relevant legislation and regulations.

In addition to the existing legislative obligations, identified in section 10.2, it is important to track
and anticipate emerging UK and European regulations that could affect Post Office Account’s
operation.

4.0 Responsibilities for Security
Post Office Account’s Managing Director has ultimate responsibility for security.

Post Office Account’s commitment to security will be communicated throughout Minor amendment to
Diagram in paragraph 4 to reflect revised Post Office Organisation Post Office Account, as evidenced by
board level approval of Minor amendment to Diagram in paragraph 4 to reflect revised Post Office
Organisation Post Office Account’s Security Policy.

Figure I illustrates the security organisation used within Post Office Account. Senior management is

supported by experienced specialists and technical staff with specific expertise in the areas of IT

security, risk management and, where appropriate, fraud prevention.
i

Internat
Audie

1
1 1
externar I Post ontice Account Business Unit Post office Account I External
1 1
i I i
1 £ 1 1
1 1
Director of
"ost Office Account Director of 1
Post Office Account customer Service Programmes i
Security Forum !
T 1
Security Advisors I 1
! ‘Security H
Manager rom
Audit & Risk i Broup.
1

‘Security
Event Business:
Management Function
; Monitoring

Security
Administration

‘Security Event Management and Audit Management

Figure 1 Post Office Account’s Security Management Structure

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002

Version: 10.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

4.1 Director, Customer Services

The security related responsibilities of the Director, Customer Services, include:

eeoeeeee

Overall control of risk management functions is the responsibility of the Programme Director.

overall control and management of security throughout Post Office Account,
provision of adequate resources for security,

being Chairman of the Post Office Account Security Board (see section 4.2),
owner of Post Office Account’s Security Policy,

approval authority for Post Office Account’s Security Policy,

approval authority for Post Office Account’s Security Procedures,
establishing the security interface with Post Office Ltd, and

establishing the security interface with all subcontractors.

4.2. Post Office Account Security Forum

The representatives on Post Office Account’s Security Forum are nominated by the Director,
Customer Services, and approved by the Post Office Account Forum.

The Security Board participants, who will include Horizon Security Liaison staff, represent a broad
range of interests to ensure that alternative perspectives are considered.

Whenever necessary, the Security Forum can commission independent specialists to undertake
studies, investigations or audits.

Security Board responsibilities include:

eoceee

ownership of Post Office Account’s Security Strategy,

determining the adequacy of Post Office Account’s Security Policy definition,
formal review of all Security Policy documents,

review of security incidents, on a regular basis, and

liaison with external bodies and specialists.

4.3 Security Manager

The Security Manager is responsible for ensuring implementation of policy and procedures, and
maintaining “best practice”, within the remit of Post Office Account.

Post Office Account’s Security Manager’s responsibilities include:

physical and environmental security,

monitoring for compliance with Post Office Account’s Security Policy,
providing the point of contact for reporting all types of security incidents,
ensuring that security incidents are recorded and investigated,

ensuring that security relevant events are recorded,

ensuring that system audit trails are analysed on a regular basis,
documentation of Post Office Account’s Security Policy,

owner of Post Office Account’s Security Procedures,

documentation of Post Office Account’s Security Procedures,

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004
® communication of security policy and procedures throughout Post Office Account,
e authorisation and approval for system changes,
* co-ordinating the evaluation of all new security products proposed,
© — specifying and arranging security education and training,
e devising and conducting security awareness programmes,
© maintaining a partnership approach to security with Post Office Ltd Security staff,
e liaison with the Post Office Ltd Information Security Manager, external regulators and

suppliers’ security personnel,

reporting to the Post Office Limited Information Security Manager any actual or
potential threats or breaches that may have a material effect on any service, and

* — recruitment selection of security administration personnel.

4.4 Security Administration

The description “Security Administration” is used to describe Post Office Account personnel
assigned to roles with particular responsibility for security.

Post Office Account’s Security Manager is the normal line manager for this group; hence many of
the activities assigned to Security Administrators are in support of the functions listed in section 4.3.

Wherever possible, Security Administrators act in a supporting or monitoring role rather than as a
Service Provider for the operational services. In this capacity they can:

monitor compliance with Post Office Account’s Security Policy,

implement Post Office Account’s Security Procedures,

conduct independent reviews of compliance to policy and procedures,

report actual and suspected security incidents, and recommend changes, to enhance Post
Office Account’s security controls, to the Security Manager.

4.5 Responsibilities for Physical Security

The local Site Managers have responsibility for physical security at all sites used by Post Office
Account.

At some sites, notably Data Centres and support sites, Post Office Account can benefit from existing
security infrastructure in order to protect against threats from physical and environmental sources.

At Post Office outlets, the Post Office Manager has particular responsibility for safeguarding the
Post Office Account equipment installed.

4.6 All Personnel

All Post Office Account service users will be subject to Post Office Account’s awareness and/or
training programmes. Security aspects, an integral part of these programmes, will be set in a context
appropriate to the user’s role.

All Post Office Account employees, subcontractors and system users have security responsibilities
and they are required to work together in support of this security policy. Personnel who may not
regard themselves as any kind of “system user” still have security responsibilities. In particular, they
are expected to be vigilant in reporting anything they believe may be suspicious.

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 15 of 27

Contract Controlled Document

FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

Promoting security awareness, throughout Post Office Account, to subcontractors, and temporary
staff is an important responsibility assigned to Post Office Account’s Security Manager. Publicising
security reporting and escalation procedures will be part of this awareness strategy.

4.7 Reporting Security Incidents

Post Office Account has established effective procedures for reporting, acting upon and escalating all
incidents that could affect security. It is the responsibility of all users of the Post Office Account
services and Post Office Account personnel to use these procedures.

Post Office Account’s Security Manager is responsible for ensuring that all incidents are recorded,
investigated and resolved with appropriate urgency. This will include liaison with Horizon Security
Liaison staff to review incidents and actions.

5.0 Responsibilities for Audit

The Director of Programmes is accountable for the Audit function within Post Office Account, as
illustrated in figure 1.

The Audit Manager’s responsibilities, listed in section 5.1, are primarily concerned with managing
the internal Audit function within Post Office Account but they also include liaison with Post Office
Ltd. audit personnel.

As the point of contact with external audit personnel, the Audit Manager maintains regular contact
with many Post Office Account groups (e.g. Customer Service, Programmes, Commercial and
Finance) to co-ordinate audit related activities.

The Security Event Management function, illustrated in figure 1, encompasses the routine IT
Security activities concerned with security relevant events recorded by Post Office Account’s
systems. It is really part of the day-to-day security administration activity, but has been highlighted to
identify the need for regular analysis of event logs.

5.1 Audit Manager’s Responsibilities

Post Office Account’s Audit Manager is responsible for ensuring implementation of Post Office
Account’s Audit Policy and maintaining “best practice”, within the remit of Post Office Account.

The Audit Manager’s responsibilities include:

e planning and carrying out audits of Post Office Account’s business functions,

© examining and evaluating the results of (business function) audits,

e developing and agreeing improvement programmes,

© monitoring and reporting improvement activities,

© monitoring for compliance with Post Office Account’s Audit Policy,

¢ — providing the point of contact for all audit related matters,

e — overall responsibility for Minor amendment to Diagram in paragraph 4 to reflect
revised Post Office Organisation Post Office Account’s Audit activities,

e documentation of Post Office Account’s Audit Policy,

e being the owner of Post Office Account’s Audit Standards,

e documentation of Post Office Account’s Audit Standards,

® communication of Audit policy and standards within Post Office Account,

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 16 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004
* co-ordinating the evaluation of all new audit products proposed,
e — specifying and arranging Audit education and training,
e — liaison with Post Office Ltd. audit personnel,
© liaison with Fujitsu Services Group Audit personnel, and
* — recruitment selection of Audit personnel.

5.2. Business Function Monitoring Responsibilities

The description “Business Function Monitoring” has been used to describe Post Office Account
personnel assigned to roles with particular responsibility for Audit.

Post Office Account’s Audit Manager is the normal line manager for this group; hence many of the
activities assigned to Business Function Monitoring are in support of the functions listed in section
5.1.

Wherever possible, Business Function Monitoring acts in a supporting role rather than as a Service
Provider for the operational services. In this capacity it can:

monitor compliance with Post Office Account’s Audit Policy,

implement Post Office Account’s Audit Standards,

conduct independent reviews of compliance to policy and standards,

report actual and suspected security incidents, and

recommend changes, to enhance Post Office Account’s audit controls, to the Audit
Manager.

5.3 Security Event Management Responsibilities

The description “Security Event Management” is used to describe Post Office Account personnel
assigned to roles with particular responsibility for security relevant events recorded by Post Office
Account’s systems.

Post Office Account’s Security Manager is the normal line manager for this group; hence many of
the activities assigned to Security Event Management personnel are supporting functions.

Wherever possible, Security Event Management acts in a monitoring role supporting the audit
related security administration activities. In this capacity it can:

ensure that specified events are being audited on the relevant platforms,
ensure that all access (and attempted access) to Post Office Account’s systems is
audited,

monitor usage by Post Office Account operations and management staff,
e analyse the audit logs generated by the different Post Office Account platforms,
© assist with investigations (as assigned by the Security Manager),
® — extract copies of audit information for investigation purposes,
e — ensure that archived audit information is being stored securely,
e implement Post Office Account’s Security Procedures (particularly with regard to audit),
¢ — report actual and suspected security incidents, and
® recommend changes, to enhance Post Office Account’s security controls, to the Security
Manager.
© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

6.0 Personnel Security

Staff concerned with the operations and management of central services are to be managed under the
guidance of Fujitsu Services’ Personnel Policy Manual and associated documents.

Staff working on high-risk areas in the organisation (those classified as “sensitive”) are to be subject
to more frequent vetting reviews and internal audits. This applies to Post Office Account’s own
employees and to staff from subcontractor’s organisations.

6.1 Recruitment Selection

All applicants are subject to an appropriate level of vetting, using criteria approved and provided by
Fujitsu Services Group Security. This includes checks on their identification, qualifications and
financial circumstances. Business and personal references are checked for all applicants.

6.2 Job Descriptions, Contracts and Assessment

Post Office Account will apply best commercial practice, based upon BS ISO/IEC 17799, to include
security considerations within, Employees Terms and Conditions for Employment, and generic job
descriptions.

6.3 Security Education and Training

Post Office Account’s education and training programme will promote security awareness and
explain the importance and use of security controls.

The programme will include:

e all Post Office Account employees, and
© — appropriate training for contractors and third parties.

7.0 Implementation Policies

The following subsections provide an overview of the controls required for:
e asset classification and control,
e physical and environmental security, and
* system access control.

Post Office Account’s Security Procedures will provide more detailed guidance based upon the
corresponding BS ISO/IEC 17799 sections. This will include the provision and maintenance of an
asset register and up to date inventories of all significant component assets — information, software,
hardware and services.

7.1 Classification of Information

All information used by Post Office Account will be handled in accordance with its classification, as
specified by its owner. Information owners are required to classify all information that they own, in
accordance with a process that will be jointly agreed.

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 18 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

The sensitivity of information will be measured by the consequences of a potential security breach
associated with that information.

Post Office Account will assume that aggregation cannot increase the classification of any
information unless risk assessment indicates otherwise.

Post Office Account’s Security Procedures will include guidance on protective marking, handling
and disposal of information.

7.2 Safeguarding Post Office Ltd. Records

Post Office Account will protect all manual and electronic records supplied by Post Office Ltd in
accordance with agreed contractual obligations. The records will be safeguarded from unauthorised
disclosure, modification, loss, destruction and falsification.

7.3 Protection of Horizon Documentation

All information which is held on paper, in databases or data files, system documentation, user
manuals, training material, operational or support procedures, continuity plans and fallback
arrangements, backup files can all be categorised by subject. The inventory will hold the following
information:-

¢ The information subject asset name and high level description
The information asset classification,

Special files classification in any subject information

The information subject owner.

The information subject custodian.

731 Protection of Magnetic Media

Magnetic media must be protected against theft, damage or deterioration. Data centres must have a
secure media library with procedures to control the movement of media in and out. In other
locations, magnetic media must be stored in lockable containers, cabinets, fire safes etc.

7.3.2 Protection of Paper Documents

Input forms, printout, microfilm, documents and other hard-copy information must be handled,
distributed, stored and destroyed securely. Documents with potential value must be handled “as if”
they have that value.

7.3.3 Protection of Back-up Media

Secure off-site storage must be provided for back-up copies of magnetic media and essential hard-
copy documents.

7.4 Physical and Environmental Security

Use of existing secure computing facilities for Post Office Account’s central services simplifies the
task of establishing secure areas for the protection of IT facilities. The physical security measures
include:

© — specialist site security staff in attendance 24 hours per day,
¢ surveillance and intruder detection systems,

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002

Version: 10.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

multi-zone areas controlled by a card access system, and
regular security reviews and audit checks.

All equipment and cabling will be well maintained and protected against environmental hazards,
including fire and water damage.

Post Offices pose some significant challenges for several reasons:

eoceeee

Post Office Account supports approximately 16,000 sites throughout the UK,
Post Office Account cannot control the physical security at Post Offices,

Post Office Account owns the IT assets installed in each Post Office,

high specification commercial PCs are installed at each site,

Post Office Account cannot vet or select Post Office personnel, and

changes to the Post Office operating environment can occur.

Physical and logical segregation of Post office Account assets from other Fujitsu contracts is to be
maintained, however, shared use of data centres, server rooms and environmental facilities is
permitted. Security measures associated with installed equipment will take these factors into
consideration to reduce Post Office Account’s risks to an acceptable level.

Similar considerations apply to Post Office Account assets at other non-Post Office Account sites
(e.g. AP Client sites)

7.5 System Access Control

Control of access to Post Office Account’s systems and data is in accordance with Post Office
Account’s Access Control Policy, which is based upon analysis of security and business
requirements.

The Access Control Policy and associated Security Procedures specify:

a clear definition of responsibilities for all authorised users,
specification of roles and responsibilities for all types of system usage,
control of access to all Post Office Account systems components,
control of access to all data within the Post Office Account systems,
control of access to all stored information and documentation,
control of access to database facilities and tools,

control of access to applications running on servers and workstations,
control of access to the network and network management systems,
procedures for allocation of access rights to IT systems,

management, assignment and revocation of privileges,

identification and authentication of human and system “users”, and
password management, including password generation and expiry.

Accountability of individuals is essential and segregation of duties is enforced where appropriate.

Wherever authorisation is given orally, normally over a telephone link, additional verification
methods must be used.

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 20 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

7.6 Configuration Management

The Horizon Solution will be subject to strict configuration management as defined within the
Security Functional Specification (RS/FSP/001) and other pertinent system documentation.

7.7 Cryptography

Post Office Account complies with Government Policy with regard to the protection of Government
Data. It also complies with relevant regulatory requirements and with ISO standards for the handing
of cryptographic key material in accordance with agreed contractual obligations.

Where appropriate, Post Office Account will seek the guidance of Communications-Electronics
Security Group (CESG) or follow recognised financial industry guidelines on all matters concerning
cryptography. This includes:

choice of encryption algorithms,

strength of mechanisms,

encryption of information stored on disks within Post Offices, and

encryption key management (including key generation, distribution and change).

8.0 Administration of Security

The following subsections provide an overview of the controls required within Post Office Account’s
organisation. Post Office Account’s Security Procedures provide further guidance, based upon the
BS ISO/IEC 17799 controls, for:

8.1

computer and network management, and

system development and maintenance.

System and Network Management

Operational management of the system, applications and network is under the control of Operations
and Support within Post Office Account.

The system privileges and access permissions required to perform management functions are
considerably higher than those assigned to normal users. Post Office Account therefore ensures that:

8.2

eoeeeee

staff assigned to management functions are carefully selected,

physical and logical access controls are clearly defined and rigorously implemented,
individuals are not granted unnecessary privileges,

separation of duties is achieved whenever appropriate,

individuals are held accountable for all system changes,

the ability to grant and modify access permission is controlled, and

all significant system changes are recorded.

Audit Management

Post Office Account ensures that:

.

all security critical events are time stamped and recorded,
auditable events are carefully selected to minimise overheads,

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004
¢ — audit trail information is protected from modification,
e — audit trails include a record of all significant system changes,
e — effective audit analysis reduction and analysis tools are used,
e all observed system irregularities are investigated, and
© audit trails are archived and stored for an agreed duration.

8.3 Systems Development and Maintenance

Post Office Account ensures that system security, considered at the requirements analysis stage, fully
reflects the business value of the information assets involved. The analysis will consider:

identification and authentication of human and system “users”,

control of access to information and services,

segregation of duties,

segregation of development, test and operational systems

secure operation in degraded mode,

incorporation and analysis of audit trails,

data and system integrity protection,

use of encryption to prevent unauthorised disclosure and/or modification of data, and
system resilience, including operation in fallback mode and recovery.

eoeerereeee

All software developed by or for Post Office Account will be specified and implemented using
proven methodologies, taking care to ensure that:

© — input data validation is comprehensive and reliable,
® processing protects against errors and attacks, and
© — integrity checking is performed where appropriate.

Post Office Account ensures that software development activities are fully supported by procedures
and standards that cover all aspects of the development process. Audits and reviews are conducted
to ensure that the procedures are being applied effectively and that any supporting documentation
meets approved standards. Security testing provides confirmation that the security functionality of
the systems has been implemented to meet the agreed security specifications.

Assurance during development is supported by the definition of security requirements, security
architecture, detailed security design, design reviews and security testing.

Design and specification changes are reviewed to ensure they do not compromise the security of the
systems.

All software is subject to appropriate acceptance procedures prior to integration with other
components.

8.4 Change Control Procedures

8.4.1 Change Control

Strict control over the implementation of changes to the Horizon network, hardware system and
application software will be enforced. Such change control procedures must ensure that any changes
do not compromise any security or control procedure. Change control procedures must ensure:

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

e The identification of all components affected by the change.

e The authorisation of all changes and their approval on completion.
¢ The control of software versions at each stage.

© Quality and content control.

e The maintenance of a full record of all changes (audit trail)

e The deletion of any temporary UserIDs/passwords, data and linkages when the system
becomes live.

e Changes only carry out their required function and nothing more.
© Only those changes that have been tested are implemented on the live system.

¢ Changes meet operational requirements.

8.4.2 Operational Changes

Change controls procedures must exist which permit the controlled correction of live systems in
order to meet operational requirements and emergencies, e.g. patching of system vulnerabilities. All
such changes must be reviewed and approved by the appropriate line management as soon as
possible. All Operational and emergency changes should be reviewed following implementation and
either removed from the live environment or consolidated via the normal change control and build
procedures.

8.4.3 Operating System Changes

Prior to any operating system upgrade or change, a review of all application control and integrity
procedures must be carried out to ensure that they will not be compromised by the proposed
changes.

8.5 Vulnerability Management Policy

All computer systems and networks contain vulnerabilities which can be exploited by hackers,
crackers and insider’s intent on doing harm. The vulnerabilities may be as a result of:

¢ Software defects requiring vendor issued patches or fixes
e Insecure accounts with weak or nonexistent passwords

e Unnecessary services such as, Telnet or remote access

e Built In weaknesses, such as backdoors accounts.

e System misconfiguration

These vulnerabilities can be exploited even when anti virus, firewalls and intrusion detection systems
are in place and the only way to properly secure a system is to first assess the existing vulnerabilities
on each machine or network segment, determine the degree of risk for each vulnerability, and then
mitigate - or fix - the vulnerabilities by updating hardware and software versions or applying vendor
issued service packs, hot fixes and patches. This process of finding, evaluating and mitigation is
known as vulnerability management.

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 23 of 27

Contract Controlled Document

FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

Post Office Account will adopt industry standard best practise and BS ISO/IEC 17799
recommendations by implementing vulnerability management.

8.6 Malicious Software Control Policy

Software and information processing facilities are vulnerable to the introduction of malicious
software, such as computer viruses, network worms, Trojan horses and logic bombs. All Post Office
Account users should be made aware of the dangers of unauthorized or malicious software, and,
where appropriate, controls to detect or prevent the introduction of malicious software, such as
computer viruses, network worms, Trojan horses and logic bombs is to be in place on all critical
servers and desktop computers.

Protection against malicious software should, where possible, be based on security policy, effective
security awareness, appropriate system access and change management controls as well as the
installation and regular update of anti-virus detection and repair software. However, it is essential
that appropriate management procedures and business continuity plans for recovering from virus
attacks, including all necessary data and software back-up and recovery arrangements are available in
accordance with section 9 below..

8.7 Information Exchange Control

Post Office Account defines, agrees and enforces (with relevant parties) procedures for the exchange
of information handled electronically and by other means. The procedures used comply with legal
and contractual requirements and depend upon the sensitivity of the information.

In particular, the exchange of information, with Post Office Ltd, is subject to formally agreed
controls.

8.8 Control of Proprietary Software
Post Office Account uses proprietary software within the terms of the licence conditions
Unauthorised copying of software and documentation is prohibited.

Post Office Account will not permit any modified or non-standard software components to be
incorporated unless the modifications have been applied and validated by the normal supplier, and
approved by Post Office Account’s Security Manager.

Post Office Account’s configuration management system will maintain an inventory of all proprietary
software used by their services.

8.9 External Contractors and Suppliers

Post Office Account ensures that appropriate safeguards cover the use of external contractors and
suppliers. This includes agreements with contractual terms and conditions and checks on the integrity
of external contractors before any work is assigned to them

External personnel are not allowed access to any classified information without prior written
authority from the information owner and completion of a non-disclosure agreement.

Suppliers of goods and services will be subject to formal agreements in support of this security
policy. Individual agreements with suppliers of standard COTS components are not required.

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 24 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

Evidence of the adequacy of suppliers’ security procedures is sought where externally supplied
goods or services are used to process critical and/or sensitive information.

9.0 Business Continuity

Post Office Account ensures that an effective business continuity plan is agreed with Horizon
Security Liaison staff and implemented to reduce the risks from deliberate or accidental threats to
deny access to vital services or information.

Plans are established to enable internal operations and business services to be maintained following
failure or damage to vital services, facilities or information. All relevant security provisions will be
maintained, even if degraded conditions are in effect.

9.1 Contingency Planning

In order to minimise any disruption to the services managed by Post Office Account, contingency
plans encompass:

e handling emergency situations,
© — operating in fall-back mode, and
e recovery (or Business Resumption) to full operational status.

9.2 Testing Contingency Plans

All contingency plans are tested on a regular basis under representative operational conditions.

9.3 Subcontractor’s Contingency Plans

Contingency arrangements are examined and managed to ensure that risks are minimised, wherever
Post Office Account is dependent upon subcontractors (or third parties), for essential services or
supplies.

10.0 Compliance

Post Office Account is required to comply with legislative requirements and commercial standards.

10.1 Compliance with Post Office Account’s Security Policy

Compliance with the requirements defined in this Security Policy is mandatory. The policy is to be
applied throughout Post Office Account for the secure management and operation of the services.

Periodic reviews are carried out at least annually, under the direction of Post Office Account’s line
managers, to verify that Post Office Account is operating in accordance with its security policy and
procedures.

Post Office Account’s Audit function (see section 5) provides the essential monitoring activities
needed to provide senior management with visibility that Post Office Account is operating in
accordance with this policy.

10.2 Compliance with Legislative Requirements

Post Office Account will ensure compliance with all legislative requirements, including the:

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 25 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

Fujitsu Services HORIZON SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 10.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 11" Nov 2004

Computer Misuse Act (1990)

Data Protection Act (1998),

Freedom of Information Act 2000

Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (2000)
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
Money Laundering Regulations (2003), and
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (1988).

All applications handling personal data on individuals will comply with data protection legislation
and principles. Post Office Account shall process personal data only in accordance with the
instructions of each Data Controller as set out in the Codified Agreement and applicable provisions
of the Service Definition Schedules dealing with such processing.

The security features, capabilities and related procedures provided in respect of the Network
Banking will be compliant with the requirements of Part 3 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers
Act 2000.

Under the Computer Misuse Act, it is an offence to access or modify material without proper
authority, or to access material with intent to commit further offences. Warning notices to this effect
will be displayed to potential users prior to system log-on.

Post Office Account will protect against unauthorised copying of documentation and software.

In addition to the Acts identified above, Post Office Account will comply with appropriate sections
of PACE, Post Office and Telegraph Acts, Official Secrets Act 1989, Companies Act and relevant
EU Directives.

10.3 Technical Compliance Checking

Information systems should be regularly checked for compliance with security implementation
standards. Technical compliance checking involves the examination of operational systems to ensure
that hardware and software controls have been correctly implemented. This type of compliance
checking requires specialist technical assistance. It should be performed manually (supported by
appropriate software tools, if necessary) by an experienced system engineer, or by an automated
software package which generates a technical report for subsequent interpretation by a technical
specialist.

Compliance checking also covers, for example, penetration testing, which might be carried out by
independent experts specifically contracted for this purpose. This can be useful in detecting
vulnerabilities in the system and for checking how effective the controls are in preventing
unauthorized access due to these vulnerabilities. Caution should be exercised in case success of a
penetration test could lead to a compromise of the security of the system and inadvertently exploit
other vulnerabilities.

Any technical compliance check should only be carried out by, or under the supervision of,
competent, persons authorised by the Post Office Account Security Manager.

© 2004Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 26 of 27

Contract Controlled Document
Fujitsu Services

HORIZON SECURITY POLICY

FUJ00232542
FUJ00232542

RS/POL/002

Version: 10.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

11" Nov 2004

10.4 Compliance with BS ISO/IEC 17799

The controls defined in BS ISO/IEC 17799 are designed to provide a sound baseline for commercial
organisations of many types.

Post Office Account will apply BS ISO/IEC 17799 to provide a baseline definition for information
security encompassing the ten categories of controls. This security policy document considers each
of the categories, as indicated in Table 1, and outlines the requirements in the Post Office Account

context.
Section Category of Controls eae py
1 Security Polic All
2 Organisational Security 4 (and 5)
3 Asset classification and control 7.1 and 7.2
4 Personnel security 6
5 Physical and environmental security 7.3
6 Communications and operational management 8.1
7 Access control 74
8 Systems development and maintenance 8.3
9 Business continuity planning 9
10 Compliance 10
Table 1 BS ISO/IEC 17799 Control Categories

Post Office Account’s Security Procedures, based upon BS ISO/IEC 17799 will provide

further guidance.

© 2004Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Contract Controlled Document

Page: 27 of 27
