ICL Pathway

30/09/96

FUJ00001528

FUJ00001528
Ref: VI/POL0001
GENERAL TESTING POLICY Version: 2.0

Date:

Document Title:

Document Type:

Abstract:

Status:

Distribution:

Author:

Approval Authority:
Signature/Date:

Quality Authority:
Signature/Date:

GENERAL TESTING POLICY

Policy

This document prescribes the general testing policy to be
adopted by Development Programmes within Pathway. Any
testing strategies produced are to be regarded as
subordinate to this policy, and are to comply with it in all
respects except where authorised otherwise by the Director
of Programmes and the Director of Quality and Risk
Management.

Approved
Pathway Management Team
(and further at their discretion)

S Berry & J Hunt

Terry Austin

David Groom

Customer Authority: Bob King Gary Palmer

Signature/Date:

© 1996 ICL Pathway COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page I of 4
FUJ00001528
FUJ00001528

ICL Pathway Ref: VI/POL0001
GENERAL TESTING POLICY Version: 2.0

Date:
30/09/96

DOCUMENT HISTORY

Version Date [Reason
0.1 05/01/96 _ [Initial draft for review
0.4 02/02/96 _ IFinal draft for review
1.0 01/05/96 _IIst approved issue, following final review
1.5 07/09/96 _IRevised and presented for PDA Acceptance Review
2.0 30/09/96 __2nd Issue, following acceptance by PDA

CHANGES FROM LAST ISSUE

Ref. [Change
n/a (Cosmetic changes to reflect revised document library standards
n/a (Comments agreed at PDA Acceptance Review applied

CHANGES FORECAST

(Change Target Issue
jnone

ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS

Ref. ILibrary Ref. (Title Source
[1]_IPA/POL0001 (Quality Policy [Pathway
[2]_IPA/POL0002 (Quality Management System [Pathway

ABBREVIATIONS

Used Meaning
INone used

CONTENTS
1. CONTEXT
2. RESPONSIBILITIES

3. TESTING POLICY

© 1996 ICL Pathway COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page 2 of 4
FUJ00001528

FUJ00001528
ICL Pathway Ref: VI/POL0001
GENERAL TESTING POLICY Version: 2.0
Date:
30/09/96
1, CONTEXT

1.1 This policy is consistent with the Pathway Quality Policy [1], and applies to all Testing
and Integration activities conducted within Pathway Development Programmes, whether
in-house or sub-contracted. Where shareholders or sub-contractors have their own
Testing or Integration policies already in place, and where these have been agreed by the
Pathway Director of Programmes and Director of Quality and Risk Management as being
sufficient and appropriate, then these may replace this policy.

1.2 Pathway will seek confirmation from suppliers and sub-contractors that their own Quality
Management System is adequate and appropriate. Pathway will be party to and seek to
influence their supporting working practices in order to minimise the risk of receiving
poor quality deliverables and to promote product consistency.

1.3 This policy, or the agreed substitute policy, should be used as one of the primary source
documents in reviewing Pathway Testing or Integration Strategies as and when produced,
whether in-house or sub-contracted.

1.4 This policy should be reviewed periodically in accordance with the process improvement
objectives as specified in the Pathway Quality Management System [2].

2. RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1 The responsibility for the Testing Policy lies with the Director of Programmes and must
be approved by the Director of Quality and Risk Management.

2.2 All Parties, Pathway staff and sub-contractors, have responsibility for complying with the
Testing Policy.

3. TESTING POLICY

3.1 The overall objective of Testing and Integration activities in a Development Programme is
to ensure delivery of high quality systems, demonstrably proven to be fit for service. That
is, to progressively test and integrate the products and reduce their defect content to an
established level of acceptability, agreed on a cost versus risk basis.

3.2 This will be achieved by agreeing at the outset with the Programme and the Customers a
set of unambiguous and measurable test objectives with corresponding test success
criteria. These should be based on established Acceptance Criteria, and should encompass
both the functional requirements and the non-functional requirements, including
performance, operability, and security attributes. They should be cast in terms of specific
test coverage, error rates, conformance to standards, timescales and budgets.

3.3 The overall approach to be employed in testing and integrating the products will be
agreed with the Programme and the Customers in a high level strategy document. Where

© 1996 ICL Pathway COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
Page 3 of 4
FUJ00001528

FUJ00001528
ICL Pathway Ref: VI/POL0001
GENERAL TESTING POLICY Version: 2.0

Date:
30/09/96

any additional external certification of hardware or software may be required, this will be
highlighted in the strategy.

3.4 Specific test coverage will be defined via a formal structured test planning methodology,
and documented and agreed in subordinate test strategies, logical level test plans and
physical level test scripts, subject to review by the Programme and the Customers. In
general, and unless otherwise specified, a distinction will be made between bespoke
products and standard proprietary hardware and software. Bespoke products will be
subject to the full rigour of formal test planning, whereas these ‘off the shelf ‘shrink
wrapped’ products will be assumed to function as declared by the manufacturer and will
not be subjected to specifically engineered tests in this general respect. Rather they will be
‘used’ in context through the mainstream testing to confirm that they deliver those
services and facilities required of them by the Pathway system. This may include specific
tests engineered to verify specific requirements, for example in the security domain.

3.5 Tests will be classified as mandatory or optional, based on their relationship with the
agreed Acceptance Criteria, and prioritised accordingly on a cost versus risk basis, by
agreement with the Programme and the Customers. Test execution will be planned and
defect removal will proceed on the basis of these priorities. All mandatory tests will be
scripted and executed in a re-runable manner.

3.6 Defects are judged to arise where the products under test exhibit behaviour contrary to or
outside the agreed requirement. Defect removal will follow rejection of defective
components under test, where they fail to meet the agreed Acceptance Criteria, and will
be demonstrated by the iterative re-testing of corrections.

3.7 Defects will be formally recorded and monitored against a model of projected errors for
the products under test.

3.8 Testing progress will be formally recorded and monitored against plan.

3.9 Proof of testing will be secured to establish a full audit trail of the process.

© 1996 ICL Pathway COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
Page 4 of 4
