FUJ00155253
FUJ00155253

From: Johns David DL[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=DAVID.JOHNS]
Sent: Thur 04/09/2008 7: 6 PM (UTC)
To: Chambers Anne Oj

Ce: Birkinshaw Roy,
Jenkins Gareth GIf_
Subject: I RE: Audit Review
Attachment: Hotspots in Jan-Jun08Timeouts (version 1).zip
Anne,

I offered yesterday to send my spreadsheets to you to so that you can look into some of the branches and counters with
high incidents of the Riposte runmap Timeout event.

I have trimmed the spreadsheets down so as to fit into email, and these one cover the cases Riposte Only” and EOD
specific.

I still have all the others, but with the number of pivot tables I used in the analysis are rather large.

I've included an electronic copy of the analysis report - one higher than the paper version you have, but only minor
corrections so no significant change.

I have also included an appendix to the analysis showing some of the “hotspots” - top few counters for overall and EOD
cases.

The spreadsheet can be used to filter the events for a specific branch, counter (hostname) or even combinations of dates
and times.

Graphs are drawn automatically so that the profile by time across date range can be seen. I believe these are useful in
picking up where to look, but leave it to you to decide which ones to follow.

The highest sets seem to be localised on individual dates so may even be failing counters that have since been replaced.

Note that the objective of the analysis was to find where the problems occurred and ways in which we could discount
known to be OK cases when providing ARQ data and statements to POL. Unfortunately, so far, there is little evidence of
any footprint to reduce these cases. The main case, where Retail Broker handles the error correctly and does not settle
the stack doe not appear to have any other associated events collected via Tivoli that enables us to remove them.

Hence we will have to rely on the overall low volumes, and potentially be unable to provide +ve assertions for some ARQ
cases.

Apologies for the delay - the day job got in the way!

Dave

-----Original Appointment-----
From: Birkinshaw Roy
Sent: 01 September 2008 11:03
FUJ00155253
FUJ00155253

To: Birkinshaw Roy; Johns David DL; Sewell Peter (FELO1); Chambers Anne O; Evans Steve (FELO1); Meek Steven;
Holmes Alan; Burton John; Jenkins Gareth GI; Ambrose Peter

Subject: Audit Review

When: 02 September 2008 17:00-18:00 (GMT) Greenwich Mean Time : Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London.
Where: Jess' Room - BRAO1 5th floor

All:
I have the room and slot booked from 5-6 in Jess tomorrow Tuesday.
I personally will have to leave at 6.

I also have a slot in Lavendar booked at 13:30 for 30 minutes.
Would enough people prefer that to switch - that could be a review of the matter overall - with perhaps 5 being the more
detailed technical discussion?

Peter
I will leave you to forward to Penny / Andy as required.

Anne
I am sure you will be keeping Mik posted as previously discussed (me and Mik!).

Regards Roy B
