FUJ00095048

FUJ00095048
To:
Ce: .
nick.s.gittens@ mark.burley@! j

From: Bounds Gavin[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=! Sem eNTSIONS =BOUNDSG]
Sent: Wed 3/31/2010 10:18:36 AM (UTC)
Subject: RE: HNG X Data Centre continuity issue
Dave,
We have been speaking with our Belfast team throughout the morning to understand the problem. The issue overnight, as a result
of severe weather conditions, centre caused disruption at the data centre. The issue as to why the power issues in Northern Ireland
did cause operational disruption has been escalated and is being investigated and treated as high priority within Fujitsu.

I have made Duncan and Roger aware. We are working with the National Grid to get to the root cause — this work I am told may
take 2-3 days to complete, due in part to the demands on the National Grid team with thousands of homes impacted.

I have left a voicemail for Nick to call me back so I can brief him on where we are.
We will update you and Andy Mclean as soon as we learn more.

Kind regards,

Gavin

From: zz david.x.smith@
Sent: 31 March 2010 08:30
To: Bounds Gavin

Cc: nick.s.gittens@"
Subject: HNG X Data Centre continuity issue

Gavin,

We need an urgent explanation of what happened last night in Belfast. We've
paid for a design which says that we shouldn't have experienced a power
surge and yet according to the reports I've had this is exactly what

happened. With confidence already low this is the last thing we needed even
if the impact in branch is not as severe as we first thought. You may want

to consider what calls yourself and Duncan need to place to the most senior
leaders in POL,

regards,

Dave

David Smith
Head of Change & IS
Post Office Ltd

2nd Floor,Bunhill Row wing, 148 Old Street,_LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Postline: STD Phone:

External Email: david.x.smith

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.
FUJ00095048
FUJ00095048
