FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway

Bringing Monthly
Technology Progress
to Post Office Report
Counters “CL

July 1999 IMM

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Programme Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

Document Title: ICL Pathway Monthly Report - July 1999

Associated Documents:

Reference Vers Date Title Source
(1) PM/PRO/002 1.0 26/09/96 Pathway Programme - Project
Planning, Reporting and Control

Approval Authorities:

Name Position Signature Date

J. H. Bennett Managing Director

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Monthly Progress Report

Contents:

4

Managing Director’s Summary
Development Report
Commercial & Financial Report
Customer Requirements Report
Customer Service Report
Quality & Risk Report

Business Development Report

Implementation Report

=
S:

tin

Organisation & Personnel Report

«(

Post Office Client Report
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Azeuruins
§ 101991
SUISEULY[

(MAMI
i

1

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL. Pathway Managing Director's Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0
Date: 18/08/99

Managing Director’s Summary

PROGRAMME PROGRESS

e The 24 additional Post Offices agreed with POCL as forming part of Live
Trial were successfully installed. This was achieved by installing the:offices
from week 1 of National Roll-out. National Roll-out will now recommence
on 31* August with week 2 offices.

° Live Trial has continued with a.specific focus on analysing the new 24 Post
Offices against a control group from the original 299. This is to prove the
effectiveness of changes to software (in LT2) and training to resolve issues
during Wednesday/Thursday Cash Account Balancing. Early indications are
that the required improvements have been achieved.

° During the month good progress was made in resolving issues stopping
CSR+ baselining. As a result a CSR+ plan was baselined and presented to
POCL, albeit with caveats. This will allow sharper focus on activities
required to fully define joint testing and POCL's strategy for introducing
CSR+ into live use.

° As at the.end of July, 16,326 Post Offices had been entered into the
Programme via receipt of an RGM letter; 13,012 had been surveyed and
6,321 had finished modification and preparation and were ready for
installation.

CONTRACT CODIFICATION

© The Post Office Board approved the new contract which was duly signed.

e Several CCN's remain overdue after contract signature. These will be
reviewed with a view to achieving signature or escalation to the CCB
provided in the new contract for resolution.

ACCEPTANCE

e The Acceptance Incident Database stands at 409 (as at 6 August) with two
more known to be in transit. This represents an increase of 134 on the
month with 40 coming in.at the last minute.

° The Acceptance Hot List stands at 28 having being steadily reduced from a
peak of 48. There are seven judged as high and two judged as medium
tending to high by POCL. We were not expecting POCL to raise the
classification on this number of incidents and are renewing our efforts to
address them such that the categorisation is reduced or they:are closed.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 32

”
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Managing Director's Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

COST DOWN

¢  The'various contro] mechanisms are being monitored.and need to bed down
to ensure effective operation. This has involved considerable work and
given the scale of the change, good progress has been made by managers.

e A resourcing manager has been appointed to help achieve our objectives.
His main tasks will be to identify and implement staff related cost savings to
an agreed level and to change the balance of freelance to permanent staff
towards permanent.

° The result of the Acceptance Process is that additional work is required and
hence cost, to close Acceptance Incidents. The impact of this on the cost
base and hence cost down will not be fully understood until the Acceptance
Process is complete.

ISSUES

° Problems still exist in Live Trial operation where over 50 "printer hang"
problems are being raised weekly and System "freezes" are occurring. To
clear these Postmasters are rebooting, sometimes without first contacting
the HSH, which impacts POCL's service to its customer. This is now the
most critical issue and has resulted in the Acceptance Incident relating to
system stability being raised to high (AI298). Analysis of incidents, both
reported and not reported, is in hand along with investigation of potential
root causes.

* The number of Acceptance Incidents POCL raised to high (plus medium
tending to high) presents a real difficulty in completing the Acceptance
Process to time (i.e. a decision on 18 August). The whole team are re-
doubling their’efforts to achieve this.

e An issue has arisen:with the number of Post Offices, reported by our sub-
contractor, Workplace Technology (WT) as being "Ready for Installation",
where we have found quality issues. A plan has been agreed with WT that
will ensure all Post Offices required to be automated, to achieve the 1,800
Post Office payment points, are physically checked. This will remain an
issue until such checks have been completed.

e Concerns surfaced during the month with regard to the ability of OSD to
operate and manage the service in the manner required. This will be fully
investigated.

e Improvement in the speed.and reliability of software distribution. Joint
work is in hand between the architectural view of the-system capability and
live field experience and plans put.in place to close the gap between the
two.

° To date POCL have refused to enter into. any discussions with us about new
business.development plan and programmes and this is likely to be the
position until we are through Acceptance.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Managing Director's Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

e Weare still determined to meet the cash payment points which follow
Acceptance (£68m) and successful Roll-out to the first 1,800 Post Offices
(£90m) which are vital payment points in 1999 both for ICL/Fujitsu funding
and of course for the-credibility of the new programme moving forward.

All staff are focused on the criticality of meeting these milestones.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 32
—————
a

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Development
Report
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Development Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

Development Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

¢ The Development Directorate has been dividing its time.between clearing
acceptance incidents which have arisen during the live trial and developing
CSR+. The LT2 maintenance release has delivered significant
improvements in the areas of balancing and printing and.a reduction in the
number of help desk.calls has occurred as a result. However, there still
appears to be a view that the printer is ‘hanging’ during cash account
printing but there is little evidence available to help establish if there.is a
software fault.

. During the month we made excellent progress in finalising the functional
baseline for CSR+ and there are now very few issues outstanding. Provided
the final set of comments from POCL can be accommodated relatively
easily, there should be no adverse impact on the delivery plan.

° All the delivery streams for CSR+ are currently on schedule although the
recent focus on CSR acceptance has taken its toll.

° Morale and motivation is not high and there are few signs to indicate that
the ‘buzz’, so essential for success, is returning to the team. Achieving
contractual acceptarice or release authorisation may provide the stimulus
required.

PROGRESS

e The LT2 release has been relatively stable and fortunately has not put the
support teams under undue strain. This would have impacted the
development of CSR+ and would have been difficult to recover.

° Apart from the volume testing of the Roll-Out Database all the regression
testing of CSR is now complete. There has been some slippage of this
activity but it is expected to be finished prior to the start of National Roll-
Out.

¢ The NRO version of the Horizon System User Guide was sent to the
printers 20" July 1999.

. We have experienced problems with link and system testing SIP 16, the
release due to go live in October 1999 and contains changes to the reference
data interface and cash account format. These have now been overcome and
we are now attempting to recover the time lost.

° A considerable amount of work has been carried out finalising the latter
stages of the CSR+ delivery plan. Test strategies, test rig configurations and
team allocations, multi-site operation and release processes have all been
established and in the process of being documented.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page S of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Development Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

COST DOWN

e The Development Directorate has now completed the delivery plan which
assumes a large reduction in the manpower resources required.

e The new data centre hardware configuration releases 4 NUMA quad
processors which can be-utilised elsewhere in ICL.

e A detailed review of the capital budget is now being conducted.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

e — There would still appear to be a problem with printing on the Epson printer
but we are unable to obtain sufficient diagnostics to.identify the cause. This
is-a serious acceptance incident which we are currently unable to resolve.
Every effort is being made to isolate the problem.

ISSUES

¢ The plan for introducing the functionality in CSR+ involved a series of
increments to the live system controlled via the normal service management
and release authorisation processes. This approach was preferred to reduce
this risk of destabilising the system. POCL had not thought this through and
are uneasy with the implications on their interface testing: We must work
hard to agree a joined up plan.

e The KMS product currently limits the outlet distribution population to circa
600 per week. This places an unacceptable constraint on the
implementation of CSR+, consequently design reviews are being held to
resolve the issue.

* BT and Energis have indicated that there will be approximately 85 - 100
outlets with no land network connections possible. They are suggesting that
we should consider a satellite solution and this is being evaluated.
Negotiations with POCL are expected to be very difficult both during and
after the ‘codification’ period.

¢ We have not yet been able to find an acceptable working solution for the
light weight mobile configurations i.e. those required to be carried and
operated in a variety of remote locations every day,.approximately 250 of
this type have been identified. This issue is again being raised during the
‘codification’ period.

« The new contract states that we must ‘remove’ not simply ‘disable’ the BPS
code. There are a few components where this could present a risk e.g. multi-
functioning agents and shared counter elements. This is being looked at in
detail and could generate additional work not currently planned.

e There are concerns regarding the performance of OBCS foreign
transactions. Although there are several options for resolving this issue,
none of the work required is in the plans.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 32

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Development Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040

Version: 1.0
Date: 18/08/99

POCL expect under the terms of the new agreement i.e. time and materials,
to closely monitor our resource consumption during the design and

development of any new product or service. Their expectations could put a
huge burden on the administration resources within our Programme Office.

CcOosTS

e — The Development Directorate has now succeeded in recasting the budget to
reflect the new organisational structure. The 1999/2000 forecasts will now
be based on this structure and will:continue to be.the subject of regular
financial reviews throughout the year.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 32
——
————
al

ih
uifhn

_————
=
—=_

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Commercial &
Financial
Report
FUJ00058184

FUJ00058184
ICL Pathway Commercial & Financial Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0
Date: 18/08/99
Commercial & Financial Report
. No Input
¢ — The Controller’s report follows.
JULY ACTUALS 1999
HEADLINE NUMBERS (£000’S)
Month of July 1999 Cum, April - July 1999
Variance vs. Variance vs.
Actual Forecast Actual Forecast
Revenue (234) 1,084 (353)
Project Costs before Capitalisations 10,120 2,042 33,317 4,953
Declared PBT Losses 24 26 325 14
End of july 1999
Variance vs.
Actual Forecast
Project WIP 116,981 145,107
Net Fixed Assets $7,521 (4,051)
Total Borrowings 140,378 143,759
Headcount: Permanent 232 36
Non-Permanent (ITs and Temporaries) 14 $
(Memo): Freelancers procured through ICL IT Contractor Services 193 10
A&TC Scheduling Centre resources used on project 57
A&TC ES Resources used on project 128
COMMENTS

¢ The disconnects between the actual numbers and the outdated May forecast
were stretched even further during July due to the inflow of £131.7 million
of new share.capital funds and subsequent.intercompany transactions.

¢ The normal analysis format is therefore even more inappropriate as a basis
for comments on variances.

° Main comments on the company's financial performance during July can be
summarised as follows:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 32
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Commercial & Financial Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

Due to:

Total project costs in.the month were more than £2 million lower. than
the May forecast, due partly to the forecast including costs relating to
the then ongoing BA activities. In addition to the gains arising. from
the lack of BA related costs, there were further savings of over £1m on
payroll related costs. These were due mainly to a combination of
bonus accrual reversals and lower than forecast freelancer costs.

There was no meaningful revenue recognised in the month, compared
with the original forecast which included the PF! revenue stream from
BA and POCL transactions.

Agreement was finally reached with Energis over some long-standing
line rental charge levels, resulting in a one-time gain over forecast of
£0.2m.

Headcount levels - both permanent and freelancers - were well below
forecast in the month, with the BA related reductions beginning to
show through, together with the strategic use of staff through A&TC
in preference to procurement of staff from outside of the group. At
the end of the month, there were 57 ICL A&TC Scheduling Centre
contractors being used by ICL Pathway. This is in addition to the 128
different people within A&TC (ex Enterprise Solutions) who have also
had some full- or part-time involvement on the Pathway project during
July.

Borrowings levels remain the one unchanging point of focus, and the
project financing arrangements now proposed, following the injection
of extra capital into the company, make this even more important.

We now have to work with no overdraft facilities at all, and cash flows
up to the receipt of the first acceptance payment and in the voids
between subsequent stage payments will be tightly rationed and
monitored.

An approximate reconciliation between the actual and forecast
borrowings levels is as follows:-

Actual borrowings at end of July 99:
Forecast borrowings:

Favourable variance

Increase in share capital
Short-term rebates anid interco cash settlements by Group
Government contribution to costs not yet received
Payment to Fujitsu for last-time buy PC components
Lower project expenditure

Other working capital improvements

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Commercial! & Financial Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

« The government contribution is due to be received this week, and will
be subject to audit. The charge to BA. for transition costs should be
raised by early September at the latest.

° Negotiations with the 2 major subcontractors involved with the
cessation of.BA-related activities has continued, with Girobank
discussions at.an advance stage, relative to those with De.La Rue: The
eventual Girobank settlement is likely to be in the region of £5m.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Customer
Requirements
Report
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Customer Requirements Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: __ 18/08/99

Customer Requirements Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

The team has been fully committed to the Acceptance activity. At the time
of this report we are entering the last week of the Acceptance programme.
The Hot List has been progressively reduced from over 40 to 28. POCL
raised their judgement of seven Incidents.to High on 6/8 and actions have
been developed to address these and the others on the hot list. The
Acceptance timetable for the last week has been agreed with POCL.

DETAILED PLAN ACTIVITIES

RELEASE CSR

Tony H reworked and re-checked the Requirements and Solutions
Schedules (PA15 and PA16) the Service Definition Schedules (E01, F01,
G01, H01, K01) and the corresponding POCL Responsibility Schedules
(E03, F03, GOS, H03) such that Codified Agreement could be signed.

RELEASE CSR+

Tony H correlated the Service Definition Schedules, Requirements,
Solutions, SADD, Release Contents Definitions for CSR and CSR+ and
identified work items needed to bring deliveries in line with commitments.

CCNS / CRS / CPS

There are now several CCNs seriously overdue and a decision has to be
made on how these are referred to the CCB provided in the new contract
for resolution, or use made of the CCN emergency procedure.

ACCEPTANCE INCIDENTS

The Acceptance Incident database stands at 409 with two more known to be
in transit. This represents an increase of 134 on the month with 40 coming
in at the last minute.

The Acceptance Hot list stands at 28 having been steadily reduced-from a
peak of 48. There are seven incidents judged as High and two judged as
Medium tending to High by POCL. The Pathway judgement is one High
and seven Medium.

The Acceptance Timetable for the last week of Acceptance was agreed.

Actions to address the hot list and the POCL Highs and High Mediums
were placed at the Management Meeting of 9/8.

POCL notified us on 6/8 they were claiming more Highs and
High/Mediums. Their concerns were in the following areas:-

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Customer Requirements Monthly Report Ref: PARER/OSO
Version: 1.

Date: 18/08/99

° Reboots (AI'298)

. Printing (Als 300, 301)

. Failover recovery (AI 384)

e TIP Interface (Als 342, 361, 376, 378, 41n)
° System Management (AI 372)

NEW BUSINESS

° No activity.
OTHER TEAM ACTIVITIES
° None.

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

e Clearly Acceptance is entering’a critical phase.

ISSUES

° It is essential that all the actions set at the Management Meeting on 9/8 are
carried out thoroughly and on time.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Customer
Service
Report
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Customer Service Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0
Date: 18/08/99

Customer Service Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e The CSR (LT2) upgrade went well with all but’a handful of outlets fully
upgraded to LT2 before start of business day. The ‘tail’ were upgraded over
the next 2 days with the exception of one which was experiencing
communication problems which was upgraded by the end of the week. An
Acceptance Incident was raised on the length of time taken to complete the
counter upgrade but this has been satisfactorily explained as a combination
of a fault in the current process and a one-off software problem in the
delivery mechanism. Take-on of the additional 24 Post Offices were
completed successfully.

° Cash account performance is improving. Fixes-applied and improved call
scripts have demonstrated a very positive improvement in Horizon activity
during the cash account period. A new method of logging Business and
Reconciliation incidents has been agreed with POCL TP where all related
calls are being raised as reconciliation calls. This has raised the numbers of
calls but has allowed us to provide a better service to the customer.

° Printing problems remain an issue with over 50 ‘printer hang’ problems
being raised weekly. This has been raised as an Al and is under investigation

° The performance of OSD systems management remains an issue. Progress
against the SMC ‘get well plan’ remains slow and we are now looking:at the
possibility of moving elements of the-systems management service to
Customer Service.

. POCL have been given access to our internal call and problem management
systems providing them with a high level of confidence in our service
management processes.

VITAL STATISTICS

° Installed base: 323 Post Offices, 821 counters

© Number of Cards issued 51,485
© Number of Active Cards in use 25,451
. Total number of BES Counter Transactions 1,304,752
. BES Counter Transactions in month 44,328
. Value of Benefit Payments in month £1.6m
° Total value of Benefit Encashments made £40.9m
e Total number of OBCS Transactions to date 10.6m
° Total number of OBCS transactions in July 1.2m
° Total number of books impounded to date 24,515
° Total number of EPOSS transactions to date 4.6m

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Customer Service Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0
Date: _ 18/08/99

e Total value of EPOSS transactions to date £196m
. Total number of EPOSS transactions.in July 1.9m
e Total value of EPOSS transactions in July £87m
. Total number of APS transactions to date 581,173
e Total value of APS transactions to date £15.7m
e Total number of APS transactions in July 251,368
e Total value of APS transactions in July £6.5m

PROGRESS

OPERATIONS

e There have been a number of operational problems in July i.e. an agent
looping over a weekend with no problem being reported. However, the
principal operational issue occurred on the 27" when 2 Correspondence
Servers were:down. This resulted in a delay in the operational schedule,
which resulted in an incomplete harvest of TIP transactions, which caused
an AJ. Although the cause of the problem has been identified as the inability
of the harvest process:to coexist with Correspondence Server replication
and-a fix is being produced, it has raised concerns with regard to the
operations and management of the service, i.e. the inability of OSD to
explain who brought one of the servers down and why no-one noticed it
was down for 10 hours.

e A number of failover tests were carried out over the month. A problem was
identified in the data-centre: failover where, following failover, we'were
unable to connect to HAPS. Cause of this has been identified by network
design and the test will be rerun 13"/14" Aug. Issues were-also found in the
Host failover test. This was successfully repeated with one issue on the ref.
data feed to Bracknell. Finally, problems were identified in single
Correspondence Server failover. This will be re-tested.

e The success in the distribution of the post LT2 upgrade fix provided much
needed comfort re: the software distribution mechanism. We shall be
keeping a close watch on the performance of software distribution over the
coming weeks.

SYSTEM SUPPORT
. During July there has been an increased level of PinICL’s and overnight

callout but with no real pattern identified

. There is concern over the provision of 4" line support and discussions are
underway to reintroduce the 4" line support arrangements previously in
place with development.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Customer Service Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

° Excellent progress has been made in the area of skills transfer where key
members of development are spending time in the SSC. Also members of
SMC are spending time in the SSC.

° Metrics - For information, the previous month has also been included;

June July
e — Total Calls raised through SSC 410 496
e Total Calls closed through SSC 498 427
e Total Calls closed by SSC as
Known Error/Duplicate Call/No Fault in Prod. 158 124
* Total Calls passed to Development 112 104
e Total Calls closed by Development as
Known Error/Duplicate Call/No Fault in Prod 24 44

INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES

. A way forward has now been agreed with POCL TP on handling of Business
and Reconciliation incidents discovered during reconciliation. All incidents -
involving any aspect of reconciliation is now raised as a reconciliation * ‘
incident rather than a system incident. Although this increases the number,
it also provides better visibility and focus.

. The analysis of LT2 system and service is being refined and improved with 2
weekly report being produced and shared with POCL. The first provides
information on cash account performance, the second an analysis of calls
logged, including printer-related incidents. In additional POCL.now have
full access to the problem management database. Work is complete on
Internet access to the HSH. This has given POCL confidence in our ability
to manage and escalate service incidents.

. Number of service calls relating to back office printing remains high.
Currently we are receiving around 50 ‘printer hangs’ calls per day. The S
Cerney counter has been replaced and this is being used to diagnose the
problems.

e Since the implementation of LT2 there has been a 50% reduction in system
engineering calls

e This week has seen an improvement in the completion of cash account

activity. Recently introduced revised call scripts are providing.a benefit to
HSH team.

° During the period 28"/29" July system calls reduced by 17% and
procedural calls reduced by 22.9% demonstrating a very positive
improvement in Horizon operation during the cash account period.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

& Risk
Report
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Quality & Risk Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

Quality & Risk Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

Acceptance - Much effort has been put into resolving Acceptance Incidents
in Security and Policies and Standards.

Security - Processes continue to be developed and refined. Manual key
management is in place for CSR.

Risk Management - Implementation of the risk management tool is
underway. The NRO risk register is being updated.

Quality - A WTple audit has been completed and improvement
recommendations made. Disaster Recovery plans are progressing.

Audit - Security Policy Deployment Audit report has been completed. The
Implementation Audit report is being drafted. Transition activities included
the provision to DSS of all relevant audit data.

Processes - The Release Management process has been outlined.

Y2k compliance - Third party status remains an issue - both changes are
outstanding. Implementation contingency planning still needs to be
completed.

PROGRESS

RISK MANAGEMENT

Development Risks - Arrangements for the introduction of the risk
management tool Predict! have progressed; installation and training will be
during August.

NRO Risk Register - Updates from all the risk owners have been obtained
and all risks previously owned.by POCL have been transferred to a
nominated Pathway Manager. There is a concern around the validity of the
tisk register’s content, as Risk Management is:still seen as an administrative
burden.

SYSTEM SECURITY

CSR

Three security Acceptance Incidents have been raised, mainly associated
with physical security of the data centres. All have now been addressed
satisfactorily. A Policies and Standards AI was raised regarding DPA Subject
Access Request process which was modified.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 32
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Quality & Risk Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040

Version: 1.0
Date: __ 18/08/99

Key management - Role definitions and access controls have been defined
and manual key processes drafted. The Key Management Application GUI
has been refined and standard reporting formats-agreed. Live crypto keys

were issued to POCL for their. HAPS disaster recovery site'in Leicester.

A Requirements document for advising ICL Pathway of physical security
events at remote sites has been drafted.

CSR+

CSR+ Release Contents Description reviewed and updated.

Horizon System Help Desk, and Access Control & User Authentication
PPD’s reviewed and updated.

QUALITY

Policies & Standards Acceptance Test - 19 Acceptance Incidents were
raised, with 5 Criteria neither accepted nor subject to an Acceptance
Incident, and are being progressed.

Disaster Recovery Plans - A revised set has been received from SMH and is
under review.

WTplc Audit has been completed. The main finding is an absence of
proactive management based on historical errors leading through to process
improvements. The recommendation to audit early Roll Out sites is being
followed through.

1S09001 - Following the decision by ICL Group to use BSI for producing
the-single ISO 9001 registration, discussions have taken place to define the
way forward for Pathway..A mapping of Pathway processes against.the ‘One
ICL’ process set has been conducted, which identifies gaps - the major one
being Implementation.

AUDIT

Acceptance - Complete.
A CP to conduct a tape silo study was approved at the PCCB.

Some time has been spent resolving tape handling issues at the Data Centres
with OSD.

Internal audits:
¢ — Security Policy Deployment Audit report has been completed.
° Implementation Audit; report'is being drafted.

BPS transition - Much work involved in extracting data - audit server issues.

PROCESS MANAGEMENT

Process Development:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 32
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Quality & Risk Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

. Development Lifecycle - No visible progress in Development - this is
now an issue.

e Release Management - An outline process was drafted and presented.
Work is now.in hand to define the-process fully.

Implementation processes - Input has been made tothe definition of
processes, by directing resource at areas of greatest risk.

YEAR 2000 CONFORMANCE

Pathway Contingency Planning - Progress is being made as follows:
e = CS -on track.

. CM - dual site servers up and running and draft contingency plan
received/reviewed.

e Development (excluding CM) - PI have started with their Y2K
contingency planning (initial document received); outlet systems
staring up; internal infrastructure - initial meetings held with Systems,
OSD and Implementation to definé scope and. ownership.

° Implementation - no apparent progress.
Third party status:

e Vendors are still changing their compliance status (presumably after
their products get tested in the field). This needs following.

. Compliance status information from WTL, Celestica, Exel, and Pearce
and is still outstanding. :

¢ The strategy for moving from CSR through CSR/LT1, CSR LT2 and
various SIPs changes the software load set that will be operational at
the énd of 1999 from that which was subject to specific Y2K testing; a
regression test cycle needs to be committed.

ISSUES

POCL still expect ICL Pathway to provide Witness Statements, Expert
Witnesses and other fraud case and prosecution support.

The true status of sites reported as RFI by WTplc.

Understanding the impact of the system changes effect following the
cancellation of card based payment and any ¥2K vulnerabilities arising from
changes.

Getting formal sign off from our service providers, both internal and
external, of their Y2K readiness (now much reduced in scope and risk).

Managing BA and POCL expectations of systems stability during Q4 1999
and Q1 2000 in the context of the SIP plan and CSR+ target dates.

Ensuring the year 2000 readiness of external support organisations,

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 32

+
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Quality & Risk Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0
Date: 18/08/99

° Ensuring the overall business continuity plan for Pathway provides adequate
mitigation against the risks and that Y2K specifics are delta’d on top.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

110ddy]
justIdoaAoq

SSOUISNG

sll

ld)
(iy)

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Business Development Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

Business Development Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

. POCL have re-engaged with us to start discussions on their view of the
future development of the Horizon service, and how Pathway can help them
deliver it.

° The sub-postmasters Balancing team has made good progress this month
with a marked improvement in the sub-postmasters’ satisfaction with the
balancing process.

° Communications is supporting the achievement of the key milestones of
Acceptance and National roll-out.

° A team from Fujitsu is now working in Feltham to help and support
Pathway.

PROGRESS

SUB-POSTMASTERS BALANCING TEAM

° The Pathway recommended changes to the balancing process have been
operational for most of the month and have been well received by the sub-
postmasters.

«The dry run of the revised managers training event was successful with
positive feedback being received from both the sub-postmasters and POCL.

¢ The task force created to identify and solve printing issues has been very
helpful. While a few printing issues have been identified, the task force’s
main feedback is that. many of the perceived printer issues are operational
issues (e.g. wrong paper being used, user not allowing system to complete
the process.)

e The list of printing ‘do’s and don’ts’ has been well received by POCL and is
to be included in the next edition of POCL’s Counter News publication.

e We are considering the creation ofa small cross-functional team to resolve
the remaining technical printing issues.

e The software mods. made to sort out ‘payments = receipts’ have been
successful, although there are a number of isolated incidents where there has
been difficulty getting the modification to the offices.

¢ Analysis is currently taking place to establish the success of office balancing
in the 24 new offices.

° Agreement was reached with POCL to hold a workshop to evaluate possible
improvements. This was viewed as very successful on both sides with a
number of positive changes being identified. POCL will be raising CRs to
implement these changes.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Business Development Monthly Report Ref: PARER/OSO
Versi 1.

Date: 18/08/99

e The sub-postmasters perception of the system and ourselves has improved
this month, helped mainly by the-office visits and system changes
implemented this month.

e@ While good progress.has been made this month, we must keep up pressure
on the POCL centre for change and faster response to the live operation.

MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS

INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS IN ICL PATHWAY

. SMT events successfully run & held. Feedback positive. Actions identified
concerning Acceptance and particular areas where each directorate must
focus. John Bennett.and attendees particularly liked the 3 event, morning
interactive session format.

e Acceptance communication is taking a priority.
e This is ICL Pathway 99 has been prepared and made.available.

e Codification was communicated within ICL Pathway and ICL; this involved
several audiences - EMC, SMT (ICL Pathway) ICL Pathway staff, ICL staff
via a CASCADE, Café VIK and an article in MSMS. The codification
exercise was used to communicate the installation of the additional 24 post
offices (and therefore the first week. of national roll-out.

e Links are being built to strengthen the communications between FEL 01 and
other sites; primary activity will focus on demo days in KID 01 and a better
sharing of information.

e — A demonstration of our system was held in SLH 06. The event was well
attended and the objective of creating understanding about our service and
successful delivery - despite what might be thought - accomplished. The
event cost nothing and was useful internal PR. Other UK events will now be
planned.

EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION

« New stands for future exhibitions are being produced.

e Planning is underway for national roll-out communications. We have been
unable to engage Post Office on this and are therefore planning to achieve
feature articles and briefings. We do not want to compete with the Post
Office on the News agenda - although we will issue a press release. Such
planning and delivery will be made more difficult to achieve by my having
no PR agency or budget.

e Following the DTI select committee hearings several articles appeared in the
daily, Sunday (nationals) and trade press. Our approach is straight forward
but factually correct. We will not fuel this debate - our strategy should
remain focussed on. communicating the positive of NRO and the NAO
investigation.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 32
ICL Pathway

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Business Development Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

POCL COMMUNICATIONS.

POCL happy to sharelimited information - they are partially motivated by
the confusion of their reorganisation and slightly confused by the change in
the nature of the contract.

An article was written to Sub-postmaster on the current stage of roll-out but
it was not submitted on the request:of POCL.

No progress on shared external communications - hence change of
approach - see above.

GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATIONS

Attended two select committee hearings.

Arranging a presentation to PITCOM in Fel01 in Oct.

Arranging a presentation at a DTI event in October: have suggested to DTI
that Dave Waltho of POCL speak at this and David has accepted.
MISCELLANEOUS

Work underway to structure a business plan for ICL Pathway.

Work underway to develop a strategy to improve the visibility of ICL in the
Post Office.

Full organisation chart of Post Office now exists for all in [CL Pathway to
access.

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

A series of meeting have been held with the Service Development team in
POCL to discuss how and where we will work together to deliver new
business.

POCL have’shared their initial view of what new services they will be
looking to develop.

POCL have agreed that all future service development needs to be
progressed on an end to end basis including their own internal systems. If
implemented, this should address some of the requirements/development
issues we have faced to date.

Current discussions with POCL indicate that future work is likely to be
batched into a series of work packages based on the development life cycle
(initial study, feasibility study, functional specification, etc.), each of which
will be priced and delivered as a separate entity. This should help build
POCL’s confidence in the quality and value of our work, as they would
receive many more tangible deliverables during the development of the end
to end service.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Business Development Monthly Report Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0

Date: 18/08/99

¢ We have arranged a workshop with POCL where they will explain their
service development strategy to ICL Pathway in more detail, and where
ICL Pathway will explain our architecture to POCL in more detail. This
should lead to ICL Pathway undertaking a.gap analysis between what
currently exists, and what POCL need to deliver their service development
strategy. This in turn should lead to a number of work packages for the
company.

e¢ — POCL are working with us to support-the ICL bid for the Siemens Business
Systems/National Savings re-engineering ITT.

FUJITSU TEAM

¢ Meetings have been held on the following subjects; PFI, software
distribution, Tivoli, service level agreements, and Riposte.

e Further meetings have been arranged on the following subjects; Riposte,
security (KMS), roll out database, OBCS, and IESE.

INTERNATIONAL

¢ The transfer of the projectto ICL Namibia continues with the completion
of the July deliverables. Pathway resource is being allocated to them at cost
to ensure the success.of the product deliverable to the customer.

¢ — Workshop successfully held with Deutchse Post on 19" July to formulate
some specific work packages where we can help. Work packages have been
drafted and forwarded to them for evaluation.

* We believe that Escher has signed a contract for the supply of Riposte
directly with CTT in Portugal, and that the contract with Siemens is still
being negotiated. CTT via ICL Portugal have asked us to host a one-day
visit to Feltham in September. As stated last month, there is still a small
chance of ICL getting back in the frame for high value consultancy but it is
not something that any Pathway effort is being expended on.

e Discussions continue with Escher to get an exclusive teaming agreement in
place for sub-Saharan Africa.

WEIGH SCALES CCN

¢ Weigh Scales connection CCN202b ‘formally submitted following
amendments to 202a (and its withdrawal). This paves the way for the
recovery of costs, and some. 20% or so margin, incurred during the
installation of live trial-offices with scales and for National Rollout.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

yoday
uoneusWwsdwy

pth
ll
Min

i

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Implementation Ref: PA/REP/040

Version: 1.0
Monthly Report Date: 18/08/99

Implementation Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e All Implementation programme milestones were achieved during the
reporting period and the project remains in a satisfactory state of readiness
to start National Rollout. A further 24 outlets were’installed during: the
month as part of the work required to achieve acceptance. All of the
installations were completed with no major concerns arising. POCL were
praiseworthy of the installation of these outlets at.a difficult time in the
programme and also after having been planned at’short notice.

. Preparations for National Rollout are progressing well, outlets for the first
week of rollout have had their ISDN lines installed and equipment builds
for these outlets will commence from 9 August.

° Concern remains over Incomplete site preparations by Workplace
Technologies (WT). To ensure this does not impact rollout, WT are
continuing withthe Pathway plan of corrective and preventative actions.
WT and their sub-contractors have provided additional resource for these
activities. We have been given WT’s commitment to audit and correct all
of the first 1800 outlets in the programme in sequential order such that they
are all in a fit state for installation at least 2 weeks prior to installation date

PROGRESS

. Recruitment against the agreed Implementation headcount profile remains
on track. Current team size is 95 and will peak at 105 during September
this year. Recruitment for the vacancies continues to make progress with
the exception of IP2 vacancies where POCL-initiated office moves have
hindered progress.

. The infrastructure programme, preparing outlets for installation, continues
to. make good progress and in the last week of July the highest ever number
of outlets modified in one weck was achieved (129). This week also marked
the last full week of outlets entering the infrastructure programme through
standard scheduling. From this point in the programme onwards the
infrastructure programme will source outlets from the suspensions list.
Consequently, future weeks of infrastructure outlets entering the
programme are likely to be less efficiently scheduled due to the reduced
ability to optimise geographical locations. Total numbers achieving REI
status in any one week are also likely to reduce each week from here on as a
further consequence of entering the infrastructure programme tail. It is
imperative at this stage of the programme the POCL recognise the urgency
in releasing suspended outlets back into the programme.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24.of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Implementation Ref: PA/REP/O40

I Version: 1.0
Monthly Report Date: 18/08/99

e Readiness for National Rollout remains the highest priority for
Implementation at this time with particular focus on ensuring the
programme milestone to install, 1800 outlets in early November is achieved.
Preparations are at-an advanced stage and the rollout team is using
checklists to identify areas where actions have yet to be completed or where
items may have been missed. Contingency plans have been prepared to
minimise aborted installation activity through on-the-day rectification
activity. Readiness also includés the availability of a workable solution for
outlets where the standard Horizon desktop solution is unsuitable. For a
large majority of outlets in this category, a trolley solution has been
designed. Progress on the trolley solution had stalled during the spring and
summer of this year but has recently been revived. Efforts are being made to
agree the trolley design with POCL by the end of August.

° Installation activity in July was focussed on the addition of 24 further
outlets into the live environment. These installations were added for the
purpose of evaluating the effectiveness of the LT2 software release and
improvements in training courses in response to Acceptance Incident 218.
The installations were completed successfully with a 99% success rate. One
further outlet will be installed prior to National Rollout, on the 27" August,
at the Borough High Street site, an ALPS outlet. This outlet will be installed
ahead of schedule at the request of POCL and will enable Pathway to prove
the installation and migration processes for ALPS outlets, de-risking the
future programme.

e¢ — POCL have now agreed to release the first 12 weeks of outlets into the
installation cycle (16-week process). Week 2 of NRO, the next full week of
installations due to start on 31* August 99, has now reached the ISDN
installation stage and 43 sites have completed this phase to date.
Equipment builds for week 2 will start in the week commencing 9" August:

¢ Training preparations for NRO are also progressing well with all
mainstream courses for managers, assistants and HFSOs having been
approved for use in National Rollout following live trial revisions.
Improvements to these courses have included agreed revisions to training
workbooks and Quick Reference Guides which are now being rolled out on
future training courses, Desktop training platforms for students attending
training courses are now being rolled out to ICL training services based on
the LT2 software release to enable the NRO training programme to
commence from mid-August. Finally on training, revisions to the UAE and
MIB events have been completed with the removal of references to the
benefits payment card.

° Implementation support to the clearance of acceptance incidents has made
reasonable progress and all Implementation-related incidents are on track to
be cleared. All rollout acceptance incidents were cleared by 6" August. The
only implementation acceptance incidents remaining open are on training.
All work on training acceptance incidents has been completed and awaits
POCL evaluation to confirm that the changes have been effective for
students in the live environment.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 25 of 32
FUJ00058184

FUJ00058184
ICL Pathway Implementation Ref: PA/REP/040
Version: 1.0
Monthly Report Date: 18/08/99
IMPLEMENTATION WEEKLY STATISTICS

(For week ending 31* July 1999)

INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMME
Activity : This Week Cumulative
RGM letters issued 345 16,326
MIB events held 5 336
MIB attendees 283 15,629
Site surveys undertaken 331 13,012
Site re-surveys required 126 4,976
Site re-surveys undertaken 113 4,511
Site modifications done 129 2,903
Site preparations done 211 6,321
Sites RFI 211 6,321

INSTALLATION PROGRAMME
Activity This Week Cumulative
User Awareness Events Held 5 30
UAE Attendees (Outlets) 188 205
ISDN Lines installed 0 323
Training Events Held 0 364
Trained Users 0 1,302
Sites Installed 0 323
Sites Migrated 0 323
Live NR2 offices 0 323

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 26 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Implementation Ref: PA/REP/040

Version: 1.0
Monthly Report Date: 18/08/99

CURRENT CRITICAL PROBLEMS

e This month there is only one area of critical concern and this relates to the
number of sites reported by Workplace Technology (WT) as “Ready For
Installation” which may still be incomplete despite their reported status.
WT are making progress against the action plan imposed on them by
Pathway in June although progress has only been limited to date.
Consequently, WT have been requested to commit further. resource to the
corrective action plan and to focus their efforts, sequentially, on the first
1800 NRO sites. These-steps will ensure that the installation of the. first
1800 sites is not at risk, whilst the action plan starts to pick up pace
following the addition of further resource. In order to motivate WT
further, they have been informed that Pathway will be much stricter in
assessing-invoices and no payments will be made where work or completion
packs are outstanding.

ISSUES

° Last week the infrastructure programme cut the final full week of outlets
into the infrastructure process. There are currently approximately 3,500
outlets that remain to be processed through the infrastructure programme
and only 400 are immediately available for scheduling. POCL and Pathway
are currently working together to release outlets from suspension into the
programme. It is believed that POCL regional management need to take
action to release these sites and Pathway are pressuring the POCL Horizon
team to achieve this.

° The Rollout database is vital to the success of the national rollout
installation programme but there are still a number of software bugs in the
current live version 2.5 and version 2.5 will not be available until December
this year, Management of priority software bugs is enabling scheduling to
continue and manual processes are available as a contingency measure.
However, resolution of these issues is fundamental to the-success of-rollout
and every effort is being made.to bring forward their completion.

e The level of outstanding help desk calls with the Rollout help desk is
currently higher than we would wish and is taking a lot of effort to reduce.
The Field management team has been instructed to execute an action plan
to reduce the level of unresolved calls to an acceptable level prior to the
commencement of National Rollout. This will be done through the
utilisation of field staff (PLMs and TEs) prior to the commencement of
national rollout activity.

e Following the re-structuring of POCL, office accommodation for our
regional teams will be considerably reduced and will become untenable as
our team expands in numbers. Consequently the four regional teams are in
the. process of moving to ICL sites. This comes at a difficult time although
it is hoped that most will be complete prior to the commencement of NRO.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 27 of 32

+
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Implementation Ref: PA/REP/040

Version: 1.0
Monthly Report Date: 18/08/99

. Linked to the above issue is'a further concern _relating to recruitment of
field staff for the IP2 region. The two positions:remaining to be filled in
IP2 are required for National Rollout, although it is not critical for the early
weeks:of:the programme. The doubt over POCL office accommodation in
this region has only just been resolved and consequently it has been difficult
to recruit while uncertainty over geographical location remains. Agreement
has been reached with POCL over accommodation and it has been decided
that the Pathway [P2 field team will work from the ICL office in Kidsgrove.
This will enable recruitmentiactivity to proceed although it will be restricted
by the restriction on recruitment from A &TC resources.

¢ There is still a need to meet the requirements for outlets requiring luggable
solutions or where ISDN solutions are not available. Progress has been
made on the design of the trolley solution as described earlier in this report.

COSTS

e Further progress has been made in this reporting period in establishing a
financial baseline for the Implementation project. Budget control processes
have been defined and are in the process of being documented.

° Clarification of the true impact of version 12 of the rollout schedule from
ICL Training Services has been attained and the first meetings to re-
negotiate the Training Services contract have taken place. It is anticipated
that this should be concluded during October. *

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Organisation
& Personnel
Report
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Organisation & Personnel Ref: PA/REP/040

Monthly Repo Version: 1.0
y port Date: 18/08/99

Organisation & Personnel Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

e There was continued focus on people related cost down initiatives, The new
control processes, which were introdiced in June, were monitored to ensure
effective operation. The 1999/2000 bonus schemes were communicated to
employees. Targeted recruitment activity continued, éspecially in support of
Implementation and accommodation was secured to ensure that the regional
Implementation teams were based in the most efficient-locations.

PROGRESS

° Appointments in July:

External Recruits 5
Transfers 1
A&TC 13
Linkwise 0
Freelance 0
Temporary 4 (Industrial Trainees)
Total: 23
° Known joiners:
External Recruits 3
Transfers 1
A&TC 0
Linkwise 0
Freelance 0
Total: 4
° Offers outstanding:
External Recruits 4

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 29 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway Organisation & Personnel Ref: PA/REP/040

Version: 1.0
Monthly Report Date: _ 18/08/99

PROGRESS

e — The 1999/2000 incentive schemes were agreed and communicated to all
employees. The schemes were explained to Managers and commitment
sought for specific objectives with targets related to Key Performance
Indicators to be:agreed with employees by mid August. Members of the
personnel department will support managers in this task and ensure that all
employees have “SMART” objectives agreed by this deadline. In general
feedback about the schemes was positive from both managers and
employees.

° The various control mechanisms introduced as part of the “Cost Down”
process needed.monitoring and bedding down within the business to ensure
effective operation. This involved considerable work and there is still some
way to go to ensure compliance within the necessary deadlines. However,
given the scale of change, good progress has been made by managers.

e A Resourcing Manager has been appointed to help Pathway achieve its Cost
Down objectives. Norman. Phillips has specific expertise in Flexible
Resourcing and will report directly to John Bennett. His main tasks will be
to identify and implement staff related cost savings to an agreed level and to
change the proportion of permanent to freelance staff working in ICL
Pathway in favour of permanent-employees. In doing this he will work
closely with managers across the whole of ICL Pathway. He will also use his
expertise to help ensure all staff.are utilised with maximum effectiveness.

e — Work in D Block in FELO1 is progressing. The cabling will commence
shortly allowing the space to be occupied. This will allow the communal
areas currently occupied by ICL Pathway employees to be released.

e Accommodation for the regional Implementation.teams was identified in
GLO06, KIDO1 and GLAO1. Work is in hand to make the necessary
arrangements to allow occupation. This will ensure the Implementation
teams have appropriate accommodation to allow them to work effectively in
their regions. Agreement was also reached to secure space at BRAO1 for the
Security Team.

ISSUES

e Securing the necessary cost savings whilst protecting the capacity of ICL
Pathway to meet its business objectives.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 30 of 32
I

Ey

"TTT

FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

Post Office
Client
Report
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway The Post Office - Client Director's Ref: PA/REP/040

hy R Version: 1.0
Monthly Report Date: 18/08/99

The Post Office - Client Director’s Report

MONTHLY SUMMARY

° Work in promoting Pathway’s capability for citizen-based Smartcard
services continues, with a bid incorporating this capability for Northern
Ireland.

MODERN GOVERNMENT

. Pathway capability in Smartcards has been. proposed .as part of the ICL bid
for the Northern Ireland Health Service Patient Identifier Card. Initial
requirement is for a printed card, with future option for electronic. A
submission drafted by Mike Jenkins has been agreed by Post Office and
included in the ICL bid.

1999 BUSINESS

° Business figures not available this month.

CURRENT CONTRACTS

TECHNICAL RESOURCES SUPPLY/ICL ONSITE CONTRACT

e The conversion rate of quotations into contracts is improving. The transfer
of contract ownership from CE to OSD is still being negotiated.

NEW BIDS

SERVICE MANAGEMENT TOOLS

e Following selection of shortlisted suppliers ICL, IBM, DMR and completion
of reference visits, PO have invited ICL to negotiate a contract. A first
order, for consultancy/design, is expected to be placed under existing
contract.

SPICE

e “Securing the Post Office’s Integrated Commercial Environment”: a broad
ranging invitation covering Customer Contact, Customer Relationship
Management and data warehousing. The RFI response was submitted 11
June. The ITT, which was expected to be issued to selected suppliers 2™
August, has been delayed until late August.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 31 of 32
FUJ00058184
FUJ00058184

ICL Pathway The Post Office - Client Director's Ref: PA/REP/040

Version: 1.0
Monthly Report Date: 18/08/99

LAN NETWORKS

¢ Supply, service.and maintenance of components for’2,000 LANs, mainly
around CISCO equipment. Following some anxiety a bid was delivered by
MC at the last minute. This failed to make shortlist.

HELP DESKS

e The ad is now in the Journal and John Bell has done most of the work
required for the first response. This bid will be owned by OSD.

COST DOWN

° No change.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 32 of 32

+
