FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Living the Fujitsu Way
The Fujitsu Way, Our Purpose, and Our Values

SLIDE: Introduction

Training Introduction from Anwen

Welcome and thank you for launching this training. By the end of this
training you will:

¢ Be familiar with the Fujitsu Way and Our Values

e Consider how you use Our Values to guide your day-to-day interactions with
your colleagues, customers and partners

e Know the routes to speak up in Fujitsu and where to go for more support.

Video Source + GRO

Disclaimer: All case studies in this training are fictional and made up for
learning purposes only.

SLIDE: The Fujitsu Way

The Fujitsu Way

The Fujitsu Way demonstrates the principles on which all Fujitsu people
around the world make their decisions and take actions.

The Fujitsu Way comprises three parts: "Our Purpose", “Our Values"
and "Code of Conduct".

e "Our Purpose" indicates why Fujitsu exists in society.
e “Our Values" are the important sense of value each person should have.
« "Code of Conduct" is what we should comply with.
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

tytt

Aspiration

Innovation

Value to

Our Purpose
society

Making the Building
World more _ trust in
sustainable society

Code of Conduct

SLIDE: Our Purpose

Our Purpose

The world is becoming more uncertain. There are many difficult societal
challenges such as climate change, rapid urbanisation, and an aging
population. These problems pose a great threat to the sustainability of
the world.

As a global company with a long history of delivering technology-based
value to customers, it is our responsibility to contribute proactively to the
transformation of society.
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Our purpose is to make the world more sustainable by building trust in
society through innovation.

We have been making our contribution to building trust in society
through our products and services. Trust is a core part of our DNA. In
this uncertain era, trust is ever more essential to make the world more
sustainable. We have to use our creativity to deliver innovation that will
enable a more trusted society.

Our purpose represents why all Fujitsu people in the world work together
every day and drives every action of every person at Fujitsu. This is the
core of the Fujitsu Way. The Fujitsu Way is a compass for every
person of Fujitsu to act with our purpose.

Background recognition

e The world has become more inter-connected with ever-growing complexity. We
are experiencing an era that is fast-changing and uncertain.

e Asaglobal company with a long history of delivering technology-based value to
customers, it is our responsibility to contribute proactively to the transformation
of society.

e In this era, we need unconventional ways to solve the world's difficult
challenges.

Our value creation

e We create human centric innovation by bringing together people with data and
physical things.

e We empower people to work more creatively and support the success of our
customers.

Our own transformation
e Our purpose drives every action of every person in Fujitsu.

e Empathizing with people's challenges, we will collaborate and act with agility to
create solutions that make a positive impact to the environment, society and the
economy.

Growing our own capability
e We respect fairness and equality, and promote diversity and inclusion.

e We will continue to build the technology and capabilities needed by society in
an environment where everyone is free to maximize their potential.
SLIDE: Our Values

Our Values

In order to realise the purpose, “Our Values” indicate a critical cycle
consisting of ‘Aspiration’, ‘Trust’, and ‘Empathy’. Every action and
decision we make at Fujitsu should be aligned with Our Values.

SLIDE: Our Values - Aspiration

Aspiration

Innovation is needed to build trust in society and solve difficult societal
challenges. We focus our energies on delivering innovation to achieve
our purpose.

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
itt

Aspiration

Our Purpose

Code of Conduct

Set ambitious targets and act with agility.

Technology and the business environment are fast changing. We set
ambitious targets and act with agility to make the world more
sustainable.

Embrace diversity and create original ideas.

It is important to have free and open discussions between people who
have diverse, different values and perspectives. This enables us to gain
new insights and create original ideas.

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
Stay curious and learn from failures and experiences.

Creativity comes from having curiosity in a wide range of things beyond
the scope of your immediate work. Failures are not necessarily bad
things. Let's learn from failures and experiences, and continuously strive
for success with growth mindset.

Deliver positive impact through human centric
innovation.

We create human centric innovation by bringing together people with
data and physical things. We generate innovation to deliver positive
impact to society and our planet.

SLIDE: Our Values - Trust

Trust

People's confidence in the future drives the sustainable growth of
society. We connect people and use innovative technologies to support
trust of customers and society.

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
a
tt

Aspiration

Our Purpose

Our Values

Code of Conduct

Honor promises and exceed expectations.

Honoring promises is the foundation of trust. In addition, we draw a big
picture and act with it to deliver outcomes that exceed expectations.

7

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
Act with ethics, transparency and integrity.

Technology is advancing rapidly. Technology is neither good nor bad;
how we use it is what matters. As a technology developer and provider,
we do everything with the highest standards of ethics, transparency and
integrity.

Work autonomously and unite for common goals.

The highest performance can be achieved in an environment where
everyone trusts each other and feels safe. We are empowered to work
autonomously and collaborate with team members toward common
goals.

Contribute to a trusted society using technology.

In this digital era, we help customers and society build trust through
everything we do, including technology, products and services.

SLIDE: Our Values - Empathy

Empathy

We can design new business and create new value by empathizing with
challenges and aspirations that customers and citizens have.

Let's use the power of empathy to proactively work for achieving our
purpose.

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
Aspiration

Our Purpose

Fd

Our I

Code of Conduct

Strive for customers' success and their sustainable
growth.

We contribute to our customers’ success and their sustainable growth
by solving their unarticulated, material challenges.

Listen to all people and act for the needs of our planet.

We listen to the voices of all people from all backgrounds, with the spirit
of 'no one left behind’. We act from the viewpoints of the global
environment and biodiversity.

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
Work together to solve global challenges.
We openly collaborate with ecosystem partners within and outside of the

company, holding the sense of responsibility to solve global societal
challenges.

Generate shared value for our people, customers,
partners, community and shareholders.
We use our purpose as a compass to align the growth of business and

the development of society. We generate shared economic value and
social value that are meaningful for all our stakeholders.

SLIDE: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct

As a member of the Fujitsu society, we must comply with the “Code of
Conduct”, which forms a core part of the Fujitsu Way. You should
familiarize yourself with the Code of Conduct and ensure that you
comply with it at all times. To access a full copy of the Code of Conduct,
see here: Code of Conduct : Fujitsu Global

10

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Code of Conduct

We respect We comply with alllaws We act with fairness in
human rights. and regulations. our business dealings.
We protect and respect We maintain We do not use our position
intellectual property. confidentiality. in our organization for
personal gain.

SLIDE: Walking the Fujitsu Way

Walking the Fujitsu Way

For more information on the Fujitsu Way and our company values,
please see here: Fujitsu Way : Fujitsu Global

11
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Three elements of the Fujitsu Way

Our Our purpose is to make the world more
Purpose sustainable by building trust in society through
innovation.

+ Set ambitious targets and act with agility.

+ Embrace diversity and create original ideas.

+ Stay curious and learn from failures and experiences.

» Deliver positive impact through human centric innovation.

uonesdsy

» Honor promises and exceed expectations.
+ Act with ethics, transparency and integrity.
+ Work autonomously and unite for common goals.
+ Contribute to a trusted society using technology.

Our
Values

yn

» Strive for customers’ success and their sustainable growth.
« Listen to all people and act for the needs of our planet.
+» Work together to solve global challenges.

+ Generate shared value for our people, customers, partners,
community and shareholders.

Auyedw3

« We respect human rights.

- We comply with all laws and regulations.

+ We act with fairness in our business dealings.

- We protect and respect intellectual property.

» We maintain confidentiality.

+ We do not use our position in our organization for personal gain.

SLIDE: Adopting a Stakeholder Mindset

Stakeholder Mindset

Our stakeholders need to be at the forefront of all we do.

The following video will ask you to consider who are your Stakeholders
and encourage you to discuss within your teams.

12
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Video Souce I IRRELEVANT

SLIDE: Case Study Fact 1

Check on learning

Case Study - Fact 1

Penny is leading a bid to provide a proposal in response to a
government tender to improve the efficiency of visa processing. The

13
tender is for a bespoke Al solution to assess and triage all visa

applications. If Fujitsu win the bid it would be a very high value contract.

Considering the Fujitsu Way, which of the following four options should
Penny consider before submitting the proposal?

Answer 1

What would be the impact on an individual submitting their visa
application if the technology malfunctions? How can the solution
mitigate any impact?

Answer 2

Does Fujitsu have the technology and skills to deliver this complex and
bespoke Al service?

Answer 3

How can Fujitsu work with the customer to ensure a transparent, and
well documented, design, development, and delivery process which
includes clear success criteria?

Answer 4
All of the above.

Response for Answer 1: Incorrect Answer:
Not quite

Answer A, is aligned with the Fujitsu Way as it respects human rights
and considers the impact on society of our technology, showing Trust
and Empathy.

Response for Answer 2: Incorrect Answer:
Not quite

Answer B, is an important consideration to ensure Fujitsu is a trusted
technology provider.

Response for Answer 3: Incorrect Answer:
Not quite

Answer C, is an important example of the value of Aspiration and Trust
where Fujitsu ensures it is providing services as a trusted technology
provider.

Response for Answer 4: Correct Answer:

14

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
Correct, the answer is all of the above.

Each of these answers represent considerations that are in line with the
Fujitsu Way.

Answer A, shows a respect for human rights and considers the impact
on society of our technology, showing Trust and Empathy.

Answer B, is an important consideration to ensure Fujitsu is a trusted
technology provider.

Answer C, is an important example of the values of Aspiration and Trust
where Fujitsu ensures it is providing services as a trusted technology
provider.

SLIDE: Case Study Fact 2

15

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Check on learning

Case Study - Fact 2

During the tender process it has come to light that the government
requires the service to be live within 6-months as the current system is
being decommissioned. However, the development team has said the
Al technology will take at least 12-months to correctly design, develop
and test before it can go live. You have information that other
competitors may be willing to agree to the 6-month delivery timeline.

Which of the following four options should Penny NOT do? Select the
one option below that should not be considered in line with the Fujitsu
Way.

16
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Answer 1

Discuss with the government to see if there is any flexibility in the 6-
month delivery date being transparent about our delivery approach and
timescales.

Answer 2

If following conversations with the government, the 6-month delivery
date is not flexible and it is known Fujitsu cannot deliver a finished
product within the required timescales, pull out of the tender.

Answer 3

Submit the proposal that Fujitsu can meet the 6-month go live date and
figure out how to deliver within the timescales later. It is a big contract,
and we don’t want competitors to win the work.

Answer 4

If following conversations with the government, the 6-month delivery
date is flexible, submit Fujitsu’s tender response with accurate
descriptions of what, when and how Fujitsu can deliver the Al solution.

Response for Answer 1: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; this option is in line with the Fujitsu Way. To realise our
purpose, Fujitsu must operate in line with Our Values, including Trust,
which includes acting with ethics, transparency and integrity. This option
ensures transparency and honesty with our customers about our
delivery capability.

Response for Answer 2: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; this option is in line with the Fujitsu Way. Submitting a tender
when it’s known Fujitsu cannot deliver the project in accordance with the
customers contractual requirements is not in line with Our Values.
Therefore, to operate in accordance with the Fujitsu Way, we should pull
out of the tender.

Response for Answer 3: Correct Answer:

Correct; the Code of Conduct ensures that we act with fairness in our
business dealings. Overpromising to deliver a service which we know
cannot be delivered in line with the specifications does not comply with
the Code of Conduct or align with Our Value of Trust, meaning to honor
promises and exceed expectations. Therefore, Penny should NOT
undertake this option.

17
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Response for Answer 4: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; this option is in line with the Fujitsu Way. It is in line with all
Our Values: Aspiration, Trust and Empathy, to submit honest, accurate
and clear tenders to our customers.

SLIDE: Case Study Fact 3

Check on learning

18
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Case Study - Fact 3

Fujitsu win the tender and agree to deliver the Al solution within 12-
months. 11-months have passed and there are some defects with the
Al solution during testing which show some accuracy concerns which
may delay the go live date. This is a very large contract and there are
significant delay penalties which will apply if Fujitsu does not meet the
12-month go live date.

Penny’s manager, Bella, has asked her not to inform the customer about
the defects, because all technology has some issues and there is no
defined accuracy requirement in the contract. Bella has instead asked
Penny to inform the customer that Fujitsu is still on target to meet the 12-
month go live date.

Which of the following four options should Penny NOT do? Select the
one option below that should not be considered in line with the Fujitsu
Way.

Answer 1

Escalate to a senior manager in the team. Penny’s manager is the
senior manager on the project, so she should escalate to a member of
the Leadership Team.

Answer 2

Raise a concern using Fujitsu Alert to speak up about the manager's
behaviour that is not in line with Fujitsu’s values.

Answer 3

Speak to the customer and explain the reason for the delay and provide
a Clear timeline and plan for when the solution will be delivered.
Answer 4

Inform the customer that everything is on track and allow the system to
go live with the known technical defects.

Response for Answer 1: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; Fujitsu does not tolerate pressure to act counter to Our Values
in any situation. Penny’s manager’s behaviour should be reported and
escalated so that appropriate action can be taken. The routes to report
unacceptable behaviour are covered later in this training.

19
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Response for Answer 2: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; Fujitsu does not tolerate pressure to act counter to Our Values
in any situation. Penny’s manager’s behaviour should be reported and
escalated so that appropriate action can be taken. The routes to report
unacceptable behaviour are covered later in this training.

Response for Answer 3: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; we should be transparent with our customers and operate with
fairness in our business dealings.

Response for Answer 4: Correct Answer:

Correct; by not being transparent with the customer about Fujitsu’s
ability to deliver on time with a safe and tested solution, we are not
meeting the expectations of the Fujitsu Way to act with ethics,
transparency and integrity.

As the technology is being used to assess visa applications, there is a
potential for serious impact on wider society if the technology is not
accurate or safe to use. Therefore, offering it without sufficient testing
and accuracy breaches a number of Our Values and obligations in the
Code of Conduct, including the commitment to generate shared value
and to respect human rights. Therefore, Penny should NOT undertake
this option.

Living the Fujitsu Way
Unacceptable Behaviours and Speaking Up

20
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

SLIDE: What are Bullying, Harassment Discrimination, and
Victimisation?

Bullying, Harassment, Discrimination, and
Victimisation

Fujitsu believes that every individual has the right to be treated with
respect and dignity and to work in an environment which is free from
bullying, harassment, discrimination, and victimisation. In fact, Fujitsu
has a zero-tolerance policy against bullying, harassment, discrimination,
and victimisation as outlined in our Diversity and Inclusion Policy which
can be found here.

Equally, everyone has the right to complain if subjected to any form of
bullying, harassment, discrimination, or victimisation at work regardless
of whether they are the recipient or a witness. Fujitsu takes any
complaints of this nature very seriously and they will be dealt with
promptly and professionally.

¢ Bullying may be characterised as persistent, offensive,
intimidating, malicious or insulting behaviour. An abuse or misuse
of power through means intended to undermine, humiliate,

21
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

denigrate, injure or undermine the confidence or self-esteem of
the recipient.

Harassment can be defined as unwanted conduct affecting the
dignity of employees in the workplace. It may be related to any
personal characteristic of the individual, such as age, gender,
gender identity / expression, sexual orientation, race, disability,
religion / belief, creed, nationality, perceived community
background, social status, family origin, physical or mental
disability.

Discrimination can be defined as treating someone less
favourably because of their personal characteristics.

Victimisation is when a person is treated less favourably than
another because they have made a complaint (also known as
retaliation, which will be covered later in this training), brought
proceedings, given evidence, rejected advances or complained
about the behaviour of someone who has been harassing, bullying
or discriminating against them.

For the purposes of today’s training, we'll refer to bullying, harassment,
discrimination, and victimisation as “Unacceptable Behaviours’.

e I d

SLIDE: Why it Matters

22
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Learn to create change

The unfortunate truth is that Unacceptable Behaviours in the workplace
do occur and can be severe. In order to know how to put a stop to these
Unacceptable Behaviours, we need to know what they look like. We
could provide you with a long list of thou-shalt-nots, but it likely would not
include all of the nuance and complexity involved in incidents related to
these Unacceptable Behaviours. Our Bullying, Harassment and
Victimisation Policy and Guidelines provide further detail in relation to
these Unacceptable Behaviours which all colleagues should familiarise
themselves with.

What is important to recognise is that these issues can come in many
forms. They do not necessarily even need to be face-to-face to be
considered unacceptable. For example, a person can experience
workplace harassment online, for example, via Teams or email.

In general, we seek to create a culture where no one is made to feel
excluded or finds themselves the target of bias or injustice.

SLIDE: Addressing Unacceptable Behaviours

23
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Resources

We should all treat everyone we meet during the course of our work with
respect and dignity. We all have a clear responsibility to help create a
culture at work where Unacceptable Behaviours will not be tolerated and
in particular, we should always ensure that our conduct does not cause
offence or misunderstanding to others. We also have a personal duty
and a duty to our colleagues to speak up about instances of
Unacceptable Behaviours. It is our collective responsibility to comply
with our policies and values and to behave in a respectful manner
towards others. If you see, suspect, or experience Unacceptable
Behaviours, we want you to feel confident to speak up about it:

e Toamanager;

e To another trusted colleague;

e To the HR team;

e Through another appropriate channel (e.g., Ask Legal);
e Through our formal grievance procedure;

e Via our confidential whistleblowing helpline, Fujitsu Alert.

All our speak-up routes are listed towards the end of this training and
you will also find this document in our HR handbook on Fujitsu
Compass.

SLIDE: What is an Active Bystander?

24
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

What is an Active Bystander?

An active bystander is someone who notices a problematic situation and
makes the choice to speak up about it. Active bystanders are valuable in
helping Fujitsu maintain a culture of personal ownership, and social and
ethical responsibility, which aligns with the Fujitsu Way. By noticing
what’s happening around us and speaking up when we see problematic,
concerning or unethical actions or Unacceptable Behaviours, active
bystanders can send a clear message that the conduct they have
witnessed is not appropriate or acceptable. In terms of diversity, being
an active bystander is the same as being an active ally, meaning that
we speak up where we encounter inequity, in order to do something
about it.

SLIDE: What are the main stages of being an active bystander?

25
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

What are the main stages of being an active
bystander?

Stage 1: We notice the action or behaviour. This is about being
informed about what is inappropriate and noting the behaviour.

Stage 2: We interpret it as a potential problem. Do not presume that
the potential problem has been solved, addressed by someone else or
underestimate its importance. If you see something which is concerning,
you have a responsibility to highlight it.

Stage 3: We feel empowered to speak up about it and realise that it’s
our responsibility to actively do so. Do not assume that someone else
will intervene, or that because you are not causing the problem, it is not
your responsibility to be part of the solution.

Stage 4: We know how to speak up. Use one of the channels available
to you to speak up about the concerning action or behaviour and know
that your concerns will also be thoroughly investigated, without
retaliation.

We will cover the channels available to you to speak up about any
concerns you encounter at Fujitsu, a little bit later.

SLIDE: Perceived Barriers

26
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Perceived Barriers

Have you ever witnessed something and thought “that is not okay, I
really should speak up about that” but then something prevents you from
speaking up? In the culture and ethics research recently conducted
across Fujitsu UK & Ireland, the most common reasons people shared
why they may choose not to speak up included:

e Thinking ‘the person is more senior than me’;

e = Thinking ‘I didn’t think this would be taken seriously’;

e Thinking ‘No-one else is doing anything so I shouldn't either’;
« Assuming that ‘someone else’ will speak up about it;

e Thinking ‘I don’t know the person — don’t get involved’;

e Being concerned about how other people may react;

« Fear of retaliation.

To be an active bystander, we all need to challenge these thoughts and
perceptions and make the decision to speak up. By all being active
bystanders and speaking up about any concerns we are facing, Fujitsu
can operate as a trusted company with the right set of values and
corporate culture.

Anyone speaking up about concerns is protected from retaliation,
discrimination, victimisation or subsequent disadvantage.

SLIDE: Bystander Intervention - Check on Learning

27
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Check on learning

Remember Penny from earlier in the training?

Penny's colleague Liam was in the same room and overheard the
conversation between Penny and her manager Bella; where Bella asked
Penny not to tell the customer about the issues with the Al software and
confirm Fujitsu would still meet the 12-month project delivery deadline.

He was concerned about what he heard but thought he should remain
quiet as Bella and Penny are more senior than him.

To be an active bystander and uphold the Fujitsu Way, what should
Liam have done?

Answer 1

Ignore the conversation as Penny didn’t seem too concerned.
Answer 2

28
Encourage Penny to speak up about the conversation.
Answer 3

Speak up about the concerning behaviour Bella had displayed via the
correct channel.

Answer 4

Assume Penny would speak up about the conversation.

Response for Answer 1: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; even if someone else doesn’t seem concerned, if you notice a
problematic situation, as an active bystander, you have the
responsibility to speak up about it in good faith.

Response for Answer 2: Incorrect Answer:

Not quite. Although you can try to encourage others to speak up, they
might be too fearful and never flag the concerning action or behaviours
themselves. As an active bystander, you have the responsibility to
speak up about the concerning behaviour or actions to uphold the
Fujitsu Way.

Response for Answer 3: Correct Answer:

Yes, that’s correct. When you notice a problematic situation, you should
feel empowered to speak up about it, regardless of the seniority of the
people involved. By doing this we are enabling Fujitsu to operate as a
trusted company with the right set of values and corporate culture.

Response for Answer 4: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; Assuming someone else will speak up about a problematic
situation and leaving others to take responsibility may not resolve the
issue at hand. Everyone in Fujitsu is empowered to be active
bystanders and we should all take the responsibility to speak up about
any concerns we witness or notice.

SLIDE: Speaking Up

29

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Speaking Up

As we've already covered, occasions do arise where we see problematic
or concerning actions or Unacceptable Behaviours where we feel our
company values are not being upheld. Equally, you may have
opportunities or ideas to share and it’s important you feel confident and
supported to speak-up and share these too.

We'll talk specifics below, but the overall takeaway is this: when we see
Unacceptable Behaviours or other actions or behaviours that are
concerning or don’t align with the Fujitsu Way, each of us has a
responsibility to speak up about it to someone who can address the
behaviour and take any action promptly and effectively.

Why this matters

A commitment to encourage everyone to speak up about any concerns
they are facing, creates a culture and environment where we are
showing our values in action. It is important that our Fujitsu values are
not simply words on paper, but something that guides our behaviours,
conduct and choices in our daily work. By doing this, in addition to
ensuring we operate in line with the Fujitsu Way, it maintains Fujitsu’s
integrity and reputation, and ensures all our colleagues and teams have
a positive experience at work.

SLIDE: Policy and Resources

30
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Policy and Resources

Since we’re asking you to move toward a culture of speaking up, we
need to equip you with the tools to do that effectively and give you the
confidence in what will happen to investigate any concerns raised when
you speak up.

Let’s set the scene. If you’re asked to do something that makes you feel
uncomfortable, or you see or suspect an activity or behaviour that does
not align with the Fujitsu Way, or you witness or become aware of
Unacceptable Behaviours, any of those events trigger a responsibility
(and more specifically, your responsibility) to speak up about it.

Very simply, we have a 3-step speak up approach...

BEACUNIE __p, METENUEH

Talk to your

We will investigate, You will rec
Hobe ee) Lielaed and you may be feedback a
3 asked to share more action take

of the other routes
available to you

information result of sp

31
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

In most cases, people choose to speak up to their manager — this could
be their line manager or the person who supervises their work on a day-
to-day basis. Additionally, we have various other ways that people can
choose to speak-up too. These are listed in one place here — whilst this
looks like a complex list of options, our ask is simple.... Pick the route
you think is best to speak-up and we will ensure your feedback is
directed to the right place. This will be investigated and you will receive
feedback.

SLIDE: How to Raise Concerns in Fujitsu UK & Ireland

How to Raise Concerns in Fujitsu UK & Ireland

Fujitsu is committed to the highest possible standards of openness,
integrity, and accountability. Therefore, we have options available for
you to raise any concerns about behaviours or actions that you have
witnessed without fear of victimisation, subsequent discrimination, or
disadvantage.

The guide below details the 4 routes available to you (scroll down to see
all 4 available routes).

Route 1.

Can the situation be resolved by talking to your manager, your
colleagues or an independent coach? If so, follow one of the Informal
Route Options.

e Discuss with Line Manager or another appropriate manager

e Raise during Connect Conversation

e Consider Mediation with colleague

e Request support from Coach
e Raise facilities concern with local Team

e Raise a question or case via ASkHR

e Request BeCompletelyYou passport for adjustments
e Contact EAP

32
Route 2.

If step 1 fails to resolve the issue or you believe you need to bypass the
informal route with more formal channels then you should consider the
HR Grievance, Wellbeing and Health & Safety Options.

33

Escalate per policy route
Raise grievance via ASkHR
Raise performance/conduct/capability concerns via HR

Request adjustment via manager/HR
Access Wellbeing support

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

e Consider Occupational Health referral

* Contact the relevant inclusive community network

e Request stress risk assessment

Route 3.

This route is for when we need to involve our Legal, Compliance,
Security or Governance teams and may be an initial route or a
secondary route after route 1 or 2.

* Raise security/data concern via Ask Security

« Report H&S concern via Ask Safety

34
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

* Contact Ask IT
* Contact Ask Governance

¢ Raise legal query to Ask Legal

Route 4.

If it is a serious concern, then you may wish to use the Whistle blowing
option.

e Report Confidentially via Fujitsu Alert

35
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

SLIDE: Speaking Up and Retaliation

Speaking Up and Retaliation

Whilst Fujitsu is committed to the highest possible standards of
openness, integrity, and accountability, there is a potential for misuse,
whether intentional or unintentional, of reporting procedures. So, before
we move on, it’s important to set our expectations.

You should never intentionally misreport, lie, make a false allegation, or
otherwise speak up about a concern in bad faith.

When escalating Unacceptable Behaviour yourself, where your manager
is involved, report the incident to your grandparent manager (your line
managers’ manager), contacting Ask HR or using one of the other
speak-up routes available to you.

Nothing should discourage you from speaking up in good faith about an
action or behaviour that causes you concern or reporting possible legal
or regulatory violations.

You should never conduct your own preliminary investigations into a
matter, as investigations of alleged misconduct may involve complex
facts and legal issues. You should use the official channels we’ve
outlined in this training and speak up about it immediately instead of
taking things into your own hands.

36
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

And finally, retaliating against someone for speaking up about a concern
will not be tolerated. Fujitsu has zero tolerance for any form of
Unacceptable Behaviours, which as a reminder includes any form of
bullying, harassment, discrimination or victimisation.

SLIDE: Speaking Up - Check on Learning

37
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Check on learning

Penny is very concerned at Bella’s request not to tell the customer about
the issues and confirm that Fujitsu would still meet the 12-month
deadline. Penny remembered the training she had done on speaking up
a few months earlier.

What should be Penny’s next step?

Answer 1

Investigate the matter further to ensure she has all the facts.
Answer 2

Communicate her concern directly with Bella.

38
Answer 3

Speak up about the concerning behaviour that Bella had displayed
using the appropriate channels.

Answer 4

Wait until she is certain someone has told the customer about the
issues and then report it.

Response for Answer 1: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; you should never conduct your own preliminary investigations
into an issue, as investigations of alleged misconduct may involve
complex facts and legal issues. You should speak up about your
concerns straight away.

Response for Answer 2: Incorrect Answer:

Not quite. Bringing concerns directly to a manager is usually good
practice and may work in many situations. However, in this case Bella
has made her position clear and may not listen to Penny’s concerns. To
make sure her concerns are addressed and to successfully protect both
herself and the company, Penny should speak up using the correct
channels available to her including speaking to another senior manager,
using Fujitsu Alert or speaking to HR.

Response for Answer 3: Correct Answer:

Yes, that is correct. All employees have an obligation to speak up about
actual or suspected misconduct and violations of the Fujitsu Way, even
if the misconduct was committed by a someone more senior. Concerns
should always be escalated through the appropriate channels and must
always be made in good faith.

Response for Answer 4: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; certainty is a great thing to wait for in a lot of scenarios but not
when misconduct or a potential violation is involved.

SLIDE: Speak Up Culture

39

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

Fujitsu's Speak Up Culture

Video Source -

SLIDE: What is Retaliation?

What is retaliation?

You will have already heard the word retaliation used today in more than
a few contexts. But what does it actually mean?

Retaliation occurs when one employee takes an adverse action against
another employee for engaging in activities, such as speaking up about
any concerning behaviours or actions, reporting Unacceptable
Behaviours, or taking part in a workplace investigation.

That adverse action could be anything from harassment, discrimination
or bullying or victimisation, including the removal of areas of
responsibility without justification, singling out or making abusive or
malicious comments, or isolating or excluding, or even intimidating and
making malicious threats, and just to start underlining this early: it won’t
be tolerated under any circumstances. No exceptions. Not only that, but
retaliation (or even the threat of retaliation) goes entirely against the
culture of personal ownership, and social and ethical responsibility that
we are committed to achieving at Fujitsu and which aligns with the
Fujitsu Way.

40
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

As for whom this applies to, the answer is once again — all of us. All
employees, from the most junior to the most senior leaders, including
applicants, former employees, and current employees (whether full-time
or part-time), are protected from retaliation.

SLIDE: Retaliation is Strictly Prohibited

Retaliation is strictly prohibited

So now that we understand what retaliation is and we know who’s
protected from retaliation, let’s also make sure we understand why this
matters. The short version is this: retaliation is not only illegal in some
contexts, but it is also unethical, and Fujitsu does not tolerate it.

It is important to make it clear that we have a strict no-retaliation policy
because when individuals are empowered to speak up or escalate
concerns without fear of retaliation from their co-workers, it creates
more trust among teams — not less. It also allows for companies to root
out toxic patterns of behaviour, which improves individual experiences,
workplace culture, and even the bottom line.

With the stakes this high, we want to emphasise that it isn’t only on
managers or other senior colleagues to model this behaviour.

Everyone is responsible for helping to reinforce our values and
maintaining a culture of personal ownership, and social and ethical
responsibility, which aligns with the Fujitsu Way.

4
Once you speak up in good faith about actual or suspected misconduct
and violations of the Fujitsu Way, you’re immediately protected from any
and all adverse employment actions, discipline, or retaliation brought
against you in response.

The same thing goes for anyone who assists in an investigation of
suspected improper, unethical, or illegal conduct. If you experience any
harassment, discrimination, bullying or victimisation based on your
participation in an investigation, that’s textbook retaliation (victimisation)
and is strictly prohibited.

SLIDE: Your Responsibilities and Channels

Your responsibilities and channels

As we've already covered, all employees have a responsibility to
promote a working environment in which the dignity of others is
respected, without exception and at all times. They also have a
responsibility to treat all those people with whom they come into contact
at work with fairness, respect and courtesy.

If you see, suspect, or experience harassment, bullying, victimisation,
discrimination, or retaliation, please report it to your manager or via the
grievance procedure.

If you have raised your initial concern as an anonymous Whistleblower
via the Fujitsu Alert process and you experience harassment, bullying,
victimisation or discrimination as a result of this, please contact
Compliance immediately for support. A Whistle-blower is a person that
has, in good faith, reported suspected past, present or imminent
wrongdoing, or an attempt to conceal wrongdoing.

In the event that we do receive a report or complaint of retaliation, be
assured that we take such complaints extremely seriously. All allegations
of retaliation will be investigated and dealt with sensitively, promptly, and
professionally. If substantiated, those responsible will be subject to
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal from Fujitsu.

42

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

SLIDE: Retaliation - Check on Learning

43
Check on learning

After Bella had asked Penny not to tell the customer about the issues
with the software and confirm that Fujitsu would still meet the 12-month
deadline, Penny very rightly spoke up about the concerning behaviour
by raising a concern via ASkHR.

Two months later, when Bella’s team was in the office, Penny wasn’t
invited to the team lunch. Penny was very upset because in addition to
not being invited to the team lunch Bella hadn’t given her any new bids
to work on for quite some time and had instead given her administrative
tasks to do and her normal workload had almost completely dried up.
Penny knew that the rest of the team were struggling with their workload
as they had several new bids landing every week, and she felt very

guilty.

44

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291

How would you describe Bella’s behaviour towards Penny and what
should Penny do?

Answer 1

Bella is just a very busy manager trying to juggle a large team and must
have overlooked the workload balance amongst the team. If Penny is
concerned, she should just speak to Bella about it.

Answer 2

Bella is retaliating against Penny for speaking up about the concerning
behaviour she displayed during the bid. As Bella is Penny’s manager
and the person retaliating against her in this instance, Penny should
raise a grievance by contacting HR.

Answer 3

Bella is just an empathetic manager, trying to help Penny with her
workload. Penny should understand that Bella is looking out for her best
interests.

Response for Answer 1: Incorrect Answer:

Incorrect; bringing concerns directly to a manager is usually good
practice ... except when that manager is involved in the adverse action.
To make sure her concerns are addressed and to successfully protect
both herself and the company, Penny should raise a grievance through
the grievance process so it can be investigated and dealt with
sensitively, promptly and professionally.

Response for Answer 2: Correct Answer:

Yes, that is correct. Removing areas of responsibility without justification
is bullying and as we know, bullying is textbook retaliation and is strictly
prohibited. As Bella is taking an adverse action against Penny for
speaking up about any concerning behaviours or actions, Penny should
raise a grievance through the grievance process.

Response for Answer 3: Incorrect Answer:

Not quite. The behaviour Bella is displaying towards Penny is textbook
retaliation.

45

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
Living the Fujitsu Way
Training Summary and Closure

SLIDE: Closing Video from Leadership

Closing Video from Anwen

Video Source -;

46

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
SLIDE: Training Summary

Training Summary

In this training we have covered how to walk the Fujitsu Way and
discussed how to make ethical decisions, identify unacceptable
behaviour and speak up if you experience or suspect any behaviour that
does not align with our Fujitsu Way. Following this training you should:

¢ Be familiar with the Fujitsu Way and Our Values

¢ Consider how you use Our Values to guide your day-to-day interactions with
your colleagues, customers and partners

e Know the routes to speak up at Fujitsu and where to go for more support.

47

FUJ00243291
FUJ00243291
