FUJ00152894
FUJ00152894

From: Dunks Andy

Sent: Fri 29/01/2010 1:41:26 PM (UTC)

To: ‘john.longmai

Subject: RE: WS for West Byfleet - Additional Information Requested
Attachment: 126023.xIs

Thave only received information from Sept07 (when TFS was introduced)..

I will chase the earlier data, but we may have to go with the information on the call log in my statement.

ANDY DUNKS:

Security Team

Royal Mail Group Account

Fujitsu Services

4th Floor, Lovelace Road. Bracknell. Berkshire. RG12 8SN

Web: http: uk. fujitsu com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW
This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been
intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free

-----Original Messag:
From: john.longmat
Sent: 29 January 201
To: Dunks Andy

Subject: Fw: WS for West Byfleet - Additional Information Requested

GRO 4

‘Andy

With regard to question 3 below, can you confirm whether a list of exchanges has been

ived yet.
(Embedded image moved to file: pic27921 jpg)

aod Forwarded by John Longman/e/POSTOFFICE on 29/01/2010 13:02 -----
- >

"Dunks Andy’

ts
Subject: FW: FW: WS for West Byfleet - Additional Information Requested

Hi John,

Please find below answers to the questions you asked.

Can you confirm how you want the complete call information, do you want the whole call transferred to CD in it's raw state. There are over
100 of these.

‘Andy Dunks
Security Team
FUJ00152894
FUJ00152894

Royal Mail Group Account
Fujitsu Services

ad. Bracknell. Berkshire. RG12 8SN

E-mail: andy.dunk:
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW This e-mail is only for
the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this e-mail has not
been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free

From: Machin Leighton
Sent: 18 November 2009 12:08

To: Dunks Andy

Ce: Lillywhite Tom; Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: FW: WS for West Byfleet - Additional Information Requested

Hi Andy,
Please find updates/answers to the questions below in red.

1) Please provide details of any business testing carried out by the Post Office on the system before it went live.

You would need to ask POL about this as we are only responsible for managing live service. Horizon has undergone stringent testing,
before it was installed and as far as I am aware, no evidence exists of the Horizon equipment ever being proven to have been responsible
for anything untoward.

2) Please provide the service logs for the system at West Byfleet PO for a period commencing six months prior to the defendant taking
over as sub postmistress (30/06/2005) to the present day.

TES was only installed in September 2007

3) Please confirm when and why the hardware in the system at West Byfleet PO has been changed.

Thave asked for a full list of exchanges carried out at this branch and will provide these details when I receive them.

4) By whom have these changes been made.

These exchanges will have been completed by Touch logistics who are our preferred third party supplier for engineering services. They are
purely hardware swaps following a standard set of processes.

5) When new hardware was installed at West Byfleet was it brand new or reconditioned All the Hardware is reconditioned, we will
replace any hard-drives that show as having bad blocks at repair and we scrap any base units that are returned with the same fault three
times. When kit is sent back from any branch, it has its memory wiped and a full software reload takes place. The install software is then
led, and the base unit is then uniquely configured to the FAD code it is being installed at when it is taken to site by the engineer. A
nit will NOT work at any branch if it is simply taken from one location and an attempted install is made at any other.

6) If it is the latter please confirm the identity of the PO from which the reconditioned hardware came and why the hardware has been.
removed from that PO.

The location of the hardware being installed at this branch is not relevant as is is returned to repairer prior to ever being sent out to a new
branch and will undergo the tests and processes as described above.

Reds
Leighton

a Original Messag:
From: john.longmani.
Sent: 16 November 2009 1
To: Dunks Andy

Subject: RE: FW: WS for West Byfleet - Additional Information Requested

Andy
As per our telephone conversation of today I would be gratefull if you could answer the following points raised by the defence.

1) Please provide details of any business testing carried out by the Post Office on the system before it went live.
2) Please provide the service logs for the system at West Byfleet PO for a period commencing six months prior to the defendant taking
over as sub postmistress (30/06/2005) to the present day.

3) Please confirm when and why the hardware in the system at West Byfleet PO has been changed.

4) By whom have these changes been made.

5) When new hardware was installed at West Byfleet was it brand new or reconditioned

6) If it is the latter please confirm the identity of the PO from which the reconditioned hardware came and why the hardware has been

FUJ00152894
FUJ00152894

removed from that PO.

(Embedded image moved to file: pic 2074.jpg)

Ippo edad ddeooliadedeeoooblieiuldcnobol ied dedco ool ei econbnk

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

Ifyou have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
pnnrrneeeternienrtirsntltiysenrerrerrertirrerttrrsret tt setrre ttt rttts

JSS SOU HSS SSD SOSH OS OO SS SS OES DSA SEES SSSA ESSE

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ

‘This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication

Ifyou have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
PEN TeNennervaNerTt rest ttvy Sere errererety Teer ttnresy ltt srrrrnnrtrtrt
