FUJ00243143

FUJ00243143
oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)
Document Title: End to End Application Support Strategy
Document Reference: SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
Release: Release Independent
Abstract: Defines the operational responsibilities of the units involved in the
end to end support of the HNGX solution software in relation to
each other.
Document Status: APPROVED
Author & Dept: Adam Woodley
External Distribution: None
Security Risk YES, none identified

Assessment Confirmed

Approval Authorities:

Signature

Steve Bansal Fujitsu Senior Service Delivery I See Dimensions for record
Manager

See HNG-X Reviewers/Approvers Matrix (PGM/DCM/ON/0001) for guidance on who should approve.

. FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE)
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 1 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

0 Document Control

0.1 Table of Contents

DOCUMENT CONTROL

ie Io

Table of Contents

0.2 Document History

0.3 Review Details .

0.4 Associated Documents (Internal & External)

0.5 Abbreviations

0.6 Glossary.

0.7 Changes Exp .

0.8 Accuracy....

0.9 Security Risk Assessment..

4 INTRODUCTION...

414 Exclusions

41.2 Support chai

1.3 Logging systems

1.4 Restoring normal service 10
1.5 Security restriction 10

a

PO counter acces:

2 Obfuscation of log: 11
1.5.3 Access to and repair of user data 1
1.5.4 Audit servers

Incident counts...

Filtration percentage 13

Incident life in team 14

2.6 Evidence gathering 14
6.1 Obfuscation 14

3 1ST LINE SUPPORT
3.1 Hardware calls...

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 20f 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

3.2 System monitoring...
3.3 484line obligations to 2°41

e Support.

4 — 2ND LINE SUPPORT .........0000
4

41 24 line obligations to 1** line support.
4.2 24 line obligations to 3" line support.

5 3D LINE SUPPORT
5.

5.1 3" line obligations to 2"¢ line support.
5.2 3" line obligations to 4" line support

6 4TH LINE SUPPORT...
6.1 4" line obligations to 3" line support...

7 DEFINITION OF INCIDENT PRIORITIEG..............
7.4 Support priorities ...

7.2 Development priorities
8 DEFINITION OF INCIDENT TIMESCALES
8.

1 Full life ti
2 Transfer time:

9 PEAK CLOSURE CATEGORIES

SM fix released to call logger
Build fix released to call logger .
No fault in product...
Programme Approved. No fix required
Published Known Error
Unpublished known error
Enhancement request.
Solicited Known Error.
Administrative response.
Avoidance Action Supplied
Duplicate call.
Fixed at Future release
Recor tion — resolved
Suspected hardware faull
Advice and Guidance give!
Advice after investigation
Insufficient evidence ...
Unspecified insufficient evidence.
User Error.
Route call to Tf

Call withdrawn by user.

Overview of the facility
Documentatiot

Server definitio
Diagnostics and logging..

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 3 0f 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

Errors and messages
Code base and API

Support route..

KNOWLEDGE BASE MAINTENANCE ..............
KI

New KB generatio! 28
KB authorisation 28
KB rejection 28
KB updates. 29
KB deactivation . 29
KB deletio! 29
7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 4 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

0.2 Document History

VersionNo. Date Summary of Changes and Reason for Issue Associated Change -
CP/PEAK/PPRR
Reference

0.1 03/09/2010 First Draft NA

02 26/11/2010 Changes as a result of comments NA

Title change to reflect focus on HNGX application support not
infrastructure support.

Definitions changed to use ITIL® terminology

Defined generic 1* — 4" line support qualities

Defined 2 line “virtual team” to explain the lack of a dedicated
2° line team in RMGA

Added definition of Peak response category advice after

investigation.
03 48/07/2011 Minor changes as a result of comments NIA
Change of document name to reflect content
04 28-Jul-2011 Further change of document name from “Process” to NIA
“Strategy”
1.0 28-Jul-2011 Approval version NIA
14 40-Aug-2020 _ I Revisions as a result of general review by owner. NIA
12 01-Sep-2020 I Minor changes as a result of comments NA
2.0 23-Sep-2020 _I Approved Version

0.3 Review Details

See HNG-X Reviewers/Approvers Matrix (PGM/DCM/ION/0001) for guidance on completing the lists below. You
may include additional reviewers if necessary, but you should generally not exclude any of the mandatory reviewers
shown in the matrix for the document type you are authoring.

Review Comments by :

Review Comments to Adam Woodley and Post Office Account Document Management

Mandatory Review

Role Name

Fujitsu Senior Service Delivery Manager Steve Bansal

Fujitsu Senior Commercial Manager Helen Venters; Post Office Account Commercial Mailbox

Service Architect Phil Boardman

Application Lifecycle Manager Graham Allen

Role Name

Service Architecture Manager Alex Kemp

Security Architect Dave Haywood

MAC Team Sandie Bothick

Online Services SDM and Service Introduction Sonia Hussain

Information Security Manager Jason Muir
© Copyright Fujitsu Services FUJITSU RESTRIGTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0

UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 5 0f 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)
Document Manager Matthew Lenton
Systems Management Manager Jerry Acton
POA Delivery Executive Dan Walton

Issued for Information — Please restrict this

distribution list to a minimum

Position/Role Name

0.4 Associated Documents (Internal & External)

jerence Version Date Title Sou

PGMDCM/TEM/0001 I 5.0 03 June 2009 RMGA HNG-X Generic Document Dimensions

(DO NOT REMOVE) Template

SVM/SDM/SD/0004 End to End Application Support Dimensions
Strategy

SVM/SDM/SD/0005 Application Support Service (4" I Dimensions
line): Service Description

SVM/SDM/SD/0006 Systems Management Service: Dimensions
Service Description

SVM/SEC/POL/0005 Community Information Security I Dimensions
Policy for Horizon & Horizon
Online

SVM/SDM/PRO/0018 POA Operations Incident Dimensions
Management Procedure

DES/APP/DPR/0008 Obfuscation of Counter / BAL- Dimensions
OSR data for 4LS

DEV/GEN/TEM/0009 Support Guide Template Dimensions

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current approved
versions of the documents.

0.5 Abbreviations

Definition
Applications Division

Application and Multi Cloud Services

Business impact forum

Counter Eventing Team
4st line team monitoring PO counter events

COTS Commercial off the shelf. COTS purchases are alternatives to in-house
developments

DPA Data Protection Act

HDI Help Desk Interface

ITIL® Information Technology Infrastructure Library

. FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref: SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE)
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 6 of 29
FUJ00243143

FUJ00243143
oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

Abbreviation Definition
KB Knowledge Base
LST Live System Test
MAC Major Account Controller Team

24 line support team
MO Model Office
MSS Management Systems Support
PCI Payment Card Industry
Post Office ISD Post Office IT Service Desk

41% line support team
Prescan Takes place prior to allocating incidents to support team members. Ensures

that any incident which can be turned round quickly (e.g. known error,
insufficient evidence) does not wait for the attention of a diagnostician who
may be working on other duties.

Qc Quality Centre. Incident logging system used by test teams within RMGA
Peak Fujitsu services incident and release management system
POA Post Office Account
SRR Service readiness review
SMC. Systems Management Centre.
15 line team providing the Systems Management Service.
SMG Systems Management Group
ssc Software Support Centre.

3'4 line application support

TISNow Triole for ServiceNow. Incident logging system used by first line and second
line support units

0.6 Glossary

m Definiti
Event storm Asystem event that is repeating itself so quickly that it causes performance issues
with the server on which it runs or the event recording infrastructure.
Incident An ‘Incident’ is any event which is not part of the standard operation of the service
and which causes, or may cause, an interruption or a reduction of the quality of the
service.

Normal service operation Service operation within Service Level Agreement (SLA)

Workaround Method of avoiding an incident or problem, either from a temporary fix or through
access to an alternative service. A method to bypass a recognized problem in a
system. A workaround is typically a temporary fix that implies that a genuine solution
to the problem is needed.

Resolution Resolution is the action taken to repair the root cause of an incident or problem, or to
implement a workaround.

. FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 7 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

0.7 Changes Expected

Se

0.8 Accuracy

Fujitsu Services endeavours to ensure that the information contained in this document is correct but, whilst every
effort is made to ensure the accuracy of such information, it accepts no liability for any loss (however caused)
sustained as a result of any error or omission in the same.

0.9 Security Risk Assessment

Security risks have been assessed and it is considered that there are no security risks relating specifically to this
document.

. FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE)
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 8 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

1 = Introduction

This document provides an overview of the support strategy and the interfaces between support units
which provide application support for HNG. It also describes qualities, obligations and objectives
expected from those units.

This document is effectively a high level design for application support. It does not attempt to define the
low level procedures by which each support unit will deliver the qualities described here.

1.1 Exclusions

This document excludes any detail of the management of operational problems and all hardware related
incidents. It also excludes details of the business impact forum which is a governance process and not a
support process.

This document also excludes any specifics of software and reference data distribution support (SMC,
MSS and SMG).

Test teams do not interface formally with the support chain when they are testing a future release. Their
interface is with the release management process and directly with the development unit resolving faults
in the release. Details of these interfaces are excluded from this document. Live System Test are an
exception. When testing the resolution for an outstanding problem with the live release they still fall within
the release management process. In some cases they may notice a new issue within the live release
when they will generate a new Peak. For the purposes of this document they are treated as a 3" line unit
under these circumstances.

The remainder of this section describes extant situations and expectations which influence application
support.

1.2 Support chain

There are normally 4 levels of support within a conventional support organisation:

4sline 2nd line 3rd line Ath line
- Post Office ISD - MAC -Ssc > - Dev
- SMC -MSS

The support strategy expects that incidents will be raised by users and then passed through the chain of
support units until a resolution can be supplied to the user. It is important that an incident starts at 1st line
and then follows each stage of the chain as appropriate. This ensures:

1. The incident is quickly defined and logged

2. An initial response is given

3. Priority is correctly evaluated

4. The correct skills are applied such that a resolution is supplied quickly

5. The call is correctly recorded, auditable and relevant metrics can be produced.
As incidents move from left to right across the support chain they become:

« More difficult to resolve

e More time consuming to resolve

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 9 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

e The training level and cost of the staff resolving the incident rises
e Tooling and supporting infrastructure costs rise

Support costs and timescales for resolution increase as the incident moves to the right. Hence the effort
spent “moving support to the left’. Ensuring that the incident is resolved as early in the chain as possible
reduces the cost and increases customer satisfaction (assuming a first time fix is achieved).

1.3 Logging systems

For historic reasons POA use two logging systems. 1% and 2" line groups use a system called TTSNow
which is primarily an incident management system. All other support, development, test and release
management teams within POA use a system called Peak (no it is not an acronym, it's a name!) for
incident, problem and release management. The two systems are closely coupled using an interface
called the Help Desk Interface (HDI).

An incident is passed over the HDI as it moves between 2™ and 3” line support groups. When the
incident has been “moved” in this way it is no longer being actively progressed in the sending system.

Updates made in either system can be reflected in the other, this allows additional information to be
passed between support groups while the call is not active in one of the systems.

The use of two logging systems imposes some restrictions on incident processing:
1) The HDI must be monitored by 2"? and 3" line units to ensure that it is working correctly.

2) Attached evidence cannot be moved between the two systems. This means that evidence files can
only be passed by reference (within the information logged).

3) TfSNow has a limit of 4000 characters within a single update which sometimes results in lost
information.

The requirement for detailed evidence sets starts at 3° line. This is where the interface has to exist
between the two logging systems. Using Peak from this level ensures that evidence can be easily
passed between 3" to 4! line support groups and that facilities such as obfuscation and encryption
(features of the Peak system) can be applied to the evidence files.

1.4 Restoring normal service

It is incumbent on this support route to restore normal service operation as quickly as possible and
minimise the adverse effect on business operations. The restoration of service is considered to be
completed once it has been documented and communicated by a support team to the end user who
raised the incident. This does not necessarily imply that a change has been made since an incident as
perceived by the end user may not be impacting service operation. Restoration of service has targets
dependent upon the priority assigned to the incident. These priorities are defined in section 8 of this
document.

Once normal service operation has been re-established it may be necessary to resolve the root causes of
incidents (Problem management in ITIL terms). Although it is expected to resolve the problem as quickly
as possible this strategy is focused on the resolution of the problem rather than the speed of resolution
and as such no targets are defined.

1.5 Security restrictions

Access to certain parts of the system or certain support tools must be restricted in order to conform to
DPA or PCI data security standards. The application of these standards within the POA support
community is defined by the POACS Security team in various documents which are not reproduced here.
The following describes restrictions that exist and impact the support community.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 10 0f 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

1.5.1 POcounter access

Direct access to live Post Office counters is currently only available to the SSC for retrieval of log files. It
depends on access to the SSN servers and the use of a Secure Shell application called RCA Client. Data
visible using this access is subject to DPA restrictions and thus this access cannot be allowed to offshore
units.

1.5.2 Obfuscation of logs

Certain log files must be processed to obscure personal details that exist within them (see section 2.6.1
for details) before they can be passed to support teams outside the European Union. As new log files are
generated by system enhancements development units need to be aware of the DPA and ensure that
information in any new log files is either benign in DPA terms or that appropriate changes are made to
the obfuscation tool. The POA CS Security team can advise on DPA issues.

1.5.3. Access to and repair of user data

Access to POA data has been secured using the standard security principle of separation of duties.
Separation of duties ensures that an individual can not complete a critical task by themselves. For
example: someone who submits a request for reimbursement should not also be able to authorize
payment. An applications programmer should not also be the server administrator or the database
administrator - these roles and responsibilities must be separated from one another.

In POA the separation of duties principle has been implemented by ensuring:
e Development units cannot have update access to any of the system data.
e Database administration functions are carried out by IS staff.
e Data repair is carried out by SSC staff, following Post Office approval.

The DPA requires that access to personal data remains within the European Union and PCI data security
standards mandate physical security restrictions must be applied where update access is allowed to user
data. Currently the only units which fulfil all these requirements for data access are the SSC and Unix
Operations. The responsibility for data correction is vested with the SSC although Unix Operations
sometimes act under SSC authorisation.

1.5.4 Audit servers

The audit servers provide a full audit trail of all information on the HNG system. In order to ensure that
this audit trail is irrefutable the teams which have the ability to change data (i.e. SSC) must not also have
the ability to change the audit trail. For this reason, Audit server 3 line support rests with the Audit
development team and not the SSC.

2 Qualities and principles

This section describes qualities and principles that apply to all support groups working within POA. It is
expected that each support group will define the processes and procedures that implement these
principles.

2.1. Accurate call logging and updating

All support groups are expected to receive incidents passed from other support groups and to ensure that
any incidents so received are maintained on the relevant call management system:

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 11 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

e 1% to 24 line TISNow
¢ 2% to 4th line Peak

The initial description logged should include a full explanation of the problem, the accurate recording of
any references supplied and the actions that were taken which caused the problem to occur.

2.1.1 Updates

When relevant additional information has been made available that information should immediately be
added to the incident to ensure it reaches the diagnostician currently working on the call.

The 1% line agent making such updates (in TfSNow) should ensure they are made as a HDI Comment
(non-HDI updates are not transmitted over the HDI to the investigating unit in Peak).

The 24 — 4th jine diagnostician processing the incident should ensure that relevant updates are applied
on a regular basis appropriate to the priority of the call. These Peak updates should be made using a
numbered response category to ensure they go over the HDI and become available to 15" line should the
end user request an update. These “HDI updates” are often repeated verbatim to Post Masters when
they ring in asking for an update so diagnosticians should ensure that any HDI! updates they make are
appropriate to the audience who will receive them (i.e. the end user).

2.1.2 Closure

Ensure that every incident reported has a resolution recorded on the logging system and that the
resolution is acceptable to the end user. Where the final response has been entered on Peak it will be
returned to the 1* line call management system (TfSNow) for communication to the end user and final
closure. The description should include a full explanation of the resolution. It is acceptable for any level of
support to agree closure but where that agreement has been made outside 1° line support it should be
recorded in the incident to ensure that 1° line do not make unnecessary calls to the end user.

2.1.3 Withdrawal

Support units have the facility to withdraw an incident, resulting in its automatic closure on the active
incident management system. This should be rarely used and any usage must be communicated in
advance to the team currently processing the incident to ensure that they stop investigation.

It is expected that a request to withdraw an incident will originate from the end user who raised it. When
this is not the case then governance should be in place at each support unit to ensure the facility is not
misused and that the end user is informed.

2.2 Filtration

All support units are expected to resolve as many incidents as possible and only pass on those that are
relevant to the next line of support, hence it being called a filtration process.

The first level of support to discuss the incident with the customer should close any incident for which the
problem and resolution is already known to the support community. When this does not happen the
incident is deemed to be a filtration failure.

When an incident is closed the diagnostician entering the closure also applies a category for the closure.
Categories such as, insufficient evidence, published known error and user error indicate that the call
should have been filtered rather than sent on to the next level of support. See incident closure categories
for a list of closures categories that are considered to be filtration failures.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 12 0f 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

2.3 Review

It is essential that each support group carries out regular reviews of incidents returned as filtration failures
and reports on this OLA and the actions being taken to address failures.

2.4 Timely transfer of incidents

All support groups must ensure that any incidents that will require the attention of another level of support
are passed in a timely manner. The exact timings are detailed in section 8 of this document.

The timings vary according to the total time allowed for resolution of the incident in the contract between
Fujitsu Services POA and the customer. These timings will therefore be dependent on the priority of the
incident, with (for example) less time allowed for an “A” priority call than will be permitted for a “D” priority.

These timings should not be used without consideration being given to resolution. Since the requirement
is the resolution of a call (not simply its transfer within timescales) then it is acceptable for a support
group to retain the call past its normal time if it is confident that it can provide a resolution within the
maximum time allowed for the incident.

2.5 Metrics

Each support level needs to produce call metrics to describe the service they supply and the quality of
that service. These should be made available to all other support units in a shared location and serve as
a guide to the efficiency of all parts of the support chain. These metrics should form the input to regular
review meetings within each support unit to improve service.

Metrics produced should include:

2.5.1 Incident counts
Count of incidents input to the support unit per day (daily input)
Count of incidents closed by the support unit per day (daily output)

Incidents remaining in the support unit at the end of the day (daily work in progress)

RF eN Ss

Count of incidents input to the support unit in the last 34 days* (monthly input)
5. Count of incidents closed by the support unit in the last 34 days* (monthly output)

*A figure of 34 days is used to prevent the figures being affected by months which start end and / or end
with a weekend. Such months make comparisons unrepresentative.

2.5.2 Filtration percentage

Filtration is an important measure of the efficiency of a support unit. It shows the number of calls
transferred that should not have been passed onto the next level of support. This is expressed as a
percentage of the total calls the support unit closes.

For example:
100 calls closed by 2” line in period, of which 25 calls returned from 3” line in “black mark” categories:
2" line filtration rate to 3” line = 75%

This shows that the 3" line support group had to deal with an additional 25 calls that should have been
stopped by previous support units.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 13 0f 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

See incident closure categories for a list of closures categories in use and which constitute filtration
failures (AKA black marks).

Whilst 100% filtration is generally expected and strived for a 5% deficit (i.e. 95% filtration) on a rolling
three month basis is accepted by all parties.

Filtration metrics are required for:
1) Total number of filtration failure calls - broken down by Peak category

2) List of Peak failure reference numbers.

2.5.3 Incident life in team
A measure of the performance against incident closure / transfer time scales:

« The average time to transfer / close an incident by priority per team. Average time an incident is
within a team split by final priority on transfer.

e The average age of all open incidents in the team by priority.

2.6 Evidence gathering

All support groups gather and evaluate evidence as part of the problem solving process. It is also a
responsibility of all support groups to ensure that relevant evidence is referenced or attached to all
incidents that are passed to another support group.

Where relevant evidence has not been supplied it is highly likely that the support group that the call is
passed to will just return the call asking for (and detailing) further evidence. Such a response counts as a
“black mark" for filtration purposes and will be reflected in the sending support group's filtration figures.
Specifically excluded from this measure are instances where:

e Although the evidence was inadequate, no documentation existed describing the relevant
evidence required.

e Occasions where the evidence required was unobtainable.
What constitutes “relevant” evidence can be determined by:
1. Examination of the support guide for the area of the system being investigated.
2. A-search of existing knowledge entries.
3. Examination of high and low level design documentation.

It is an inconvenient truth that 18 line support groups do not use the same incident logging system as the
rest of the support chain. When passing incidents from 2" to 3line, evidence files can only be supplied
by quoting a reference to the file. When passing evidence via Peak any relevant evidence files are
attached directly to the incident.

2.6.1 Obfuscation

There are requirements within the data protection act for the processing of personal data. It is essential
that all support groups are aware of this restriction and do not allow the transfer of any evidence files
offshore if they contain personal data. Current offshore units are:

1. 4LS for Counter and BAL-OSR
2. SMC
Areas currently identified as potentially containing personal data (see DES/APP/DPR/0008):

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 14 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

e Counter OSR / BAL message log file
e Counter application log file
e Database exports (e.g. CSV exports - Message Journal Exports)
e Screen captures of live system data*
e Audit data extracts (content of message journal)*
*Not handled by obfuscation tool

In order to allow the use of such information offshore an obfuscation tool has been developed for use on
the log files that are known to contain sensitive information before passing to any external support team.
The tool has now been integrated into Peak. Information on its use can be found in the FAQ section of
Peak.

If anybody suspects that personal data is present in other log files they should raise an incident with the
POA CS Security team so that it can be checked before the incident is sent to an offshore support group.
It may be necessary to process the information onshore or have the obfuscation tool enhanced.

2.7 Removal of duplication

All support groups should ensure that they do not pass to the right duplicate incidents, i.e. incidents which
are repetitions of an incident which has already been passed to the next line of support. They should
either retain the duplicate incidents within their own call logging system or close them as duplicates:

a) 1*tline units retain duplicates under a “master call” and to ensure that when the resolved incident is
received from 2" line, the end user is contacted and duplicated calls incidents closed within TfSNow.

b) 2" — 4" jine support units normally immediately close the incidents as duplicates because they add no
value to the support process at these levels. This results in the incidents being returned to 1° line
(TSNow)

Duplicate incidents are only acceptable where the symptoms reported by the customer did not match the
symptoms recorded in the original incident, and which therefore could not reasonably have been
identified as a duplicate.

Failures will be reflected in filtration figures where the incidents are closed in the “duplicate incident”
category in Peak by subsequent support units.

2.8 Training

Training on new facilities added to the system will be provided by the architects and development units
that design and implement those facilities. A checkpoint for this will be included in the SRR for each new
release. This training takes the form of one or more of:

e Classroom training (workshops)
e One-to-one training

e Training collateral

« Updated support guides

It is expected that the training provided is then relayed from right to left through the support chain. The
form and content of the training is likely to change as it is modified to ensure it is suitable for the new
audience at a different level of support.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 15 0f 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

It is the responsibility of the unit receiving the training to ensure that it is completed and fit for purpose.
Inadequate training on new facilities will be reflected in reduced filtration figures for the receiving unit so it
is in their best interest to ensure that the training material is timely and appropriate for its audience.

2.9 Knowledge base maintenance

All support units are expected to search, enter, update and maintain the information in the support
knowledge base. Criteria detailed in section 11.

Because of the time constraints applied to 1* line units there should be no requirement for them to raise a
KB for every new incident. It is a requirement that 2" line ensure that a KB is generated for any new
incident encountered.

2.10 Support tools

Support tools normally result from a requirement placed on development for a new release or are
generated by 3" and 4" line support groups when necessity demands. In either case these tools must
have the following qualities:

1. They must be tested on a test rig (normally LST) before they are deployed in the live
environment.

2. It must be possible to restrict their use on an individual basis. This is to ensure that DPA/ PCI
rules can be enforced dependent upon the person (not just the team) using the tool.

3. They must be self documenting or have suitable documentation written in the form of a work
instruction.

Such support tools will always be preferable to various diagnosticians generating manually crafted scripts
or SQL which need individual testing, are rarely documented and often represent duplication of effort.

Support tools generated outside development units are not expected to be subject to the CP process
since this represents an unacceptable overhead to this type of tool. It is expected that any support unit
generating support tools will put in place a process or work instruction to ensure:

1. No duplication of effort takes place

2. The effort required to write the tool does not exceed any benefit gained from it.

3 1% line support

1st line support units comprise Post Office IT Service Desk (ISD), and SMC for system monitoring. From
the point of view of 2" line support they can be treated as one unit since incidents arriving at 2™ line
support will always have passed through one of these units first.

18 line support log incidents by directly interacting with the user or from monitoring systems. They clearly
document incident symptoms based on customer perception or observed alerting information. The Post
Office ISD are trained to the same level as the user they should resolve all issues where the cause is
user training or environment. 1st line resolve incidents by the identification of knowledge base entries and
the application of defined scripts (flowcharts). 1S" line support provide the “touch point” with the end user
(e.g. Post Masters or in some cases internal units such as Unix Operations) and are responsible for
ensuring the end user is kept informed of progress of their incidents and taking any escalations from that
end user. It is incumbent upon the subsequent lines of support to provide the information and escalation
routes necessary for 1" line to do this.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 16 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

3.1 Hardware calls

41st line support should filter all hardware calls and ensure they are routed to the correct supplier for
resolution.

3.2 System monitoring

1% line support are also responsible for monitoring the live estate and taking corrective actions for all
critical events seen. This role is currently fulfilled by:

1. SMC: Data centre event and schedule monitoring

For each event seen 1* line must check for the event in documentation (knowledge base and support
guides) for the relevant system subsection and to take the documented action (if the required support
tools are available). A new incident should be raised for each critical event that is not already
documented and passed 2" line support teams for action.

1st line support will also ensure that “event storms” are correctly handled. Where an event storm is being
produced by a server, or by a subsystem in the POA solution AND where the cause of that event has
already been documented, then first line should, where possible, take appropriate action to prevent the
system becoming “swamped” with repeat events.

3.3 15t line obligations to 2" line support

The section describes obligations inherent in the interface between 1%t and 24 line support units. These
are in addition to the general obligations defined in section 2.

1) Filter all hardware calls and route them to the appropriate unit for hardware support. No hardware calls
should be passed to 2nd line except in circumstances where Fujitsu Services POA need to be made
aware of:

1. Hardware behaviour that can be influenced by application design changes

2) Ensure that any incident which requires investigation by 2™ line support is passed onto the call
management system used by Fujitsu Services POA and assigned to the correct 2" line support team.

3) Addition reports to the metrics defined in section 2.3:
1. Number of incidents passed to 2™ line by priority.
2. Time taken between receipt of the incident and transfer to 2™ line by priority.

3. Time between receipt of the incident by 2™ line and the resolution passed back to 15" line by
priority.

4) Monitoring: Ensure that no critical events on the live system go unnoticed and ensure that appropriate
action is taken for each event. In this context, a critical event is one which is logged as critical, and
appears in red on the Tivoli screens and with a red marker in NT event logs.

No event calls should be passed to 2nd line without documentation having been consulted (Support
guides and knowledge base).

5) Monitoring: Ensure that for any incident which has been resolved and passed back to TfSNow, the end
user has been contacted and made aware of the closure.

4 24 line support

2nd line support staff can be described as expert users of the system. They use the symptoms.
documented by ‘st line to understand the error and then gather additional information / logs from

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 17 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

standard sources within the system to provide evidence of the environment and other factors present at
the time of the error.

From their understanding of the system and the use of reference equipment that simulates what is
available to the end user, 2nd line can devise procedural workarounds (authorised knowledge base
entries) to alleviate incidents.

2nd line produce knowledge entries for all incidents using the symptoms collected by first line and where
possible add a definition of the root cause problem and any solution or workaround found. They also
generate scripts and procedures for ‘st line, produce explanatory documentation and MI reports. 2nd line
have a level of access to the system that allows the use of simple GUI support tools.

Some of the 2" line responsibilities are being partially fulfilled by 1* line or 3 line units
providing a supportive 2" line function as follows:

Initial production of knowledge entries SMC, SSC.
Evidence gathering ssc
Operational changes ssc
Procedural workarounds ssc
KB reference applied to Peak SSC
Priority assessment and change Ssc

4.1 24 line obligations to 1° line support

The section describes obligations inherent in the interface between 2™ and 1°" line support units. These
are in addition to the general obligations defined in section 2.

1) HDI monitoring: Where updates are made to the calls which are of relevance to 1* line then the
second line support unit will ensure that these updates reach the first line call logging system (currently
TfSNow).

2) To ensure that any resolutions or workarounds that are passed back to 1° line have been tested. The
exception to this rule is the case where resolutions are being passed specifically to be downloaded to the
POA test rigs for testing.

4.2 2"4 line obligations to 3 line support

The section describes obligations inherent in the interface between 2™ and 3" line support units. These
are in addition to the general obligations defined in section 2.

1) To ensure that the priority of any incident is assessed and recorded correctly. No calls should be
passed to 3" line support whose priority does not conform to the specification defined in section 8.

2) No incidents should be passed to 3” line without a valid KB reference recorded on TfSNow as a HDI
comment, or recorded in the Peak references.

5 3 line support

3° Iine support groups within POA include:

SSC — 3" line support for POA written application code.

MSS — 3" line support for software distribution and event management

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 18 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

3rd line support staff apply analytical skills to the symptoms and evidence gathered by 1st and 2nd line
and undertake in-depth investigation into incidents. They have detailed knowledge of the system based
on documentation and source code inspection.

Trained on operating systems, COTS packages that underlie the application and the coding languages
used within the application, they are also expected to self train by examination of support guides, design
documentation written for the components of the end user application. They will also have access to
development and package management tools to allow the production of specialised diagnostic code,
scripts and support tools.

It is incumbent upon the 3° line support unit to produce a work around and on 4th line to produce the final
code solution to any software problem. This does not preclude the production of a workaround by other
units or negate the requirement for 4" line to provide assistance in the generation of a workaround.

The SSC are responsible for the implementation of any workarounds that require data changes to the live
system. They are the only unit who can be granted with authorisation and sufficient physical security
controls to perform this function

5.1 3" line obligations to 2 line support

The section describes obligations inherent in the interface between 3 and 2" line support units. These
are in addition to the general obligations defined in section 2.

1) Where updates are made to the calls which are of relevance to 1* line or 2™ line then the 3rd line
support unit will ensure that these updates reach TfSNow.

2) To ensure that any resolutions or workarounds have been tested and have been correctly
authorised via a TfSNow Change Task. The exception to this rule is the case where workarounds,
or resolutions are being passed specifically to be downloaded to the POA test rigs for testing.

5.2 3'4 line obligations to 4" line support

1) To ensure that any incident which requires investigation by 4" line support is assigned to the correct
team dependent on the specific product in which the incident has occurred.

2) To ensure that the priority of any incident is assessed and recorded correctly.

3) To ensure that for any incident passed to 4th line support, the exact area of the problem has been
identified, and wherever possible a workaround already produced.

4) To ensure that for any code error a probable solution is indicated prior to passing to 4th line support,
and wherever possible, the possible solution has undergone limited testing.

6 4" line support

Have intimate knowledge of narrow areas of the system and are ultimately responsible for the production
of permanent fixes to repair the root cause of an incident or problem in the live application. Trained in
development languages and coding techniques there is often overlap between 4th line support and
development roles. 4" line assist 3rd line with workarounds and resolution of incidents, produce test
scripts for testing of code fixes and unit test those fixes.

4th line support within POA is supplied by various onshore and offshore units. Since 4" line own the
interface with development (and the functions are often vested in the same people) they are also tasked
with ensuring that various development obligations to the support groups are met, which includes.
ensuring that evidence is obfuscated where required.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 19 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

6.1 4 line obligations to 3 line support

The section describes obligations inherent in the interface between 4th and 3’ line support units. These
are in addition to the general obligations defined in section 2.

1) To ensure that the incident reported is correctly resolved and the resolution recorded on the Peak
system and the incident and resolution passed back to 3% line. Where appropriate this should also
contain the method of recreation of the problem. Add JIRA's related to the resolution as Peak references.

2) To ensure that the incident is resolved within the total time allowed by the contract between the
customer and Fujitsu Services POA Account. Specific targets for timescales are documented in
section 8 of this document. However, in most cases the provision of the fix is at the discretion of the
Release Management Forum, and the target for the provision of any fix therefore is as specified by that
forum.

3) To ensure that any resolutions or workarounds that are passed to 3 line have been tested.
Where they are being recommended for application to the live system they must have been correctly
authorised via the TfSNow Change process.

4) To ensure that when a resolution is produced the baseline reference is added to the relevant KB entry
that describes the problem.

5) To ensure that 3" line is supplied with training and documentation relating to new releases of
the POA Account solution in sufficient time to enable 3” line staff to become familiar with the product
prior to its release, and in sufficient time to enable 3% line to adequately train other support staff.

Preferably this knowledge transfer should be a continual process during the course of development but
an adequate timescale is 6 weeks prior to data centre release or model office for counter releases.

6) Ensure that support guides have been written or updated for all new facilities in HNG. An outline
description of the contents of a support guide is given in section 10 of this document

7) To ensure that 3" line support groups are supplied with read access to all source code developed
within POA Account development prior to the release to live of that component.

8) In addition to the metrics defined in section 2.5: to ensure that the following figures are available to
other support units on demand.

1. Total number of calls where resolution has been deferred to a future release

2. Counts of deferred calls by future release.

7 Definition of incident priorities

The definition of an incident priority changes depending upon the stage of the life cycle. Full details of
POA incident management process life cycle can be found in SVM/SDM/PRO/0018.

7.1 Support priorities

Support priorities are used from the point when the customer initially logs a call until a work around has
been achieved.

Priority A A Post Office unable to trade, unable to process any business. 2"
Business stopped — 4! line application support units do not provide cover for Post
Offices down outside normal working hours (These hours are
defined in Section 2.2 of SVM/SDM/SD/0004).

A central system failure which will result in a number of Post
Offices being unable to process work.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 20 0f 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

End to End Application Support Strategy

Fe)
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

Causes significant financial loss (as agreed between POL and
POA Customer Services)

Results in data corruption or unrecoverable data loss.

Outage of key infrastructure

Priority B A Post Office restricted in its ability to transact business e.g. 50%
Business restricted of counters unable to trade or trading with restricted business
capability.

Has an adverse impact on the delivery of service to a number of
end users.

Causes a financial loss that impacts POL and/or POA reputation
(as agreed between POL and POA Customer Services)

If a PCI Major Incident process is invoked.

Priority C A Post Office working normally but with a known disability, e.g. an
Non critical interim solution (workaround) has been provided.

Has a minor adverse impact upon the delivery of service to a small
number of end users

Priority D Insignificant and usually cosmetic error, either a trivial
Non urgent documentation error or spelling error on the system.

Single-user affecting incidents on non key functionality
Non user affecting incidents

NOTE: This is the default priority if 18‘ line do not provide an “POA
severity” in the TfS incident.

Priority E Internal incidents that do not affect a Post Office.
Internal incidents

7.2 Development priorities

Is it envisioned that development units may want to redefine these incident priorities once a satisfactory
work around has been agreed and documented with 3” line support and POA customer service. This is
the stage where:

1. Acode or documentation fix is required.
2. The release management process cuts in (defining target timescales).
3. Support definitions of priority become meaningless.

Within development groups the sequence of addressing peaks tends to be based on the requirement for
understanding and resolving peaks (returning to standard service) and then fixing peaks:

1st priority - analysis of new peaks.
2nd priority - fixing targeted peaks
3rd priority - analysis of peak backlog or deferred peaks

4th priority - preparing fixes for untargeted peaks

8 Definition of incident timescales

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 21 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

It is expected that although calls may enter the support chain at a high priority, in the majority of cases
support will produce a resolution for the incident, and at that stage the priority of the call will be reduced
in order to provide 3° and 4th line support with sufficient time to allow a root cause analysis and possible
code fix.

Since it is incumbent upon the 3" line to produce an incident resolution and on 4th line to produce the
final code solution to any software problem, for the majority of its “life” any incident should be with one of
those two units.

Once a resolution has been generated for an incident the root cause fix may be deferred to a later
release of the software and the targets specified below no longer apply. The POA release management
process takes over at this point.

8.1 Full life times

Target times to resolve software incidents are as follows:

A Priority 2 working days
B Priority 4 working days
C Priority 7 working days
D Priority 28 working days

Note that these are targets and that no formal SLA or penalties apply to these timescales

8.2 Transfer times

The target times within each line of support are show below. They represent the maximum time each
team should retain an incident before transfer to the next level of support. These times are measured
from the time the incident was logged.

1% to 2nd 2" to 3rd 3" to 4th 4" resolution
A priority 30 mins 2 hours 1 day 2 days
B priority 1 hour 1 day 2 days 4 days
C priority 41 hour 2 days 4 days 7 days
D priority 1 hour 7 days 14 days 28 days

9 Peak closure categories

The KB column is used to indicate whether a KB should be raised (or amended). “Opt,” indicates that it is
left to the discretion of the person closing the call.

The Fail column has a “Yes” if use of this category is counted as a filtration failure (AKA black mark)
against previous support groups.

Code KEL Fail Meaning/Usage

60 Yes No
9.1.1 S/W fix released to call logger

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 22 of 29
Fe)
FUJITSU

FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

End to End Application Support Strategy

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

61

62

63

64

65

66

67

Yes

Opt.

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

‘Code fix has been tested and can be (or has been) released into the live estate.

9.1.2 Build fix released to call logger

Build fix — i.e. configuration, registry edit, incorrect DLL loaded etc - has been
tested and can be (or has been) released into the live estate.

9.1.3 No fault in product.

Indicates that the product is working to specification. No changes are required in
‘software code, scripts, hardware, documentation, work instructions or training
plans. Really indicates that previous lines of support have completely mis-
diagnosed the problem. (See also 66, 70, 94, and 98).

9.1.4 Programme Approved. No fix required

Rarely used. Covers the case where there IS a fault in the product and this is
acknowledged by both Fujitsu and POL, but the fault is there as a result of an
agreed design specification, and Fujitsu would require POL to fund any correction.
MUST NOT be used without approval from HNG programme manager or I
authorized representative.

9.1.5 Published Known Error

‘Should only be used when the resolution of the problem is documented in a KB
and does not require the call to be passed to this support group.

When the KB is raised after the call is logged the call should be closed as
Unpublished known error.

To be used when there was already a KB in existence when the call was passed

‘on. And the KB fully described the problem. And no changes have been made to _
the KB as a result of diagnosing this or other later calls. (c.f. cat 65). KB reference —
MUST be quoted in response text. I

9.1.6 Unpublished known error

To be used instead of 64 to close those calls where this support group now knows -
the problem (and optionally solution), but where no KB was visible at the time the
call was passed on. New KB to be raised or old KB to be updated with every use _
of category 65. KB reference MUST be quoted in response text.

9.1.7. Enhancement request

To be used when the error complained of is not a fault against the original
‘specification, but Post Office agrees that a change is needed to avoid the error in
future. CP number or other equivalent reference should be quoted in the

response.

9.1.8 Solicited Known Error

© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE)

Limited 2011-2020

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref: SVM/SDM/PRO/0875

Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020
STORED PageNo: 23 of 29
Fe)
FUJITSU

FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

End to End Application Support Strategy

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

68 No No

70 Opt. =No

72 No Yes

74 Yes No

90 No No

92 Yes Yes

'To be used to cover those cases where a call has been sent to the support group
in response to a specific request in a published KB. Ideally it would only be used if
it is clear in the call text that the previous support group have indeed spotted the
KB and have sent the call in as a result. If there is no such indication, then
‘category 64 should be used instead.

9.1.9 Administrative response

‘Only to be used for closing calls which cannot be closed in a legitimate category
for “administrative” reasons — e.g. incident incorrect changed by the system I
(Peak, TfSNow or the HDI); Test calls; Miss-routes; Double escalates; Unintended _
escalates etc. Not to be used as a catch-all for “unable to decide which category
to use”. See also 200 — “Withdrawn by user”.

9.1.10 Avoidance Action Supplied

To be used when there IS a fault in the product (usually a one-off), but for
whatever reason, there is no time or justification for fixing it in the current (or any
future) release. Typically this will be used for migration or build problems or when —
the facility is to be withdrawn at a future release. Should include a KB reference in -
the response if there is even the slightest chance of a recurrence. MUST include a
clear avoidance action that can be taken by the user / support on this or a
subsequent occurrence.

9.1.11 Duplicate call

To be used when two calls are discovered to relate to the same incident. (E.g.
when both Post Office ISD and SMC event management report an error
message). Not recommended for use when 2 calls for separate incidents can be
traced to a single root cause (e.g. code error). In that case use a combination of
appropriate code for the first incident and then published or unpublished known
error for the second and subsequent incidents.

9.1.12 Fixed at Future release

Genuine error in the product but cannot be closed in 60 or 61 because the fix will
not be available until a later release. Applies to manuals / support guides etc as
well. Release initially targeted to contain the fix should be quoted in the response _
text as well as the “target release” field. (See also enhancement request for use
when target release is unknown).

9.1.13 Reconciliation - resolved

Special category for closing reconciliation calls, Only used between SSC and
Security Operations incident management.

9.1.14 Suspected hardware fault

Use when the problem was caused by a fault in a piece of hardware or the
network. Record the symptoms and cure in a KB to aid future diagnosis of similar _
problems.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 24 of 29
Fe)
FUJITSU

FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

End to End Application Support Strategy

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

94

95

96

97

98

100

200

Yes Yes

Yes Yes

Opt. No

No Yes

‘No No

No No

9.1.15 Advice and Guidance given

This code should be used as an alternative to “No fault” or “User Error” in those
‘cases where it should be obvious to everyone that a product is working to
‘specification — e.g. documented feature or symptoms described in a support I
guide. Can also be used to highlight cases where the end customer or someone in
the support chain could benefit from further training in this area of the product.

9.1.16 Advice after investigation

Similar to “Advice and guidance given” but used in the situations where it was not _
obvious that the system was working to specification. i.e. User documentation or
‘support guides do not contain the information the advice given is based on.

9.1.17 Insufficient evidence

Use when it is crystal clear from the KB or other published sources what evidence _
is required to accompany a call of this class, but that information has not been
‘supplied (Check that the call post-dates the latest update of the relevant KB). The ©
incident is returned to TfSNow for the 2" / 1% line support teams to provide the
‘evidence. See also special case use of 62 - “No fault”

9.1.18 Unspecified insufficient evidence

‘To be used when the problem cannot be resolved from the evidence supplied and —
more evidence is being requested, but there was nothing to tell the other support _
groups that this particular piece of data is required to investigate this class of call. _

KB should be raised or amended to give future guidance, if this class of evidence _
may be needed in future. A support guide update may also be appropriate. The
incident is returned to TfSNow for the 2" / 15t line support teams to provide the
evidence.

9.1.19 User Error

‘Close in this category when it is clear from the evidence that the end user has
‘caused the problem by doing something incorrectly. The documentation or training
available to the user concerned should specifically cover this incident — if it does
not then consider using 94 instead. No KB is required — documentation should
already cover the case.

9.1.20 Route call to TfS

‘Special code which “closes” the call on Peak and causes it to be routed to the
‘system used by AMCS NT / Unix Operations or Networks, without it registering as _
“closed” or “finished with” on their systems. I

9.1.21 Call withdrawn by user

Specific case of an Administrative Closure. To be used when the user (e.g. PM) or
other support group specifically request that a call is returned to them without the

© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE)

Limited 2011-2020

FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref: SVM/SDM/PRO/0875

Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020
STORED PageNo: 25 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

‘currently assigned team doing any further work on it.

10 Outline contents of a support guide

Support guides are generally written by a combination of the architect / designer for the product and the
developers of that product and are based on the document management template reference
DEV/GEN/TEM/0009.

Although intended for the support community the support guide should be produced in time for the initial
test cycles of a new facility. This will help testers understand what they are testing and also validate the
contents of the support guide.

10.1 Overview of the facility
Often cribbed from relevant design HLDs (for which cross-references should also be provided)
e Purpose and functional overview

«The way in which it performs the function

10.2 Documentation

A list of document references, with titles, associated with the facility. This is intended give the support
community a list of reading matter that can be used to self train.

« Table of document references and titles. This will certainly include POA written HLDs, LLDs and
design notes.

e If the facility includes COTS products then references to any externally produced support or user
guides (normally these will have been pre-registered in Dimensions).

10.3 Server definition

Define the servers and workstations which support will need to access in order to support the product.
e Which servers and / or workstations are involved in the delivery of the facility
e List any COTS products and version that should be installed that the facility depends on.

« Define the location of configuration files relevant to the facility or COTS product.

10.4 Diagnostics and logging

Define what log files are produced by the facility and where the support groups can find them. Can the
level of information logged be changed, if so how? How are they interpreted?

« Location, configuration and layout of log files
e What other diagnostics are written
e How can the diagnostics be configured

e Supply samples of diagnostics

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 26 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

10.5 Errors and messages

This is intended to provide support with guidance on common messages or errors produced by the
software. It is not helpful to simply copy and paste a list of error texts into the guide without any further
detail!

It is expected that this section can be enhanced with:

e Any messages encountered by testers that they did not understand — support will probably see
the same thing in live!

e Any errors that result due to miss-configuration of the test rigs
The information will probably take the form of a table including:
e The exact text of the error / message
« What events / activities cause the message to be produced
e What avoidance action should be taken (KB reference where applicable)

e What impact will it have on the service the facility provides

10.6 Code base and APIs

In general support groups would expect that all code written is self documenting with comments included
to aid diagnostics:

Outline of the code standards and languages used for the various parts of the facility.

e Where can support find the source code, which source repository. Define location and type (CVS,
Subversion etc).

e Define administrator for source repository (i.e. where can a user / password be obtained to
access).

« Details of external APIs provided (may be a cross-reference to appropriate LLDs)

10.7 Support route

Definition and contact list. Who supports the product at what levels. At 1*' to 4!" line this is likely to be just
a definition of which POA support groups are involved.

In development, define who the lead developers and architects are.
If any interface touches units external to POA define:
e Their role in the support process
* How to contact them
e What hours they work
* What level of service is offered
e Expected clearance timescales for problems of different severities

NOTE: This may already be provided in an interface specification document in which case a cross
reference to that document is adequate.

11 Knowledge base maintenance

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) ;
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 27 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

One knowledge base is maintained within POA

11.1 KB

The KB is the master knowledge base for all incidents being progressed through the support chain. It was
developed by the SSC who also maintain the servers it runs on. Because of this history, the SSC have
also become the arbiters of the information within the KB. The KB was previously referred to as Known
Error Log (KEL) but was renamed to clarify that not all entries relate to Errors.

It is also the SSC's responsibility to support the KB system and to allow access to this register to all other
support units so that they can enter details within their area. Support for the KB system is only provided
during normal SSC working hours.

11.1.1. New KB generation

All support units have access to the KB system and are able to generate new knowledge entries. A new
KB should be generated for each new incident that is raised on the live system. Before any new KB is
generated it is essential that an extensive search of the KB is done to ensure that a duplicate is not
being created.

It is not necessary to fill in all fields when generating a new KB. This may happen when a 2" line
diagnostician can define the symptoms but has been unable to determine problem and solution. It can
then be passed as a skeleton KB to the next level of support who should update with further details when
known. In these circumstances, the KB reference MUST be added as a reference on the Peak.

A minimum KB would consist of:

1. Title

2. Summary

3. Type (Knowledge Base Information / Knowledge Base Action / Knowledge Base Fault)
4. Peak reference

5. Symptoms

This should be considered to be a minimum standard.

11.1.2 KB authorisation

When a KB is created or updated is has to be authorised before it can be seen by all users of the KB.
This is an SSC function. The KB web site will send an automated email to the SSC duty manager to
request authorisation.

It is possible to amend the authoriser in specific cases if required.

It is expected that the SSC duty manager will complete the authorisation within one working day. If this
does not happen please follow the usual escalation process.

11.1.3 KB rejection

Anew or updated KB may be rejected if:
e The update adds no value
¢ Information on the KB is incorrect

e Minimum information has not been specified (see 11.1.1)

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 28 of 29
FUJ00243143
FUJ00243143

oO End to End Application Support Strategy
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN
CONFIDENCE)

If a KB is rejected a reason is given by the authoriser and an email is sent to the originator. It is then the
originators responsibility to either:

e Correct the rejected KB based on feedback from the authoriser.
e Respond to the authoriser if they do not agree with the rejection.
« Request that the SSC delete the rejected KB.

It is not expected that a KB will be rejected where a minor change can be made by the authoriser that will
result in a satisfactory KB.

NOTE: If a rejection is not responded to within 2 weeks the new KB details are deleted.

11.1.4 KB updates
Updates to existing KBs can be made by anyone with access to the KB system.

e There is no requirement to update a KB with a new Peak number simply because another
incident has been seen for an unresolved issue. Counting this type of incident is the function of
Post Office ISD master call processes.

e KBs should be updated with workaround or resolution details as soon as they are available.
e KBs should be updated with the details of a baseline when generated by 4" line

« KBs should be updated with details of when a resolution was delivered to the live estate. KBs can
then be deactivated under these circumstances since it is possible that code regression may
occur later (they should not be deleted).

e KBs have version numbers, it is possible to view a deprecated version and highlight the
differences between versions. The KB system previously only retained the last 3 versions of an
entry, but has since been changed to retain all versions.

When a KB is updated it will need to be authorised again. The old version of the KB is still visible until the
authorisation has taken place.

11.1.5 KB deactivation
KBs should be deactivated when:

e Aresolution has been delivered to the live system (and evidence obtained to demonstrate that
the problem no longer exists, where possible).

Deactivated KBs are retained within the KB system but are not visible when searching, unless the
‘Include deactivated KBs' flag is selected.

11.1.6 KB deletion

KBs should be deleted when:
« The function they refer to no longer exists in the live system
e  Itis a duplicate of an existing KB with the same problem and resolution.
e The KB contains misleading information and no update is appropriate.

KBs can only be deleted by members of the SSC. If you think a KB should be deleted then update the
KB and replace the KB summary with the text “KB SHOULD BE DELETED: Reason” and specify
“Reason”. The SSC diagnostician you direct the update authorisation to will then check and delete the
KEL if they agree on the reason.

7 FUJITSU RESTRICTED (COMMERCIAL IN Ref SVM/SDM/PRO/0875
© Copyright Fujitsu Services CONFIDENCE) 7
Limited 2011-2020 Version: 2.0
UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED OR LOCALLY _ Date: 23-Sep-2020

STORED PageNo: 29 of 29
