FUJ00156115

FUJ00156115
IT Commercial Change Request for Work Package
Gy Post Office Ltd Request PSO_FSL_01762_FS
Number:
Request for Work Package
Request = Eliminating Track II from historical Audit Confidentiality: N/A
Title: log
Project: HNG Blueprint Reference Number:
(if applicable)
A part of HNG
Author: lan Trundell oe Owner: David X Sponsor: David X Gray
H H STD
Bs ‘'GRO: Bs
Budget Mick Finance Analyst: ‘Alana’ : Cost Centre Code:
Holder: = Gordon Bsio Flasher 2541021
Bs I i r GR fe) 7]
Date Request Issued to Supplier: Required Implementation Date/Release:
10" June 2009 Release Independent
Are there any attachments to this Request? No

Overview of Change:

Background
In order to PCI DSS standards HNGx must not retain sensitive data in the Audit logs.

Change

Fujitsu are requested to document a proposal that addresses how Track II data can be
removed from the Historical Audit logs. The solution must consider the impact on
prosecution cases and how we can “prove beyond reasonable doubt” the data can continue
to be used as evidence in court

Fujitsu are requested to document costs for implementation of the solution

Is an early indicative cost required for this work?

No
Acceptance -— Please tick the box that applies to this work request ¥
‘Acceptance Criteria will I ¥ I N/A (Acceptance ‘Acceptance not required
apply Process not (where Acceptance could
applicable) apply but not for this
Please explain why : particular development)
Please explain why :

Detailed Requirements and Acceptance (Please copy and paste the following table for each requirement. Please refer to
Change Request quidelines for help).

Requirement ID I 4 I Supplier I Fujitsu
Requirement Fujitsu to produce a document that outline how Track II data can be removed
from the Audit Logs
Acceptance Does the document address the legal implications
Criteria
Acceptance Document Review
Method
Requirement ID [2 [ Supplier I Fujitsu
Requirement Fujitsu to produce a CT that covers the costs of implementation of the solution
Acceptance CT produced that defines activities and costs for implementing the solution
Criteria
Acceptance Document Review
Method
Author: Darryl Judd Page 1 of 2 Version No: 4.0

File Ref: PSO_FSL_CR01662_FS.doc Version Date: 31% May 2006
FUJ00156115
FUJ00156115

IT Commercial Change Request for Work Package

Other required outputs (Specific items to be delivered to satisfy the change requirement, not included above)

Documents Affected (e.g. Product Description — NB it may be not possible to identify documents at this sta

Operational I Document I Document Title Author Version Date
Baseline Ref.
Ref.

Suppliers impacted by the change — Please state Yes, No or Clarification required (Y/N/C)
F Y I Prism N I EDS I N Streamline I N I LINK I N

Alliance
Other (please state) I N

Supplier Contact Details - if contact has already been made with a Supplier(s), please include any Supplier Contact name and details,
as this aid speedier progression of the request at the Supplier end.

Contact Details:

John Burton - "Burton John" <John.Burtoni~
Should the Change be sent to External Suppliers without Initial Sponsor / Business Assessment?
Yes

Change Impacts:

(information on the potential impacts of the change to ensure that all relevant activities and dependencies are understood and addressed)
There are no impacts on POL BAU.

Assumptions:

None

Author: Darryl Judd Page 2 of 2 Version No: 4.0
File Ref: PSO_FSL_CR01662_FS.doc Version Date: 31% May 2006
