FUJ00122804
FUJ00122804

Message

From: Jones David M [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=DJ]
Sent: 05/02/2010 14:52:

To: i

cc: Thomas Penny

Subject: FW: Requests for access re: Jerry Kwami Hosi - Legally privileged

Jamail / Jane

I assume that you are both aware that the expert on West Byfleet has asked to talk to us on this other case.
Please let Penny know how you want us to progress this?
Best wishes

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

FULTS
Wi8 SBF UK

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Original Message-:
From: Thomas Penny
Sent: 05 February 2010 13:12

To: Jones David M

Subject: FW: Requests for access re: Jerry Kwami Hosi

David
Thanks, again, for your time this morning.

Please find below the request received via POL for the defence to interview our expert
for the Porters Avenue case.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services
Fujitsu Services Reta
Lovelace Road,
Tel: r
Mob: i
Fax:
E-Mail:
Web:

Group Account

http: //uk

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW
FUJ00122804
FUJ00122804

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a
duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this
E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

----- Original Message
From: jane.m.owen
Sent: 11 January 2
To: Thomas Penny

Subject: Fw: Requests for access re: Jerry Kwami Hosi

Hello Penny

How is the weather? We have had a slight thaw but our side roads are still
treacherous and we had to have a push on Saturday coming out of the
supermarket.

Could you please see the attached email from our solicitors, will this fall
into the "expert witness statement" category?

Perhaps this is something that we could cover off at our meeting next week
and then I have a better understanding of what I am asking you for.

Kind regards

Jane

Jane Owen (Embedded
Security Team Advisor image moved
Security Team, Post Office Ltd to file:

picl7803.gif)

(Embedded image moved to file:
pic01381.gif)Royal Mail, Clippers
House, 3rd Floor, Clippers Quay,
SALFORD. M50 3NW

(Embedded im
picl9335.gif
Postline: {

(Embedded image moved to file:
pic03136.gif)
jane.m.oweng GRO
(Embedded image moved to
pici9837.gif)

(Embedded image moved to file:
pic28378.gif)Post Office HR Help

(Embedded image moved to file:
pic02483.gif)

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole
use of the intended recipient (s)
and may contain confidential and
privileged information. Any
FUJ00122804
FUJ00122804

unauthorised review, use
disclosure or distribution is
prohibited. If you are not the
intended recipient please contact.
me by reply email and destroy all
copies of the original message.

----- Forwarded by Jane M Owen/e/POSTOFFICE on 11/01/2010 14:07 -----

Juliet
McFarlane

To: jane.m.owent

08/01/2010
15:55 cc:

Subject: Fw: Requests for access re: Jerry
Kwami Hosi

Jane

Further to our telephone conversation, please note Charles McLachlan's
request below. Could you liaise with the appropriate person at Fujitsu and
ask them to make contact with Charles.

Regards

Juliet

Juliet McFarlane

Principal Lawyer

Royal MailCompany Secretary's Office
Legal Services

Criminal Law Team

ae Forwarded by Juliet McFarlane/e/POSTOFFICE on 08/01/2010 15:50 -----

"Charles

McLachlan"

Po: "Juliet Mcfarlane"
ce: "Jeffrey Davidson"
ee GRO ere" Karol Hart"
08/01/2010 14:32 Subject: Requests for access re:
Hosi
Please respond
to

charles.mclachlan
Dear Juliet McFarlane,

Thank you for your time on the phone this morning.
I appreciate your agreement to assist me as the IT expert instructed in
this case to obtain from the Post Office or theix Horizon system service
providers Fujitsu:

1. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss how to
access an unencrypted version of the transaction files held on the
sub-post office terminals related to the Hosi case.

2. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss the
structure of the transaction files, the mechanisms by which they are
synchronized with the central system and the records held centrally.

3. An unencrypted copy of full transaction log of the sub-post office
ten als related to the Hosi case.

4. An unencrypted copy of the corresponding records held by the centr
system

I am happy for the relevant person to contact me direct using my e-mail or

mobile phone number in the first instance.

As I am sure you will appreciate, Jeffrey Davidson, in his accountant’s

expert report, has identified some unusual features in the pattern of

accounting discrepancies, and in the limited window available before 2nd

February, time is of the essence in investigating whether these unusual

features relate to the actual pattern of underlying transactions and

possible system problems.

Yours,

Charles McLachlan

Director

Amsphere Consulting Ltd

90 Fenchurch Street

London EC3M 4BY

United Kingdi

Switchboard

Direct:

Mobile

E-mail ~ — vavnen —

Web : www.amsphere.com

Amsphere Limited is a Carbon Offset Partner of Pure: The Clean Planet

Trust. We have offset all of the carbon emissions associated with our

business activities

P Please consider the environment before printing this email

The information in this e-mail and any attachment(s) is confidential and
may be legally privileged. This e-mail is intended solely for the
addressee. If you are not the addressee, dissemination, copying or other
use of this e-mail or any of its content is strictly prohibited and may be
unlawful. If you are not the intended recipient please inform the sender
immediately and destroy the e-mail and any copies. All liability for
viruses is excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law. Any views
expressed in this message are those of the individual sender. No contract
may be construed by this e-mail.

FE II II II III III IG III III GIS III IIIS II i i i i i alee

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y

FUJ00122804
FUJ00122804
FUJ00122804
FUJ00122804

CHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

FEI II III III III III III III III I Io a i tk
