FUJ00082443
FUJ00082443

To: Bansal, Steve (BRAO1
From: Wright, Mark[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=;
Sent: Tue 9/28/2010 3:06:22 PM (UTC)
Subject: FW: Receipts payments missmatch issue
Lost Discrepancies.doc

-ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WRIGHTM3]

From: Wright Mark

Sent: 28 September 2010 14:21

To: Jenkins Gareth Gl; Stewart Mike; Woolgar Mike; Card Cheryl; Salawu Saheed; Bowen lan; Bothick Sandie
Ce: Hulme Jon; Evans Steve (BRAO1); Miller Kevin; Simpkins John; Parker Steve (PostOfficeAccount)
Subject: RE: Receipts payments missmatch issue

Gareth,

Initial comments:

1. Happy to run the extract from the BRSS. Cheryl, can look at this please

2. Tivoli only gives us a 30 day view of events. lan, does it store more than that? If so could you arrange an extract please

3. To do any fix we would need a lot more detail on exactly what was required.

4. Agree that the calls don't seem to have been raised correctly. Saheed/Sandie not sure where the responsibility for counter events
currently is, but we need to plug this gap.

5, Mike(s) we need someone to run with this and engage the customer please.

Cheryl can you check out the attachment and let me know any comments or areas I've missed. Thanks.

Regards,

Mark.

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 28 September 2010 13:50

To: Wright Mark

Ce: Hulme Jon; Evans Steve (BRAO1)
Subject: Receipts payments missmatch issue
Mark,

The attached note summarises the problem and describes what we need to do to identify the full scope of the problem and discuss with
POL if / how we fix the problem.

<< File: Lost Discrepancies.doc >>
Initially I'd appreciate your feedback on the note and also with initiating the data retrieval identified in Section 3 to fully scope the
problem.

We probably need to formally raise this as a problem with POL. I’m not sure how this is done, but presumably you can initiate that.
We should then plan to do the initial analysis and provide POL with a view as to the scope and then agree how to progress it.

I'm happy to continue to be involved in assisting with the analysis and discussion with POL, but presumably the bulk of the work can be
done by SSC.

Jon is easily able to reproduce the problem in a development environment and we are planning to recreate the scenario and attempt a
fix in that environment in the next couple of days. However it is probably worth starting on the data extraction to ascertain the full
scope of the issue asap since it has probably been around since day one and data more than 6 months old is being dropped from
BRSS, so the sooner we run the queries the better.

Happy to get together to agree how to progress this.

In terms of process, do you want me to attach this note to Peak PC0204765 and return the Peak to SSC?

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account
FUJ00082443
FUJ00082443

eS Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
