From:

FUJ00205178
FUJ00205178

DURKIN Beth I
Wed 10/04/2019 6:

Sent:
To: "Rachel.Robertsi
Ce: BARKER David: = = -G _
Subject: RE: [EXTERNAL] Tentative: Call - Project Bramble - legally privileged and confidential [PM-
AC.FID3854255]
Hi Rachel,

Please find an update below:

Meeting with POL counsel

Steve, Pete and I met with Tony De Garr Robinson QC and Simon Henderson, counsel for Post Office. Katie
from WBD also dialled in.

Green's tactic is likely to be to try to cast doubt on the validity of Steve’s evidence, so counsel wanted to
make sure Steve is completely comfortable with everything in his witness statements.

Various technical points were covered to clarify counsel's understanding and to ensure the accuracy of
Steve's statements, in particular where his evidence directly contradicts that of Richard Roll (since Patrick
Green, counsel for the claimants, is likely to pick up on these areas).

Two topics in particular were identified by counsel (relating to specific PEAKS), in relation to which corrections
to Steve's witness statements were discussed. Ultimately it was decided that clarifications were not necessary
and his evidence remains accurate as it stands.

WBD are preparing a couple of minor corrections to Steve's witness statements (for example, an incorrectly
cited PEAK number).

Meeting with Steve

Following the meeting with counsel, I met separately with Steve (and Pete) and we discussed how he found
the morning useful and interesting.

We ran through some guidance on giving evidence. This included key points on the approach to be taken
generally (for instance: ask for the question to be repeated or clarified if you do not understand it, take time to
read the documents you are taken to, direct your answers to the judge, etc).

We ran through some examples (unrelated to this case) of sticking to the question. Steve is conscious, after
Torstein’s evidence, of over-answering the question. Steve's tendency is more towards answering ‘I don’t know
for certain’ / ‘I can’t answer that’ when the matters in question may in fact be within his knowledge.

He understands there is no pressure on him to answer in a certain way, and that he is there to assist the court.
Steve's stutter worsens with nerves, which is something he is conscious of. This was apparent in the meeting
with counsel this morning, but it does not impact the ability to understand him so is not a problem.

Overall Steve comes across as a knowledgeable and honest witness.

Steve said he feels as prepared as he can be. As well as the formal witness training provided by Bond Solon,
he has had a couple of informal sessions with David/me, and today’s session with POL counsel.

He is going to re-read his witness statements this evening for a final time, and I have said he is welcome to
call me if he wants to talk anything else through.

Steve is due on at 10.30am tomorrow until around lunchtime. The Judge has been quite clear that Patrick Green will
only be allowed 2 hours 15 minutes to cross-examine Steve. In the afternoon, there will be re-examination and then
case management issues will be dealt with.

Please let me know if you'd like to discuss any of the above. Would you like me to schedule a call tomorrow evening
at say 5.00pm after court?

Kind regards,

Beth

Beth Durkin

Masons LLP

FUJ00205178
FUJ00205178

Winner — ‘Law Firm of the Year’ at The Legal Business Awards 2019

Winner — ‘Law Firm of the Year’ at The Lawyer Awards 2018

From: Rachel.Roberts¢
Sent: 10 April 2019 18:39
To: DURKIN Beth

Subject: Re: [EXTERNAL] Tentative: Call - Project Bramble - legally privileged and confidential [PM-AC.FID3854255]

Hi Beth,

Thank you. Sorry I have been stuck in meetings. How did the sessions go today? If you could send me a brief
update via email I would be grateful.

Regards
Rachel

Sent from my iPhone —
On 10 Apr 2019, at 18:35, DURKIN Beth 4_

} wrote:

Hi Rachel,

I tried calling but must have missed you. If you'd still like to speak this afternoon, I'm still available.
Alternatively, if this is not convenient, happy to schedule a call tomorrow evening after court.

Kind regards,

Beth

Beth Durkin
Solicitor
for Pinsent Masons LLP

Winner — ‘Law Firm of the Year’ at The Legal Business Awards 2019

Winner — ‘Law Firm of the Year’ at The Lawyer Awards 2018

From: DURKIN Beth
Sent: 10 April 2019 14:01

To: Rachel.Roberts¢ i
Subject: RE: [EXTERNAL] Tentative: Call - Project Bramble - legally privileged and confidential

Hi Rachel,

No problem - feel free to call me later at a time that suits you. Best to get me on my mobile
(number at the bottom of this email).

Pete is up to speed as he’s been with me today - I'll cancel the call at 3.
Kind regards,

Beth
FUJ00205178
FUJ00205178

Beth Durkin
Solicitor
for Pinsent Masons LLP

To: DURKIN Beth j
Subject: [EXTERNA!

Hi Beth,
I now have a clash at 3. Can I call you directly later today? Perhaps 530/6?

I suggest if Wendy is not attending or sending a delegate, we cancel as I can update Chris. I assume that
Pete is with you today so he has been updated?

Many thanks
Rachel

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in
England No 96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with
registered offices at: 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in
England No 1578652) and Fujitsu Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No.
4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes,
Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of
confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been
intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

If you consider this email spam, please block using the Mimecast option on your Outlook toolbar. See the
Information Security Intranet pages for details. If you have clicked on a suspect link or provided details
please report to the IT Service Desk immediately.

PLEASE NOTE: We have amended our Standard Terms of Business to cover the UK leaving the EU.
They are limited changes to the data protection provisions. There are equivalent changes proposed for
clients with non-standard terms. Please click here for full details of the changes.

IMPORTANT NOTICE: This email is sent on behalf of Pinsent Masons LLP, a limited liability partnership
registered in England & Wales (registered number: OC333653) authorised and regulated by the Solicitors
Regulation Authority and the appropriate regulatory body in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Its
registered office is at 30 Crown Place, London EC2A 4ES.

Reference to ‘Pinsent Masons’ is to the international legal practice of Pinsent Masons LLP and/or one or
more of the affiliated entities that practise under the name ‘Pinsent Masons’ as the context requires. The
word ‘partner’, used in relation to Pinsent Masons, refers to a member of Pinsent Masons or an employee
or consultant with equivalent standing. A list of members of Pinsent Masons LLP, those non-members
who are designated as partners, and non-member partners in affiliated entities, is available for inspection
at our offices or at www.pinsentmasons.com
FUJ00205178
FUJ00205178

The contents of this e-mail and any attachments are confidential to the intended recipient. It may also be
legally privileged. If you are not the intended recipient please do not use or publish its contents, contact
Pinsent Masons immediately on { ) then delete. Contracts cannot be concluded with
Pinsent Masons nor service effected on Pinsent Masons by email. Emails are not secure and may
contain viruses. Pinsent Masons may monitor traffic data.

For information about how we use your personal data at Pinsent Masons, including your rights, please
see our privacy policy.

Further information about us is available at www.pinsentmasons.com
Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.
This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.

If you consider this email spam, please block using the Mimecast option on your Outlook toolbar. See the Information
Security Intranet pages for details. If you have clicked on a suspect link or provided details please report to the IT
Service Desk immediately.

PLEASE NOTE: We have amended our Standard Terms of Business to cover the UK leaving the EU. They are limited changes
to the data protection provisions. There are equivalent changes proposed for clients with non-standard terms. Please click here
for full details of the changes.

IMPORTANT NOTICE: This email is sent on behalf of Pinsent Masons LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England &
Wales (registered number: OC333653) authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority and the appropriate
regulatory body in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Its registered office is at 30 Crown Place, London EC2A 4ES.

Reference to ‘Pinsent Masons’ is to the international legal practice of Pinsent Masons LLP and/or one or more of the affiliated
entities that practise under the name ‘Pinsent Masons’ as the context requires. The word ‘partner’, used in relation to Pinsent
Masons, refers to a member of Pinsent Masons or an employee or consultant with equivalent standing. A list of members of
Pinsent Masons LLP, those non-members who are designated as partners, and non-member partners in affiliated entities, is
available for inspection at our offices or at www.pinsentmasons.com

The contents of this e-mail and any attachments are confidential to the intended recipient. It may also be legally nrivileaed._If. vay
jot the intended recipient please do not use or publish its contents, contact Pinsent Masons immediately on’
then delete. Contracts cannot be concluded with Pinsent Masons nor service effected on Pinsent Masons by emai Emails
dreviot secure and may contain viruses. Pinsent Masons may monitor traffic data.

For information about how we use your personal data at Pinsent Masons, including your rights, please see our privacy policy.

Further information about us is available at www.pinsentmasons.com
