FUJ00001515
FUJ00001515

(cL Installation Strategy Vern MISTR/ox
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
Document Title: Installation Strategy

Document Type: Strategy

Abstract: Documents the strategy by which the Horizon counter

system is installed in the post office outlets.

Status: APPROVED
Distribution:

ICL Pathway ICL Pathway POCL

Terry Austin Eugene Dempsey Andy Jones

John Dicks Dave Howells Barry Evans

Liam Foley Ian Openshaw Steve Grayston

Steve Muchow Paul Underwood Douglas Craik

Barrie Davies Eamonn Long Trevor Rollason

Bob McDermott Barry Hancill

John Hunt Lorraine Holt

Ian Honnor Martin Hughes Suppliers

Richard Long Sue Parker Dave Harwood, WTplc

Alan Ward Simon Lee Bob McCully, ICL
Operational Services Division

Steve Burgess Martin Riddell Alastair Cameron, Celestica

John Bates Dave Fletcher Stuart Kearns, Peritas

Steve Warwick Claire Roberts Linda Melvin, Exel

Tan Morrison Allan Prescott Richard Quantrell, Energis

Steve Cowburn Billy Herd Jim Booth, Verification Centre

Pete Jeram Anna Campopiano Les Betts, ICL
Operational Services Division

Mike Coombs Roy Smethurst Mike Tooth, Pearce Security
Systems Ltd

Peter Burden Martin Johnson Steve Rodgers, WTplc

Gill Jackson Celia Tebbs

Pam Barlow Library

Bold indicates formal document inspectors.

Author: Mark Fisk
Comments to: N/A
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 1 of 47

© 1997 ICL Pathway Ltd
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
ICL Installation Strateg Ref: IM/STR/o26
tr 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 2 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
ICL
Pothway

FUJ00001515
FUJ00001515

Ingtollation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0
Date: 2/12/98

O Dotwment control

O.1 Document history

Version
ol

0.2

03

0.4

0.5
0.6

0.7
0.8

Date
28/1/97
28/1/98

30/4/98

16/6/98

14/8/98
11/9/98

27/10/98
27/1/98

2/12/98

Reason
First draft of the document for limited circulation only

Updated with comments from first issue and in line with new
implementation document structure.

Updated with comments from 2"4 issue. Document updated to
reflect new documentation guidelines.

Document updated after formal inspection for moderator
approval

Document updated with minor amendments ready for approval

Document updated with comments after CP 1444 which
introduces the document.

Minor changes to document to agree A2A wording.

Changes applied for arranging of modification date during
resurvey and inclusion of issuing temporary passes

Approved, introduced as a Contract Controlled Document.

0.2 Approvel authoritiey

Name

Barrie Davies

Douglas Craik

Position Signature Date
Implementation Manager

POCL - Horizon Head of
Field Implementation

0.3 Ayociated documenty

Reference Vers Date Title Source
1 IM/STR/o0027_ 1.0 12/6/98 — High Level Implementation Strategy IB McDermott
2 Schedule G6 1/5/97 Rollout & Implementation POCL
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515
FUJ00001515

D Cooke/ M Fisk

installation Strateg IM/STR/026
ich ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

3 BP/DES/003 41 15/7/98 I Counter Hardware Design

Specification

0.4 Abbreviotiony

ALPS
APT
APPU
BA
BAD
BOS
CM
DRI
DSS
ECCO
FAD
ICL

POCL
PSTN
RFI
RGM

Automation of London Post Offices.
Automated Payments Terminal
Automated Payments Peripheral Unit
Benefit Agency

Benefit Agency District

Back Office System.

Configuration Management
Designated Responsible Individual
Department of Social Security
Electronic Cash registers on COunters
Financial Account Division
International Computers Ltd.
Information Technology
Implementation Unit

Horizon Field Support Officer
Implementation Programme Manager
Integrated Services Digital Network
Information Technology

Local Area Network

Management Infrastructure Brief
New Release 2

Network Termination Equipment
Personal Computer

Post Office

Post Office Counters Ltd

Public Switched Telephone Network
Ready For Install

Regional General Manager

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page: 4 of 47
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

tC ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

UAE User Awareness Event

UTP Unshielded Twisted Pair

WAN Wide Area Network

WTplc — Workplace Technologies PLC
0.5 Changes mn thiy vervow

Document approved.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515

ICL Installation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

0.6 Table of content

1 Introduction

1.1 Management summaty .............4+

1.2 Horizon equipment

1.2.1 Additional peripheral equipment

3 Controls...

3.1 Resources deployed ....

3.2 Internal controls

3.3 External controls ........

3.4 Dependencies.............

3.5 Timetable...

3.6 High Level deployed flowchart ..........0.06

RRR RR RRR RRR RD

3.7 Overall measures of success

3.8 Document relationships

aS

4 Outlet environments targeted by this strategy.............

4.1 Outlet Identifiers........

4.1.1 Outlet Identifier.

4.2 The counter environment .........

4.2.1 Labelling equipment during the installation phase

4.2.2 Physical positioning of the Horizon equipment.

5 Control of the installation programme..............

5.1 Contact with the outlet

5.2 Authoritative Individuals...........

RRR RR RA RRL

5.3 Escalation routes........

6 Infrastructure phase

a

6.1 Outlets requiring planning permission
6.1.1 Responsibility
6.2 RGM Letter...

6.2.1 Responsibility

ee ee eS

6.3 Management Infrastructure Brief .............

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515
FUJ00001515

ICL Installation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

6.3.1 Responsibility ...........ccsseessecsessecsessesssesseeseessessecsnesneeavecsessessnssseenneeeeeanes
6.4 Site Survey Call ...cesssecsesecsesssesseesesecssesneesecssssesscsseeseesecsessesneeseeneentenee
6.4.1 Responsibility... cesesescesesesnesesseseseesnssesneseenecsnsseeeeeeess
6.5 Site SUIVEY ..cecceccceeesseceseseseeesesescereesessstsnsesssssessesseststeseseseseeesesessseeeeeaees

Se a a

6.5.1 EXC@PtiOn .......ccccssecseseeseeseeseseeseessssesesseesssesesssseseesessssneseessseesecseeneaeesees

6.5.2 Responsibility ..........cccssecssesessesssessessecsseesesssessessessseeaseveesessnessesseesneeares

BN

6.6 Site resurvey Call... cescecseesecsesssesseeseessecstessecsessesseesecsneeseesnessessesaneeneaneeseenee
6.6.1 Responsibility......cccccesesceseeesseseeseeessesesseeessesessesesesessesesseseenenees
6.7 Site RESUIVEY ....cececcceecsceeseseeceseseseeceresessscsneessssscenesseessstessseseseeseeeasseseeeeneesee
6.7.1 EXCepPtions .o.c.cecceseseseseeseeseseseeeesescseeescscstssesescsessessseseseeneessssnsrseeneersnaes
6.7.2 Responsibility ..........eseseesseseeseeseesesseeeeee
6.8 Site Modification Call ......ccesseesssecsseessessseesseesseessseesseessecsseessseesseessseesseeesees
6.8.1 Responsibility .......ccccccesseesesseseesessesseseeesesessessesessssesrsseessssesesseeneeneses
6.9 Site Modifications 0... cesses ceseeessesesseeeseesessesesesessesesseseneeees
6.9.1 EXCEPtiONns oo... cesses eeseeseseseeresesssestescscsesseseseseseessssseseereeseessesneesenetees
6.9.2 Responsibility .........cscccssessessseeesseesssesssesssesssecsssessseesseessseesssessnessseessies

6.10 Production of outlet labels

6.10.1 Responsibility .

6.11 Site Preparation reminder call.

6.1.1 Responsibility

6.12 Site Preparation ..
6.12.1 ExCePtiOns ......ceccsecseseeseeseesesseseesesssseescesssessssecsseessssssessseussesseeseensseees
6.12.2 Responsibility .........ceseessecssesseesssssesseecseeseesnsssecssssneeaeecseesecenssneesseneeares

6.13 Infrastructure Acceptance .....eccecssesesseecsesseesnesneesseseeseesteeseeeiesnesnteeeeneenes

hRRRRRAAARRRRR RAR RRA

6.13.1 ExCeptiOnss ....c.ccccceceeseeseseseseseseesesssesseessessssssescsesseesssessesesssssseseseeeseeaee

b

6.13.2 Responsibility 0.0... eeseseseeseeessesesseseessenesasseeseeneeesseeseeeeeeeees
6.14 Ready for Installation ..........ccsssssesssessessecsessessessesseessessesssessessessnessenseeseesee
6.14.1 Exceptions...

6.14.2 Responsibility... eeseseseeseeessesesseetessestssesnesesesneseeseseseeaees

6.15 Inspection CVENE uo... ccc ee eeseseseseesesesescseeesssessstsucsesestsssseseseeseueaseeeeeeeneetes

BRR RA

6.15.1 Responsibility.

6.16 Connection of electrical tail CirCUits..........ccsessesseesteeseestesseeseessesseeseeseesee 4

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515

Ingtollation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

7 Planning Phase....

8 Installation phase ... sevens

6.16.1 Responsibility ....
6.17 Initial order of communication lines... cesses eesteeseesteeneeseeeentenee

6.17.1 Responsibility... ccc eeceseseeseeessesessesseseesnssesnsseenseesnsseeeneeess

7.1 Agree installation date with the outlet manage .............:ccccecesesseeseeeeese

7.1.1 Responsibility

7.2 Forecast to hardware suppliers .........scsccsssecsessesseeseesecseesesseessesneenseaneeseenes

7.2.1 Responsibility

7.3 Confirm the installation date for the communication lines «0.0...

7.3.4 Responsibility 0... cecsestesesessessesesesesseneesseeassneseseeeesessessenenneenees

8.1 Identify the additional work for SMART Off1C€S ......ccssssecseessseesseesseeeseeesees
8.2 User Awareness Event ......sccsscsssessesseessesesssesseesessscsecssseseeseesseesesssssesssseseeses

8.2.1 Responsibility 0.0... cece cece ceseenessesesseeeseesessesesesesseseeseseeeees
8.3 Invitation to traiming ..........c cece eesesesessesestesecseseeseesessesteseessseesesseenesesees

8.3.1 Responsibility .............

8.4 Auto configuration of the Horizon Counter equipment

8.4.1 Responsibility

8.5 Installation of the Communications lin
8.5.1 ISDN line...
8.5.2 Frame relay
8.5.4 Responsibility 0.0.0... ceceesecsesseesssssesseesseeseesnsssecenssneearesseesecsnssneeseeneeares

8.6 Inspectorate SLVICE ......c.ccceseeeeseseseeeetesesescseeescsesestssescscsseseseseseesessssseeeeeeseases
8.6.1 Responsibility... ccccsecssesseseeessesseseseeesessessessesssseersseenssnesesseeeeseees

8.7 Build of the counter systeMS oi... sesesseeteseeetssesteseeeesesesseeteneeeees
8.7.1 Responsibility... ccssecesseessecssessesseesseesesssessessessseeasesvecseessessesseeseeesres

8.8 User Training...

8.8.1 Responsibility... cesses eeesseseeseesessesesseesessestsseseesesessesesseeesenes
8.9 Collection of overshippers .....c.ccccsseseeseesesseseesesressesessesneseesseesesseeeeeeess

8.9.1 Responsibility

8.10 Equipment installation...........cccsccsesssesseessesseeseessesseesseeseessesseesessnesseeseeseeses

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

RRR RRR RB

RRR RRA RRA RRR RRR REA

BRR hSR A
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

8.10.1 Responsibility ...

8.10.2 Outlets withdrawn from the programme...

8.10.3 Overview of the Auto configuration process

8.10.4 Regression Paths during installation

8.11 Acceptance of the installation phase

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
1 Introduction

1.4

1.2

This document has been produced as one in the series of strategy documents
reflecting the processes involved in the implementation of the Horizon counter
systems. Specifically the document provides the strategy used to install the
Horizon counter infrastructure in outlets targeted at NR2 and beyond and
covers the activities that lead into In office migration of data (Ref.[1]). The
installation strategy comprises a number of activities, the description of which
is provided in this document.

The strategy only describes the activities. The timetable and interdependencies
for the activities together with the scheduling constraints are described in a
separate strategy document (Ref. [1]).

Management summary

This document provides the strategy that is used to prepare outlets ready for
the installation of the Horizon counter equipment. This is known as the
infrastructure phase. (Ref. [1]). It also provides the strategy that is used to install
the Horizon equipment. This is known as the installation phase. (Ref. [1]).

Horizow equipment

The Horizon equipment installed at each counter position is described in Ref.
[3] and is summarised for this strategy as follows;

e Base unit. This is a PC base unit pre loaded with Horizon software.

e Monitor. This is a10” touch screen monitor, or a Flat Screen Monitor.

¢ Keyboard. The keyboard provides an integral magnetic stripe and smart card
functionality.

¢ Bar code scanner.
e Counter printer. This is an integrated slip and tally roll printer.

In addition to the above each outlet will be supplied with an Office printer
which may be either inkjet or laser. The requirements for each outlet are
identified in advance of the rollout programme by POCL.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
installation Strateg Ref: IM/STR/o26
tC ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

1.21 Additional peripheral equipment

The Horizon counter equipment supports the following peripheral equipment
in this or later releases. As such this must be taken into consideration when
surveying outlets for installation of the Horizon counter equipment.

e Electronic weigh scales.

Details of the activities associated with this equipment are provided in the
appropriate requirements documentation produced as a result of acceptance of
this strategy.

2 Scope

The document provides the strategy that will be used to carry out the
infrastructure, planning and installation phases. It is used by teams involved in
the installation of the Horizon counter equipment to produce specifications,
procedures and work instructions, all of which provide the detail.

The strategy does not cover the following;

© Contents of MIB, UAE and User training.

¢ Installation of equipment in POCL training centres.

¢ In office migration.

© Hand over to steady state support.

¢ Upgrade activities for outlets operating at release 1c to the New Release 2.
e Scheduling and timing of the activities.

e Management of change to outlets once they have been installed and are
under steady state control.

The target audience of this document are summarised in table 1.

POCL Provides the strategy that is employed to ensure installation of
the Horizon counter equipment.

The document is used to identify internal POCL processes that
will be used to ensure timely installation of the Horizon counter

equipment.
ICL The document is used to develop corresponding requirements
Pathway documentation and internal processes that will be used to ensure

timely installation of the Horizon counter equipment.

Third party I WTplc, Exel, ICL Operational Services Division, Celestica,
suppliers Peritas, ICL Outsourcing, Verification Centre, POCL, Pearce

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: u of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

Security Systems Ltd and Energis.

Suppliers who are impacted by the installation strategy.

Table1

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
ICL
Pathwoy

FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515

Ingtollation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0
Date: 2/12/98

3 Controy

3.1 Resources deployed

Resources are identified in the body of the document.

Supplier Function

ICL Pathway I Control of infrastructure and installation programmes.
Development of help desk procedures.

POCL Deployment of Task Force members for the site survey and
resurvey.
Definition of the terms of reference for the Task Force
members.

WTplc Arrange site survey & preparation with outlet manager.

Perform site survey and preparation.

ICL Pathway

Perform additional modifications in SMART outlets at NR2
only.

Perform installation and configuration of Frame relay hubs.

Pearce
Security
Systems Ltd

Arrange resurvey and modification with outlet manager

Perform resurvey and modification

Outsourcing

Exel Arrange installation of Horizon equipment and communication
link with the outlet manager.
Perform Horizon equipment installation and remove specific
existing equipment.
Identify, at NR2, SMART outlets from survey documentation.

ICL Perform inspection of outlets.

Operational

Services

Division

ICL Horizon System Help Desk functions during — the

implementation programme.

Peritas

Arrange MIB, UAE and training events for POCL users.
Perform MIB, UAE and training events.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
U Instollatiow Strateg: Ref: IM/STR/o26
ch. Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
Celestica Manage Horizon counter system builds.
Production of bar code labels used in the infrastructure and
installation phases.
Verification I Provide build scripts for the Horizon counter systems.
Centre
Energis Manage installation of communications link.
Produce ISDN stickers for use during the infrastructure phase.

3.2 Internal controly

Table 2

This section describes the mechanisms, that form part of the strategy, that
ensures that it can be implemented successfully.

Control Description
Identification of I Excluded outlets are identified during the
outlets which are I scheduling phase described in a separate strategy
specifically excluded. document (Ref. [1]).

Labelling of outlets

Outlets are labelled with an unique Outlet Identifier
which is used during the collection of asset data
when the Horizon equipment is installed. (See
section 4.1.1 and 8.10)

Labelling of counter
equipment

The Horizon counter equipment is labelled with a
unique identifier code which is used during the auto
configuration. The code is also used to identify the
counter position during collection of the asset data.
(See section 4.2.1 and 8.10)

Security clearance of
staff

All staff involved in outlet activities will carry the
appropriate security clearance as described in a
separate strategy document (Ref. [1]).

of
and

Authorisation
preparation
modification work

All work must be authorised by ICL Pathway before
it starts. Different authorisation levels will exist
depending on the nature of the work. In some cases
authority must be obtained by both ICL Pathway
and POCL before the work can start.

Table 3

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 14 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
installation Strateg Ref: IM/STR/o26
tC ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

3.3 External controly

This section describes the mechanisms, that are external to the strategy.

Control Description
Selection criteria for I The selection criteria will be agreed with POCL,
additional 100 trial I based on the work identified at the survey and
outlets. resurvey required to accommodate the Horizon

counter equipment.

The outlet manager will be briefed during the MIB
and UAE of the importance of being present during
the installation activities to agree and authorise the
work being carried out. (See section 5.2)

Outlets at which no solution can be identified to
accommodate the Horizon equipment will be
suspended from the programme and passed to POCL
for resolution. The outlet will only be accepted back
into the programme once an agreed set of criteria
has been reached between POCL and ICL Pathway.
(See section 6.7.1)

Authorising work in
the outlet
Outlets with no
solutions
Power outages in
outlets and existing
equipment

Power outages in outlets will impact the operation of
the POCL existing equipment. Procedures are to be
agreed between POCL and ICL Pathway for this
operation in particular outlets with ECCO
equipment. For these outlets arrangements have
been made to carry out the power outage between
17:00 & 18:00.

3.4 Dependencies

This section describes the controls within the strategy which ensure that the
links to and from the external controls are managed.

Table 4

Control

Description

Escalation routes

Where an activity described in the strategy fails, the
appropriate action is described in the strategy.
Where no action is described then the generic
escalation routes described in section 5.3 are
applied.

Outlets with no

A process will be established between POCL and ICL

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 15 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
tC ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
solutions Pathway to agree the criteria by which outlets will

be accepted back into the programme.

Table 5

3.5 Timetohle

The timetable and interdependencies for the different activities are described in
separate scheduling and rescheduling strategies (Ref. [1]).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 16 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
installation Strateg Ref: IM/STR/o26
tC ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

3.6 High Level deployed flowchart

The following high level deployed flowcharts describe the procedures
introduced by this strategy for infrastructure, planning and installation phases.

tote
a I
rama y I Semana
sone aries a
1
eins
Sores reatnesom [ot rosa
i Sa) [reamaune seme
— i oe ‘Se
a
¥
=e sme
_ _
These
es erent
Figure 1 - Infrastructure phase
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
ICL
Pathwoy

Installation Strategy

FUJ00001515
FUJ00001515

Ref: IM/STR/o26
Version: 1.0
Date: 2/12/98

a

arenas

lesion dite
‘ath Oat
‘marsoer

J Acrcoinsat oa

Prowse

eculmert

ers ascinans

harcuare segs

rework

Garvan
asain
Trkworkit

Figure 2 - Planning phase

commer fam

i

Figure 3 - Installation phase

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page: 18 of 47
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg: Ref: IM/STR/o26
tL ' Strategy Version: 1.0
Pathwoy Date: 2/12/08

3.7 Overoll measurey of success

Completion of the process described in this strategy results in Horizon counter
equipment being successfully installed in the outlet and the outlet is “Ready for
Migration” of the In office data. The migration of data is described in a separate
strategy document (Ref. [1]).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
ICL
Pathwoy

Installation Strategy

FUJ00001515
FUJ00001515

Ref: IM/STR/o26
Version: 1.0
Date: 2/12/98

3.8 Document relationsnripy

This document provides the installation strategy for outlets as described in the
High Level Implementation Strategy (Ref. [1]).

Approval of this document will result in the production of the following
associated requirements and specifications.

Strategy document Requirements ‘Specifications
installation Data Communications [Data Communications Specifications
Site Survey Site Survey Specifications
(Category descriptions
POCL Specifications
Site Resurvey and modifications Site Resurvey and modification specification
Site Preparation Site Preparation specification
Site installation Exel Activities
[Auto configuration
[Aborted & cancelled installations \Aborted & cancelled installations
Bar Code label requirement [Bar Code label specification
Table 6
Responsibilities for production of the associated documentation are provided in

this strategy.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page: 20 of 47

ICL

FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515

Ingtollation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

4.1

Outlet environments targeted by thix strotegy

The implementation of Horizon at release 1b was targeted at Manual’ outlets
only. These 200 outlets formed the first phase of the live trial. At NR2 the scope
will be increased to include the following;

© 100 additional live trial outlets. These, together with the original 200 outlets
have been agreed between ICL Pathway and POCL to form the basis of the
live trial. The 100 outlets will be selected from 200 outlets provided by POCL.
The criteria for selection will be defined by POCL.

¢ Outlets for national rollout.
The following outlets are specifically excluded at this release.

e Mobile outlets. These are outlets where the Horizon equipment is installed
ina vehicle.

¢ Non fixed positions. These are outlets where the equipment cannot be
installed at a permanent position.

In both cases solutions are being actively sought for agreement with POCL.
When solutions are agreed this document will be updated to reflect the
changes.

Outlet ldentifiery

In order that each outlet can be labelled during the rollout a unique identifier is
established.

4.1.1 Outlet Identifier

The Outlet Identifier used during the implementation programme is a unique
reference which relates to the Post Office Identifier and counter number. The
format used is:

123456AAA,
where
123456 I Post Office FAD code ¢ Provided by POCL

for each outlet and
uses the first 6
digits of the 7 digit

* Some of the initial outlets did have APTs or Quantum, however the location of this equipment did not impede
installation of the Horizon equipment.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg: Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
FAD code
AAA This field is currently ¢ 001 is default for all
reserved for future use. outlets.
Table 7
Example - outlet with FAD Code 123456
The ICL Pathway Outlet Identifier format for the outlet is
123456001.
The identifier is translated to a bar code which is installed in an outlet during
the Infrastructure phase.
Details of the outlet label bar code production and distribution are provided in
a requirements document produced as a result of this strategy.
4.2 The counter environment

The Horizon counter equipment is physically installed in outlets in either a
“Counter”, ora “Back Office” position.

e A “Counter” is a customer facing serving position where day to day
operations are performed. This may be a fortress or an open plan position.

e A “Back Office Position” is a location and business profile which does not
provide a customer facing role but from which transactions can still be
carried out. Outlets which have a “back office position” are specified by
POCL.

The number of counter and back office positions varies between the different
outlets.

4.2.1 Lobelling equipment during the installation phase

Horizon equipment will be installed at counter positions during the installation
and labelled with a counter number. The counter number is derived as follows;

¢ The counter number will be based on the outlet identifier. An additional two
digits are used to identify the counter number.

e The counter number range will be 01 - 99.
e The gateway server will always be 01.
The format of the counter number is explained in the following example
Example - outlet with FAD Code 123456 and 4 counter positions
The ICL Pathway Outlet Identifier format for the outlet is

123456001.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

The equipment at each counter position is labelled as follows;
12345600101 - 12345600104,

Details of the production of counter number bar codes and their distribution is
documented in a requirements document which is produced as a result of
acceptance of this strategy.

4.2.2 Physical positioning of the Horizon equipment

Horizon counter equipment is installed in outlets as described in this section;

4.2.2.1 Gateway servers

Gateway servers will be physically located in the outlet using the following
strategy;

¢ Where an outlet has been identified for a “back office system”, the gateway
server will be installed at this position.

e Where an outlet has been identified for more than one “back office system”,
the gateway system can be installed in any of the positions as identified
during the survey.

e Where an outlet has no “back office server”, the gateway server will be
installed, where possible, in the left hand fortress position as viewed from
the clerks side of the counter when facing the customer.

¢ Where an outlet only has open plan positions the gateway will be installed,
where possible, in the left hand position as viewed from the clerks side of the
counter when facing the customer.

¢ Where the outlet only has one counter position, the gateway server will be
installed in this position.

4.2.2.2. Standard counters

Standard counters will be installed in all other positions. For each standard
counter the equipment will be physically positioned and labelled using the
following strategy;

e Where an outlet has more than one “back office system” only one will be
installed as a gateway server. The additional “back office systems” will be
standard counters, which will be labelled before any fortress positions.

e Fortress counters will be labelled next. In outlets with “back office systems
these will be labelled when all “back office systems” have been allocated. If
there are no “back office systems”, fortress counters are labelled from left
hand side to the right as viewed from the clerks side of the counter when
facing the customer.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 23 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

¢ Open plan positions are labelled after all fortress counter positions have been
allocated. In outlets with just open plan positions the open plan positions
will be labelled after the gateway server.

The strategy is best explained using a series of examples.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 24 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ' Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

Example1___ Single counter position

In this example there is only one system installed and as such will always be
labelled as counter position number o1. This is the gateway server which
supports the connection for the office printer and the ISDN communications.

Customer

ol

4
ISDN Printer
Figure 4
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 25 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
Uatio teg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

Example 2 3 counter position

In this example, three scenarios are shown.

The first is where the gateway server is installed and labelled as counter
position o1. The ISDN connection and office printer must be installed in the
same area as the gateway system.

The second scenario is where the ISDN connection cannot be located with the
gateway system. In this situation additional cabling is installed such that the
gateway system and office printer still remain in the left hand position and are
still labelled as position 01.

Customer

Gateway Scenario 1

Printer

03 Customer

ol 02

Gateway & i
= Scenario 2
4 @
I ISDN
Printer I
Figure 5
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 26 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg: Ref: IM/STR/o26

tL ' Strategy Version: 1.0

Pathwoy Date: 2/12/08

The third is where the gateway server cannot be installed in the target physical
counter position. This may be because there is insufficient room to install the
office printer at the left hand position. In this situation the gateway server will
be located in the next available position, however the gateway will still be
labelled as position o1. This scenario cannot be used without prior
approval from the ICL Pathway rollout manager.

Customer

Gateway

ISDN Printer

Figure 6

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 27 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg: Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Strotegy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

Example 3__4 counter position and a back office system.

In this example there is “Back Office” system installed. This system is the
gateway system, which also provides the connection for the office printer.

The counter positions are labelled with a counter number from the “Back
Office” system starting at 01. The fortress positions are labelled from o2
through to 05.

Customer

Printer

Back Office System

Figure 7

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 28 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollatiow Strateg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ' Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

Example 4 outlet with Open Plan Positions

In this example there are two Open Plan Positions. The Back Office and fortress
counter positions are labelled first followed in sequence by the Open Plan
Positions.

Customer Side

06 07

_—_ Counter Side

4-3] ol

Back Office System

Figure 8

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 29 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
ICL

FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515

Ingtollation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

St

S.2

S.3

The installation programme will be controlled using the rollout database
through an agreed schedule. Details of the schedule used are described in Ref.

{i].

Contoct with the outlet

All communication with the outlet will be controlled using a communications
and security strategy as described in Ref. [1].

All visits, identified as part of this installation strategy, to outlets will be agreed
in advance with the outlet manager. These dates will be notified to POCL via
the rollout database interface. Where there are disputes with the outlet
manager in arranging visits to the outlet, the issue will be passed to POCL to act
as final arbiter.

Staff who visit outlets will carry an ICL Pathway identification badge, which will
be issued only after the individual has been security cleared through the POCL
approved process. The staff will show the identification badge to the outlet
manager and staff, as requested, before starting work in the outlet. This
excludes any utility companies who already have site access agreements with
POCL. A process will exist to provide temporary security passes to tradesmen
who may have to attend site for specialist modification or preparation work.
These passes will be used only when the need arises and the specialist
tradesmen will always be accompanied by the appropriate security cleared
modification or preparation team whilst on site.

Authoritetive Individualy

The installation strategy is dependant on staff with specific responsibilities
being available during the various events. In most cases this is the outlet
manager. Where the outlet manager is not available then a Designated
Responsible Individual may be identified. This is the responsibility of the outlet
manager (Ref. [1]). At various key events during the installation, this will be
communicated to the outlet manager as identified in sections 6 & 7.

Escalation routes

Where problems are encountered during the infrastructure or installation
phase, the installation strategy will identify the appropriate escalation route to

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 30 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg: Ref: IM/STR/o26

tL ' Strategy Version: 1.0

Pathwoy Date: 2/12/08

be followed. Where no specific route has been identified problems will be
escalated to the Rollout Help Desk by the appropriate team. The escalation will
provide details of the problem, FAD code of the affected office, a severity code
associated with the problem.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 31 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow ateg Ref: IM/STR/o26

tC ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
6 Infrastructure phase

The activities described in this section are included in the infrastructure phase.

The timetable used to schedule the activities is documented in Ref. [1].
6.1 Outlets requivirg planning permisnow

It is anticipated that before any modification or preparation work is carried out
in some outlets specific permission may be required from an alternate source
to the outlet manager. This permission may be due to one of the following
reasons;

¢ Outlet is a grade 1 listed building.

Grade 1 listed outlets are identified through an investigative process by ICL
Pathway. Contact with the appropriate planning authorities will be
established in advance of the infrastructure programme starting.

© Outlet is part of a franchise or multiple.

Outlets who satisfy this criteria are known at the start of the programme
through specific data.

The source of the data for franchise outlets is supplied by POCL. A specific
programme will be established between POCL and ICL Pathway to
communicate the Horizon implementation programme to franchise or
multiple managers. The programme will be supported with a methodology
statement from third party suppliers describing outlet changes.

¢ Outlet requires Landlord permission.

Information is provided to the outlet manager via the Management
Infrastructure Brief (Ref. [1]) on activities relating to the above events.

Specific requirements relating to the above activities are documented in the site
survey requirements document to which third party suppliers will respond with
specifications.

6.1.1 Responsibility

ICL Pathway for the site survey requirements document.

POCL and ICL Pathway for activities which inform franchise and multiple
groups.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 32 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

6.2 RGM Letter

The RGM letter introduces the infrastructure phase to outlet managers. It
describes the forthcoming events. Each outlet (Ref. [1]) will receive from the
post office region an RGM letter. The letter is the first official contact with the
outlet manager and staff.

6.2.1 Responsibility

POCL region for issuing the RGM letter.

6.3 Management Infrastructure Brief

The outlet manager at each outlet is invited to attend a Management
Infrastructure Brief, Ref. [1].

The Management Infrastructure Brief includes the following;

e An explanation of the scheduling of the infrastructure phase.

¢ The relevance of Landlords and a Designated Responsible Individual.
¢ The importance of being present at the site survey and preparation.
© Details of what occurs during the survey and preparation.

¢ The importance of being present at the site resurvey and modification if this
required

¢ Details of what would occur during the resurvey and modification should
this be required.

Non attendees are reported via the rollout database and are sent a pack of
information that describes the forthcoming infrastructure activities.

6.3.1 Responsibility

Peritas.

6.4 Site Survey call

A telephone call is made to each outlet to arrange the site survey and
preparation dates. The call will also verify specific outlet details. The
appointment for the site survey will be arranged for either the morning or
afternoon. The appointment for the preparation will be arranged for the
morning.

The survey and preparation dates are confirmed in writing to the outlet
manager.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 33 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

The script used during the call will vary depending on whether the outlet
manager attended the Management Infrastructure Brief.

Details of the site survey call are provided in the site survey requirements
document produced as a result of this strategy. Third party suppliers will
respond to the requirement with a process document describing how calls will
be managed.

6.4.1 Responsibility

6.5

WTplc are responsible for arranging with the outlet manager dates for the site
survey and preparation activities. Where this agreement cannot be reached the
outlet will be escalated to POCL (see section 5.3).

Site Survey

The site survey will endeavour to collect all information required to prepare an
outlet for site preparation and will be completed in one visit. The survey will
confirm with the outlet manager the number of counter positions to be
automated. Where this cannot be agreed with the outlet manager an escalation
to the appropriate POCL region for final arbitration will be initiated. The
information collected relates to the positioning of Horizon equipment at each
counter position together with the electrical and LAN infrastructure to support
it.

The survey details will be documented on a series of sketch and narrative forms
which will be used during the site preparation by WTplc. Information collated
at the event will also be used by ICL Pathway and other third party suppliers
during the installation phase.

For each outlet the site survey will identify an individual who can authorise the
work identified to be carried out. This may be the outlet manager or a
Designated Responsible Individual as described in section 5.2. The site survey
event will ensure that agreement is reached with this person for the work that is
to be carried out.

A disruption notice and letter will be left with the outlet manager. The notice is
to be displayed in the outlet before site preparation (and modification if this is
required) and equipment installation to warn of the forthcoming events. The
letter will provide details on when the disruption notice is to be displayed.

In some outlets it is anticipated that the outlet manager will want to carry out
some of his own modifications. This will be agreed during the site survey and
must be completed prior to site preparation otherwise the outlet will be
escalated through the appropriate POCL region for resolution.

The site survey will provide to ICL Pathway a copy of the survey sketch and a
Bill of Materials for the work required.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 34 0f 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

The survey will take place as arranged during the survey call (see section 6.4). A
minimum of one working days notice is required to cancel the survey event,
should this be necessary.

In some of the outlets the survey will be attended by a POCL Task Force
member. Their role will be to act as “facilitator” to the outlet manager and ICL
Pathway surveyor.

The site survey will identify through a series of questions to the outlet manager,
actions to be taken for any existing equipment in the outlet. There will be an
onus on the outlet manager to be able to identify the different types of
equipment in the outlet to the surveyor. For each type of equipment the
surveyor will be provided with a series of actions that will need to be
completed. In general this will be only to identify the equipment on the survey
documentation. The survey will only provide the solution for the target (post
NR2) solution. Where additional activities are required for specific equipment
(such as SMART) a process has been identified during the installation phase for
these outlets (see section 8).

A location will be identified in the outlet where the communications point will
be attached. This will be used during the installation phase. The location will be
identified by a sticker and marked on the survey sketch.

The output from the survey will be analysed by WTplc to ensure that there is
consistency and to determine the next series of actions that will occur with the
outlet.

Details of the site survey are provided in the site survey requirements document
produced as a result of this strategy. Third party suppliers will respond to the
requirement with corresponding technical specifications and a process
document describing how the survey will be managed at each outlet.

6.5.1 Exceptions

In general the work identified during the site survey relates to work that is
carried out at the site preparation event. The details are provided in the site
survey requirements document to which third party suppliers will respond with
corresponding technical specifications and a process document.

In some outlets it is anticipated that no solution will be found or no agreement
will be reached with the outlet manager for the location of the equipment. As
such additional specialist work may be required to modify the outlet
infrastructure before the standard preparation work can be carried out. These
outlets will be referred for the resurvey event, however sufficient details will be
collected during the site survey to provide recommendations for the resurvey
event. The outlet manager is notified of the event by a letter which is handed
out at the site survey.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 35 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

6.5.2 Responsibility

6.6

WTple.

Site resurvey coll

The date for the resurvey, if this is required, will be arranged with the outlet
manager via a telephone call. The appointment will be made for either the
morning or afternoon.

6.6.1 Responsibility

6.7

Pearce Security Systems Ltd.

Site Resurvey

The site resurvey will be carried out when one or more of the following
situations is encountered during the site survey event.

e Insufficient space in the outlet to accommodate the Horizon counter
equipment at one or more counter positions without impacting on the
operational or Health and Safety aspects of the outlet.

¢ Counter or screen modifications have been identified as the only solution to
accommodate the Horizon equipment at the outlet.

¢ Specialist joinery work is required at the outlet to accommodate the Horizon
equipment over that which could have been identified at the site survey
stage.

¢ Major building works are required at the outlet.

The resurvey will take place as arranged during resurvey call. A minimum of
one working days notice is required to cancel the resurvey, should this be
necessary.

Where modification work is identified at the site survey event as affecting the
security at the outlet it will be necessary for a POCL Task Force member to
accompany the resurvey. This is notified to POCL via the rollout database.

Where the resurvey work identifies work, which may affect the security of the
outlet, it may be necessary to close the outlet or carry out this work out of
hours. This is arranged between the outlet manager (or DRI on site), Pearce
Security Systems and the POCL Task Force member. Out of hour’s work,
however will have to be authorised by ICL Pathway in advance of the work
starting.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 36 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

A date for the modifications will be arranged with the outlet manager during
the resurvey. The date will consider the size of the outlet, complexity of the
modifications and impact on the security of the outlet.

Resurvey work results in a update to the site survey sketch and a revised Bill of
Materials. The modification work will also result in a quotation being prepared
which requires approval from POCL and ICL Pathway before the work can start.

The output from the resurvey will be analysed by Pearce Security Systems Ltd
for consistency and to determine the next stage. A process will be established
between ICL Pathway and POCL to authorise the funding of any work
identified.

Details of the site resurvey are provided in the site resurvey requirements
document produced as a result of this strategy. Third party suppliers will
respond to the requirement with corresponding technical specifications and a
process document describing how the resurvey will be managed.

6.7.1 Exceptions

In some outlets it is anticipated that even after the resurvey event, no feasible
solution can be agreed to accommodate the equipment. These outlets will be
passed to POCL for resolution and will be suspended from the programme until
an acceptable solution is found.

6.7.2 Responsibility

Pearce Security Systems Ltd.

A telephone call will be made to outlet managers to arrange an alternative date
for the modifications should the original date, which was arrange during the
resurvey (see section 6.7), have to change because of the nature of the work
involved or the outlet is part of the closure programme.

6.8.1 Responsibility

Pearce Security Systems Ltd.

6.9 Site Modifications

Site modifications are those activities carried out in an outlet which have to be
performed by a specialist organisation. Before any modification work is carried
out it has to have been cost authorised by ICL Pathway and POCL.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 37 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
ICL

FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515

Ingtollation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

The modifications will take place as agreed at the resurvey (see section 6.7) or
where this has been rearranged during the resurvey call (see section 6.8). A
minimum of one working days is required to cancel the modifications should
this be necessary.

It may be necessary to turn off the power during site modifications. This will be
agreed with the outlet manager at the time of the modifications. The outlet
manager will also be responsible for safeguarding the data on any legacy
systems before the power is removed by following the procedures which are
provided by POCL.

In some cases it may be necessary to close the outlet to enable the work to be
carried out. This usually applies where the modification work to be carried out
affects the security of the outlet and out of hours work is not feasible. It is at the
resurvey where this will be identified.

Completion of the modification work allows the outlet to be prepared for the
installation of the Horizon equipment as described in section 6.1.

The outlet manager will also be reminded during the modification of the date
arranged for the site preparation.

Details of the site modification are provided in the modification requirements
document produced as a result of this strategy. Third party suppliers will
respond to the requirement with corresponding technical specifications and a
process document describing how the survey will be managed to each outlet.

6.9.1 Exceptions

Modification work at the outlet will not be started unless the work has been
authorised.

6.9.2 Responsibility

Pearce Security Systems Ltd for the modification work.

POCL for ensuring the initiating the outlet closure programme.

6.10 Production of outlet labely

Outlet labels are required during the site preparation and equipment
installation activities. The labels are used as follows;

¢ Bar code label identifying the Outlet Identifier. See section 4.
¢ Horizon counter equipment labels. See section 4.
These are produced from information on the rollout database.

The Outlet Identifier label is sent to WTplc. This is installed during the site
preparation phase.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 38 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ' Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

The Horizon counter equipment labels are sent to Exel. These are attached
during the Horizon equipment installation phase.

Details of the bar code label production are documented in requirements
document produced as a result of acceptance of this strategy. Third party
suppliers will respond to the requirement with corresponding technical
specifications describing how the labels will be managed.

6.10.1 Responsibility

Celestica for production of bar code labels.
WTplc for installation of Outlet Identifier label.

Exel for installation of the counter equipment labels.

6.11 Site Preparation reminder call

A telephone call will be made to those outlets who did not have a resurvey and
modifications to remind them of the date agreed for the site preparation. If the
outlet manager has agreed to carry out work in advance at the preparation, the
telephone call will confirm that this work has been completed.

Those outlets who were subject to a resurvey and modifications are reminded of
the preparation date during the modifications. (See section 6.9).

6.11.14 Responsibility

WTple.

6.12 Site Preparation

Site preparation is carried out as described below;

e When an outlet has been surveyed and no modification work has been
identified.

¢ When an outlet has been identified for modification work and this has been
completed.

The site preparation will take place as arranged during the survey call (see
section 6.4). A minimum of one working days notice is required to cancel the
site preparation, should this be necessary.

It is used to prepare the outlet ready for installation of the Horizon counter
equipment and includes the electrical work, LAN connections, counter work
and minor modification work to accommodate the Horizon equipment. The
work carried out is only that which has been identified during the site survey.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 39 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
ICL

FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515

Ingtollation Strategy Ref: IM/STR/o26

Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

Power will have to be turned off during site preparation. This will be agreed
with the outlet manager at the time of the preparation. For outlets with ECCO
equipment the power outage will be arranged between 17:00 & 18:oohrs. The
outlet manager will also be responsible for safeguarding the data on any legacy
systems before the power is removed, by following the procedures which are
provided by POCL.

The site preparation work is completed within one working day, where possible
(Ref. [2]).

The number of counter positions which may be closed at any one time during
the site preparation will conform to the requirements stated in Ref. [2].

Details of the site preparation are provided in the site preparation requirements
document produced as a result of this strategy. Third party suppliers will
respond to the requirement with corresponding technical specification
documents describing how the preparation will be managed.

6.12.1 Exceptiony

All work at the site preparation is to be completed within one working day. The
exception to this is the connection of electrical tail circuits which can only be
carried out after the preparation work has been completed (see section 6.16).

6.12.2 Responsibility

WTple.

6.13 Infrastructure Acceptance

Infrastructure acceptance is carried out by the outlet manager after the site
preparation activities have been completed. Acceptance means that the outlet
manager has agreed that the work carried out to prepare the infrastructure has,
to the best of his knowledge, been completed and that the outlet is ready for
installation.

Details of the infrastructure acceptance are provided in the acceptance strategy
(Ref. [1]) document which details the conditions under which preparation is
completed.

6.13.1 Exceptiony

Refusal by the outlet manager to accept the infrastructure preparation work are
to be reported immediately to ICL Pathway using the mechanisms described in
section 5.3.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 40 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

6.13.2 Responsibility

WTple.

6.14 Ready for Installation

Ready for Installation means that the outlet can be progressed to the
installation phase.

A completion pack providing a sketch, bill of materials, customer satisfaction
form and electrical safety certificates is prepared by WTplc for all outlets.

The completion pack is only prepared when all the activities at the outlet,
including connection of electrical tails has been completed.

Outlets which require connection of electrical tail circuits are still classified as
Ready for Installation, however a specific field is available on the rollout
database to indicate that this activity still has to take place. Only when the
electrical tails have been connected will the completion pack be prepared.

Arrangements are made for the electrical tail circuits to be connected via the
local electricity authority.

Additional information relating to those outlets which required a resurvey and
modifications will be packaged as a completion pack by Pearce System
Securities Ltd.

Completed completion packs for all outlets are passed to Exel for management
and storage.

Details of Ready for Installation are provided in the site preparations
requirements document produced as a result of this strategy. Third party
suppliers will respond to the requirement with corresponding technical
specifications.

6.14.1 Exceptiony

There are no exceptions for Ready for Installation. Where any of the
infrastructure preparation activities have not been completed Ready for
Installation cannot be achieved.

6.14.2 Responsibility

WTplc for preparation of the completion packs.

Exel for storage of completion packs.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 41 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

6.15 Inspection event

ICL Pathway reserves the right at its discretion to inspect the quality of
infrastructure preparation work at a sample (typically 10%) of outlets. The
inspection process will comprise;

e Operation of the electrical circuit
e Visual inspection of the electrical circuits

e Visual inspection of any modification and preparation work carried out
during the infrastructure phase.

¢ Confirmation that all the infrastructure work has been carried out as detailed
in the completion pack.

The inspectorate service will provide an indication as to whether the
installation can take place. Results of the inspectorate service are made
available to ICL Pathway and discussed with WTplc on a weekly basis, where
the appropriate corrective action will be agreed.

Details of the inspectorate service are provided in an inspectorate requirements
document. Third party suppliers will respond to the requirements with
technical specifications as to how the inspectorate service will be managed.

6.15.1 Responsibility

ICL Operational Services Division for organisation of the inspection service.
6.16 Connection of electrical tail cirenity

Outlets which required the electricity board to connect the electrical
installation will be completed. The completion pack for the outlet is passed to
Exel.

6.16.1 Responsibility
WTple.

6.17 Initial order of communication Liney

The communications circuit for the outlet is ordered. This will provide an
indication as to whether the outlet is suitable for ISDN installation based on a
projected installation date.

Where the outlet is suitable for ISDN installation, the order will be progressed.

e The ISDN number will be passed via the rollout database interface to ICL
Pathway.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 42 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FU,
installation Strateg Ref: IM/STR/o26
IL ! Strategy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

e ISDN lines will not be required at outlets which are already installed with
ALPS equipment. In these outlets ISDN lines are already installed. For the
installation of the Horizon counter equipment ownership of the ISDN line
will be transferred to ICL Pathway from POCL. A process will be agreed
between ICL Pathway and POCL for the transfer of these circuits.

Where the outlet is not suitable for ISDN installation, one of the following will

apply.

e If the outlet is due to become ISDN conformant on a later date within
National Rollout timescales, then the outlet may not be selected for the
installation phase until that date, provided this does not impact the
implementation of the Benefit Agency District which the outlet is part of.
This will be agreed with POCL.

¢ The outlet may be selected for Frame Relay. The criteria for selection will be
determined by a process established by the ICL Pathway Implementation
Team.

e The outlet may be selected for PSTN. The criteria for selection will be
determined by a process established by the ICL Pathway Implementation
Team to be agreed with POCL.

ICL Pathway will be responsible for notifying suppliers of the appropriate
communications connection via the rollout database.

6.17.1 Responsibility

Energis for initially placing the ISDN order.

ICL Pathway for determining the appropriate communications connection if
ISDN is not available.

6.17.1.1 Frame Relay outlets

If an outlet is selected for Frame Relay, the following apply;
e Energis will order a kilostream circuit in place of an ISDN circuit.

e ICL Pathway will arrange for the outlet to be prepared for installation of a
router, which may require an additional power socket to be installed. This
may require an additional visit to the outlet to prepare the environment.

¢ ICL Pathway will arrange for the installation of the router configured with
the appropriate parameters. This will occur after installation of the
kilostream circuit.

Details of Frame Relay are provided in a requirements document. Third party
suppliers will respond to the requirements with technical specifications as to
how the Frame Relay service will be managed at the outlet.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 43 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

FUJ00001515
}J00001515
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
Uatio te Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
6.17.1.2 PSTN outlets
Details to be provided in a future issue.
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 44 of 47

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FU.
ICL Instollatiow Strategy Vern MISTR/ox
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
7 Planning Phase

741

The planning phase covers those events required to select the outlets for the
installation phase. Completion of the planning phase results in the outlet
progressing to the installation phase.

Agree installation date with the outlet manager

The outlet manager is contacted by telephone to arrange the installation date.
Installation activities will only be carried out during the outlets hours of
business.* The installation will be arranged for either the morning or afternoon.
Acceptance of the installation date will confirm agreement to attend the
training events during a 5 working day period prior to the installation.

At the same time the date for the installation of the communication circuit will
also be arranged.

The agreed dates will be confirmed by letter to the outlet manager. This will be
the letter that is used to confirm the date of the User Awareness Event.

Where an installation date cannot be agreed with the outlet manager the
escalation routes described in section 5 will apply.

7.1L Responsibility

7.2

Exel - The date once arranged, will become the baselined date and the IU will
be made available to all suppliers involved in the installation phase.

Energis - To arrange for the installation of the communications circuit on the
arranged date.

ICL Pathway to arrange the preparation of the outlet environment if Frame
Relay has been identified as the communications link.

Forecast to hardwore suppliery

Information provided by the rollout database to Celestica allows a forecast to be
provided to hardware suppliers for the equipment required to satisfy the
installation. The forecast is derived from figures based on the number of
counter positions, number of back office systems and the printer type.

* The exception to this may be ECCO outlets which is currently under discussion between ICL Pathway and POCL

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 45 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

FUJ00001515
}J00001515
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
IcL Installation Strategy Vern MISTR/ox
Pathwoy Date: 2/12/08
7.2.14 Responsibility

Celestica.
Uney

The order for the communications circuit identified at the outlet is confirmed.
This is because the target installation date has now been agreed with the outlet
manager.

7.3.1 Responsibility

Energis.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 46 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
ICL
Pathwoy

Installation Strategy Ref:

Version:
Date:

FUJ00001515
FUJ00001515

IM/STR/o26
10

2/12/98

8 Installation phase

The installation phase covers those events required to install and deliver the
Horizon counter equipment in outlets. Completion of the installation phase
results in the outlet moving to the in office data migration and acceptance

phase.

An outlet can only be selected for the installation phase when the following
criteria has been satisfied;

e Infrastructure phase has been completed and the outlet has been classified as
Ready for Installation.

e A minimum of 4 weeks has elapsed between completion of the infrastructure
phase and the start of activities for the installation phase at the outlet. This is
used to plan the forthcoming activities. This is the planning phase (section

7).

8.1 Identify the additional work for SMART offices

Every NR2 offices which support SMART functionality either through an APT
SMART system, Quantum terminal, or any of the SMART key units, will require
additional site preparation work to be carried out. This is because the Horizon
counter equipment at NR2 does not support this functionality. Third party
suppliers will, through a separate process which will only exist during NR2,
perform additional site preparation activities as described in table 8.

Functionalit
y

Actions

Responsibili
ty

APT SMART

Identify and provide, where necessary, any
additional power, data communications or
shelves to support APT SMART units when
the Horizon equipment is installed. This will
initially be through the use of extension
cables where the equipment cannot be left in
its original position.

ICL Pathway

ECCO APPU

APPU units will be temporarily supported by
a APT SMART unit.

Identify any requirement for additional
power or data communications cables to
support APT SMART units.

Provide the additional power or data

POCL

ICL Pathway

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page: 47 of 47
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
tC ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98
communication cables if required.
Provide and install the APT SMART unit I POCL
before installation of the Horizon counter
equipment
Quantum and I Identify and provide, where necessary, any I ICL Pathway

SMART Key
units

additional power, data communications or
shelves to support Quantum when the
Horizon equipment is installed. This will
initially be through the use of extension
cables where the equipment cannot be left in
its original position.

Table 8

8.2 User Aworenesy Event

To ensure that the outlet manager understands the next series of events, a User
Awareness Event is arranged. Details of the User Awareness Event are
documented in a training strategy document (Ref. [1]).

Confirmation of the User Awareness Event will be provided to the outlet
manager by a letter. The letter will also document the agreed dates for the
installation of the communications link and the Horizon counter equipment.

8.2.1 Responsibility

Peritas.

8.3 Invitation to training

Information collated at the User Awareness Event will allow individual training
invitations to be sent to outlet staff via the outlet manager. Details of the
invitation to training are provided in the training strategy (Ref. [1]).

8.3.1 Responsibility

Peritas.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CONTROLLED

Page: 48 of 47
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515

nstollotiow ateg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ich ! Str 9 Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

8.4 Auto configuration of the Horizow Counter equipment

All Horizon equipment will be built with a minimal configuration. Thus
counter equipment can be built and configured in advance and the equipment
can be delivered to outlets as described in section 8.7.

The information required to configure the counter equipment is made available
from the rollout database and comprises;

e¢ Communications type identifier.

e ISDN number (or PSTN number).

¢ Outlet name and address.

¢ Outlet FAD code.

¢ Number of counters.

¢ Whether the outlet has a Back Office System.
e Printer type.

¢ Region id.

Details on the operation of the auto configuration process are detailed in a
process document produced as a result of this strategy.

8.4.1 Responsibility

ICL Pathway.

8.5 Instollationw of the Communicationy Line

The choice of communication circuit is determined using the parameters
described in section 7. The communications line will be installed as arranged
during the installation call (see section 7.1). A minimum of one working days
notice is required to cancel the installation, should this be necessary.

8.5.1 ISDN line

An ISDN line will be installed at the outlet. This will provide the
communications to the central data centres. The position of the ISDN NTE is
noted during the site survey by a sticker attached to the wall. To ensure the
sticker is recognised by the installation engineer, they will be provided to
WTplc by Energis.

The sticker will be of sufficient size such that when the ISDN point is installed
the box will cover the sticker.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 49 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

Where a sticker cannot be found at the outlet, then procedures will exist which
will confirm the position with WTplc from the survey documentation.

From installation of the ISDN line until the installation of the Horizon
equipment, the ISDN line will be monitored by Energis. Should the ISDN line
fail this will be detected by Energis and rectified before installation of the
Horizon equipment. Should a failure on the ISDN line be detected within 2 days
of the baseline installation date and it is anticipated that the Horizon counter
equipment installation may be affected, then telephone escalation to ICL
Pathway will occur.

Details of the ISDN installation will be provided in a communications
requirement document produced as a result of acceptance of this strategy
document. Third Party suppliers will respond to the requirement with
corresponding technical specifications.

8.5.2 Frame relay

A kilostream circuit will be installed, by Energis, in the outlet. Any additional
work required to support the unit will be completed in advance of the
installation of the kilostream unit.

Frame relay will also require the installation of a router. This router will be
installed after the kilostream unit and will be configured on site by ICL
Pathway.

8.5.3 PSTN

To be supplied in a later release of this document.

8.5.4 Responsibility

8.6

Energis for the ISDN and kilostream communication links.

ICL Pathway for installation of a router.

Inspectorate service

ICL Pathway reserves the right at its discretion to inspect the quality of
infrastructure preparation work at a sample (typically 10%) of outlets.. The
inspection process will comprise;

e Operation of the electrical circuit
e Visual inspection of the electrical circuits

¢ Visual inspection of any modification and preparation work carried out
during the infrastructure phase.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 50 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

¢ Confirmation that all the infrastructure work has been carried out as detailed
in the completion pack.

e Acheck that the communication link is operating.

The inspectorate service will provide an indication as to whether the
installation can take place. Results of the inspectorate service are made
available to ICL Pathway and discussed with WTplc on a weekly basis.

8.6.1 Responsibility

ICL System Service.

8.7 Build of the counter systemy

The equipment that will be delivered to the outlet will be tested and packaged
into boxes known as overshippers. Different types of overshippers will exist to
satisfy the different counter positions encountered in an outlet. In summary
these are;

¢ Gateway server in a single counter outlet.
e Gateway server in a multi counter outlet.
¢ Standard counter in a multi counter outlet.

The counter equipment will comprise a PC base unit built to the correct
software level and a number of associated peripherals. The test procedures will
ensure that all the equipment is configured and operable before being packed
in the overshipper. The build scripts and test routines are provided to Celestica
by the Verification Centre.

To control the asset data, serial numbers of the individual items will be collated
as the equipment is packaged in an overshipper.

Each overshipper will be labelled with a serial number and overshipper type.

8.7.1 Responsibility

Celestica for the build process and overshipper production.

Verification Centre for build and test scripts.

8.8 User Training

A specific training event will ensure that the user is suitably prepared to operate
the Horizon counter equipment.

Details of the training event are provided in the training strategy (Ref. [1]).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 51 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

8.8.1 Responsibility

Peritas.

8.9 Collection of overshippery

Details of the number and type of overshippers required to satisfy the
forthcoming installations are provided by Exel to Celestica in advance of them
being collected. Exel determine the number and types of overshippers based on
the number of counter positions, back office system flag and printer type for a
particular outlet. Celestica determine the number of overshippers based on the
same information but on a weekly basis. Using this method a cross check and
balance system for overshippers is operated.

As overshippers are collected from Celestica the serial number and type of
overshipper is registered. As the overshipper is transported to interim storage
areas the overshipper serial number and type is registered at each stage.
Utilising this method control of the assets is maintained.

Sufficient overshippers can be collected from Celestica to satisfy 5 days of
installations, however this will be regarded as the exception and in reality only 2
days worth of overshippers will be collected.

The collection process will be documented as a result of acceptance of this
strategy document.

8.9.1 Responsibility

Exel for notification and collection of overshippers

Celestica to ensure sufficient overshippers are available.

8.10 Equipment installation

Horizon equipment can only be installed when the following criteria have been
satisfied;

e Power is available at the sockets provided for the Horizon counter
equipment.

¢ Communication link is operable.
¢ Horizon equipment has been collected.

The disruption notice provided at the survey will be used to warn POCL
customers of the installation activities.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 52 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

The installation will take place as arranged during the installation call (see
section 7.1). A minimum of one working days notice is required to cancel the
installation, should this be necessary.

In some outlets ECCO or ALPS equipment will have to be removed as part of
the installation. The equipment will be packaged, labelled with the type and
quantities of the equipment and where it was removed from. The equipment
will be removed from the outlet and delivered to a POCL nominated site. For
these outlets the installation is not complete until all the above equipment as
agreed with POCL, has been removed from the outlet.

For those outlets which have SMART systems, the Horizon equipment will
share the same workspace as the SMART equipment until In office migration.
The SMART equipment will then be moved to a temporary location as
identified in section 8.1, by Horizon Field Support Officers using special
procedures agreed between ICL Pathway and POCL established for NR2. This is
identified when the Horizon Field Support Officer arrives on site to carry out
the migration activities.

Outlets with other forms of existing equipment, which will become redundant
after In office migration, will be installed with the Horizon equipment as
normal. Where the existing equipment and the Horizon equipment share the
same physical location, then temporary space will be created to allow the
continued operation of the existing equipment. This could be through standing
the Horizon keyboard on its side off the counter, placing the keyboard on top of
the monitor or moving the existing equipment off to a temporary location
which does not involve powering off of the equipment. Each case will be judged
on the day of installation by the installer in agreement with the outlet manager.

The time taken to install equipment at counter positions in the outlet conform
to those described in Ref. [2].

The number of counter positions which may be closed in an outlet at any one
time will conform to the requirements detailed in Ref. [2].

The equipment will be configured on installation using the auto configuration
system (See section 8.10.3).

Asset data will be collected during the installation using the Outlet Identifier
and equipment labels (see section 4.1.1).

The installation of the Horizon counter equipment at the outlet will be
documented in a requirements document. Third party suppliers will respond to
the requirements documentation with a series of specifications and process
documents.

8.10.1 Responsibility

Exel for installation of the Horizon equipment, collection of asset data and
removal of ECCO and ALPS equipment.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 53 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26

ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0

Pothway Date: 2/12/98

Horizon Field Support Officers for installation and movement of SMART
systems?,

8.10.2 Ouvtlety withdrawn from the programme

It is anticipated that during the installation phase at some outlets the scheduled
installation of the equipment may be stopped at the last moment because of
unscheduled circumstances. Examples of these are as follows;

¢ Outlet staff fail to meet the contractual minimum training requirement.
¢ The outlet is withdrawn by POCL due to unforeseen circumstances

Requirements relating to the procedures to be followed for outlets withdrawn
from the programme are to be documented in a requirements document
produced as a result of this strategy document.

8.10.3 Overview of the Auto configuration procesy

When the installer connects the gateway server to the communication link and
powers on the system, the equipment labelled attached during the installation
is scanned. Sufficient information is configured on the base system to enable a
connection to a boot server system installed in the ICL Pathway campus.
Specific information relating to that particular post office gateway server is then
downloaded. At this point the server automatically applies the configuration
information and reloads.

After reloading, the gateway server then has sufficient information to establish
a connection to the ICL Pathway management centre from which the full
configuration file is downloaded. The server will then apply this configuration
information and reload again.

After the system has reloaded for the second time the server is fully
personalised with configuration information specific to that post office outlet
and counter configuration. The system is then ready for the secure phase of the
operation to start. This is the Post Master logon. On successful completion of
the secure phase the server will then complete its load sequence.

Any additional counter servers in the outlet follow the same process except that
the first configuration information is obtained from the gateway server and the
loading of Riposte information is also obtained from the gateway server.

8.10.4 Regression Pathy during installation

For outlets with ECCO functionality, business continuity will be maintained
through a regression strategy as follows;

3 Formal agreement has still to be reached with regard to who moves equipment.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 54 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001515

FUJ00001515
nstollotiow Stroteg Ref: IM/STR/o26
ICL ! Strategy Version: 1.0
Pothway Date: 2/12/98

e Regression (that is re-establishing an operating environment in the event of
the installation failing) is related to the operational data in the outlet and not
the ECCO hardware. Once data has been safely secured to a CTD and the
Back Office system, the ECCO counter equipment can be decommissioned
and reinstalled with minimum impact at the outlet.

¢ Regression strategy is built around the ECCO data. ECCO data is transferred
to the Horizon platform on a CTD by CTD basis. Once a CTD has been
transferred to the Horizon platform the data can only be accessed via the
Horizon platform. As such the critical time (the point of no return) will be
from migration of the first CTD until the successful migration of the last
CTD.

e After transfer of the ECCO data to the Horizon platform, there will be no
regression back to the ECCO hardware platform. Any failure with the
Horizon environment after data migration will result in normal steady state
backup procedures being employed.

e Where situations are encountered that result in a failure during the data
migration of the CTD’s, ICL Pathway and POCL will work together to resolve
the issue on an individual basis.

For ALPS outlets with Electronic Stop Notice (and no ECCO), users will be
encouraged to revert to manual procedures during installation, until data
migration is complete.

For all other offices, installation will take place in advance of data migration.
For these outlets, installation failure will result in a rescheduling of the data
migration activities.

Details of regression will be documented in the appropriate requirements
document. Third party suppliers will respond to the requirements
documentation with a series of specifications and process documents.

8.11 Acceptance of the instollation phase

Installation acceptance is carried out by Exel in the presence of the outlet
manager. Acceptance means that the outlet manager has agreed that the work
carried out to install the equipment has, to the best of his knowledge, been
completed and that the outlet is ready for In office migration of the outlet data
to the Horizon platform.

Details of the installation acceptance are provided in the acceptance strategy
(Ref. [1]) document which details the conditions under which installation is
completed.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 55 of 47
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
