ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

ICL PATHWAY

PROGRAMME OFFICE

MONTHLY REPORT
May 1998
Compiled by : Graham Chatten

Programme Office Manager

Date: 5" June 1998

Commercial in Confidence Page I of 27

FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

eR

s

Bal

a

x

Ea

. Programme Office .

. APS (Programme Wide)

. NON-ISDN

. Audi

. Reconcili

. Reference Data ...

Contents

1.1 Planning Office
1.1.1 Monthly Summary ..
1.1.2 Issues ..
1.1.3 Staffin;
1.1.4 Last Month (May) Activities
1.1.5 Next Month (June) Activities .

1.2 Programme Tracking and Control ..
1.2.1 Monthly Summary .

1.2.5 Planned Work .
1.3 Configuration Management ....
1 Software Configuration Management ..
2 Hardware Configuration Management.
3 Change Management
1.3.4 Document Management
1.3.5 Problem Management
6 Issues ..
7 Staffing ..
8 Last Month (May) Activities

1.3.9 Next Month (June) Activities ..
1.4 Programme Wide...

1.4.1 Programme Risk Analysis.
New Release 2

3.1 NR2....
3.2 NR2+..
3.3 Issues ..
3.3.1 NR2
3.3.2 NR2+.

4.1 Progress ..
4.2 Issues ..
Security and Audi
5.1 Monthly Summary .
5.2 Progress .
5.2.1 Security - NR2
2 Security - NR2+..

5.3 Issues wee

6.1 Monthly Summ:
6.2 Progress...
1 Requirements

‘ion.
7.1 Progress Summary ..
7.2 Actions...

8.1 Progress Summ:
8.2 Actions...

Commercial in Confidence Page 2 of 27

FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office
9, Roll-Out Data Base. 24
9.1 Status as at 1/6/98. 24

9.2 Actions in focus during the next period
9.3 Issues

10.2 Progress
10.3 Issues .....

Commercial in Confidence Page 3 of 27

FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

1. Programme Office
1.1 Planning Office
1.1.1 Monthly Summary

A new Release 2 High Level Plan (Plan A1.3) was agreed as the basis for the
preparation of the new Level 3 Plans. Work on establishing the agreed L3
plans leading to a consolidated L1 Plan has been the main focus during the
month.

A “Hangouts” spreadsheet has been established in an attempt to capture
outstanding issues and CPs so that they may be incorporated into the new
plans. All level 1 managers have been asked to assess the impact of the
hangouts and ensure that they are integrated fully into their future plans. T&I
are resisting providing the information (as agreed they would at the meeting on
14" May) to use as a basis for low level planning and CP test tracking.

More work has been done in developing the plans for Acceptance, Customer
Education and Quality & Risk. Additional levels of granularity need to be
added next month.

A review of the planning services has been undertaken and the conclusions
and recommendations are to be considered during the coming month.

1.1.2 Issues

The exception reporting process in the Design, Development and T&I areas
remains a concern and it has not been carried out effectively during the month
due to the re-planning exercises. The process and meetings format will be
reviewed following agreement of the latest plan.

Agreement and acceptance of the plans at all levels needs to be tackled so that
full commitment is achieved to provide the focus that the programme
demands.

A number of planning exercises on the concurrent work of NR2 and R2+
shows cause for concern on programme slippage and potential resource
constraints. The work will be provided to MC/TA for consideration.

1.1.3 Staffing

Rob Clark (freelance) joined during May on a short term contract as the
Planning Manager; this will free up Andy Morley to concentrate more on
customer-facing activity.

Commercial in Confidence Page 4 of 27
ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

Advertising for the permanent post of Planning Manager has appeared in the
national press; the response has been disappointing. To date only one
appropriate candidate has been passed to Pathway from Hayes, but the
candidate has been rejected following interview.

1.1.4. Last Month (May) Activities

1. Replan v 4.0 once the agreement on alignment of Model Office phases has
been reached.
2. Plan all ‘Hangout’ activities including intermediate milestones.

Target completion for activities 1 and 2 is now 5" June

3. Define process for exception tracking of other programme areas such as
Acceptance, Customer Services, Implementation.

Target completion w/c 8" June.

1.1.5 Next Month (June) Activities

Swn-

ay

. Complete re-plan exercise and issue agreed Level I plans.

. Complete L2 plans and issue.

. Re-establish close monitoring and control against the newly agreed Level 3 Plans

. Consider Planning Services Review document; some short term objectives can be

implemented immediately.

. Handover Planning Team management from Andy Morley to Rob Clark.

1.2 Programme Tracking and Control

1.2.1. Monthly Summary

The PinICL forecasting model was completed and issued to several managers
for comments. These supported the assumptions used to forecast PinICLs.
However it was felt that greater emphasis was required on technical and
security testing and the model has been revised to take this into account. This

resulted in a marginal increased number of PinICLs forecasted. The number

and rate of actual PinICLs raised will now be tracked against the model and
the trend will be used to generate future forecasts.

The speed of finalizing the budget forecasts for the Systems Directorate has
been disappointingly slow. The manpower plan for the whole of 1999 is now
required before reaching a point where the forecast can be baselined. The
mitigating circumstance for lack of progress in this area is the concerted effort
on the Release 2 re-planning exercise. The net effect however is that further
effort will be required in this area and not the lesser effort in maintenance of a
stable budget as originally envisaged.

Commercial in Confidence Page 5 of 27

FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

The graphs produced from the metrics area have required quite some effort in
continuous realignment to re-plan dates. As with the budget forecast, the
volatility of the plans has resulted in a greater amount of effort than envisaged.
It is expected to return to a “maintenance” mode when the Release 2 High
Level Plan v4.0 is agreed next month

Work has started on the full study report outlining the overall aims of the
Control/Tracking section.

Work has also started on the joint exercise with Finance and Personnel on
establishing and maintaining a Pathway Manpower plan. However the
pressures required by the Control/Tracking study report will result in this
having a lesser priority.

1.2.2 Progress

1.2.2.1 Metrics

The Pin ICL forecast model has been refined to show the quantities of
PinICLs raised and closed up to Rel 2 MOR #1. The figures produced have
been forwarded to Development and T&I for their review.

A summary of the information produced by the model is as follows:-

PinICL forecasts show the rate of PinICLs Opening to start declining at the
end of June (in conjunction with the culmination of System Testing), but this
will be too late for the rate of PinICL closing to catch up. Current estimations
are as follows:

Total Number of Rel 2 PinICLs OPENED by MOR #1 = 3950 approx
Total Number of Rel 2 PinICLs CLOSED by MOR #1 = 3500 approx

Total Number PinICLs remaining OPEN at MOR #1 = 450 approx

1.2.2.2 PiniCL MIS

There have not been any new developments in this area.

Following the formal Pathway response to the Horizon Programme on their
Fault Management report (as reported last month), another version 0.2 was
received and comments expected on this version.

1.2.2.3. Pathway Budget Forecast

Progress has been painfully slow in this area. Although reviews have been held
on the largest directorates, namely Systems, Customer Service and
Programmes directorates, only the forecast for Programmes has been formally
baselined.

Commercial in Confidence Page 6 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

The amendments as agreed at the CS review have still to be effected before it
can be baselined. For Systems, the requirement changed and a manpower plan
is now required for the whole of 1999 for review.

1.2.2.4 General

A study report outlining the overall aims of the Control/Tracking section
commenced during the month. Unfortunately progress on this has been
hampered by other ongoing work.

1.2.3 Critical Problems
No critical problems reported.

1.2.4 Issues

1.2.4.1 Metrics

The volatility of the plans resulted in re-work in this area. It is recognized that
stability will be achieved when v4.0 of the High Level Plan for Release 2 is
approved next month.

1.2.4.2 Problem Management

None.

1.2.4.3 Pathway Budget Forecast

The lack of enthusiasm in this area is now quite worrying. Work in this area
will take a lower priority as effort will be concentrated on completion of the
Control/Tracking study report.

1.2.4.4 General

The priority of the Control/Tracking study report needs to be increased.

1.2.5 Planned Work
1.2.5.1 Metrics

1. Realign the graphs to the Release 2 High Level Plan v4.0 when this is
agreed.

2. Map actual numbers of PinICLs raised against forecast within PinICL
forecasting model.

3. Greater level of data analysis.

1.2.5.2 PiniCL MIS

Commercial in Confidence Page 7 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

1. Wider distribution of the PinICL MIS report document once internally
agreed.

1.2.5.3 Pathway Budget Forecast

1. Baseline budget forecast for Systems directorate.
2. Define operational procedures with the Finance section for reporting actual
costs against forecast. Not achieved last month.

1.2.5.4 General

1. Catalogue the full suite of reports from Programme Control/Tracking.

1.3 Configuration Management
1.3.1 Software Configuration Management

Management of the installable software is continuing with the usual problems
of last minute changes to configurations as the software drop is ready for
delivery, causing unplanned work and delays in take-on into PCMS.

Suzie Morley has started with us to replace Merrilyn Dodds. We will continue
to support the current processes and begin work on the use of PCMS for
Source Code Management. This is dependent upon an upgrade of PCMS to 4.4
from 4.3. Intersolv (the new owners of PCMS) are having difficulty in
performing the upgrade for the TeamServer platform because the Motif
development software is no longer supported.

We are waiting for Design to produce the physical design documents for the
Solaris platforms.

1.3.2 Hardware Configuration Management

Work is continuing to develop the Hardware Configuration Baseline for NR2.
A meeting has been conducted regarding the collection of asset data. We have
agreed with all relevant parties that the hardware configuration information for
counters will be held in the asset database and updated with each repair.

We are still awaiting Design’s input, in the form of a baselined document, for
the configuration of the Routers.

1.3.3 Change Management

The initiative to clear all CPs by the end of May was unsuccessful. This was
due to the volume of new CPs raised in the last half of the month. There are
currently 38 CPs for impact, of which 47 were raised since 15 May. Therefore
if no new CPs were raised in the latter half of May, we could have cleared the
backlog.

Commercial in Confidence Page 8 of 27
ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

The volume of CPs being raised both internally and externally is not abating.

1.3.4 Document Management

The volume of documents and reviews continues at a steady level

1.3.5 Problem Management

The Problem Review Forum and progress chasing continues as normal. Please
refer to the Programme Tracking & Control section for metrics.

1.3.6 Issues

The SCM team are being asked to cover all weekends, 9am-Spm, and
potentially 24hrs. However, we do not have the staff contracts in place to
cover this. This potentially could cause an issue if we lose the good co-
operation we currently have.

The management of source code is dependent upon an upgrade from 4.3 to 4.4
of PCMS. Version 4.4 includes the developer’s interface that integrates with
Visual Basic and Visual C++. Intersolv are having difficulty performing this
upgrade because the platform’s operating system and MOTIF development
environment are no longer supported. We are yet to determine the Y2K status
of 4.3. Potentially we might have to migrate to a different type of server.

1.3.7 Staffing

Sue Rutherford has agreed to join us in a permanent position within Change
Management, reporting to Kim Rosenbaum.

Brian Crossland has replaced Annet Fernandes as document controller, in a
temporary capacity. Potentially he will consider a permanent position. This
will be reviewed in late June.

1.3.8 Last Month (May) Activities

13.9

The planned activities for May were :

1. Finalise PinICL MIS reports Not yet agreed
2. Receive PinICL software updates for enhancements Due in June

3. Review Change Control impact process Ongoing

4. Add Routers to the HCM/SCM database for NR2 Awaiting Design
5. Add Solaris Platforms to SCM database for NR2 Awaiting Design

Next Month (June) Activities
The planned activities for June are :

1. Finalise PinICL MIS reports
2. Receive PinICL software updates for enhancements

Commercial in Confidence Page 9 of 27

FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office
3. Review Change Control impact process
4. Add Routers to the HCM/SCM database for NR2
5. Add Solaris Platforms to SCM database for NR2

»

Produce strategy and high level plan for Source Code Takeon into PCMS

1.4 Programme Wide
1.4.1 Programme Risk Analysis

The Programme Risk Analysis produced in February has been taken up by
Quality and Risk and has been issued to managers who have been assigned a
tisk to mitigate. The mitigation actions have been processed by Q&R and
discussed at a Risk meeting. The Programme Office continues to assist and
support this work as and when required.

Commercial in Confidence Page 10 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

2. New Release 2
2.1 NR2 Summary
2.1.1 General
May has been focussed on two activities - re-planning and testing.

The re-planning exercise has consumed a great deal of effort from the
production teams. There is still some way to go before a finalised plan is
produced that is underpinned with the necessary level of detail and is “bought
into” by the Sponsors. Of concern is the difficulty in defining the outstanding
development work required to complete the release. Until there is confidence
that all the “hangouts” have been identified and are contained in the plan, there
is a risk that further unexpected tasks will arise.

Testing has dominated the focus of T&I, PIT, SPTS and Development. Daily
prayers has been running for much of the month to provide day-to-day tactical
priorities. The general status is that we are behind where we would wish to be
with a number of System Test phases (in particular EPOSS) whilst having
maintained good progress with Cycle 1 of Business Integration Testing (BIT).
The priority has been to fix PinICLs that are preventing any of the main
threads of testing. A PinICL clearance plan is being produced by Development
to identify how the backlog of lower priority PinICLs can be cleared.

Direct Interface Testing (DIT) phase 2 is on target to re-start on 16" June. This
is an extremely visible and politically sensitive milestone - every effort has
been made to ensure this is achieved successfully.

A revised approach and strategy to to Model Office has been brokered with
CAPS/Horizon. The new approach is at the heart of the re-plan and forms the
comerstone of the shape of the new plan. There are a number of areas of the
plan where the Horizon are reviewing the approach from their perspective (e.g.
Live Trial).

Commercial in Confidence Page 11 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

2.2 Issues

The main areas of concern:

e As reported last month, the 3.3 Recovery Plan has proven to be
unachievable. During the month there has not been a firm plan against
which to track progress.

e There are a number of major areas of the system that remain to be finalised
- these include:
© Reference Data
¢ Reconciliation
e In Office Migration
e Audit

¢ Introduction of security is now forecast to occur later in the process than
was originally planned. This increases the risk that issues that arise will not
be able to be handled in the elapsed time of the plan.

¢ Design/Development continue to raise change and items for the “hangouts”
list. Given the elapsed time left before we have to make code freezes the
opportunity for further change without impact is limited. Reference Data
“get well” programme has been established which will require development
support until the enrichment tools are delivered.

e The number of PinICLs has remained constant during the last month. The
focus has been upon the clearance of the “A” and “B” priority PinICLs. It
appears that it has been difficult on occasions to keep pace with these and a
PinICL clearance plan is being drawn up by Development to show the
impact on the plan of this activity.

RCD not signed off by Sponsors - this remains an outstanding contractual issue.

Commercial in Confidence Page 12 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

3. APS (Programme Wide)

3.1 NR2

DIT2 testing on HAPS is still suspended awaiting resolution of TPS/TIP
interface problems and will restart in early June. BIT testing (including APS
functionality) has completed two cycles and the third full cycle has now
commenced.

Customer Service are progressing the agreement of operational processes and
SLAs and the Reconciliation Process is being reworked following a formal
review. The APS Processes and Procedures Description has been reviewed
with POCL and is currently being reworked.

The APS Reconciliation High Level Design is out for review. The High Level
Design of APS has been baselined and now reflects the current design and
incorporates additional information not documented elsewhere eg. a
description of how tokens are matched with Reference data at the Counter.

There are still outstanding agreements to agree on APS in relation to the
Technical documentation required by POCL to market the service to their
clients and also to assess any possible new AP services. The previously agreed
solution of sending them our design and technical information under an NDA
was fraught with difficulty on both sides and a new approach has been adopted
using a new document - APS Service Overview. This document is being
prepared by Dave Cooke and is intended to provide the right level of
information for POCL without infringing Pathway’s IPR and so will not
require an NDA. This will be discussed with POCL in early June.

Some problems have been identified with the processing at the counter of a
few magnetic cards and bar codes, resolutions are being progressed through
both code and Reference Data changes. One of these changes requires an
amendment to Escher code which is being progressed.

Hand-over of Token and Interface specifications is nearly complete. Further
test tokens are still awaited, but informal testing of many of the tokens already
handed over has taken place and PinICLs raised on Reference data are being
fixed. There is still an issue surrounding provision of “Method of Payment”
Reference data, but this is being actively resolved.

3.2 NR2+

Talexus and PISCES Smart cards are being excluded from the Release NR2+
Contents Description and no further work is being progressed on these.

POCL have provided a baseline for Watercard and a partial baseline for
Quantum. Another meeting was held with CQO and POCL where some

Commercial in Confidence Page 13 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

progress was made but additional information is still awaited and the
documents should be baselined using a CCN.

Test Watercards have been provided but progress in testing with these is being
hampered by the lack of the changes required from Escher to the LiftKeyboard
software.

The updated High Level Design for 2+ is out for review and the Generic Client
AIS and TIS are being worked on.

AP Digital Signing design and development are going to be considerably later
than originally planned due to the heavy demand on Cryptographic resources
within TSC. A “Stub” can be produced which will enable unit testing to take
place. Consideration will have to be given as to whether it is acceptable for
T&I to commence testing without the full product when plans for 2+ are
prepared.

Work on Client Migration strategy is held up pending recruitment of an
additional resource within Implementation who will assist with the preparation

of the Strategy.
3.3 Issues
3.3.1 NR2

POCL have asked Pathway to raise a Change Request on the RDP team to
update their system to include “Method of Payment”. Pathway have refused to
raise a Change Request on the grounds that this data is required to meet the
requirement and it is POCL’s responsibility to supply it to us. POCL are
considering our response but this debate is getting in the way of actually
implementing the change.

APS agreements to agree are still outstanding - if the new document to meet
these is not acceptable to POCL then there may be a long delay in getting these
agreed.

The lack of an agreed published High Level Plan for NR2 is making it difficult
to plan the lower level activities in conjunction with POCL.

3.3.2 NR2+

Security requirements as defined within Tom Parker’s document in order to
satisfy Landis & Gyr’s concerns requires in excess of 90 days development
effort from Pathway. This effort could impact on other planned cryptographic
work and there is also the issue of who should pay for the work being done to
meet the requirements of one of POCL’s suppliers.

The requirements for AP digital signing have been informally agreed with
POCL. However the SFS needs to be updated to reflect the change and a

Commercial in Confidence Page 14 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

CP/CCN raised to obtain formal approval for the change. Lack of resources in
the Requirements area is delaying this work.

Pressure continues to be exerted on POCL to provide the complete set of
documentation and agree a baseline for each of the Smart products. This is
being progressed via John Murray and Business Development.

Planning of APS development (particularly the APS Host Design) in
conjunction with other Release 2+ development needs to be addressed by
Development. It is difficult to assess the changes required to RDMC to
support APS at 2+ until this detailed design of the APS Host is completed and
no dates are available for when this work will be done.

Commercial in Confidence Page 15 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

4. NON-ISDN
4.1 Progress

Following the presentation given to POCL Horizon Programme
representatives during April, the Risk Analysis has been updated to respond to
specific security concerns raised by POCL. A proposal letter was sent to John
Meagher and included a high level summary of our testing strategy for Frame
Relay.

Full approval of the CP is awaiting a response to the proposal letter from
POCL confirming whether it is acceptable to implement Frame Relay in NR2.

Progress continues to be slow on completing the BT analysis of ISDN
availability at offices. BT are continuing with the planned transmission tests,
there are still 1076 sites to be tested. However, the results on those tested so
far are encouraging as 147 out of 1044 tested have been found to be non-
ISDN. A spreadsheet of the “busy” outlets ie. with either more than one
counter or single counters with > 500 BTHs was sent to Energis for them to
request BT to give priority to testing these sites. This information on single
counter transactions will be useful in assessing the results of the ISDN
analysis.

4.2 Issues

If Frame Relay is to be included within NR2 then Frame Relay circuits need to
be ordered ASAP in order to not delay End to End testing and technical testing
at TSC. A decision is required as soon as possible. Alternatively, the circuits
could possibly be ordered before approval of the CP as they will be needed at
NR2+ if not at NR2.

Commercial in Confidence Page 16 of 27
ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

5. Security and Audit
5.1 Monthly Summary

Progress for NR2 continues to be slow, which is reflected in the secure test
statistics. The requirements for security has exposed the lack of management
and control over the platform structures. This is causing difficulties in the
application of security. It should be noted that this weakness has also caused
difficulties in the implementation of FTMS, and will likely cause difficulties
in other areas, e.g. Audit.

NR2+ activity progresses. The majority of design and development work falls
within the Crypto Teams remit. A plan for this team has been produced which
has highlighted that, with an additional three members of staff, all
development activity could be completed by the end of December.

5.2 Progress
5.2.1 Security - NR2
5.2.1.1 Secure Sequent / SecurlD

> Integration of the Secure Sequent design is ongoing in PIT and completion
of this exercise is targeted for inclusion in the 8F baseline due on the 18"
June.

5.2.1.2 Secure NT

> Progress slow due to problems encountered with sourcing information.
Deliverables reviewed and split into two. The first deliverable has been
targeted for the 8F baseline.

5.2.1.3 Cryptography

> Development of the event management aspects of the various crypto
applications was completed in May. These were handed over to PIT on the
27" May, with the exception of the CAPS crypto module and POLO
application. To accommodate other changes, these will be handed over in
June.

> Development work to incorporate changes to POLO and Teamcrypto to
accommodate Riposte Disc Mirroring is ongoing. Delivery to PIT is
targeted for the 19" June.

5.2.1.4 Networks

Commercial in Confidence Page 17 of 27

FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

> The revised firewall proposal was approved and this has been incorporated
into the NR2 network design. Detailed design configuration has been held
up due to lack of availability of hardware and software.

5.2.1.5 Secure Test

> Test activity continues to be impeded by the lack Secure NT, Secure
Sequent and SecurID although progress has been made in other areas
covered by the Secure Test team. The Secure Test plan will be revised in
line with expected delivery schedules and the recent NR2 replan.

> Little visible progress has been made with regard to testing the secure
elements of Pathway’s Managed Services. This continues to be escalated
and should be regarded as a serious threat to obtaining sponsor acceptability
of the release.

5.2.2 Security - NR2+
5.2.2.1 KMS
Progress was made on the following documentation set:

> Requirements for Key Management document baselined at Version 1.0 on 8
May.

> Key Management HLD inspection copy, V0.31, issued 18 May and a
formal review arranged for 1 June.

» Key Management Platform Specifications, V0.1, issued for comment on
20May.

» Key Management Application Design, V0.2, issued for comment 22 May.

> Key Generation Design, V0.2, produced for internal comment.

> Work commenced on the Crypto Changes document and the CA Design.

In addition to this, the Crypto Team commenced a series of workshops to

resolve outstanding design issues.

5.2.2.2 VPN

> Workshop attended in Austria, coupled with continued dialogue, to confirm
feasibility of interfacing the SG VPN product with the KMS and to define
work packages, with first pass estimates, to feed into the NR2+ plan.

5.2.2.3 AP Signing

» Awaits a stable draft of the Crypto Changes document to progress this item.

5.3 Issues

NR2 test activity continues to be constrained due to the lack of key products;
Secure Sequent, SecurID, Secure NT and security enforcing networking

Commercial in Confidence Page 18 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

components. Revised dates for delivery of these products to PIT have been
established and will be impacted on the test plans.

Full implementation of the Secure NT Build is being severely delayed. This is
due to difficulties in obtaining the required information in a complete and
consistent format to apply file level security on the individual NT platforms.
As a result, the integration of Secure NT has been split into two deliverables.

The first deliverable, which implements roles and associated policies, the NT
domain structure and NT client security, is targeted for inclusion in the 8F
baseline from PIT. In parallel, an exercise has started to capture the basic
information in order that the platform specific security can be enforced. This
is a resource intensive piece of work which will require prompt action and full
co-operation from the various design and development teams. This activity
remains a high risk item for completion within the NR2 timescales.

Lack of hardware and software is stopping progress on the implementation of
Firewalls. This will have a negative impact on the Secure test plans.

NR2+ plans show completion of development being the end of December
1998. Further resources are required to meet these delivery dates. This issue is
being actively pursued by TSC. The Crypto development plan will need to be
impacted by the test and integration teams to understand how these products
can be intercepted within the proposed NR2+ timescales.

Commercial in Confidence Page 19 of 27
ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

6. Audit
6.1 Monthly Summary

The draft Audit Design was issued and is currently undergoing the review
cycle. In parallel, effort has been put into defining retrieval requirements,
work packages and estimating development timescales.

6.2 Progress
6.2.1 Requirements

> A review of the draft design against the ATFS was completed. Issues
arising are being progressed.
> Audit capture gap analysis completed and CPs raised where appropriate.

6.2.2 Design

> Draft design issued on the 5" May.
> Formal review held on the 12" May.
> Formal baselining of the design targeted for the 3“ June.

6.2.3 Development

>» Work commenced on the definition of workpackages and work estimates.

6.2.4 Integration

> No activity.

6.2.5 Test

> Current test scripts have been impacted against the Audit Capture
requirements.

» Analysis work has started on defining the Audit Archiving and Retrieval
test requirements.

6.3 Issues

Activity for the provision of audit facilities is extremely late in the Programme
timetable and will require close management to ensure that it can be
intercepted within NR2 timescales.

There are issues around requirements which will be urgently progressed and,
as yet, no substantive work has been done with regard to the provision of
analysis tools.

Commercial in Confidence Page 20 of 27

FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

The current activity to estimate development work may well throw up an
urgent requirement for additional resources to effect delivery within an
acceptable timeframe.

How the testing of audit is to be intercepted cannot be progressed until
deliverables and delivery dates have been established and, due to this, audit
archiving and retrieval has not been factored into any of the current test plans.

Commercial in Confidence Page 21 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

7. Reconciliation
7.1 Progress Summary

During May, 3 workshops were held to discuss and finalise the BES/EPOSS
fallback and recovery. At each meeting new issues were raised by
POCL/Horizon and addressed by Pathway Design/Development. We
documented the solution and provided the draft to POCL/Horizon for
comment. From the input received Pathway design are working on a final
version for presenting to POCL/Horizon. It is unlikely to completely satisfy all
parties with BA/POCL.

Statistics of system and ISDN failures have been produced to support the
solution and will be incorporated into the paper.

POCL have continued to request Pathway to improve the Help Desk security.

POCL have requested a definition of the service boundary during fallback i.e.
is the Helpdesk a BES service or EPOSS.

7.2 Actions

1. Complete the Benefit Payment Reconciliation paper and review internally.
Present to POCL/Horizon.

2. Investigate the use of check digit production at the Help Desk.

3. Clarify the Service boundary during Fallback.

Commercial in Confidence Page 22 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

8. Reference Data
8.1 Progress Summary

During May, CS/Systems Directorate produced a plan for the management of
Reference data. This assumes the ‘Live’ data, both ‘A’ and ‘C’ will be made
available to Pathway on the 30/6/98. The plan also assumed that MO would
not use ‘Live’ data.

On the 22". May a reference data workshop was held in Borough, which was
not attended by any Design/Development staff member. The output indicates a
complete change to the approach of use of reference data in MO. The impact
of changing this direction has not been evaluated and assumes POCL are able
to produce the aged reference data for MO, that they are able to introduce
change control on their data by the 8". June.

The RDMC development is forecast to complete by the 15". June, 1998. This
will then have the capability of enhancing the supplied ‘A’ and ‘B’ class data.

There are 27 outstanding PINICLs, on Reference data, awaiting resolution
with POCL.

In the current plans, the testing of the ‘Live’ data is not included. This has
been discussed with John Meagher/Colin Oudot.

Pathway have requested a single point of contact within POCL for all
Reference data issues.

8.2 Actions

. Agree resources contained in CS plan.

. Agree with POCL the supply of change controlled ‘Live’ reference data.
. Agree with POCL the supply of aged ‘Live’ reference data for MO

. Progress with POCL a named contact

. Progress the resolution of problems identified in ‘Live’ data drops.

AURWNe

P.S. A paper has been received, from John Meagher, to test and integrate the
‘Live’ reference data.

Commercial in Confidence Page 23 of 27
ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

9. Roll-Out Data Base
9.1 Status as at 1/6/98

Following the appointment of the new project manager and the handover prior
to the release of the previous manager, activity since the 28th April has centred
around ensuring development, testing and delivery activities slip no further,
by:

e Ensuring the timely delivery of latest RODB release 2.4b;

¢ Planning and progressing the development of the next release of RODB 2.5

Following a takeup review in April the following issues are being addresses as
a matter of urgency.

e Draft End to End plans for 2.4b and 2.5 have been produced addressing
design, development, testing and implementation activities. Review and
agreement of these plans is currently underway with the associated
departments.

e The currently outstanding PINICLs have been reviewed with
Implementation and Development with draft resolution plans to be agreed
through 2.4b delivery and beyond.

¢ Progression of formal SLAs with CFM and Verification Centre and set-up
of formal support.

e An action plan has been agreed with CFM to progress the RoDB Server
move from Feltham to Wigan data centre and activate formal support
arrangements. The RoDB Project Board has agreed that the temporary
move to Kidsgrove for short term support is no longer a profitable activity
given the progression with CFM during the last month.

e Draft plans have been agreed and are being progressed with the Verification
Centre to upgrade the Supplier PCs, test and activate the ISDN links to
suppliers. WTL, Peritas and Sorbus links to be established during 2.4b go-
live timescales.

e In order to minimise over runs and to ensure RoDB core development is
complete for National Rollout,
=> A de-scoping of 2.5 user requirements has been completed;
=> Development team has increased headcount by one contractor.

9.2 Actions in focus during the next period

¢ Progression of the development of 2.5 functionality;
¢ Delivery to live service of the 2.4b system;

Commercial in Confidence Page 24 of 27

FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office
e System moved into operational support at data centre;
¢ Daily operational support for the system at a application/database level;
e User support provision via the Horizon helpdesk;
e The scoping and rationalisation of user and technical requirements;
e User and supplier training needs and documentation.

9.3 Issues

¢ Poor software configuration management of code during a bug fix of 2.4b
and inadequate software unit testing has resulted in a one week slippage in
test cycle two. Remedial actions have been taken to assure the 2.4b plan
remains key focus for Technical Direct during June.

e Given the quality of work produced by Technical Direct to date, the
development timescales for 2.5 present us with a non-contingent plan risk,
with only manual fallbacks for the implementation group if not achieved.
The project has:

=> Placed resource with development experience "above" the supplier
in an effort to steer and raise the quality and hence confidence on
the product to be delivered at the end of July;

=>Committed project planning resources to provide assistance in
development planning through 2.5 to support the supplier and
provide development with a more clearly defined progress monitor;

=> Committed testing resource to assist with unit testing at site.

e A review of TDL performance is to be conducted urgently with
Development as the supplier remains a MAJOR RISK to the successful
delivery of RODB. Unless delivery confidence of TDL capability can be
raised significantly, and very quickly, we may be forced to consider other
options, although the timescales are such that these options are severely
limited.

e It is believed that any further descoping would not provide a system which
would be of benefit to implementation during the run up to national rollout;
Hence the current solution relies heavily upon the supplier to increase beat
rate and headcount to accelerate development, a situation which is contrary
to quality concerns above. Further options including relocation to ICL
Pathway premises of the development team, with increased in-house
resources to manage them are being examined as a matter of urgency;

The descoping of 2.5 will necessitate a mop up of requirements into a 2.6
development, yet to be estimated or planned.

Commercial in Confidence Page 25 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

10. New Release 2+
10.1 Summary

With POCL/BA failing to provide information timely or approve CCNs to
support our contractual position, NR2+ is currently in a state of No Forecast
and in June this will formally be reported to the Horizon Programme Director.
With the continued impact of NR2 on the provision of resources to NR2+,
Systems Directorate are looking to see how that impact can be absorbed in
order to hold original dates. It was intended that NR2+ was planned in detail in
parallel with re-planning NR2 during May. The NR2 plan has however not
concluded by the end of May and detailed NR2+ planning is still in it’s early
stages.

A further Joint workshop was held with Horizon, BA, POCL and Pathway on
11/5. This was however disappointing because previous actions due to be
completed by the end of April had not been progressed by BA and POCL.
These actions are still outstanding.

BA/POCL have failed to approve CCNs or provide information to assist or
contractually underwrite any design progress.

10.2 Progress

The Horizon Programme have written confirming that LFS BRD version 16
represents the requirement they desire. We do not however have approval to
the CCN that supports that. Pathway has committed to progressing LFS for 4
weeks in parallel with agreeing the CCN by 19/6. There are a number areas of
design that require further discussion and clarification, however we are
reluctant to commence those discussions before the CCN is approved in case it
delays approval further. This does however limit progress in some areas before
CCN approval. We have committed to a review of LFS at the end of July
where we can jointly agree how LFS is progressing and if it’s inclusion in
NR2+ puts NR2+ at greater risk.

AP Smart has progressed through the month with agreement on most areas
achieved. We are however still awaiting SLAs for Quantum and Watercard
and Volumetrics for Quantum. Without this information design can not be
concluded. All information to date will require baselining by POCL before
Pathway can be assured of the baseline it is working to, until that point we are
still subject to ‘free’ change.

Additional CP work for NR2 and NR2+ has impacted the security workload at
TSC. Additional recruitment is underway to enable delivery of the products
before Christmas 1998. This is later than the dates in the NR2+ plan presented
in February and would require a more compact test window to hold original
Live dates.

Commercial in Confidence Page 26 of 27
FUJ00078278
FUJ00078278

ICL PATHWAY Commercial in Confidence Programme Office

The VPN CP has been approved, subject to ensuring that it can migrated to
remotely.

Approval of the Soft EVP CCN has been held up by Sponsors and therefore
Pathway does not have a contractual position on which to move forward.
Design is progressing, but Horizon have been told we must have CCN
approval before we progress too far. Horizon were passed an NDA on the 8/5
to enable them to have sight of our Soft EVP SOD. They have not yet returned
the NDA.

The DIDVR between CAPS and Pathway has not been agreed for NR2+. This
impacts on to On-Line Enquiries, Soft EVP, Pathway understanding of CAPS
4.0 and any other changes. This is being progressed by Horizon, but is
impacting Pathway’s ability to create a baseline.

During May we have continued to progress Flat Screens. Standard Flat Screens
available on the market do not provide the physical size savings we require
and therefore some bespoke prototyping work is underway. A meeting is
arranged for early June to review these screens and agree a way forward.

10.3 Issues

The issues on NR2+ continue as before.

Until there is a re-plan of NR2+, created by the Line after taking any re-plan of
NR2 into account, it is difficult to determine what can be achieved on NR2+.

The Migration of NR2 to NR2+ is one of the biggest issues on NR2+. The
Architects have agreed to include this migration exercise in the TED, but this
will no alleviate the importance of Design ensuring they build this activity into
their design as they progress.

There are a number of areas on NR2+ that we do no have an approved
contractual position, therefore any work progressed is at Pathways risk.

Commercial in Confidence Page 27 of 27
