FUJ00156639
FUJ00156639

From: Jamail A Singl

Sent: Mon 17/09/2012 11:

To: Simon Bakerf GRO I

Subject: I RE: URGENT EXPERT REPORT ON HORIZON SYSTEM

Thanks Simon This is very important as the report needs to in hand very quickly on Gareth return. Are you able let me
have Gareth’s contact details including his email address and date when he is due to return from his annual leave.
Thanks

Jarnail

From: Simon Baker

Sent: 17 September 2012 10:18

To: Newsome Pete

Cc: Jarnail A Singh

Subject: RE: URGENT EXPERT REPORT ON HORIZON SYSTEM

Pete

This is for something different from the data analysis that second sight will be doing.

Jarnail is looking for a report that shows why we believe Horizon is a robust system, to counteract the claims that
there are problems with the system.

I don’t think Jarnail is looking for something too detailed, maybe a 2-3 pages.

Simon

From: Newsome Pete!
Sent: 17 September 2012 09:
To: Simon Baker

Subject: FW: URGENT EXPERT REPORT ON HORIZON SYSTEM

Simon
This is the mail mentioned in our call.

Pete

From: Jarnail A Singhi_.
Sent: 13 September 2012 15:30
To: Thomas Penny

Cc: Hugh Flemington; John M Scott

Subject: URGENT EXPERT REPORT ON HORIZON SYSTEM

Dear Penny
It was nice to talk with you this morning.

As the Post Office continues to have absolute confidence in the robustness and integrity of its Horizon system and its
branch accounting processes, it had no hesitation in agreeing to an external review of these few individual cases
referred by members of parliaments In order to provide assurance to the interested parties, independent Auditors, 2°
Sight were appointed. Also in order to take consistent approach in cases where Horizon has been challenged and to
deal with disclosure an investigation officer was appointed to assist in the contested cases, civil and criminal, in
which the Horizon system has been challenged. The officers has provided a comprehensive report concluding in old
and existing cases only a general complaints has been made by sub post masters without giving details of compliant
FUJ00156639
FUJ00156639

or specific areas of compliant or even no explanation has been offered as to what has gone wrong. The officer has
Confirmed that the Horizon system has never been successfully challenged. The officer has completed a report and
also prepared a summary of those cases where there is a proper attack on the system. We need to appoint an expert
this being such an specialist area we need one of your members to file this role as matter of urgency with court cases
upon us.

The expert will need to address the report to the following issues:

1) A description of the horizon system (In laymen’s' terms so that a jury can understand what it is and what it does)

2) A declaration that it has yet to be attacked successfully.

3) Asummary of the basic attacks made on the system concentrating on any expert reports served in past cases. If
there are none then state that no expert has yet been found by any defence team civil or criminal to attack the system.
(at the moment there seems to be little more than griping by defendants that the system must be at fault without
saying how)

4) Plainly, like all accounting systems, there is room for human error (Keying in wrong amounts etc) but the expert
should be able to state that innocent human error is unlikely to produce the types of discrepancies of many thousands
of pounds over many months.

A report along these lines. will.a9.a Jona way to putting this issue to bed.
My telephone number is} GRO H

Regards

Jarnail Singh

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
OHQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the
registered company number 02154540

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
FUJ00156639
FUJ00156639

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y 0HQ
with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered
company number 02154540
