FUJ00152297

FUJ00152297
Sl
From: Chambers Anne

O[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ANNE.CHAMBERS]
Sent: Mon 20/11/2006 9:37:40 AM (UTC
To: Jenkins Gareth G
Subject: I FW: Trial Date: Post Office Limited -v- Mr L Castleton

From: Pinder Brian

Sent: 20 November 2006 09:00

To: Chambers Anne O; Dunks Andy

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1); Peach Mik; Elliott Naomi

Subject: FW: Trial Date: Post Office Limited -v- Mr L Castleton
Importance: High

Ann Andy

As you can see from Stephens email below this case is now still going to court. I have queried the matter with the
solicitors this morning and have been advised that........

On Friday, the spmr refused to sign off a settlement he had proposed and consequently this case is
going to trial.

This is all I know at present but I envisage more coming to light as we get nearer the date.
Apologies for the confusion but will keep you informed as soon as I get anything.

Regds Brian

From: Pinder Brian

Sent: 20 November 2006 08:00

To: Peach Mik; Elliott Naomi

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1)

Subject: FW: Trial Date: Post Office Limited -v- Mr L Castleton

Naomi Mik

I am confused by this email so I have queried it with both Stephen Dilly and Graham Ward (PO Investigations) this
morning, to see if I can get an explanation for the sudden change.

Will keep you informed.

Regds Brian

FUJ00152297
FUJ00152297

From: Stephen Dilley [mailto:Stephen. Dill f GRO
Sent: 17 November 2006 17:57

martyn.mitchell ~~ GRO; Thomas Bourne

Subject: Trial Dé St Olticé Limited -v- Mr L Castleton

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Just to confirm the case is still going to trial starting on 4 December 2006. We are endeavouring to
agree a sensible trial timetable with Mr Castleton's solicitors and I will update you again as soon as I
am able.

In the meantime, if there are any dates when you cannot make it which you have. not already. ~alyen
me, please let me know and copy in my colleague Tom Bourne thomas.bourne} R

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent: 24 October 2006 11:09

To: ‘Chambers Anne 0’; ‘cath.oglesby,”
d

Ce: ‘Pinder Brian’;
Subject: Trial Date: Post Offi ice Limited -v- Mr Castleton

Ladies and Gentlemen,

There was been a procedural hearing at Court yesterday to review the timetable on this case and set
new directions.

The Master decided that, amongst other things, the trial must proceed in December

2006. Accordingly, it will commence on 4 December 2006 and will probably last 7 to 10 days. It will
take place at the Royal Courts of Justice, London. As previously indicated, please could everyone who
has given a witness statement blank out two weeks in your diaries starting on 4 December 2006 and
keep these dates free for the time being. You will not be required to attend for the whole of that time
and we liaise with Mr Castleton's solicitors:

1. to agree that as many of you as possible should not have to attend Court to give oral evidence. (For
example, I'm hoping to persuade them that most if not all of our witnesses from P.O Chesterfield and
P.O Leeds should not attend. If they agree, this will help shorten the trial and save costs); and

2. for those of you that are needed to attend, we have a timetable, so we can give you a specific time
for when you will be required to be there to keep the inconvenience to a minimum.
FUJ00152297
FUJ00152297

I will keep you fully updated as and when I hear further, which is likely to be some time after 10
November at the earliest.

In the meantime, if there are any particular dates from the 2 weeks commencing 4 December 2006
onwards when you definitely cannot attend Court, please let me know as soon as possible.

I look forward to hearing from you.
Kind regards.

Yours sincerely

Stephen Dilley

Solicitor

www.bondpearce.com
The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP
accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number OC311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce
LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.
