Pathway

FUJ00078026
FUJ00078026

Ref: Risk 66

PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: I

Date: 19/01/96

Document Title:

Document Type:

Abstract:

Distribution:

Document Status:

Document Predecessor:

Associated Documents:

Author:

Approval Authority:

Signature/Date:

Comments To:

PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE

RISK: PWY 066

Risk Response

This document describes how Pathway is
addressing the above risk contained in the Pathway
BA/POCL Risk Register.

The risk concerns the potential use of dongles to
minimise the risk of corruption during multiple PC
failures in a post office.

BA/POCL Risk Owners : J Folkes

Pathway Quality and Risk Management Director

Issued

None

BA/POCL Risk Register, Version 13, 5th January
1996

Dave Cooke

M H Bennett, Director Quality and Risk Management

Dave Cooke

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 0 of 5
FUJ00078026

FUJ00078026
Pathway Ref: Risk 66
PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: 1
Date: 19/01/96

0.1 CONTENT
0.1.1 DOCUMENT HISTORY

Version I Date Reason

1 17/1/96 Draft
0.1.2 ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS

Version I Date Title Source

13 5/1/96 BA/POCL Risk Register
0.1.3 ABBREVIATIONS

BA Benefits Agency

BPS Benefit Payment Service

PAT Project Assurance Team

PID Project Initiation Document

POCL Post Office Counters Limited

SIS Strategic Infrastructure Service

SSR Statement of Service Requirement

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 1 of 5
FUJ00078026
FUJ00078026

Pathway Ref: Risk 66
PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: 1
Date: 19/01/96

1. INTRODUCTION

This paper provides the response to risk PWY066 identified by the POCL
Infrastructure Strand meeting. Pathway believe that this response should enable the
BA/POCL team to remove this risk from the register.

2. STATEMENT OF THE RISK

Escher have recommended that Riposte requires strong sequence numbering and
strong identity to ensure maximum resilience of the message store and to minimise
the risk of corruption during cases of multiple failure. They suggested that a dongle
providing terminal identity and monotonically increasing sequence numbers would be
their preferred solution.

Please advise if Pathway are planning to follow this recommendation, and if not what
alternative mechanism will be used to provide the same level of resilience.

3. PATHWAY RESPONSE

During various meetings between POCL, Escher and Pathway a multiple failure
scenario in a post office was constructed which, given a particular recovery
sequence, could result in a counter PC being recovered to an incomplete state.
During these discussions the use of an auxiliary peripheral device - or dongle - was
raised which would allow Riposte continually to record the latest sequence number
for a PC in another place as well as on the hard disk.

Following a PC failure, this detachable device would then be transferred to a
replacement PC to check that the latest recovered sequence number was consistent
with the last actual sequence number.

The failure scenario is expected to be extremely rare, based upon ordinary
assessment of probabilities and operational experience in Ireland. It requires that all
the PCs in a multiple counter post office will be in a failed state together at a
particular point in time. This would include the gateway PC whose failure would
prevent the latest sequence numbers known by the correspondence server being
used to support counter PC recovery.

In this scenario the use of a dongle is one method of identifying an inconsistent
recovery although one which does not of itself guarantee the correctness of recovery.

In developing the overall technical and operational solution for BA/POCL, Pathway
are mindful of the need to constrain costs wherever reasonable and to ensure that
simple, robust operational procedures are followed in extreme failure conditions. In
addition Pathway is providing a facility within EPOS to assist the user in transaction
recovery. This is required for the failure in a single counter post office, and will also
be used when all PCs fail in a multiple counter post office.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 5
FUJ00078026

FUJ00078026

Pathway Ref: Risk 66
PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: 1
Date: 19/01/96

Sequence numbers are a key mechanism in ensuring that secure replication occurs
between all counter PCs and the correspondence servers, and are fundamental to
the automatic recovery process. The Pathway solution is resilient to multiple failures
in an outlet and, providing at least one counter PC remains operational, then
subsequent recovery of counter PCs will always correctly use their latest sequence
numbers and associated transactions. The use of a dongle is not required to effect
this.

The Pathway solution for OPS utilises Ethernet hubs so configurations of a broken
ring type, where a local are becomes divided into two operating sub-lans are not
possible.

In addition, dongles being by their nature transferable pose an operational integrity
threat beyond the control of the service provider, should they be transported or
moved inadvertently or maliciously.

The correspondence server may always be slightly out of step with an outlet due to
normal replication delays, so should one of the failures involve the gateway PC this
will not affect the automatic recovery.

From the various failure combinations two general cases in a multiple counter post
office are defined where special action is required :-

e Acounter PC becomes disconnected from the LAN (e.g. cable failure).

In this scenario the counter PC will detect that it has become disconnected
and Pathway’s recommendation is that this PC, unless it is the gateway PC,
be taken out of service for benefit payments.

Pathway understands that in a busy office it may be helpful to allow some
business to carry on, but in this situation certain transactions would have to be
disabled. These would normally include benefit payments, although in smaller
offices this service could continue provided the risk of multiple payments was
addressed by physical observation.

Should this PC subsequently fail, having continued working on a subset of
transactions it will be recovered from other PC’s to the point when it became
disconnected from the LAN. Any transactions carried out while the PC was
disconnected from the LAN would be lost. This situation is analogous to the
single counter post office failure.

Knowledge of a difference in sequence numbers between highest recovered
and highest actual would not greatly assist the user. The user would know that
this situation had occurred, and the key task is to assist the user in recovering
any lost transactions and in maintaining the stock unit accounting.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 3 of 5
FUJ00078026
FUJ00078026

Pathway Ref: Risk 66
PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: 1
Date: 19/01/96

When the PC was recovered from the others in its group the EPOS system
would advise the user of the last known transactions(s) and the stock/cash
position as known by the system. This would enable the user to recover any
transactions for which client vouchers were taken and to reconcile his cash
and stock position.

It is for these reasons that Pathway recommends that PCs other than the gateway
PC, be taken out of service for benefit payments.

e All PCs in an outlet progressively fail

Should this situation occur a high priority service operation would be initiated.
In order to protect the integrity of the outlet the recovery procedure would
require that the gateway PC is restored first from the correspondence server.
Other counter PCs would then be progressively restored.

Recovery will not be permitted to take place exclusively from a PC which has
become detached from others in its group and subsequently reconnected, since
it will not be aware of the latest sequence numbers used by other PCs.

4. SUMMARY

Pathway believes that the scenario which could produce inconsistent sequence
numbers in the Pathway configuration will be very rare and could only occur when all
counter PCs in a multiple counter office were failed simultaneously . This failure
situation would be handled by Pathway on an exceptional basis and a rigorous
recovery strategy will be used to ensure all PCs are logically consistent.

The use of a dongle would not be required to identify that such an event had
occurred and could pose operational threats. The important function of assisting the
user to identify any lost transactions will be provided as part of the EPOS application.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 4 of 5
