FUJ00116747
FUJ00116747

Gilbert Roger[/O=EXCHANGE/O!
Sent: Mon 6/1/2009 3:00:56 PM (UTC)
Subject: Enterprise Risk Management

DMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GILBERTR2]

Dear All,

In Fujitsu UK & Ireland, managing risk is what we do and our risk management system, within the scope of a single risk
management policy, is devolved throughout the business. Each and every manager should be skilled in using risk management
techniques in formulating thinking and decision making.

That being so, I have found that our upward risk reporting is varied such that, ultimately, my quarterly report to the Corporate
Governance Committee could be better informed by a more structured approach to Enterprise Risk Management. This is in line with
external best practice.

T have, therefore, asked Business Assurance to put in place a simple system to enable the reporting of judged risks upwards
through the whole organisation structure, using the existing Divisional and Functional Reviews and maintaining alignment with the
accountabilities defined in Best Practice.

The report is a single risk schedule and associated ‘bubble’ diagram, which will be added to the monthly Business Review pack,
starting with the July 2009 reviews. I would expect these to be used by Account Managers as part of their Account Business Plan, to
then be reviewed and consolidated at BUD and MD level, before being presented as part of my review with each of my DRs in July.
Of course, there are many sources of risk and the existing mandates in the bid, project and service delivery phases will provide base
input which, together with functional and other inputs and the judgement of our managers, will provide an informative and guiding
report.

As well as designing the system, Business Assurance will be briefing your teams on the requirement through a webcast and
supporting guidance, and providing facilitation to yourselves as the process evolves.

Tam sure you will agree that this action will only improve our ability to manage the business and provide support to our teams on
critical issues that may affect our success.

Please cascade this note throughout your management team to enable the reporting to start ASAP.
For further information please see here.
If you need any further assistance with this programme, please contact Derek Hardman in Business Assurance.

Kind Regards,
Roger

Roger Gilbert
Chief Executive Officer
UK and Ireland

Fujitsu Serv

ker Street, London W1U 3BW.

s Limited Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-
mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
FUJ00116747
FUJ00116747
