FUJ00232985
FUJ00232985

FUJ00232985
FUJ00232985

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

0. Document Control

Document Owner Post Office Ltd

Document Author Paul Smith (Post Office)
Steve Browell (Fujitsu)
Document Sponsor I Martin Godbold (Post Office)
Document Version I 3.2

Last Updated 03/01/2023

1. Background

The Post Office needs to ensure that Horizon, as the core system used by
Postmasters is robust. Any Defect identified must be managed via an auditable
and transparent defect management process with every Defect recorded
centrally. Weekly governance reviews will ensure progress against resolution and
/or closure of all Defects with all evidence retained centrally. Branch impact
assessment, and proposed branch communication will be key elements and will
be managed and tracked through this Horizon Defects Review forum. Branch
communication will be the responsibility of Post Office.

The Horizon Defect Review forum will also include an initial section to cover any
items that Fujtisu needs to raise that relate to Defects or system changes
identified as needed due to Incidents or Problems being worked on that require
Post Office input before a final decision can be made as to resolution. This has
traditionally been known as the Customer Business Impact Forum (CBIF).

2. Purpose of the Horizon Defects Review

The Horizon Defects Review is a weekly forum attended primarily by Post Office
and Fujitsu to govern the process of defect management (Section 9) within the
supplier scope of obligations. This includes reviewing any potential new Defect
and managing all open Defects to resolution.

The forum will review any potential new Defects noting where responsibilities
apply to making progress, with Post Office recording each centrally within the
Post Office Service Management toolset, ServiceNow, and appending them to a
managed list of open Defects. The Fujitsu tracking reference will be recorded and
used to clarify where Fujitsu is involved and to capture the Fujitsu status updates
provided.

Where Fujitsu are not the managing supplier, the reference provided by the
managing supplier will be recorded.

The Horizon Defects Review will focus its time on those Defects that reflect or
have the potential to reflect the definition of a Defect as defined in Section 3.
Progress of all lower impact Defects (As defined as excluded in Section 3) will be
validated through reporting updates.

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 2 03/01/2023 V3.2
FUJ00232985
FUJ00232985

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

The meeting is held as two distinct parts, the first will focus on the Defects within
the Fujitsu scope of responsibility. Fujitsu’s attendance is mandatory for this part
of the meeting. The meeting will then continue to discuss other non-Fujitsu
Defects and Fujitsu will not be expected to attend this part of the meeting unless
a defect is managed collaboratively by both Fujitsu and another supplier.

Defects (as defined in Section 3) can be identified and brought to the forum
through a number of sources including but not exclusive to:

e New Live bonded Incidents that meet the definition of Defect - that are being
worked on by Fujitsu.

e New Problems that have been raised by Fujitsu and meet the definition of a
Defect.

¢ Deferred Defects from recent RAM/RAB approvals - where approval to go live
has been granted with Defects having been deferred.

e¢ Customer Business Impact Forum (CBIF) - where the implication of Post
Office involvement brings the item within the definition of Defect.

e Items idenitified through Post Office Investigations on behalf of Postmasters,
or raised through other forums that are Postmaster impacting - either
financially or operationally. These items must be raised as Incidents or
Problems by all resolving affected or tracking parties.

e Changes that have been through the Post Office CAB process that are
remedying an issue which should map to an existing or closed Incident.

The weekly review will track the status of every open Defect from identification
to resolution. Prioritisation will be given to any Defect with the potential to
impact a branch financially.

A key output of this review will be transparency for both Postmasters and Post
Office stakeholders on all open Defects. Post Office will ensure there is clear
communication, helpful knowledge articles, publications, release notes, and
business updates against progress.

3. Definition of ‘Defect’

A Defect is defined as an issue that:

e Relates to the LIVE system only
e Is inconsistent with the agreed design or service specification
e The Horizon Defects Review scope will be those Defects that also have at
least 1 of the following attributes:
e Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes;
e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a Postmaster is required
to use the system (User Interface, Report, Function);

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 3 03/01/2023 V3.2
FUJ00232985
FUJ00232985

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office
customer or client.
e May have a workaround but the underlying issue still meets the criteria above
¢ May be under investigation and is not confirmed to meet the criteria above
but has attributes that meet the criteria above (a potential Defect)

Each Defect will be recorded as an Incident or Problem in the supplier service
management toolset, and will be will be logged as a Problem in the Post Office
Service Management toolset. Every Defect will be categorised and prioritised by
Post Office based on potential branch impact and given a priority/severity rating
(as per table below) that indicates its propensity to occur and its impact if it does
occur.

Urgency to fix

1=Critical
2=High

3 =Moderate
4 =Low

Defect classification for inclusion in the forum excludes:

e Anything not meeting the Defect description shown above (likely to be the
following example list):
e« Minor cosmetic issues affecting neither the ease of use or accounting
performed by Postmasters
« Issues that would not knowingly affect a Postmaster or Post Office

These lower level issues will be reported upon and disclosed on a weekly basis by
the supplier to Post Office Ltd to ensure full disclosure and clarity of outstanding
live issues.

4. Responsibilities

The attendees of the meeting will be responsible for ensuring new Defects are
raised and discussed, progress on existing Defects is tracked and reported, and
that Defects are effectively managed to resolution.

4.1 Horizon Defects Review Chair

The Post Office Branch Technology Defects Lead will chair the Horizon Defects
Review Forum and is accountable for the process being delivered and
maintained.

4.2 Horizon Defects Review Meeting
The membership is jointly responsible for the following:

= Ensure transparency, accountability and that the controls and _ risk
management are robust and defensible.

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 4 03/01/2023 V3.2
FUJ00232985
FUJ00232985

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

= Providing documentation outlining the nature, symptoms, cause and effect of
all Defects investigated as a single update into the Incident/Problem record as
defined in Appendix A. with updates as necessary. (Resolving party only)

= Providing updates for each recorded Defect on a weekly basis at least one
working day in advance of the meeting as a single report to the forum chair
in the absence of system integration. (Resolving party only)

"Actively participating in all discussions regarding Defects raised to the forum
including the agreement of the initial priority of the Defect scored 1 - 4
defined in Section 3.

= Understanding, documenting and making plans to investigate and rectify
Defects.

« Considering the impact of Defects, identifying current impacts and symptoms
and proposing recommended solutions.

Post Office is additionally responsible for the following:

= Providing communication to branches, stakeholders and legal representatives
in a clear and timely manner.

= Reviewing each new Defect raised providing an overall impact scoring using
the Post Office Criticality Matrix.

= Providing information to Post Office Legal advising of new Defects and
seeking legal advice as appropriate.

5. Membership

The table below lists the core membership of the Horizon Defects Review forum.
Should a new defect be raised for discussion, it is the responsibility of the
supplier i.e Fujitsu, to ensure that the right subject matter experts are available
to support a full understanding of the defect. Additional optional attendees may
be included should any ongoing defect require their support:

Role Organisation

Branch Resilience Manager Post Office Ltd
Head of Horizon Live Services Post Office Ltd
Senior Service Manager IT Retail Post Office Ltd
Branch Technology Defects Lead Post Office Ltd
BRT Operations Manager Branch Reconciliation Team Post Office Ltd
Head of Branch Operations Engagement Team Post Office Ltd
Defect & Quality Manager Fujitsu
Service/Technical Management All Suppliers
CONFIDENTIAL

Commercial in Confidence Page I5 03/01/2023 V3.2
FUJ00232985
FUJ00232985

Horizon Defects Review ToR &

Core members are expected to attend all Horizon Defects Review meetings or
arrange appropriate representation.

6. Secretariat

Post Office will be responsible for taking and circulating minutes, capturing
actions centrally and sharing updates both ahead and after each meeting. The
minutes will clearly identify the Defects that are the responsibility of individual
suppliers including Fujitsu to progress and will show the supplier i.e Fujitsu
reference and Fujitsu provided updates.

7. Frequency of Meetings

The Horizon Defects Review will be held on a weekly basis unless demand
requires more frequent meetings. Should a new Defect be acknowledged with
clear branch impact, an extraordinary Horizon Defects Review meeting can be
held to socialise the issue and begin investigation and remedial action where the
next scheduled forum is more than 2 working days in the future.

8. Materials

Meetings will be led using Microsoft Teams with Post Office ServiceNow as the
central record of each Defect. Each action is held on ServiceNow as an
auditable record and updated after each meeting by the Horizon Defects Review
Chair.

The minutes of the meeting will also be recorded in MS Word for dissemination
to the attendees of the meeting. These notes will be held centrally on the Post
Office Teams Site in the defect management library maintained and managed by
the Branch Resilience Manager. The document owner is the Post Office HM
Horizon IT Problem Manager. The custodian of the document is the Post Office
Branch Resilience Manager.

The minutes will clearly differentiate between the Fujitsu and non-Fujitsu parts
of the meeting. The minutes will be issued after the meeting with an invitation
to recipients to highlight any corrections required. The minutes will be agreed at
the subsequent meeting with Fujitsu confirming the Fujitsu portion of the
minutes only.

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 6 03/01/2023 V3.2
FUJ00232985
FUJ00232985

Horizon Defects Review ToR &©

9. Business Defects Process

CONFIDENTIAL
Commercial in Confidence Page I 7 03/01/2023 V3.2
FUJ00232985

FUJ00232985

Horizon Defects Review ToR

10. Appendix A - Target Defect Data Set
The following dataset will be populated as information becomes available. It may
not always have all fields completed depending on the nature of any specific

Defect.

HORIZON DEFECT REVIEW FORUM - DEFECT SUMMARY

POL Problem Reference

PRBOOnnnnn

Fujitsu Reference

PcOnnnnnn

Date first logged at HDR

Fujitsu Title

POL Title

Description

Branch Financial Impact or Experience
(Fujitsu HDR-Fin/HDR-Exp)

Branch impact described

investigation)

Defect Confirmed (or still under

How found

When found

started happening)

When it dates back to (when could it have

branch where available)

Branches affected (with detailed impact by

Frequency of occurrence

Root cause

Is it detected/monitored

Workaround

Workaround description

Fix required

Status update

Next action

Target Release number

Target Release date (latest estimate)

11. Glossary

Note: This format is subject to change by agreement at the HDR forum and the
latest reporting may differ from what is shown here until this document is updated.

Branch The physical Post Office premises/equipment.
Hori: Point of sale system utilised in branch supported/developed in
jorizon

part by Fujitsu

Postmaster The manager/owner of the branch, and responsible for branch
accounting

i The organisation responsible for providing services to Post

Supplier Office Ltd

Defect As described in Section 3 of this document.
A problem is a cause, or potential cause, of one or more

Problem incidents. Problems can be raised in response to a single
significant incident or multiple similar incidents based on trend
analysis

CONFIDENTIAL

Commercial in Confidence

Page I 8 03/01/2023 V3.2
FUJ00232985

FUJ00232985

Horizon Defects Review ToR

Bonded Incident

An incident (issue raised by or on behalf of a branch that
requires remediation) managed across both Post Office and
another supplier where the Service Now tickets are linked and
incident updates flow between both parties

ServiceNow

Service Management system tooling used for recording
incidents, changes and problems.

Knowledge Article

Electronic documentation within the Post Office ServiceNow
toolset used by Post Office to document incidents/
Problems/Known errors. This usually includes support notes.

Release Notes

Documentation provided as part of a packaged/release detailing
the content of the release.

Customer Business Impact Forum - A joint meeting led by
Fujitsu to discuss items being progressed that require Post
Office involvement in decisions relating to the solution options.

CBIF Although all new items will be discussed, some may not meet
the definition of Defect and will not be managed as per the
process defined in this document.

Release Acceptance Meeting/Release Authorisation Board - A

RAM/RAB meeting to discuss and authorise the release of impending
changes.

CAB Change Advisory Board - A meeting to discuss and authorise
the implementation of changes.

12. Review Date

Membership and chairing arrangements will be reviewed annually.

13. Version History
Document

Date Author/Reviser

7/09/2020 v1.0 Converted onto TOR template Annmarie Woodcraft

21/09/2020 V1.1 Update membership details Annmarie Woodcraft

16/10/2020 V1.2 Update membership and Annmarie Woodcraft
amendments

3/12/2020 V1.3 Update - add review process Annmarie Woodcraft

14/01/2021 v1.4 Update and review following POL I Annmarie Woodcraft & Paul
chairing meeting Smith

31/04/2021 V2.0 Updated to reflect the change of I Paul Smith & Martin Godbold
focus to implementation defects
only

17/06/2021 V2.1 Updated to reflect changes in Paul Smith & Steve Browell
process and clarify engagement

25/06/2021 V2.2 Updated to embed process Paul Smith & Steve Browell
image and final clarifications

12/01/2022 V2.3 Updated to include revised Steve Browell & Paul Smith
target dataset and changes to
the format of the forum

21/02/2022 V3.0 Finalised updates to revised Steve Browell & Paul Smith
target dataset and changes to
the format of the forum

21/12/2022 V3.1 Draft I Updated to reflect HIJ and Paul Smith
Accountability

CONFIDENTIAL

Commercial in Confidence

Page I 9 03/01/2023 V3.2
Horizon Defects Review ToR

FUJ00232985
FUJ00232985

03/01/2023 V3.2 Removal of GLO phrasing and Paul Smith - Agreed MG /
agreement of Accountability SB
14. Approvals
Document
Date Version Approver Name and Title
21/02/2022 V3.0 Martin Godbold - POL Head of Live
Service
21/02/2022 V3.0 Steve Browell - Fujitsu Management
Consultant and CISO
03/01/2023 V3.2 Martin Godbold - POL Head of Live
Service
03/01/2023 V3.2 Steve Browell - Fujitsu) Management
Consultant and CISO
CONFIDENTIAL

Commercial in Confidence

Page I 10

03/01/2023 V3.2
