FUJ00152291
FUJ00152291

From: Chambers Anne
O[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ANNE.CHAMBERS]

Sent: Tue 08/08/2006 12:06:08 PM (UTC)

To: Jenkins Gareth Gif

Subject: I FW: P.O -v- Castleton: Transaction logs

Gareth,

Can I have the ‘transaction logs' please?

Anne

*f

From: Sewell Peter (FELO1)

Sent: 08 August 2006 11:38

To: Chambers Anne O

Subject: RE: P.O -v- Castleton: Transaction logs

Anne
Gareth has these.

Security Project Manager
Post Office Account

FUJITSU SERVICES

Sackville House, Brook Close, Lewes, East Sussex, BN7 2FZ
Fax

= GRO

Mobile
Web “Nt 77UK TUjtsUTCOrT

Fujitsu Services Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended ot that it is virus free.

From: Chambers Anne O

Sent: 08 August 2006 11:21

To: Sewell Peter (FELO1)

Subject: RE: P.O -v- Castleton: Transaction logs

Pete,

I will obviously need the ‘transaction logs' referred to in the letter (I assume this is a messagestore extract from the
archives?). Are they available somewhere?

Al

From: Sewell Peter (FELO1)
Sent: 08 August 2006 11:02
To: Chambers Anne O
FUJ00152291
FUJ00152291

Cc: Peach Mik
Subject: FW: P.O -v- Castleton: Transaction logs

Solicitor's letter attached

Security Project Manager
Post Office Account

FUJITSU SERVICES
Sackville House, Brook Close, Lewes, East Sussex, BN7 2FZ
Tel: f a —

= GRO

E-Mail I
Web = “TItP:/UK:TUISU:ConT

Fujitsu Services Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended ot that it is virus free.

From: Stephen Dilley [mail
Sent: 07 August 2006 16:20
To: Pinder Brian

Cc: Peter.Sewell@
Subject: RE: P.O

mandy.talbot@ GRO.
: Transaction logs

“t graham.c.ward@_

Dear Brian,

The P.O have considered the costs involved and have now authorised you to proceed with this task.

Please can I see the draft report before it is finalised and let me know if I can assist by supplying any further information
to you. What we'd like at the end is a reasoned analysis explaining whether the comments in Mr Castleton's solicitors
letter (attached) are wrong or right and if so, why. We may well have to produce it to the Court and rely on it, so it also
needs to make sense to a judge who might not be IT literate and who doesn't know anything about Horizon.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
_-forand.on behalf of. Bond Pearce LLP...

GRO I

To: Pinder Brian
Cc: Peter.Sewell
Subject: P.O -v- C:
Importance: High

Brian
FUJ00152291
FUJ00152291

Stephen Dilley (representing the Post Office) is asking if it is possible that someone undertakes an analysis of the figures
recorded on the transaction logs supplied by Fujitsu against the figures on the completed cash account for CAP 42
(08/01/04 - 14/01/04). It appears that the solicitor's for Castleton are saying that they've compared the transaction logs
with the cash accounts for week 42 themselves (just for an initial

analysis) and that they don't match. They conclude that Horizon is therefore only recording half the transaction. I've
attached below the letter dated 25th July from Castleton's solicitors which outlines details of the anomalies.

(See attached file: eCopy scanned document.pdf)

Given this is a 'test' case and that the integrity of the Horizon system is being challenged, my own opinion is that this
exercise should be completed by an ‘expert' from Fujitsu. However it will obviously be extremely time consuming as all
the figures recorded will need to be methodically and carefully analysed. It is also important that we complete the
analysis and respond formally to the points raised as soon as possible, therefore my first question is :

1/\s this an exercise that Fujitsu could undertake, possibly by Gareth perhaps, who would presumably have a thorough
understanding of the figures recorded on both the transaction logs and the figures on an office cash account ?

2/ \f the answer is yes, how soon could this exercise be performed and a formal response prepared ?

3/ Will there be a cost involved and if so how much ?

I would appreciate an early response

Regards

Graham

Casework Manager
Post Office Ltd Investigation Team

PO BOX 1, CROYDON, CR9 1WN

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law.
The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient,
please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution,
publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. You
should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss
or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number O0C311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.
