FUJ00124012
FUJ00124012

Message
From: Jenkins Gareth GI [/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=Gareth.Jenkins]
on behalf of — Jenkins Gareth GI
Sent: 05/10/2012 13
To: martin smith SRO
ce: Rachael Panter I
Thomas Penny [/<
Subject: RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Attachments: Scan of GlJ Witness Statement 05 Oct 2012.pdf; Scan of GIJ1 - ARCGENREPO004.HorizonDataintegrity.doc.pdf; Scan
of GU2 - HorizonOnlineDatalntegrity_POL.doc.pdf; JENKINS Gareth witness statementv1.0.doc;
ARCGENREP0004.HorizonDataintegrity.doc; HorizonOnlineDatalntegrity_POL.doc

All,

Attached are black and white scans of the signed Witness Statement and annotated Exhibits as requested.

I also attach the electronic originals which are in colour (and easier to read).

If you confirm that_these are OK, I’1] put the paper originals in the post to Martin together with two
signed Exhibit Labels.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect

Post Office Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
Tel:

Mobile:

email:

web: http://uk.fujitsu.com <http://uk. fujitsu. com>

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Sharron L Jennings
Sent: 05 October 2012 12:
To: martin smith; Jenkins Gareth GI; Jarnail A Singh
Cc: Rachael Panter

Subject: RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

FUJ00124012
FUJ00124012

Dear all

Please find attached the s.9 witness statement. It was not as simple as just cutting and pasting I'm
afraid as it did not copy across exactly as presented. Please check carefully before signing to ensure
you are happy.

Regards

Sharron Jennings

Post office Limited
Security Manager
Midway House

Admin Section

1 Elliott way
Birmingham

B6 7AP

confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (s) and may
contain

confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is
prohibited.

If you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the
original message.

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail

From: martin smith j....
sent: 05 October 2012 10:03

To: ‘Jenkins Gareth GI'; Jarnail A Singh

Cc: Sharron L Jennings; Rachael Panter

Subject: RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Gareth,

Please find attached a copy of your statement with the first paragraph of Section 3 re-written so that it
refers to the documents as exhibits.

I will ask Sharron Jennings to insert your statement into a Post Office Section 9 Statement and e-mail it
to you. I would be grateful if you could then sign it in the spaces provided, but given the shortness of
time could I ask you please to scan the signed copy to me before returning the original in the post.
FUJ00124012
FUJ00124012

Please also label the top right hand corner of the first pages of the documents referred to in paragraph
three with their respective exhibit numbers and scan the whole of each document to me as separate
attachments. This will enable us to serve copies of your statement and the exhibits electronically today.

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions.

Kind regards,

Martin.

SARI Ini:rririioiinini iliiiioisiiniriiiiiinisisiciiiiiiisiinini tried ioioteinieirsratiiiicieirirseaeatiseiesrararata
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email
from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y OHQ with
the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the
registered company number 02154540

TOR INI ie irises arse iraiiesia rabies iniear dears airs ears wrasse dea ara esa rae sears arse
