FUJ00095772

FUJ00095772
Delivery Assurance
Weekly Update 13 May 2010
Post Office Ltd - HNGX
Gavin Bounds
Deliverables:
Milestone [Feam_ IPlannedIForecast [Comment RAG
Counter Roll Out Commence ig [097109ITEC ject to satisfactory complaion of High Volume Pit and Volume
ing. Delayed due to live issues with Oracle database performance.

Branch Router Roll Out Complete Mig I 16/71/05) OGIOS/0I>97% of estate has had a Branch Router installed. How in tall

management. 50 rem branches requiring satel orams {V5

enabled router will not receive Branch Router until May 2010 due to

idalays in test due to contention with maintenance releases. Sign-off of

IVSAT in test moved back to end May
Counter Ral Out Complete lig I SUGITO)TBC [Excludes 4% tal. Delayed dus to Oracle lnsues dang Figh Volume

Pilot Completion date to be confirmed
Commentary:

622 branches continue to trade on HNG-X. The High Volume Pilot remains suspended. Significant
progress has been made this week in getting the right level of support from Oracle. Sufficient
diagnostic tracing data was obtained during two occurrences of the branch database hanging in live
this week to enable Oracle to state that 3 changes (1 bespoke patch and 2 settings changes) will fix
the problem. Fujitsu has specified that Oracle need to provide a written technical description of the
root cause of the problem and how each of the three changes contributes to fixing it. This is expected
by end of play 17" May. One parameter change is planned for implementation overnight on 14!
May, and the other two will be implemented by 19" May subject to successful completion of testing.
Further remedial fixes are planned for Sunday 16" May, 23 May and 30" May. Service stability and
capacity is under continual review.

The client executive is encouraged by progress in resolving the system problems but is still under
significant pressure from the National Federation of Sub Postmasters, which is holding its annual
conference next week. Given the strained relationship between the NFSP and Post Office over a pay
deal and demands for compensation to the HNG-X branches because of system outages, the
programme may be used as a lever to attract press attention. The Fujitsu and POL Programme teams
continue to have very good working relationships.

Key Issues (Any changes from last week in Red)

e Arevised schedule for branch migrations cannot be given until confidence is re-established that
the HNG-X system is stable. Customer confidence is very low. In order to build confidence, a
number of corrective actions need to be taken.

e Exit from Wigan and Bottle Datacentres by 31/07/10 is not achievable due to delays in the rollout
schedule. Nevertheless, we have agreed a rolling one month extension with the landlords to keep
our costs to a minimum.

Key Risks (Any changes from last week in Red)

« Perceived lack of progress in resolving the Oracle issues may result in Post Office considering
cancelling the HNG-X contract.

Cost overrun from programme delays and POL claiming for their costs.

Further issues in pilot may result in the rollout being delayed again.

Datacentre components may fail, resulting in delays to rollout.

Loss of support from National Federation of Sub-postmasters.

Beat rate during full rollout cannot be sustained, leading to delay.

eeccee

Action/Support Required:

None
