FUJ00087065
FUJ00087065

To: Newsome Pete[pete.newsome@;
Ce: Davidson James[James. Davids
From: —_ Steve Allchorn[steve.allchorn@
Sent: Wed 6/19/2013 10:10:08 PM (UTC)
Subject: RE: Re SROOS

I; Jenkins Gareth Gl[Gareth.Jenkins@

Thanks Pete.

Again, I believe we are continuing to go over old ground for Second Sight but I have asked Rod Ismay to provide confirmation and
necessary documentation.

We'll see what he comes up with.

Steve

From: Newsome Pete [mailto:pete.newsomeG@
Sent: 19 June 2013 15:25

To: Steve Allchorn

Cc: Davidson James; Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: FW: Re SROOS

Steve

Gareth has pointed out there was never an option to manipulate Branch accounts through Horizon. The description of the process
that was in place should be available from P£&BA (FSC).

Hope this is OK.
Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
, Fujitsu UK&l

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

& Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Jenkins Gareth GI
Sent: 19 June 2013 15:06
To: Newsome Pete

Cc: Davidson James
Subject: RE: Re SROO5

Pete,

There was never any capability for POL Staff to manipulate the Branch accounts through Horizon. I think the Ops Manual is badly
written.

I do remember the introduction of TCs in 2006 (I was the Architect responsible for this as part of the IMPACT programme). What
used to happen before that is that the Branch was sent a piece of paper called an Error Notice. This would then instruct them to
carry out some specific transaction at the Branch. These were often ignored. The whole point of TCs was to simplify and speed up

the process and enforce conformance.

There may also have been a mechanism by which POL could manipulate the branch accounts in their old accounting system (CBDB
owned and operated by POL or CSC on their behalf), but I never had any real understanding of that system.

Therefore I think this is yet another red herring!

Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

FUJITSU
Lovelac:

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

By Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Newsome Pete
Sent: 14 June 2013 14:03
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Davidson James
Subject: FW: Re SRO05

Gareth

FUJ00087065
FUJ00087065

Can you remember this change as it looks like prior to the introduction of POLSAP PO staff were able to make changes to a

branches account on site.

I assume this should have been more specific about PO staff making changes to the central record of the branch balance and not

affecting any of the transactions.
Pete

Pete Newsome

Business Change Manager

Post i it, Fujitsu UK&l
qT

ai
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.cotri

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
From: zz pete.newsomeG@
Sent: 14 June 2013 13:04
To: Newsome Pete
Subject: FW: Re SROOS

Pete Newsome

Business Change Manager

Fujitsu

Liaising with Post Office Ltd

From: Steve Allchorn
FUJ00087065
FUJ00087065

Sent: 14 June 2013 09:54
To: Pete Newsome

Cc: Simon Baker
Subject: FW: Re SROOS

Hi Pete

I think Ron’s further questions below are — like the majority list of 26 we saw at the meeting earlier this week — covered by the fact
that there was no access to live systems from the test area.

Could you however take a look at the operations manual statement attached and Alan Bates reference to “finance teams can no
longer adjust client accounts on site”. Could you provide some clarity/context around that statement?

Thanks
Steve

From: ron.warmington@t.
Sent: 13 June 2013 16:
To: Simon Baker

Cc: Steve Allchorn; Henderson Ian
Subject: Fwd: Re SROOS

Simon/Steve:
Alan Bates is asking a question here that is pretty similar to one of our set of 26.

It is inferred, in the first para of the attached section of POL's Operations Manual, that POL finance people had been able, until
December 2006, to access branch accounts directly (presumably to process TCs). Could you please clarify:

1. whether, before December 2006, any POL employees were able to input transactions directly into branch accounts... and if so,,,
2. whether - and when and how - SPMRs/Branch staff were informed whenever such interventions occurred

3. where POL staff having that capability were based

4. what transaction types were involved and, lastly...

5. what User IDs were applied to the transactions so executed.

Many thanks. Ron.

Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:

From: "Alan Bates" {~
Date: 13 June 2013 1
To: <ron.warmington@
Ce: <irh@
Subject: Re SROOS

7:32 CEST

<kay@

Ron, re SROOS, quite some time ago I sent you through a scan from a POL SPMR operations manual, copy attached.
With regard to external access to a SPMR’s data, it might be worth obtaining clarification from POL about what the
first paragraph of section 7 of the attached scan meant where they state “finance teams can no longer adjust client
accounts on site”. Did that mean that they could before the date of the document and what that actually related to,
by whom and from where?

You may have already have covered this point with POL but otherwise it may have some bearing on SROOS or
associated issues.
FUJ00087065
FUJ00087065

Alan

SARI OSAKA IO ISO IIA III SI III III ADI ASI ASI DISA DIDI ISOS O SI AIS OI SOB IIIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact
the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely
those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V
9HQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or from
Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.
Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park Central, Hayes
End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull Parkway,
Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply
email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless
otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
