FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790
(cL Business Support Unit - RED Audit Rel: IA/REP/oo7
Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000
Document Title: Business Support Unit - RED Audit
Document Type: Audit Report
Abstract: This document presents the findings of an audit of the
function of the Reconciliation Exception Database
operated by Business Support Unit.
Status: APPROVED
Distribution: S. Muchow P. Westfield
R. Brunskill J. Holmes
Library
Author: Graham Hooper (Girobank)
Comments to: Bharat Thakrar
Comments by: 29'* December 2000
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 16

© 1998 ICL Pathway Ltd
FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790
ICL Business Support Unit - RED Audit Refi IA/REP/oo7
ersion: 1.0
Pathwoy a, ial-In~Confi Date: 20/12/2000
O Document controt
O.L Document history
Version Date Reason
1.0 20/12/00 Issued for approval
0.2 Approvel autroritiey
Name Position Signature Date
Martyn Bennett Quality Director
0.3 Associated documenty
Reference Vers Date Title Source

0.4 Abbreviationy

0.5 Chongey mn thy versiow

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 16
ICL Businesy Support Unit - RED Audit
Pathway Commercial-In~Confidence

Ref:
Version:
Date:

FUJ00079790
FUJ00079790

1A/REP/007
10
20/12/2000

0.6 Table of content

TIMtrOduction ....cccceescecseessecsesssessecseesseessssecseesssssecssesseessssesseesesssessnesseesessesseeseeeseese

3 Summary of Recommendations... csccsesseseessecsesseesteeseeeresseeseeeeeseeseeseeneentense
4 Specific Recommendations .........c.seccsseseeseesesseseeseeessesesseseseesesvesneseeseaeansneeeenees
5 System Overview .....cccccecsceseses es ceseseseseesesessscsesnesssssessesesesesseseseseseseeusseeseeeeneecee
6 Operational Overview ......cccessecsessesssseseeseesesesseseeseseesessessseeaessesseseenssieanseeesenenee

6.1 Data Classification ......cscccsessseesssecsssessesssecsseeessessssssssesssecsssesssesssessveessesssees

Nh RRA

on

6.2 Current Procedures....scscsecssesesesssesesseseesesseesessessessssseesesseeseseessessesssesses O

7 Physical Security ......cscsccssesseseeceeesseseseeeseesessesesssemssesssesessesesseeeeeenseeenseeeeens

7.1 Location...

7.2 ACCESS CONIOL...eceeeceesseeteseesesseseeseeneseseesestesessessestsseensssesnseessseansseeeenenee

7-3 PLIVACY o.oeseeseeseseeees

7.4 Counter-eavesdropping

8 Information Security/IT Controls .......ceceessesesesseessesseesesseessesnesseesnssneenseeneensenee
8.1 Physical Data Storage ........ccscsecssesecseesecseeseeeseesessecseesseeseesecsseessssnseseeseeeseese
8.2 Clear Desk Policy ..cccccceseesesessesseseeessesssseesssesessesnessenesssssessnesnssesseseeneees

12

ed

12

8.3 PC Access Control ......scecsecseecsesssesseeseessessesssessesssssessessseesessnessecsessnessessneesesy 14

8.4 Disposal arrangements
8.5 Data Back-Up.
8.6 Security Compliance

9 Contingency Arrangements

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 3 of 16
ICL

FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/oo7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

Introduction

The Reconciliation Exception Database (RED) is where ICL Pathway Business
Support Unit (BSU) investigate financial exceptions and arrange for any
required financial charges to take place. Pathway Internal Audit asked Alliance
and Leicester Fraud and Risk Management to undertake an audit of the RED
function and its associated processes.

Scope

The audit was undertaken in accordance with the Terms of Reference (attached
at Annex 1) and in conjunction with internal audit requirements as set out in
requirements specification document. Specifically relevant are the requirements
detailed at para 8.6.

The audit was undertaken on various dates between 1.6.98 and 19.6.98.

Summary of Recommendationy

The audit concludes that existing state of compliance with RED Internal Audit
Requirements is:

e RED-IAR1 - Met (subject to verification of procedures at HSH);
e RED-IAR2- Met;
e RED-IAR3- Met in part;

e RED-IAR4 - Not met;
e RED-IARS- Met in part;
e RED-IAR6 - Not met;

e RED-IAR7 (i) - Not met;

e RED-IAR7 (ii) - Met in part;
e RED-IAR7 (iii) - Met in part;
e RED-IAR7 (iv) - Met;

e RED-IAR7(v) — - Met;

e RED-IAR7 (vi) - Met.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 16
FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

ICL Business Support Unit - RED Audit Verin TAIREP/007
Pi wag Commercial-In-Confidlence Date: 20/12/2000
4 Specific Recommendations

Para 5.2: Current procedures for the operation of the RED facility,
particularly that involving arrangements for financial settlement, are not
formalised.

It is recommended that an operations manual be produced and that agreed
recommendations from this report are included.

Para 5.3: It is anticipated that subsequent releases of the Pathway solution
will increase significantly the work of the RED facility.

It is recommended that an investigation be undertaken to establish the likely
impact on staff resources.

Para 5.5.1: Considerable BSU staff time is currently used to obtain material
information required for investigations.

It is suggested that consideration be given to providing BSU with on-line, read
only access to Oracle/Discover. This may help speed up resolution times -
particularly in light of likely workload increases as roll out progresses.

Para 5.4: BSU staff have no formal job descriptions although they are aware
of personal objectives.

It is recommended that these are developed in light of requirements emerging
from the RED operations manual and used for staff appraisal purposes.

Para 5.5: RED information is provided to a number of external contacts.

It is recommended that steps be taken by recipients to determine the protection
offered to material originated in ICL Pathway.

Para 5.11: It is unclear whether the current amount and detail of client
confidential data recorded on RED is actually required to fulfil contract
requirements.

It is recommended that consideration be given to establishing whether this
could be reduced or eliminated.

Paras5.6.1: All RED exception cases are allocated a reference number. This is
not system generated and is vulnerable to user error.

It is recommended that REDv3 generates a unique, sequential number
automatically.

Para 5.6.2: RED report forms are updated directly to screen, changes
overwrite previous information and are possible without reference to higher
authority and without an apparent audit trail.

It is recommended that REDv3 maintains an auditable history of changes to
information as the exception investigation progresses.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 16
FUJ00079790
FUJ00079790

ICL Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/0o7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

Para 5.7.3: I Onoccasion, manual debit instructions have been issued by BSU
staff to CCS only to be amended after financial settlement because of further
investigation.

It is recommended that adjustment schedules are not issued to CCS until it is
certain that BSU action is completed.

Para 5.7.4: The reconciliation adjustment procedure between BSU and CCS
has no formal or documented certification or authorisation process.

It is recommended that:

. all reconciliation adjustment schedules prepared by BSU are checked
against supporting evidence and formally certified as correct prior to
authorisation;

. certified schedules and their supporting evidence should be submitted to
management for authorisation prior to referral to CCS for invoice
adjustment;

° prior to authorisation the authorised signatory should undertake a
sample check of schedules for accuracy of completion and a sample of
individual cases against supporting evidence (either as a percentage of
the overall total or 100% if lower than an agreed de minimus level);

Para 5.7.4: There is currently no appropriate segregation of duties between
exception resolution and financial settlement.

It is recommended that:

. the person preparing the reconciliation adjustment schedules should not
be the person who certifies their accuracy;

° the person certifying their accuracy should not be the person authorising
adjustment;

. the person authorising adjustment should not have prepared or certified

the schedule;
. no duplication of duties should be allowed at time of absence.

Para 5.8.3: The security of the preparation, certification and authorisation
process for Post Office Fallback Operations (requiring the issue of manual
cashcheques to beneficiaries) is inadequate for the reasons detailed in 3.8
above.

It is recommended that a similar procedure is developed to ensure an
appropriate segregation of duties between these exception resolution cases and
their financial settlement.

Para 5.8.3: Prepared cashcheques are currently returned by CCS to BSU for
issue to the beneficiary.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 16
FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790
ICL Business Support Unit - RED Audit Verin TAIREP/007
Pi wag Commercial-In-Confidlence Date: 20/12/2000

It is recommended that they be issued direct to the beneficiary by a member of
CCS staff who has played no part in the preparation of the cheque. A schedule
of cashcheques issued should be maintained.

Para 5.9.2: SLCA staff have access to the same information as that by BSU staff.

It is recommended that physical security countermeasures for the area occupied
by SLCA are commensurate with that recommended for BSU.

Para 6.2: The open-plan nature of the BSU area is inadequate to protect
effectively the sensitive and legally privileged information held on RED. Verbal,
documentary and visually displayed information is currently at risk to
unauthorised disclosure.

It is recommended that:
. BSU is moved to a controlled environment;

. Access to BSU should be limited by the use of AAC to BSU staff and
those persons specifically authorised by its management;

. VDUs should be positioned to avoid sight by unauthorised persons;

° Its location should not permit conversations by BSU staff to be
overheard;

. The BSU manager should also be provided with a similarly controlled
environment.

Para 7.1: There are currently no control procedures for access to keys

protecting the storage of RED information.

It is recommended that a key control/log procedure is developed to maintain an
auditable record of key holders.

Para 7.2: BSU staff are unaware of any available protective marking system
to identify the client/contractual sensitivity of RED material.

It is recommended that a suitable protective marking be afforded all BSU output
material to denote clearly the level of protection required.

Para 7.3: Computer passwords are changed occasionally on an ad-hoc
basis.

It is recommended that the RED system be designed to prompt password
changes automatically at least monthly. The prompt should not be capable of
user over-ride.

PIDs are not currently used in conjunction with password control and it is not
therefore possible to associate input changes with the operator who performed
them.

It is recommended that a PIN+PID system be adopted.

Para 7.5: It is unclear whether RED has an audit trail facility that permits
historical interrogation of RED inputs.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 16
ICL

FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/oo7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

6.1

It is recommended that the efficacy of its audit trails be established.

BSU staff are unaware of whom to contact in the event of problems with RED. It
is recommended that this information is included in an operations manual.

Para 8.3: The RED report archive (containing the definitive repository of all
information) is located in the same area as BSU.

It is recommended that this be relocated to a secure storage area away from
both BSU and the back-up server.

Systew Overview

RED is where ICL Pathway Business Support Unit record, investigate and
resolve financial exceptions and arrange for any required financial charges to
take place. Exceptions are forwarded via the Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH)
and PinICL. An explanation of the types of exceptions and the main data flows
currently handled by RED are attached at Annex 2.

Operational Overview

BSU is a small self-contained unit that operates as part of ICL Pathway
Customer Services Section. BSU currently comprises five full-time members of
staff - a manager and four assistants. The latter undertake the primary
initiation, recording, investigation and resolution work of RED. The duties
require extensive liaison with other internal ICL Pathway sections and also with
the Contracting Authorities and other external players. The unit manager
provides staff line-management control and oversees the general day-to-day
work, providing an interface as necessary with managers in other sections.

The work of BSU involves extensive live handling of client confidential/personal
data relating to DSS Benefits Agency (BA) customers. This information is
designated by HM Government as “Restricted” and is covered by the provisions
of the Data Protection Act (DPA) 1984 (including the requirements of the
European Union Data Protection Directive 1995), the Social Security
Administration Act 1992 and by a general duty of confidentiality as per the
contract between ICL Pathway and the Contracting Authorities. Protection
sufficient to prevent the unauthorised compromise of sensitive information is
therefore required _ to satisfy extant legislation, maintain customer confidence
and avoid reputational damage. BSU also handle quantities of information
(both in written and electronic format) relating to internal ICL Pathway matters
that, in the commercial interests of the company, warrant a degree of
protection from unauthorised compromise.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 16
ICL

FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/oo7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

6.2

5.3

5.4

A significant amount of client confidential material is held on RED (ie.
information relating to identifiable, living individuals) and as such, requires
suitable and costly countermeasures to prevent compromise and comply with
relevant legislation. BSU consider that this level of customer data is often
irrelevant to the efficient resolution of cases and, in general, adds little positive
value to their work. Further, the holding of such information may expose ICL
Pathway to the spectre of subject access requests under the DPA. Whilst it may
be that this information could be/is currently used by ICL Pathway for other
purposes (or is required by the contracting authorities), consideration should
be given to reviewing whether the current amount of client information
recorded on RED is appropriate or necessary.

Current Procedurey

There are currently no formalised procedures for the day to day running of the
unit although staff have ready access to both high level documentation and the
advice of the unit manager. They are also aware that an operations manual is
being produced. Operational procedures have been developed on an ad-hoc
basis according to the demands of the work. BSU staff report no known
occurrence of a breach of security but would bring any such incident
immediately to the attention of the unit manager.

Staff Resources

Four assistant staff are currently allocated to BSU/RED and are generally
interchangeable across all functions (one member is currently allocated to SLA
to work on developing RED v3). There is therefore an in-built flexibility in the
event of expected/unexpected staff absence. They cope easily with the current
volumes of work generated under r.1.2. Based upon current volumes (and
assuming current software-fix status) there will be a significant increase in
exception referrals following r.2. and programme rollout across additional
benefit groups and Post Offices. The full extent to which this impacts on BSU is
yet to be determined but may affect significantly the number of staff required -
particularly in view of the aggressive exception resolution timescales contained
in the SLA,

Knowledge/Skills

BSU staff are experienced and, in the absence of specific instruction, have
adopted a common sense approach to the work. Informal case conferences are
held, knowledge is shared and details are committed to paper as and when
required. No formal investigative training has been undertaken by staff but
case-based reasoning is used to build up expertise and, as a result, analysis skills
have been developed. In the main, this approach appears to have worked well.
BSU staff have developed a section identity, are committed to the work and are

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 16
ICL

FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/oo7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

5.5

5.6

fully aware of its sensitive nature. They have no formalised job descriptions but
have been set personal objectives for appraisal purposes.

BSU Interfaces

There is no hierarchy within BSU and all staff liaise on a demand-led basis in
order to get the work done. They enjoy good relations with both internal and
external contacts. Main daily internal interfaces are with other Customer
Service sections (for SLCA/MIS issues), Fraud Risk Management, Business
Process section, SSC Bracknell and CCS (Finance). Main daily external
interfaces are with BA/CAPS Exception Service, POCL at Chesterfield,
BA/POCL at Lisahally and PCHL at Bootle. BSU also attend monthly meetings
with Horizon Programme representatives. BSU is totally reliant upon the
integrity of the information with which they are supplied and have no control
over the security subsequently afforded any RED data issued to external
contacts (i.e. Horizon Programme, BA and POCL). The direct BSU/RED
interface with CCS involves a manual data flow whilst that with SLCA is on-line.

BSU spend a considerable amount of time during case resolution contacting
SSC by telephone to obtain material, non-client sensitive, information relating
to transactions under active investigation (dates, times, amounts etc). As roll-
out progresses and exception volumes rise, the amount of staff time spent on
the telephone obtaining this necessary information will increase quite
substantially. It is therefore suggested that consideration be given to providing
BSU staff with on-line, read only access to Oracle/Discover to enable them to
obtain information direct. This would speed up overall times for resolution of
cases and free up resources for other work.

Casework (RED Forms/Reports)

Casework referrals are generated either by receipt of documents by internal
courier/mail, faxes (ie. CBOS reports) or on-stream via PinICL at SSC
Bracknell. A summary of the main exception data-flows into RED is at Annex 2.
RED report forms are raised on the RED system for all exception incidents and
these form the basis of ongoing live exception cases. A copy of a typical RED
report is attached at Annex 3. The number of exception referrals varies on a
day-to-day basis from nil to seven. Mondays generally see busier traffic. The live
load fluctuates and BSU staff could not provide an estimate. RED is currently
operating on RED v.2. BSU/SLCA staff are in the process of developing RED v.3.

All exception cases are allocated an incident number on RED forms by BSU
staff. The RED system does not do this automatically. There is therefore a
possibility that the same number may be allocated to more than one referral or
that sequential numbering is not maintained. This could lead to confusion and
future reconciliation problems.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 16
FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

ICL Business Support Unit - RED Audit Verin TAIREP/007
Pi wag Commercial-In-Confidence Date: 20/12/2000

5.7

RED forms are updated directly on screen as resolution work progresses.
Changes to existing data are possible without prior referral to a higher
authority. The RED system has no attendant audit trail facility and subsequent
entries overwrite historical information. The integrity of the data it contains
therefore relies solely upon the honesty of its operators and the veracity of ad-
hoc management checks.

RED reports can be printed at any time either as a status report for ongoing
cases or as a final report once exception resolution has been satisfactorily
concluded. Every exception reported to BSU results in the generation of a form
and a hard-copy report. Final reports detail the reason for the reconciliation
exception, the conclusions of the subsequent investigation and
recommendations for further action (e.g. for software fixes). RED reports
therefore play an important role in influencing changes to programme
procedures. Final RED reports also provide the vehicle by which manual
debit/credit instructions, as appropriate, are referred to CCS.

RED reports have three informal status levels - ongoing cleared and closed.
¢ Ongoing: cases that are the subject of active enquiry;

e Cleared: cases that have been resolved the satisfaction of all parties and any
required software fixes have been identified;

e Closed: Information from cleared cases has been used to update exceptions
knowledge, any credit/debit action has been completed and cases have been
put away.

Manual Debit/Credit Instructions

The BSU manager reviews all cases where resolution requires the issue of
manual debit/credit instructions by CCS. BSU staff report that they hand a hard
copy of the completed RED report to the manager together with any available
supporting evidence. After due consideration the manager agrees manual
debit/credit action and advises BSU staff to refer to CCS for invoice adjustment.

There is no formal guidance on what the precise procedure should be. In
practice, the BSU manager agrees action verbally and BSU staff then create a
schedule of cases requiring adjustment. These are then E-mailed to CCS with a
request for adjustment.

CCS is the sole invoicing point for ICL Pathway. CCS prepare a summary
reconciliation settlement form and scheduled payments are invoiced generally
on a monthly basis. After their action, CCS return a copy of the schedule and
associated invoice number to BSU for their records. BSU record the invoice
number on the associated RED report and print a copy of the RED report for
filing. CCS retain securely a copy of schedules and invoices for audit purposes.

The system has caused some reconciliation problems in the past. On one
occasion a manual debit instruction was actioned by CCS, only to be amended

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page u of 16
ICL

FU.

Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/oo7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

5.8

later by BSU who had, in the interim, established that no adjustment was in fact
appropriate. To avoid the recurrence of such an overpayment, CCS now check
the status of schedules with BSU prior to final invoice action. However, as
programme rollout progresses and payments increase this will become
impractical.

The CCS manager also expressed some concern that there is no way of knowing
whether the schedules have been prepared correctly. The schedules contain
neither an accuracy certification nor a management authorisation. Under the
existing system there is no evidence of an appropriate segregation of duties or
of a documented certification/authorisation procedure. The BSU manager is, in
effect, by-passed. Credit/Debit schedules are prepared by BSU staff and,
following cursory endorsement, are then returned to them for referral to CCS. It
is therefore possible for invoice amounts to be amended before final referral to
ccs.

Manual Cheque Payments to Beneficiaries

Exception resolution of Post Office Fallback Operations (Ref: IA/REQ/oo1 -
Para 8.1.2) can result in a requirement to issue a manual cashcheque payment
direct to the beneficiary negotiable at a nominated Post Office. This procedure
has been used only twice and BSU staff are somewhat uncertain of the required
procedure.

A copy of the appropriate RED report (containing details of the reconciliation
differences) is prepared by BSU staff and handed to CCS together with an
accompanying letter for issue to the beneficiary. The accompanying letter
contains the associated RED incident number. A cashcheque is then prepared
by CCS and this is given back to BSU for issue to the beneficiary. The process
has been documented by CCS and a copy is attached at Annex 4. An
appropriate and secure procedure has also been developed by CCS for the
receipt of any refunds from beneficiaries resulting from overpayment cases.

The procedure for physical storage, retrieval, writing and authorisation of the
actual cashcheques by CCS was investigated and was found to be both secure
and auditable. The requirements of RED-IAR7(iv, v and vi) are therefore met.

The process of certification and authorisation by BSU of the RED mandate is
however inadequate for the same reasons outlined at paragraph 5.7.4. In
addition, it is inappropriate that completed cashcheques are returned to BSU
for despatch to the beneficiary - this should be done by CCS staff. BSU record
the cashcheque details on the associated RED report and keep a separate
photocopy. A formal schedule of all cashcheque payments to beneficiaries
should be maintained by CCS to provide a single, accessible and auditable
record of all payments. Overall the requirements of RED- IAR7(i) are not met.
The requirements of RED-IAR7(ii and iii) are met in part. The requirements of
RED-IAR3 are met in part.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 16

FUJ00079790
IJ00079790
ICL

FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/oo7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

5.9

7.1

72

Information flow to SLCA

Another flow of information from RED is to the Service Level Contract
Administration Section (SLCA) physically located away from the Customer
Services area. SLCA undertake the monitoring of all RED reports to establish
performance against agreed contract service levels. Information from relating to
four main RED SLAs are subsequently included in daily reports to senior
management or in monthly reports via Service Performance Review.

In addition to any hard copy information provided to them by BSU, SLCA has
independent on-line access to the RED system and also to information held in
the Data Warehouse. SLCA staff therefore have access to the same RED
information that BSU staff do. A member of BSU staff is currently working with
SLCA staff to develop RED v.3 and, in his absence, a member of SLCA provides
cover.

The area occupied by SLCA has operating AAC that allows access only to SLCA
staff.

A few of the recommendations made in this report to improve the integrity of
the RED database have already been identified by SLCA and are being
addressed in RED v.3.

Physical Security

Location

BSU operates in an office area located at ground floor level adjacent to the
access road to the main site car park and within the boundary of the site
perimeter fencing. BSU is sited within an open-plan area that is also occupied
by over 30 staff of varying grades from other Customer Service sections. A
number of small offices have been constructed on one side of the main office
area. These are of plasterboard stud-partitioned construction and have floor to
ceiling glass windows that border the main office area. The BSU manager
occupies one of these offices, which he also shares with managerial staff of
other Customer Service sections.

Accesy Control

The area is protected by swipe-card automatic access control (AAC) at its two
entrances and by passive infra-red intruder detection. The system however
currently allows access to all ICL Pathway staff, not just Customer Services
personnel. This presents a significant risk to information held by BSU. In
addition, the AAC is not supported by the use of additional PIN protection and
there is therefore a further risk from misplaced or stolen AAC tokens. Staff who

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 16
FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

ICL Business Support Unit - RED Audit Verin IAIREP/o07

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000
cease to work for ICL Pathway have their AAC tokens recovered which prevents
subsequent entry to the area.

7.3 Privacy

7.4

BSU itself is not physically separated from other customer service work areas
although some effort has been made to provide segregation by the use of low-
level acoustic screening and the arrangement of filing cabinets. This is however
largely cosmetic and provides little or no privacy. Staff from other customer
service sections frequently pass along the corridor by BSU and sometimes
engage staff in conversation. BSU confirm that whilst other staff are aware of
the sensitive nature of BSU work they have no authority or need to know.

The VDUs of the RED access database (on which reconciliation exception work
is undertaken) can be overlooked both from this corridor area and from above
the acoustic screening and filing cabinets surrounding the unit. In addition, the
VDUs could, theoretically, be overlooked from the windows adjacent to the car
park access road. Any such attempts would however be unlikely and would
probably be noticed by other Customer Service personnel. There is no signage
on adjacent windows that would indicate the nature of the work undertaken.

Counter-cavesdropping

BSU staff often discuss information of a sensitive nature both between
themselves and with clients on the telephone. The siting of the unit affords no
protection against both deliberate and accidental eavesdropping by other
members of Customer Service staff. The use of higher-level acoustic screens
would do little to improve the situation and would also affect adversely the
level of natural daylight reaching adjacent office areas. Work is never discussed
outside the confines of the unit (i.e. in the cafeteria).

The office used by the BSU manager is also shared by his immediate manager
and one member of his staff from the IS&P area. Sensitive discussions between
BSU management and staff, and telephone conversations with external parties
are therefore vulnerable to eavesdropping. In addition, the BSU manager has a
PC that is used amongst other things to record and access sensitive MIS
information. This is vulnerable to overlooking by unauthorised persons.
Sensitive hard-copy documentation handled by the BSU manager (ie. E-Mail
printouts and hard-copy RED reports provided by BSU staff) are similarly
vulnerable if left unattended.

In view of the findings detailed above the requirements set out at RED-IAR4 are
not met.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 16
ICL

FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/oo7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

8.1

8.2

3.3

Information Security/IT Controly

Physical Date Storage

Hard-copy casework and files are generated, processed and stored within BSU.
These can contain details relating to identifiable individuals and information of
a commercially sensitive nature. They are stored in lockable filing cabinets to
which all staff have access. Staff report that they lock files away at the close of
business and secure keys. There are however no formal key control procedures
and staff do not maintain a key log. There is therefore no auditable facility for
determining physical access to files or documented contingency arrangements.

When available space is exhausted in the main filing cabinets, RED reports
closed by BSU are transferred to an archive in an adjacent area.

It is intended that all records of exceptions handled, investigated and resolved
by BSU and recorded on RED will be retained for a period of not less than 7
years. Staff are aware of this requirement. RED information provided to SSC will
be similarly retained. The requirements of RED-IAR2 will therefore be met.

Clear Desk Policy

An informal clear desk policy has been adopted - the aim being to lock away all
paperwork before the close of business. There are however no formal document
control procedures and BSU staff are not aware of any protective marking
system used within ICL Pathway to visibly designate sensitive personal or
commercial information.

PC Accesy Controt

Access to computer based systems, including RED, is controlled with each
member of BSU having a specific alphanumeric password. Staff report that they
do not share each other’s passwords nor do they write them down. Staff are
aware that passwords should be changed regularly but in practice this only
happens occasionally. The requirements set out at RED-IAR5 are therefore only
partly met.

Personal identification devices (PIDs) are not currently used in conjunction
with password control. It is therefore not possible to directly associate input
changes with the operator who performed them. The requirements set out at
RED-IAR6 are therefore not met. Screen savers are used and in general are set at
about three minutes although there are no set rules for this. Passwords must be
re-entered after this time in order to re-gain access to the system.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 16
ICL

FUJ00079790

FUJ00079790

Business Support Unit - RED Audit Ref: IA/REP/oo7

Version: 1.0

Pothway A, . In-Confi Date: 20/12/2000

8.4

3.5

8.6

Disposel arrangementy

All unwanted hard-copy outputs from BSU are disposed of as sensitive waste.
This is shredded in a machine adjacent to the section. It was however noted
that the top of this machine was stacked with documents awaiting shredding
from other Customer Service sections. There may therefore be some risk of
compromise unless material is shredded immediately.

Dotw Back-Up

Information is backed up nightly to a central server physically located away
from the Customer Services area. Staff did not know whom they should contact
in the event of a forgotten password, system malfunction or other contingency
but assumed that they would have access to a system administrator should such
a problem occur. Staff were unaware whether any audit trail facility operated
with non-PAS systems.

Seeurity Compliance

The BSU manager undertakes random checks on the general state of security
within the unit and summarily checks every RED report before issue. These
procedures are not however formalised or documented. Checks are undertaken

on statistical information provided for SLCA purposes and are included in
monthly operational review documents for other MIS/management purposes.

Contingency Arrangementy

Data held on RED is backed up daily to a server located away from the BSU
area. Hard-copy RED reports are also held externally by other sections in ICL
Pathway and also by the contracting authorities. There exists therefore
alternative access to records in the event of loss of data through fire/flood etc.
at BSU.

BSU staff are interchangeable in the event of absence and they ensure that there
is always at least one person in attendance at all times. This is done informally
although the BSU manager oversees the arrangements.

In the event of an emergency a GSM mobile phone is available to any member
of BSU staff when working away from the office. Digital GSM phones offer
adequate protection from eavesdropping via scanners.

The RED report archive is located in the same area as BSU. In the event of a
disaster (fire/flood etc.) all electronic and paper RED records might be lost. It is
therefore recommended that the RED paper archive is relocated to secure
storage outside the immediate Customer Services area.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 16
