Fujitsu Services

Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Ref:
Version:

Date:

FUJ00080428
FUJ00080428

CS/SER/002
1.0
20-Dec -2002

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Originator & Dept:

Contributors:

Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description

Service Description

N/A

Service description of the Horizon Systems Help-Desk Service
provided under contract to Post Office Limited

APPROVED

Reg Barton, Fujitsu Services Customer Service

Reg Barton; Martin Riddell; Richard Brunskill

Internal Distribution: PVCS, Reviewers

External Distribution: Post Office Ltd

Approval Authorities:

Name [Position Signature Date
[Liz Tuddenham [Post Office: Network Support
f+ Supplier & ServiceI
[Performance Manager
[Richard Brunskill [Fujitsu Services: Pathway 4
Infrastructure Services Manager
© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 1 of 15

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428

FUJ00080428
Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002
0.0 Document Control
0.1. Document History
\Version No. [Date iReason for Issue IAssociated
(CP/PinICL
1.0 20/12/02 First authorised version introduced under contract
jnegotiations and agreed between Fujitsu Services andI
Post Office

0.2 Review Details

[Review Comments by: [Date

Review Comments to: [Originator

Mandatory Review Authority

Name

Service Performance Manager

Post Office: Network Support — Supplier &ILiz Tuddenham

Post Office: Network Support — Network Busines:
Support Manager

Mark Haynes

Fujitsu Services:
Services Manager

Pathway —

InfrastructureRichard Brunskill

Director

Fujitsu Services: Pathway — Customer ServiceMartin Riddell

[Fujitsu Services: Pathway — Strategic Service:
Manager

Reg Barton

[Fujitsu Services:
Manager

Horizon Systems Helpdes!

IPhilippa Whittington

Optional Review / Issued for Information

Support

[Fujitsu Services: Pathway — Management SupportJohn Moran
IUnit Manager
[Post Office: Network Support — Head of NetworkIDon Grey

( * ) = Reviewers that returned comments

0.3 Associated Documents

© 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)

Page: 2 of 15
FUJ00080428
FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description —_Ref: CS/SER/002
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002
Reference Version IDate Title Source
(CS/IFS/007 IHSH/Post Office Support
[Desk Interface Agreement
(CS/PRD/074 Incident Management Process

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current
approved versions of the documents.

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms have the following meanings:

(Abbreviation

Definition

Expert Domain

‘A further line of support beyond the Helpdesk, such as technical
‘support or Branch Engineering Service

First Line (Agent) ‘A technical support agent, who will answer the telephone, log a call,
and undertake basic diagnostics in response to a reported fault
HSH ‘Horizon Systems Helpdesk

IHSH Customer

Post Office staff and staff of Post Office Clients having a direc
interface with the Horizon Service Infrastructure, providing that the
satisfy the relevant validation criteria

HSH Voicemail System

Out of hours voicemail facility provided by the HSH to allow callers t
leave details relating to incidents discovered outside of the HSH core;
yperating hours

ISDN NTE Integrated Services Digital Network Termination Equipment

IVR Interactive Voice Response

ILAN (The Branch Local Area Network; specifically, the cable connecting al
Gateway processor to the communications solution (ISDN NTE or
Satellite PES); the cross-over cable connecting a Gateway processor
‘0 a single slave processor; the data cabling and hub(s) connecting al
Gateway processor to two or more slave processors.

INBSC etwork Business Support Centre — the current Post Office helpdesk

IPES Personal Earth Station

Post Office™ Post Office Ltd

ISPOC ‘Single Point of Contact

SRB Service Review Book: A document published on a monthly basis b
Fujitsu Services, detailing the previous months achievement to targe
against SLA(s) and managerial comment when appropriate, as further
described in this CCD

IWAN (The Branch Wider Area Network ; specifically, the communication

infrastructure existing between the Branches and the Fujitsu Service:
etwork

© 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 15

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428
FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description _ Ref: CS/SER/002
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dee -2002

0.5 Changes in this Version

\Version Changes

1.0 First Version
0.6 Changes Expected

(Changes
© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 15

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428
FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description —_ Ref: CS/SER/002
Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

0.7 Table of Contents

1.0 SERVICE SUMMARY

2.0. SERVICE PRINCIPLES.
2.1 GENERAL
3.0 SERVICE DEFINITION.

3.1 GENERAL...
3.2 INCIDENT CLASSIFICATION
3.3 INFORMATION REPORTING.

4.0 SERVICE AVAILABILITY.

41 GENERAL........ceeseeeees
4.2 HSH VOICEMAIL SERVICE

5.0 SERVICE TARGETS & LIMITS

5.1 TARGETS.
5.2 LIMIT:
5.3. URGENT LEVEL OF SERVICE CHANG

6.0 SERVICE DEPENDENCIES & POST OFFICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
6.1 Post OFFICE RESPONSIBILITIES..........

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 15
(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428

FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

1.0 Service Summary

LA

1.1.2

2.0
2.1

2.1.1

General

The Horizon Systems Helpdesk (HSH) Service provides a first line support to Post
Office Branches and other designated groups (defined in paragraph 2.0) through
provision of a support desk function. Branches experiencing difficulties with their
Horizon equipment will call the HSH and log an incident, reporting the
circumstances.

Service Principles

General

Fujitsu Services shall provide a dedicated HSH as described in this CCD. Fujitsu
Services may wish to provide the HSH service via a non-dedicated HSH. Any
such change from a dedicated to non-dedicated HSH can only be by agreement
between the Post Office and Fujitsu Services using the Hard Change Control
procedure.

The HSH shall:

2.1.2.1 act as a central point for information on the working state of the
Services;

2.1.2.2. keep customers notified of any scheduled interruptions;

2.1.2.3 assist in any negotiations with Post Office where interruptions to the
Services provided are scheduled;

2.1.2.4 keep Post Office informed of when the affected Service will be
restored.

The HSH will receive calls relating to incidents detailed within paragraphs 3.2.1
and 3.2.2. The HSH shall provide the facility to receive redirected calls from Post
Office helpdesks and helplines.

Fujitsu Services shall provide appropriate levels of support services through the
HSH to cover the operation of interfaces with the Post Office Service
Environment.

Fujitsu Services shall maintain User, asset, problem and change management
databases.

Fujitsu Services shall manage the resolution of any incident using procedures that
are defined in the document Horizon System Helpdesk PPD.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428

FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

2.1.10

2.1.11

2.1.12

2.1.13

The HSH will only accept calls from HSH Customers.

The HSH will accept calls from internal Fujitsu Services Pathway personnel
provided that they satisfy the relevant validation criteria.

Branches wishing to contact the HSH will do so by telephoning a Single Point of
Contact (SPOC) telephone number. The management and control of the Single
Point of Contact telephone number is undertaken by the Post Office. An
Interactive Voice Response system will enable the caller to select an option to
connect to the HSH for circumstances where there is an issue relating to the call
types identified in paragraphs 3.2.1 and 3.2.2.

The HSH will provide a first level service, second level service and a third level
service:

e The First Level Service shall own the incident from initial logging through to
resolution to the HSH Customer’s satisfaction. Fujitsu Services shall cater for
First Level Service members being off duty;

e The Second Level Service shall provide a diagnostic and fixing service for all
incidents that cannot be resolved by the First Level Service but can be resolved
without reference to the technical experts within the Third Level Service. Calls
shall be referred electronically from the First Level Service to the Second Level
Service. Second Level Service staff shall have access to a prioritised list of
outstanding incidents and details on the incident recorded by the First Level
Service staff; and

¢ If the HSH cannot resolve the incident at either the First or Second Level
Service, Fujitsu Services shall categorise and prioritise the incident so that it
can be actioned and completed within a standard timescale. This will be
completed by the Software Support Centre or the Engineer Service.

All HSH staff will have suitable and appropriate skills and training, and act in a
professional manner whenever dealing with callers, complying with agreed help
service behavioural standards. Fujitsu Services shall ensure that sufficient skilled
resources are available to cater for holidays, sickness and natural wastage within
Fujitsu Services.

The HSH and the NBSC processes for dealing with enquiries from Post Office
Branches in connection with the Network Banking Service (NBS) shall be
enhanced by Fujitsu Services and Post Office respectively to support the NBS and
each party shall ensure that it follows any related new procedures. [NBR248,
NBR046, NBR047, NBR452, NBR272]

Fujitsu Services shall, on request, provide on-line access to the incident
management system. Post Office shall inform Fujitsu Services of who is authorised
to access the system.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428

FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

2.1.14

2.1.15

2.1.16

Fujitsu Services shall retain HSH records for a minimum of eighteen (18) months.

Fujitsu Services shall be responsible for ensuring that a contingency plan is in place
and maintained to cater with any Horizon System Helpdesk continuity incident,
e.g. loss of staff, loss of telephone system, loss of problem/configuration
management system. The HSH contingency plan shall be a Contract Controlled
Document and shall state how quickly this HSH Service will be restored in the
event of a HSH continuity incident.

Fujitsu Services shall ensure that the HSH is available in line with applicable
Service Levels before activation of new Horizon Service Infrastructure in the
Horizon estate, except that Fujitsu Services shall not be required to provide the
HSH support specific to PIN Pads in Branches at which PIN Pads are not installed.

3.0 Service Definition

3.1 General

3.1.1

3.1.2

3.1.6

3.1.8

Branches will contact the HSH by contacting the Post Office SPOC telephone
number.

Other HSH Customers will have a direct telephone number, and Fujitsu Services
personnel will have an internal dialling number, by which to contact the HSH. Both
these numbers will by-pass the SPOC telephony system.

The HSH First Line Agent will answer the call and welcome the caller. The caller
will be asked questions to validate their identity and to ensure that they are
authorised to speak to the HSH.

If the call has been referred to the HSH by the NBSC, caller validation will already
have been completed by the NBSC. Further caller validation will not be performed
by the HSH. Should the caller subsequently be found or shown to be unauthorised,
then the liability for the giving of information or advice to such callers will rest
with the Post Office.

When validation is required, the caller will be asked to confirm selected details
relating to their identification and location. Where callers are unable to
successfully complete this validation, the call will be terminated.

Those callers who pass the validation check, or have been transferred from the
NBSC, will then be asked the nature of their call, and the equipment or
functionality affected.

The HSH First Line Agent will then open an incident record to record the details of
the caller and the incident itself. The incident record will assign a unique reference
number to the call.

The incident record will contain the following information:

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428
FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

a)

b)
c)
d)
e)
fy
8)
h)
i)
)
k)
)

Unique incident serial reference number, generated automatically by the incident
management system

Date and time the incident occurred

HSH Customer contact, address, location and telephone number
Date and time the incident was reported to the HSH

A description of the incident, including the frequency of occurrence
Serial references of similar faults and previous occurrences
Hardware equipment involved, serial numbers etc.

Software products and release versions

The assessed impact upon the HSH Customers business

The priority for resolution

Agreed access times if engineer visit required

The incident category

m) The estimated elapsed time to resolve the incident

n)
0)

Any change of referral point

The date and time of any referral

3.1.9 The HSH First Line Agent will take the details of the reported fault, and then refer

to a knowledge-base and undertake simple diagnostics. These diagnostics may
resolve the fault, in which case the First Line Agent will close the call, with the
agreement of the caller.

3.1.10 The HSH First Line agent shall then update the incident management system with

the following information as appropriate:

a) The date and time of the update

b) HSH contact updating the record

c) A textual description of the work completed, or the fact that the
incident had to be referred elsewhere, and where this has been referred to

d) The date and time the solution was accepted by the HSH Customer

e) The actual clapsed time to resolve the incident

3.1.11 On concluding the call, the HSH First Line Agent will offer the caller the unique

reference number associated with the call record.

3.1.12 If the fault remains unresolved, the HSH First Line agent will refer the call to an

Expert Domain for further investigation.

3.1.13 Throughout the life of the incident the HSH will monitor the progress to resolution

and inform the HSH Customer at regular intervals.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FU.

FUJ00080428
IJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

3.1.14 Calls that do not fall into those categories listed in paragraphs 3.2.1 or 3.2.2 below
but that are relevant to the NBSC will be classed as inappropriate to the HSH, and
the caller will be referred to the NBSC for further advice. The call will be
transferred directly to the Post Office NBSC by the HSH using the telephony
system with the caller expected to remain on line.

3.1.15 Calls that do not fall into those categories listed in paragraphs 3.2.1 or 3.2.2 below
and are not relevant to the NBSC will be classed as inappropriate and the call will
be terminated.

3.2 Incident Classification

3.2.1 Incidents reported to the HSH by Post Office Branches, will be classified under the
following call types:

a) Hardware — a physical fault with the Horizon equipment

b) Software — a perceived failure in the normal functionality of the Horizon
system, not related to physical breakage

c) Network — a fault with the branch LAN or WAN, indicated by a loss of
connectivity to the Fujitsu Services network

d) Emergency Closure - notification of the unplanned temporary closure, and
subsequent re-opening, of a Branch (advised by the NBSC)

e) Reference Data — the non-availability of Horizon system desktop icons at the
Branch

f) Complaints or Compliments — raised with reference to services provided by
Fujitsu Services

g) Environmental Issues — an environmental issue is affecting, or has affected, the
availability of the Horizon system, for example following a power cut

h) One-Shot Password requests — required by Post Office audit or investigation
staff, engineers requiring access to test functions, Post Office managers

i) System Access problems — where users have forgotten their passwords or
deleted their own access permissions

3.2.2 Incidents reported to the HSH from other Post Office Customers, or internally
from within Fujitsu Services will also be accepted in the following areas:

a) Change — administering changes to the branch infrastructure as detailed in the
document CS/SER/003

b) Installation issues — associated with the rollout of new hardware products

c) Operational issues — related to the performance or availability of central, i.e.
non Branch related, Horizon systems

d) Reconciliation queries — to manage issues relating to the accounting status of
branches

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428

FUJ00080428
Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002
3.3 Information Reporting
3.3.1 If required by Post Office, Fujitsu Services shall on not more than a monthly basis

produce service information, in electronic form and/or paper, and shall deliver this
information to Post Office within five (5) working days from the end of the period
to which they relate. The following describes the information which may be
required:

a) number of calls outgoing/received/number of calls not answered;

b) percentage of calls answered within target times;

c) number of problems/queries logged;

d) number and percentage of problems/queries solved within target times;

e) number of problems / queries assigned to first level that were not cleared within
ten (10) minutes;

£) number of problems/queries with secondary complications (e.g. repeat calls);
g) number of problems/queries escalated;
h) percentage of time full Horizon System Helpdesk Service was available;
i) Contractor performance against Service Levels for response.
6.9.2 Post Office may wish to analyse the information by:
a) category of operational problem/query;
b) level and solving group at which the problem/query was solved;
c) customer group and location;

d) mean time to closure.
4.0 Service Availability

4.1 General

4.1.1 The HSH service is available between the hours of 08.00 — 18.30 Monday to
Saturday, excluding Christmas Day.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 1
(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428

FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

4.2 HSH Voicemail Service

421

Outside the HSH Day, the “HSH Voicemail Service” will be provided to take
messages. Messages left on the HSH Voicemail Service will be actioned by the
HSH commencing at 08.00hrs on the following working day in accordance with
the following procedure:

a) The HSH will note the number of messages left during the last HSH Voicemail
Service period from the prompt displayed / recited by the HSH Voicemail
system

b) The HSH will retrieve all messages from the HSH Voicemail System and
reconcile the number of actual messages left with the prompt supplied by the
HSH Voicemail system. If there is any discrepancy, this will be reported via the
monthly Service Review Book (SRB) and discussed at the Service
Management Forum.

c) The HSH will log all messages retrospectively on the incident management
system (Powerhelp)

d) The HSH will route any incidents where there is a positive indication of the
fault to the appropriate support area

e) For any incidents where the fault is unclear or no indication has been left by the
caller as to the nature of the fault, the HSH will attempt to call the Branch and
obtain further information.

f) If the Branch cannot be reached on this initial call, the HSH will (call back up
to 3 times at 15 minute intervals. (NB: As this call back activity will start at
08.00hrs, if after the initial call there is no answer from the Branch, the second
call will take place at 09.00hrs or the published opening time of the Branch).

g) Incidents will be suspended at any time between attempts by the HSH to call
the Branch should the Branch be unavailable, this will be recorded within the
incident text. After the first three attempts one final call will be made after
midday — if this is unsuccessful the incident will be closed with an appropriate
resolution code.

h) All incidents will count towards the SLTs for Call to resolution and Engineer
Support, as appropriate, from 08.00hrs unless they have been suspended as
detailed above.

5.0 Service Targets & Limits

5.1 Targets

SA

Schedule 15 includes SLTs within the following areas against this service:

¢ Call to answer,

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428

FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

© = Call to resolution
¢ Voicemail availability
© = Voicemail retrieval

SLT’s are detailed within the CCD entitled: Service Level Targets for Horizon
Services SRP/MTG/007

For the purpose of service level measurement in accordance with para 5.1.2 above
all incidents resolved by the First Line Agents, except One Shot Password related
queries, will be deemed to be level one calls. One Shot Password queries will be
deemed to be level two type calls.

5.2 Limits

Call volumetric limits are detailed within Schedule 15, Annex 5

5.3. Urgent Level of Service Changes

If circumstances arise such that Post Office requires urgent changes to the level of service for
the HSH, Fujitsu Services shall use all reasonable endeavours to extend the level of service as
soon as reasonably practicable to whatever is required by Post Office for a price to be agreed
between the Parties.

6.0 Service Dependencies & Post Office Responsibilities

6.1 Post Office responsibilities

6.1.1

Post Office Branches will ring in and provide validation details, followed by as
clear and accurate description of the fault as is possible when using the HSH
service.

Post Office Branches may be asked by the HSH to participate in basic diagnostic
tests to clarify the nature of the fault. Whilst co-operation is not obligatory, Post
Office should be aware that this may help speed up the resolution of the incident in
many cases.

Post Office will provide the initial telephony SPOC system. Post Office may
choose to use an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) and call routing facilities to
allow callers to select to speak to the HSH automatically. Alternatively, Post
Office may wish to take all calls directly and manually route those calls to the HSH
where they are deemed to be applicable.

Post Office will provide relevant validation details when referring calls across from
the NBSC to the HSH, such that further validation of the Branch is not required

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00080428

FUJ00080428

Fujitsu Services Horizon Systems Helpdesk: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/002

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 20-Dec -2002

6.1.5

Post Office shall be responsible for providing a support desk service which in
respect of the Network Banking Engine (NBE) and its associated links to LINK
and/or Banks, shall act as a central point for obtaining information on the working
state of the NBE, and shall be responsible for notifying Fujitsu Services of any
scheduled interruptions. Such support desk service shall be the reporting point for
Fujitsu Services to log faults in systems and services outside the Horizon Service
Infrastructure and shall be responsible for progressing the resolution of faults and
for notifying Fujitsu Services when faults have been resolved. A description of the
service operation of such support desk shall be documented.

Where Post Office chooses to carry out User satisfaction surveys, in the event that
any such survey results are pertinent to Fujitsu Services’ provision of the HSH, the
relevant survey results shall be shared with Fujitsu Services at the next relevant
service management forum.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
