FUJ00095332
FUJ00095332

All Levels of Severity
20/04/2010

Business Assurance

CRA/1112 - Post Office Limited (RMGA) Recent outages affecting all of the PO branches live on the HNG-X application are resulting in serious
customer concerns.
Various letters have been received from POL Directorate and from the National Federation of Sub-postmasters
expressing their concern in regards to the instability of the new system.
There have been 4 major outages affecting the customer's business running on Horizon onine over the last

week
Account Private Sector Raised 31/03/10 Progress against Streams:-
Owner Division Duration 20 days Stream 1. Service Stabilty ~ Of a number of Configuration changes made, only one related to shared pools helped with

Streams. Streams is still switched off during the trading day and is in excess of 220 hours behind. Mitigation meeting

Resolution Private Sector
fan Sect Rorseent planned for tomorrow. No Major Incidents since Thursday 10th. Oracle patch is still undergoing testing, implemented in

Owners Division, Core

Division merets volume test rigs today. Plan for Live on Sunday 25th but reviewing potential for earlier deployment during today’s
, Spotlight implementation
wae David Keeling ‘Stream 2. Service Area Findings - Progress on track. Presented to customer and an agreed action list in place, both
short and medium term,
Pe Gavin Bounds Stream 3. Acceptance Incidents ~ Detailed progress report issued to customer today, including details on Risk

Management, which is anticipated will allow the severity to become medium. in addition a statement on patch
management has gone to the customer today, which will be supplemented by a slide set for the meeting on 23rd
intended to close this incident.

Stream 4. Criteria to Resume Pilot ~ The restart oriteria and measures was reviewed today with the customer. Outcome
of meeting to be reviewed internally at the meeting scheduled 1730hrs today.

Stream 5. Enterprise Management — On track: Project Manager, lan Prichard, started today, to review, update and
reissue plan by end of Wednesday. Counter monitoring team ~ 4 staff have started and are in training,

Stream 6. Configuration Management — First draft of data feed completed and work continues. internal interim resource
Peter Wilson has started, limited interest in permanent post from internals,

[last updatea 19/04/10]

Alert Management Centre

Irrelevant

I Irrelevant

FUJ00095332
FUJ00095332
