FUJ00079303
FUJ00079303

Message
_ See SE TETSanrer ee? —
From: Jenkins Gareth Gli. IRRELEVANT
Sent: 9/21/1999 12:13:
To: ‘John Pope's siemens GRO Steve Warwic!
ce:
Subject: RE: URGENT:RE. EPOSS Reconciliation Design Version 0.7

steve / John,

sy) happy with the approach that you are proposing to my major comments. NB Alan is on leave until
29/9/99.

I have a few detailed points on the paper, but I don't think any of them are of great significance in
terms of affecting what we agree with the customer :-

DD 4.2.1: I believe that further thought is required as to exactly how we ensure that we provide
full resilience in the EOD processing, and in particular that we handle the case of a failure during the
EOD processing. Clearly use of Riposte Transactions will help, but we also need to bear in mind that to
fit in with the CSR+ architecture, the HarvestTrailer and the other "totals" will have to be in separate
Riposte transactions. I suggest that this is discussed separately, but that for now we just say “we will
ensure that this is sorted" (which is in effect what you've said) and rely on not being asked to spell
out the detail yet (or ever)!

2) 4.3.2: If we are sticking with separate totals for Daily Transactions and Cash account
reconciliation, then I see no need to harvest the Cash Account Total Lines, since these are only used by
the counter End of CAP processing. They are not needed by TPS (only the exceptions are - which are
covered separately in 4.3.5).

3) 4.3.4: I see no purpose in passing the transaction date and transaction Time as an explicit
column in the table. We have already proved that we can't rely on such fields always being present.
Their values will always be available from the Detailed message content (which probably does need to be
included). Anne Mohan has already circulated a proposal from the Agent team as to what these exceptions
should look like.

4) 4.6.2: Again I don't think we should include Transaction Time explicitly.

In section 6 you seem to have ignored the comments I made on the previous version of this. why? In
particular

5) 6 1: If a Slave node is not running at "public" EOD time, then no Public EOD marker will be
written until the following day. You will only get a "late" EOD if the Gateway is down.

6) 6 5: Rebuilding a slave node will prevent EOD running on the gateway.

7) 6 6: This relates to my earlier comments on Riposte transactions. Also please note that if the

EOD service fails during the day it will not be restarted until 3am the following day and hence not write
EOD markers that day.

Regards
Gareth

email: Gareth.
Internal Phone:
External Phone:
External Mobile Phone:
Internal Mobile Phon:

IcL
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
Website : http: //vuww.icl.com

This e-mail is intended only for the addressee named above. As this
e-mail may contain confidential or privileged information if you are
not, or suspect that you are not, the named addressee or the person
responsible for delivering the message to the named addressee, please
telephone us immediately. Please note that we cannot guarantee that this
message or any attachment is virus free or has not been intercepted and
amended. The views of the author may not necessarily reflect those of
the Company.
International Computers Limited, Registered in England no 96056,
Registered Office 26, Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1sL

John Pope
21 September 1999 09:53

To: Steve warwick; Stephan Robson; Gareth.Jenkin
Roger Donato;

Phil Hemingway

Cc: Peter Jeram; Alan ward

Subject: URGENT:RE: EPOSS Reconciliation Design Version 0.7

steve,

thanks for the update. WOULD OTHER RECIPENTS PLEASE NOTE
THAT WE NEED TO SEND

inconsistencies or ambiguites to myself and Steve asap.

On the point of Gareth's suggestion of changing to a single
set of daily control

totals I agree this needs wider review. It is clearly very
urgent that we

resolve this design issue, and it should in my view be dealt
with by a decision

conference (physical or virtual) involving Alan ward and
representatives from

counter, agent and host, to be held asap.

John

VVVVVVVVVVVVV VV VV VY VVYV¥ VV VV VV

v

wore Original Message-----

: Warwick steve (To fe10152)

20 September 1999 19:44

To: Robson Stephan (TO _fel0152); Gareth Jenkins GI
Gareth. Jenkins} )
Phil (To fel0152); Pope John
Subject: EPOSS Reconciliation Design Version 0.7

John,

Please find attached the electronic copy of the updated
version of the

Reconciliation design document. I have incorporated the
comments from POCL and

s many of Gareth's comments as I felt able to at present. I
have not amended

the document yet to reflect a potential significant change in
direction which

Gareth and I discussed earlier this afternoon. Given the
delicate nature of

gaining POCL's agreement to the document and the potential
development impact of

change of this nature at this time, I think that there will
need to be a

programme-wide view taken as to whether we should risk such a
change at the

present time.

Rgds,

steve

ee DOCUMENT TYPE INFORMATION ****

Sees sree see geegeae arse sear aear desea ara desta arab tear desea

Mail has the following body parts:

Body 1 : # 118# PIDESOO2.DOC 20.09.1999 18:15 286720

VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVYVVV VY VV VV VYV¥ VV VV VV VV VY

THIS TO POCL THIS AM. PLEASE MAKE TIME TO READ IT and notify any

Donato Roger (TO fe10152); Hemingway

FUJ00079303
FUJ00079303
