FUJ00176285

FUJ00176285

Minutes Contract Administration Meeting - 23 May 2001
Attendees: Colin Lenton-Smith

Hilary Forrest

Keith Baines

Mike Hannon

Nicholas Samuel

Agenda Item Action Points Who
1. A2A's 1. There are now 5 A2A’s still to reach CCN:
a) c/f OBC pricing -. OBC Pricing has now been
agreed and a CCN is required to introduce the HF

relevant document into the contract. Waiting
for Steve Reed to submit a CCN. Carried
Forward

b) c/f DPA subject access. Pathway (Graham
Hooper) sent the Subject Access Request
procedure document (CS/PRO/109) to POCL,
for approval on 8 March. One comment was
received stating that the document did not
reflect ICL Pathway’s position as a data
controller. ICL Pathway responded saying that
on the basis it is not a data controller the
document does not require amendment and that
V2.0 would be issued for approval. This
document should satisfy the A2A and following
its approval a CCN will be raised. Work on MH/HE
DPA in general with regard to the new act is
ongoing and progress will be reported at
Contract Administration Boards. Meeting to be
arranged between Mike Hannon and Hilary
Forrest to discuss progress.

c) Internal service levels. Covered under agenda
item 2. MH/HF

d) c/f Help desk behavioural standards —It was
agreed that further discussions regarding the
behavioural standards would be progressed
through the Help Desk Forum. Mark Haynes
from BSM is currently rewriting PON Helpdesk
behavioural standards which will
address/progress outstanding issue. Mark
Haynes to complete rewrite by end of May
2001. Progress updated at next Contract
Admin. Meeting.

e) c/f Competence reporting-. Satisfactory reports
2. Internal
Service Levels

3. Transaction
times

4. Controlled
Document tidy-
up

5. Time to fix

6 Previous
Actions

are currently being received by PON. Next step is
to formally introduce the reports document as a
CCD and raise a CCN to amend the A2A.
Reports document has been approved, CCN
780 has been submitted. CCN signed. Closed

2. Paragraph 5 of the redrafted R869 included the words
that POCL would “validate” a performance model.
AEO provided update of ICL Pathway conception of
related issues. These views are to be documented
further in correspondence to KB. Two Issues raised
within AEO’s response;

a) A2A KB is to formally respond to the approach
proposed by ICL Pathway KB has formally responded
in agreement of the position set out by AEO. MH and
HF to progress the appropriate form of words to be
included into the Contract to remove the A2A Carried
Forward

b) Volumetrics - Work is currently in progress to
establish what Volumetrics are currently required as
part of the Codified Agreement and in what format and
identify where the source of the information will be.
Work is being progressed by Mike Balmer and Peter
Robinson. A document is with POCL for approval.
Ongoing further reports to be provided at subsequent
Contract Administration Boards. Awaiting updates
from respective representatives. Carried forward

3. (c/f) KB to document emerging thoughts formally.
KB to extend period of “grace” on transaction time
liabilities pending documentation of emerging
thoughts. KB provided an extension to ‘grace’
period letter at the meeting.

4. c/f Graham White had provided a list of apparent
document anomalies to HF. HF to review and
respond.

Carried Forward

5. It is believed that the agreed proposal has been
included in the Service Review Book Guide for
review at the HSRB. MH to check and respond
back. Awaiting response from Mike Balmer. For
the purposes of this meeting the issue is presumed
closed.

6. Menu Hierarchy - Holding response received from
AEO. A full response was provided by AEO. The

FUJ00176285
FUJ00176285

MH//HF

KB

HF

MH

MH

Vi
principles proposed by AEO seem to be acceptable
provided it is the end position that is recognised.
KB to formally respond. Letter was sent by Keith
Baines. MH to produce a CR to cover the issue.

7 Introduction of Icons- Letter sent to AEO,
awaiting response. Response received from AEO.
KB to respond in due course. Carried Forward.
Also CCN773 has been submitted to address the
backlog of icons. POCL will respond early next
week to ask for an extension. . POCL responded
to the letter from AEO. A further meeting took
place and a way forward has been agreed. CLS
was waiting for confirmation that the current set of
produced icons would be delivered in the S6
release.

8. ERA - Chinese Walls NDA to be provided to ICL
Pathway. Pathway have provided comments on the
NDA for review. ICL Pathway wish POCL to consider
an NDA to protect ICL Pathway information. POCL
will review . As work is now progressing again on the
ERA project it was agreed that the NDA’s would be re-
circulated for comment.

9. Network Bank 5 Way NDA- Comments have now
been received from IBM and a revised NDA will be
issued in due course. MH to progress. Ongoing MH
provided an update on the current position of the NDA.
The issues is being addressed at a senior level within
IBM. Dave Smith would be in contact with IBM to try
to advance their position. MH to keep all informed of
progress.

10. Data Extraction and Witness Statements. An
update was provided by Graham Hooper and Jan
Holmes on Data Extraction in advance of the formal
introduction of a CCN. It was agreed that there could
be potentially three sources where data could be
extracted after the data is unavailable at the outlet.
ICL Pathway agreed to look at how all these three data
sources could be used to provide a service to PON.
The CCN is to be updated in due course. Pathway also
suggested that it might be a good idea to address this
issue as part of the Network Banking requirement. ICL
Pathway stated that the CCN discussed at a previous
meeting was not now going to be formally raised.
There remains some concern around the estimated

FUJ00176285
FUJ00176285

KB

MH

MH

GH/JH
AOB

numbers of ‘requests’ that may be made. It was agreed
that Network Bank may impact on the scope of this
requirement. KB to discuss with Charles Leighton and
Sue Harding.

11. Standard NDA’s. It was agreed that there may be
some benefit in attempting to put together a number of
Standard NDA’s to use wherever feasible. Three
clusters were identified where standard NDA’s could
be developed these being;

POCL and ICL Pathway and Suppliers of POCL
[POCL to prepare first draft]

POCL and ICL Pathway and Suppliers of ICL Pathway
(eg. Escher) [ICL Pathway to prepare first draft]

POCL and ICL Pathway and Clients of POCL [POCL
to prepare first draft]

It was agreed that MH and HF would look into agreeing
standard NDA’s. Carried Forward.

12. Consumables — ongoing. KB to inform Pathway
what POCL wish to do on this matter. POCL provided
a response to ICL Pathway and a further meeting had
taken place. Closed

13. Second Availability Fee - ICL Pathway had not
received a response for letter dated 11 December 2000
from Tony Oppenheim. KB to check and respond
accordingly. KB had formally responded and had also
received a response back from CLS. KB informed CLS
that he did not agree with the interpretation in his letter
as E08 applied to all Smart Card products. KB to
formally respond.

14. GGP Kiosk Tender- An extension to the letter to
proceed for the GGP Kiosk tender until Tuesday 17"
April. KB to provide extension letter. Completed.
Closed

15. Network Bank - CCN754c - A further extension
of cover is required for the work detailed in CCN754.
KB to provide extension Letter. Completed. Closed

16. ERA- KB handed a letter to CLS a letter detailing
POCL’s view on the next steps for ERA. Draft CCN
sent to POCL would not be progressed. It was agreed
that a meeting would be convened to progress this
issue. KB and CLS to set up meeting.

FUJ00176285
FUJ00176285

MH/HF

KB

KB/CLS

Vi
17. Lost Data Tapes - CLS informed KB that a letter
was being prepared detailing the incident. CLS
confirmed that TNT were unable to trace the tapes. KB
asked if a Security impact on the loss of the data had
been performed and what validation process for the
tapes was in place, CLS will respond

18. CCN411a - ICL Pathway believe that they are
entitled to full payment for CCN41 la and that the fact
the CCN was submitted post Heads of Agreement and
that the Codified Agreement only included the agreed
pricing from the Heads of Agreement supported this
position. POCL would look into this and formally
respond to ICL Pathway.

19. IVR - KB confirmed that no response was
required to a letter sent to AEO as these issues would
be addressed in the SPOC CCN.

20. ICL Pathway organisational chart. CLS will
provide an updated organisational chart

21. Pearce Security Systems Limited - As Pearce are
detailed in AO8 as an ICL Pathway subcontractor and
are now in receivership it was thought that a common
press statement would be sensible. CLS to ask ICL
Pathway Communication teams to contact Mark Kelly
from POCL.

FUJ00176285
FUJ00176285

CLS

KB

CLS
