FUJ00156650
FUJ00156650

From: Phillips Edward[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PHILLIPSE2]
Sent: Tue 02/10/2012 9:07:33 AM (UTC)
To: Jones David MI
Subject: RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT - Legally Privileged
David

Gareth has responded this morning with a summary document (which I saw, and doesn’t have anything contentious
that I could see) which produced the reports he has previously provided PO about HNG and HNG-X, a witness
statement he gave in a previous case and a summary of his involvement in previous cases (which looked factual, and
generally said that although he had responded to challenges before there was no reason to believe any of them).
We've therefore given Mr Singh the minimum of new information and we will see what he actually wants. His email
was fairly unintelligible...

Will forward that in a second.
Ed

From: Jones David M

Sent: 02 October 2012 10:04

To: Phillips Edward

Subject: RE: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT - Legally Privileged

Ed

Thanks for letting me know. It is worth speaking to Penny and Gareth as both have dealt with a great volume of these
things.

It is also worth checking at the outset if this is purely Horizon or also HNGX depending on the periods involved.

It seems to me that our reporting and evidence will follow previous patterns except that increasingly the Defence
lawyers are looking to discredit us on similar fact evidence. When checking how this is progressing it is worth asking if
there is a date for production of the review report that appears to have been commissioned.

Please keep me in the loop?

Thanks

David

David M Jones
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution
Commercial, Legal & Assurance

Web: http://uk.f

From: Phillips Edward

Sent: 01 October 2012 13:27

To: Jones David M

Subject: FW: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
Importance: High

David
Just to let you know I have had this. I will speak to James.
FUJ00156650
FUJ00156650

Ed

From: Davidson James

Sent: 01 October 2012 13:00

To: Phillips Edward

Subject: FW: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
Importance: High

Ed — the documents attached.

James Davidson
Delivery Executive
Post Office Account

Fujitsu

Web: http://uk. fujitsu.com

aS Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 01 October 2012 12:13

To: Thompson Peter; Pritchard Howard

Cc: Newsome Pete; Jenkins Gareth GI; Davidson James
Subject: FW: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
Importance: High

Please be aware of this urgent request from POL legal team; guidance will be required.

From: Jarnail A Singh [mailto
Sent: 01 October 2012 12:05 ~~
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Thomas Penny; Hugh Flemington; martin smith
Subject: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Dear Mr Jenkins

Welcome from your annual leave and your assistance advice in the past prosecution cases and I
understand you are assisting my colleagues at present. I need your urgent assist judge has this
morning ordered the prosecution to have the following report ready to be served within Seven
days.

On advise Post Office Limited have appointed one of their investigators, Helen Rose as disclosure
officer dealing with Horizon challenges. She has prepared a document/ spread sheet detailing all
such cases, past and present, approximately 20 in total, although none thus far successfully argued
in court. Post Office limited have been advised to obtain, an experts report from Fujitsu UK, the
Horizon system developers, confirming the system is robust. Post Office Limited maintain the
system is robust, but in light of adverse publicity, from legal viewpoint is that defence should be
given opportunity to test the system, should they still wish to do so, on consideration of our report.

You will need to consider the Disclosure officers document/spread sheet(see attachments) and
need to address in your report the following issues:
FUJ00156650
FUJ00156650

1) A description of the horizon system (In laymen’s' terms so that a jury can understand what it is
and what it does)

2) A declaration that it has yet to be attacked successfully.

3) Asummary of the basic attacks made on the system concentrating on any expert reports served
in past cases. If there are none then state that no expert has yet been found by any defence team
civil or criminal to attack the system. (at the moment there seems to be little more than griping by
defendants that the system must be at fault without saying how)

4) Plainly, like all accounting systems, there is room for human error (Keying in wrong amounts
etc) are you able to state that innocent human error is unlikely to produce the types of
discrepancies of many thousands of pounds over many months.

If you require any further information or wish to discuss please do not hesitate to contact me.
Regards

Jarnail Singh

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
OHQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the
registered company number 02154540

