FUJ00168649

FUJ00168649
From: Jones Haydn[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=JONESHAYDN]
Sent: Tue 11/06/2013 5:46:16 AM (UTC)
To: Patterson Pau

Phillips Mark

Ce: Tait Duncan.
Subject: Readout from DT / PV meeting

Detailed below is a readout from the meeting between Duncan and Paula last night. There are some points in here to
address as we manage the relationship over these important coming months.

Duncan - if I have missed anything, or misinterpreted, please call it out. Otherwise, thank you for the input.

Operations
Overall it was a good meeting. Paula praised the high quality of our operational performance. She highlighted some of

her own challenges with managing a Customer Satisfaction Framework for the Post Office. It was suggested we
explore sharing some of the principles we employ in managing delivery of our own services. Suggest I pick this up with
James.

New Initiatives

Paula highlighted the strength of the higher level relationships but flagged that lower down, some of the relationships
could be stronger citing that we come across as if we’re ‘Trying to book the next sale’ or ‘You’re trying to box us in’ or
“You have to make a decision by xxx’ She expressed her frustration with how long things were taking. Duncan
expressed his similar frustrations explaining that we still didn’t have a contract on DC, although we’d been down
selected in January. Duncan also highlighted the additional work we had undertaken on developing new aspects of
the DC, R&R and TSS proposals, as well the challenge these kind of changes cause and the broader impact on timeline.
It was agreed how important the July Board meeting was, the need to get it right and stay close to the process leading
up to this. Duncan observed that Paula appears to be a long way from the reality of the IT Team. She wasn’t aware
that Al is not part of the July Board discussion. If as a team we feel the need for escalation we should flag — this is
particularly important in the next week as we create the ‘snag list’ for the proposals to be sanctioned by the Board.
Suggest we provide an internal update on Friday.

It was felt that we should do something on the relationship side at the middle management level. This could be a
dinner, competitive event or offsite, arranged in a way that allows it to happen taking into account hospitality policy
i.e. we pay our way, they pay their way etc. I will pick this up with Gavin.

Other

The President’s visit was raised and Paula said she would consider. As an aside, it’s worth noting, HPBB is due to go
live the same week as the proposed visit, so we’d need a cast iron guarantee that the HPBB launch would be a success
if the President was here during the same week. On HPBB, Paula stressed how very happy she was with the progress
being made.

Haydn Jones
Client Managing Director - Post Office

FUJITSU

22 Baker Street, London \
Tel: EA

Mbi: 4 GRO

Email: haydn. jones
Web: uk.fujitsu.com
