FUJ00083833
FUJ00083833

To: Defence Legal (Chris Jay)I
From: Lenton, Matthews
Sent: Wed 5/15/2019 9:24:50 AM (UTC)
Subject: RE: Witness Statements to PR manager
FujitsuWS.zip

Chris,
I’ve put together all the witness statements plus corrections into the attached zip, as it has become slightly more complicated, as
follows:

Andy Dunks: one witness statement

Bill Membery: one witness statement

Stephen Parker: three witness statements, with one correction sheet each to the first and the second.
Torstein Godeseth: three witness statements, with one correction sheet to the second.

tiitqic

Matthew Lenton
Post Office Account Document Manager
Business & Application Services

Fujitsu

From: Defence Legal (Chris Jay) <_
Sent: Tuesday, May 14, 248
To: Lenton, Matthew <!
Subject: RE: Witness Statements to PR manager

Matthew ,
lam trying to find the Witness Statements to send to Julia Bishop who is picking this up from me.

Could you kindly send me a copy of the email that you sent to Graham Goulden referred to below (with the 4 FJ Witness
statements)?

Also, if you have them easily to hand, any later FJ Witness Statements sent to WBD?

With many thanks!

Best Regards

Christopher Jay, Senior Counsel

FUJITSU

Jays Close, Viables Business Park, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG22 4BY

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Autistica
Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

v Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Jay, Christopher im GRO ~~ }
Sent: 17 December 2018 14:0
To: Defence Legal (Chris Jay) <) GRO
Subject: FW: Witness Statements to PR manager

FUJ00083833
FUJ00083833

From: Lenton, Matthew

Sent: 17 December 2018 14:02:08 (UTC+00:00) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London
To: Jay, Christopher

Cc: Newsome, Pete; Ibbett, Dave; Stewart, Garry

Subject: Witness Statements to PR manager

IMPORTANT - This email or attached documents contains legal advice (or relates to litigation or anticipated litigation) and is being provided in circumstances for which
Legal Privilege may be claimed. Do not copy or forward this document without permission.

Chris,

I have been asked to forward copies of the Fujitsu witness statements relating to Post Office to Graham Goulden (Fujitsu Public
Relations Manager). It seems that this action resulted from the recent meeting between Duncan Tait and Paula Vennells.

As a reminder, we have four statements, from Torstein Godeseth, Steve Parker, Bill Membery and Andy Dunks.
Am I OK to go ahead and do this?

Thanks

Matthew Lenton
Post Office Account Document Manager
P&PS, Digital Technology Services

Fujitsu

Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN

Web: Hits
