FUJ00152605
FUJ00152605

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: Fri 09/06/2006

To:

Ce:

Subject: I RE: Post Office Limited v Mr L Castleton
Brian,

It is correct that we do update the software remotely and that a software update could result in the desktop being
closed and restarted. However even then, I don’t see how it would result in losses as is being claimed. Also software
updates are relatively rare and normally only take place between 20:00 and 01:00 and again between 04:00 and 07:00
with occasional extensions at the weekends. This puts them well outside the normal operational hours of Horizon.

I think he is clutching at straws. However I guess we do need to cover this angle.

I would expect the system to record details of all software updates and when they took place at which branches.
However I don’t know how long these are retained and whether they are included in the Audit Trail so that you can
check out the history for Marine Drive in 2004.

Jane Collins is probably a good place to start, particular for confirmation of when exactly the software distribution
windows are and what would have been likely to happen at the time in question. If more detail as to finding exact
software update details is required, may need to go to Glenn Stephens, but I'd start with Jane.

Hope this moves you in the right direction

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect
Post Office Account

http:/uk fujitsu.com

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Pinder Brian

Sent: 09 June 2006 14:22

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Thomas Penny

Subject: FW: Post Office Limited v Mr L Castleton

Gareth ci Penny

I would like to run this by you first as I hope you might be able to either answer the query (hopefully) or point
FUJ00152605
FUJ00152605

me in the right direction?
See below request for information.

Regds Brian

From: Stephen Dilley! GRO

Sent: 08 June 2006 1525 qr
To: Pinder Brian _ i

Cc: graham.c.warc. mandy.talbot__

Subject: Post Office Limited v Mr L Castleton

Dear Brian

Firstly, I would like to thank you and your team for finding the time to meet us on Tuesday.
We found the meeting to be really worthwhile, helpful and productive. We will circulate a note
of the meeting shortly, just for everybody's record.

In the meantime, I attach a letter received on 7 June from Mr Castleton's solicitors. I have
highlighted the two paragraphs that I would like you to have a quick look at. Basically they
state the Horizon system is equipped with a facility via which its operating software can be
updated remotely via the connection to the PO's head office and that the system sometimes
went off line when there are software updates. They have therefore asked for documents
relating to the updating of the software of the system. My view is that they are making a stab
in the dark, but please could you ask your team whether they would have or could obtain any
records of software updates?

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.
Kind regards.
Stephen Dilley

Solicitor
for and_on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

c-)
www. bondpearce.corr

Please note our new contact details from 8 May 2006 as set out above.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and
protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If
you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is
prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond
Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
0C311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond
FUJ00152605
FUJ00152605

Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.
