FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

re Testing Approach For The Ref; VUSTR/064
FUJITSU Horizon System Version: 1.0
FUJITSU SERVICES y'
Date: 15th Aug 2003

Document Title: Testing Approach For The Horizon System

Document Type: Process Description

Release: N/A

Abstract: This document provides a description of the process, roles and

responsibilities applicable to Post Office Limited and Fujitsu
Services Testing.

Document Status: Approved

Originator & Dept: Janusz Holender — Fujitsu Services
Peter Jones — Post Office Ltd

Contributors: John Hunt
Internal Distribution: Post Office Ltd Fujitsu Services Ltd
Peter Jones Alan D’ Alvarez
Louis Prastitis Allan Hodgkinson
Lee Farman John Hunt
Keith Baines
David Smith
External Distribution: Post Office Ltd Fujitsu Services Ltd
Liam Foley
Peter Jeram
Gill Jackson
Tony Drahota
David Hollingsworth
Jan Holmes
Approval Authorities:

David Smith Delivery Director POL
Alan D’ Alvarez Director, ITU, Fujitsu
Services

Page: I of I
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

oo Testing Approach For The Ref: VIUSTR/064
FUJITSU Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

FUJITSU SERVICES

0.0 Document Control
0.1 Document History

0.1 20/06/03 First issue

0.2 2/6/03 Merge of initial Fujitsu Services and Post Office Ltd documents
for internal review by the working group prior to a wider
distribution

0.3 04/07/03 Updated following a joint PO Ltd and Fujitsu Services
workshop

0.4 10/07/03 Updated to reflect PO LTD testing.

0.5 11/07/03 Updated to reflect joint view of version 0.4

1.0 15/08/03 Updated to reflect commercial input to version 0.5

0.2 Review Details

Review Comments to :

Mandatory Review Authority Name

Post Office Ltd Louis Prastitis , Lee Farman, Keith Baines

Fujitsu Services

SI Director Peter Jeram

ITU Director Alan D’Alvarez
Development Director Gill Jackson
RASD Director Tony Drahota
RASD Manager, Test TDA Allan Hodgkinson
Business Development Director Liam Foley
Commercial Director Colin Lenton-Smith
SI Programme Assurance Manager Jan Holmes
Consultant John Hunt

Optional Review / Issued for Information

Post Office Ltd
Fujitsu Services
RASD Bob Gurney, Richard Herbert
Design Unit David Johns
Page: 2 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED
Fe)
FUJITSU

FUJITSU SERVICES

FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

Testing Approach For The Ref: VI/STR/064
Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

Development Unit

Mark Taylor, Nick Lawman, Harjinder Hothi

Integration & Testing Unit Debbie Richardson, Peter Dreweatt, Mike

Anderson, James Stanton

Programmes Office

Graham Chatten

( * ) = Reviewers that returned comments

0.3 Associated Documents

1 CA023570007_18

0 31/12/02 I Schedule 20 Development Amended

Services Contract
2 BP/DES/??? 0.7 7/6/03 Joint Working ISL PVCS
3 Working 1.0 23/06/03 I Fujitsu Services Test Strategy I PVCS
Document: for the Horizon System
VI/STR/062

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current
approved versions of the documents.

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

The Agreement

Contract signed by the Post Office and Fujitsu Services on 31 Dec
2002

CCD Contract Controlled Document
cD Conceptual Design

CTs Commercial Terms

DIT Direct Interface Test

DP Design Proposal

DU Development Unit

End-to-end Integration

Overall integration of systems from different suppliers

FS Fujitsu Services

HLTP High Level Test Plan

ISL IS Landscape

ITU Integration and Testing Unit

JWISL Joint Working ISL

LLTS Low Level Test Script

RASD Requirements, Analysis and System Design

Page: 3 of I
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

FUJITSU Testing Approach For The Ref: VI/STR/064
FUJITSU SERVICES Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

RV Release Validation

SI System Integration

SVI System Validation and Integration

System Integration Integration of systems within the Fujitsu Services domain

0.5 Changes in this Version

0.3 Internal Fujitsu Services review
0.4 Updated from PO LTD review
0.5 Updated from joint commercial review

0.6 Table of Contents

1 INTRODUCTION

1.1 SCOPE.
1.2. DOCUMENT Map.

2 THE UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES....
2.1 TESTING PRINCIPLES..
3. TESTING INVOLVEMENT IN ISL...

3.1.1 Requirement Analysis Stags
3.1.2 Solution Specification Stag
3.1.3 Solution Build & Tests Stage..

4 TESTING APPROACH.

4.1 INTRODUCTION.
4.2 OVERVIEW OF TESTING LIFECYCL
43 FUJITSU SERVICES TESTING PROC
4.3.1 Overview of Fujitsu Services Test Design and Analysis Phases...
4.3.2 Development Testing...... .
4.3.3 Direct Interface Test (DIT).....
43.4 ITU Testing. oe
4.4 POST OFFICE TESTING.
4.4.1 High Level Approach.
4.4.2 Initial Task......
4.43 Significant Releas
4.4.4 Minor Releas
4.4.5 Acceptance...

Page: 4 of I
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

ir i Ref: VI/STR/064
FUJITSU Testing Approach For The Venn a
FUJITSU SERVICES Horizon System ersion: 1.

Date: 15th Aug 2003

1 Introduction

1.1. Scope

This CCD covers testing of the Horizon System within the lifecycle processes of the Joint
Working IS Landscape [2].
The scope of the document within the Development Services lifecycle is shown below:

Post Office Processes - Governance, ete

Requirements

Strategie Solution Build

Analysis Test

Approval

Scope of this Document

PO Ltd Processes Fujitsu Services Processes

1.2. Document Map

This document belongs to a family of documents describing testing of the Horizon system.
This document deals with generic, non-release specific issues and addresses issues related to
the joint testing. Its relation to other documents is shown in below:

Page: 5 of I
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

FUIITSU Testing Approach For The Ref: VI/STR/064
FUJITSU SERVICES Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

Inputs:Fujitsu - Inputs:
Services policy Inputs: I I PO Ltd policy
Fujitsu Services yi ‘eement PO Lid processes
processes icceptance PO Ltd organisation
process gamit
tt
esting This document] I PO Lid Testing Strategy
mn System VUSTRIO64
mm
{op } z
I_—_$_e&) PO Ltd Release
ry —————2] Specific Strategy
HLTP
LLTS LLTS
Fujitsu Services Internal Contract Controlled PO Ltd
Documents Documents Documents

2 The Underlying Principles

2.1 Testing Principles

There are a number of important testing principles, which are critical in achieving a more
efficient and effective approach to the testing of the Horizon systems, and so to significantly
reduce overall time-to-market. These include:

e Build in Testability at the Outset
o Objective and testable requirements
o No ambiguity — try to reduce/eliminate ambiguity in requirements, design, etc.
o Early involvement of testing
o Exploit Automation
e Fail fast — identify and fix defects as early as possible in the development lifecycle.

o Risk based approach — prioritise testing based on an assessment of likelihood
and impact of failure.

© Stabilise Products and Configuration Early
© Objective Driven Testing

e Promote a collaborative approach — not just between PO Ltd and Fujitsu Services, but
also with other 3" suppliers.

o Eliminate Duplication of Effort

Page: 6 of I
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817

FUJ00001817

FUIITSU Testing Approach For The Ref: VI/STR/064
FUJITSU SERVICES Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

o Where appropriate use testing professionals/specialists — recognising the need
for skilled and experienced testing professionals for certain aspects.

o Learn from failures — improve by learning from mistakes
© Stabilise Products and Configuration Early

The above principles have also been taken into account in the recent Fujitsu Services review of
testing efficiency, which has resulted in a complete revision of the Fujitsu Services Testing &
Integration Strategy for the Horizon systems [3], which is aimed at improving time-to-market,
and reducing testing costs, whilst maintaining service quality.

3 Testing Involvement in ISL

3.1.1. Requirement Analysis Stage

During this stage the Conceptual Design is produced. The Conceptual Design reviews should
include :

e Ensuring that all requirements are objective and, where applicable, that acceptance criteria
are testable

e Ensuring that there are no implicit functional or non-functional requirements

e Reviewing the method of acceptance for every requirement

e Ensuring that testing obligations on suppliers are explicitly defined

© Identification of PO Ltd’s testing requirements

A high level test strategy section for the Conceptual Design should be also produced during
this stage.

3.1.2. Solution Specification Stage

During this stage for every opportunity the Fujitsu Services Test Team will be responsible for
production of the test approach section in the Design Proposal that will define the approach
for that business opportunity.

3.1.3 Solution Build & Tests Stage

This stage is described in section 4.

4 Testing Approach

4.1 Introduction

Using The PO Ltd Revised Testing Approach as developed for the S50 release as the basis.
The following should be the PO Ltd generic approach which should flex to reflect the release
under test.

Page: 7 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817

FUJ00001817

FUIITSU Testing Approach For The Ref: VI/STR/064
FUJITSU SERVICES Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

The aim will be to move towards a more collaborative approach through the various test
phases, making more use of identifying and exploiting areas of synergy where practical and
appropriate. Also aim to adopt more proactive approaches to reviewing test materials using
workshops and other techniques / methods where practical and appropriate.

In developing a revised approach with the aims of reduced testing costs and testing timeframe
the following changes / assumptions have been made.

> Fujitsu Services are responsible for and capable of carrying out internal testing to the
point of delivery of a completed internal system to the PO Ltd led E2E testing phases
albeit PO Ltd will wish to be involved with internal testing via reviewing supplier
plans, scripts, results and fault logs. In particular this will be the method used to
achieve the completion of PO Ltd non functional testing.

Where appropriate for the release contents :-

> Fujitsu Services will lead and carry out Direct Interface Testing with suppliers who
connect directly to them. PO Ltd will provide support to coordinate where required
and carry out passive witnessing.

Vv

PO Ltd will lead Direct Interface Testing with suppliers who do not connect directly
with Fujitsu Services e.g. IBM — LINK. This may require the provision and support of
a Fujitsu Services test environment to PO Ltd to effectively carry out these tests.

Vv

PO Ltd will lead the Certification or Accreditation phases supported by the appropriate
suppliers.

Vv

PO Ltd will lead the E2E Integration of systems supported by the suppliers

Vv

PO Ltd will lead the E2E Functional testing phase supported by the suppliers

4.2 Overview of Testing Lifecycle
The testing of the Horizon systems is performed in the following main areas:

¢ Development Testing — thorough basic testing and initial integration, stabilises the
deliverables, verifying them against the designs, and setting the configuration. Also
exposes external interfaces, validating them against the agreed interface specifications.

e ITU Testing — integrates the systems together as an overall solution, validating their
combined behaviour against the requirements, and proving the migration and
implementation path.

© Post Office Testing — This cover the stages as detailed in section 4.4 where Post Office
testing covers the integration of the various supplier solutions.

The stages are shown in the diagram below (dashed boxes denote optional stages):

Page: 8 of I
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817

FUJ00001817

FUIITSU Testing Approach For The Ref: VI/STR/064
FUJITSU SERVICES Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

Pn

Code Review
ro

Product
Review (PR)

Tile Te v
wi)
t Product
a)
Tax ew
s an
1

Extended Unk Test

nn

‘System Vaidarion
‘a Integration

¥

Release
Validation

Direct Interface
Tests (DI

U
Fe

Lid

4.3 Fujitsu Services Testing Process

Details of this Fujitsu Services process are provided in [3]. The following sections contain a
high level overview.

4.3.1 Overview of Fujitsu Services Test Design and Analysis Phases

This is the stage in the development process where the shape of the Fujitsu Services testing of
the release is defined. The analysis is performed on a “per release” basis, i.e., all changes
comprising the release are analysed together.

The following principles are to be applied here:
e All the test should be mapped to the requirements

e All PO Ltd requirements will be included in the Conceptual Design.

Page: 9 of I
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817

FUJ00001817

FUIITSU Testing Approach For The Ref: VI/STR/064
FUJITSU SERVICES Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

e High level test analysis to be standardised and centralised

e Areas of synergy to be identified

© Prioritisation of tests objectives and identification of areas of criticality
e Efficient use of environments

e Full exploration of automation

e Creation of re-usable and repeatable suites of tests (regression tests)

The table below summarise the stages of test design and analysis and identifies the outputs.

Stage of testing ISL stage Output
Requirements analysis I Requirements Analysis Review of Conceptual Design
Test Approach for I Solution Specification Test Approach section of Design
Opportunity Proposal
Release Test Strategy Solution Specification Release Test Strategy document

Solution Build and Test

Test Analysis Solution Build and Test Test Conditions

High Level Test I Solution Build and Test High Level test Plan(s)
Planning

Low Level Test I Solution Build and Test Low Level test Scripts
Scripting

Automated Tests

4.3.2 Development Testing

The Fujitsu Services ‘Development’ area performs three main types of testing, each
comprising a number of individual stages. These are described below. In general, these stages
of testing are performed prior to the deliverables, and their configuration, being locked-down,
formally baselined in the CM system, and handed over for wider use. As such they tend to be
planned as small, discrete tests, quick to execute, and run in an iterative fashion to cater for
defect detection, with the minimum of administrative overheads.

4.3.2.1 Unit Test

Unit Test is performed, by Fujitsu Services alone, for all in-house developments. Its purpose is
to verify each component deliverable in detail against the design. It will comprise an
appropriate combination of:

e Code Review — review of source code against the low-level design to trap obvious defects
and to confirm standards

© Module Test — detailed verification of runtime code against the low-level design to
confirm correct operation of all logic paths.

Page: 10 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817

FUJ00001817

oo Testing Approach For The Ref: VIUSTR/064
FUJITSU Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

FUJITSU SERVICES

e Link Test — verification of internal interfaces against the low-level design to confirm
correct interaction and parameter handling.

4.3.2.2, Product Test

Product Test is performed, by Fujitsu Services alone, for all third-party deliverables procured
by Fujitsu Services other than COTS (Commercial off-the-shelf products, widely used in the
industry, and not heavily tailored for use in the Horizon systems). It will comprise an
appropriate combination of:

e Product Review — review of the product(s) at the time of delivery, against the high-level
design.

e Product Acceptance Test — validation of the product(s) against a checklist of required
attributes. Also, where applicable, confirmation that acceptance criteria, agreed with the
third-party supplier, have been met.

4.3.2.3 Fujitsu Services Integration Test

Fujitsu Services Integration Test is performed principally by Fujitsu Services alone, except for
DIT which is performed as a Joint Testing exercise. Its purpose is to set the configuration for
each software system and hardware platform, and to integrate application and infrastructure
software together, thus verifying the configuration, and completing the validation of all Fujitsu
Services’ deliverables against their designs. It will comprise an appropriate combination of:

e Platform Configuration Test — trial building and verification of each hardware platform
type against the corresponding platform specification, and the trial loading of both
application and infrastructure software deliverables on those platforms, against the
corresponding system and software configuration designs.

e Extended Link Test — exercises each application system, running together with its
supporting infrastructure software, on a representative platform, validating it against the
high-level design, and confirming the stability of the system, software, and platform
configuration and build.

4.3.3. Direct Interface Test (DIT)

This is a Joint Testing exercise to validate each external interface, on a bi-lateral basis, against
the agreed interface specifications. This testing, depending on its scope, can be either owned
by Development Unit or ITU. Fujitsu Services will own and carry out Direct Interface Testing
with suppliers who connect directly to them. PO Ltd will provide support to coordinate where
required through:

e Review of Interface scripts between the two supplier domains
e Support set — up of test environments

¢ Support or coordinate the provision of Required Ref Data

e Support where appropriate the tests

e Review the test results including any faults

Page: 11 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817

FUJ00001817

oo Testing Approach For The Ref: VIUSTR/064
FUJITSU Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

FUJITSU SERVICES

43.4 ITU Testing

The Fujitsu Services ITU area performs two main types of testing. These are described below.
In general, all ITU testing is performed on locked-down deliverables, which have been
comprehensively verified and validated against the designs, and formally baselined in the CM
system. It is expected that the systems have become stable and are already functionally sound.
As such the test planned here tend to be larger and less discrete than those used in
Development Testing. With a much lower level of product volatility, the tests are planned in
combination, run in cycles. The emphasis here is on validating that the overall solution has not
regressed, satisfies any new requirements, operates correctly, and can be implemented
successfully as planned.

4.3.4.1 Systems Validation & Integration

System Validation & Integration is performed both by Fujitsu Services alone, and when
required as part of the PO Ltd testing stages as a Joint Testing Exercise. Its purpose is both to
integrate all the various systems together to form the overall Horizon solution, and to validate
that this solution satisfies the requirements. An important aspect of this validation is regression
testing, to confirm that the solution has not regressed as a result of introducing the changes.
Appropriate suites of pre-existing tests are selected for this purpose, whilst for the changes
new tests are developed. Both encompass a number of different facets of testing, including:

e Business Integration , Cross-System Data Integrity
e Performance, Capacity, Throughput, Response Time
e Resilience, Availability, Backup, Recovery

© Operations, System Management, Scheduling

e Security

e Usability

Typically, large releases will initially undergo validation on representative (cut-down)
environment, integrating the systems together to form a stable overall solution. Then it will
move into a full integration environment modelled on Live. Smaller releases and individual
component deliveries will be validated directly on the full integration environment.
Performance characteristics for the data centre systems will be tested as required within a
separate test environment because of the demands imposed by the specific requirements for
data size and distribution, and transaction volumes and profiles. Performance characteristics
for the Counter systems, however, will typically be tested on the full integration environment.

It is in the Systems Validation & Integration stage that any components developed under
competitive ISL, and needing to be integrated within the Horizon solution, will be intercepted
Fujitsu Services will include the necessary coverage to confirm correct integration (but not to
validate the component(s) per se) as an integral part of their SV&I testing cycles, based on the
interface specifications agreed for them.

4.3.4.2 Release Validation

The primary purpose of this stage of testing is to ensure the integrity of releases prior to their
Live implementation. Significant releases typically have a complex migration plan that needs

Page: 12 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

FUIITSU Testing Approach For The Ref: VI/STR/064
FUJITSU SERVICES Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

to be validated at each stage to prove both integrity of the product set and Live continuity
during the implementation stage. A number of cycles of this migration testing is run to allow
the resolution of issues, prior to being finally validated on the Live Support rigs. Minor
releases may go direct from SV&I onto the Live Support rigs.

A significant factor in proving the migration process, and in confirming the integrity of the
release, includes checking that the resulting system state (or configuration) for each platform
has achieved the expected configuration (i.c. cach platform ends up having the correct
components installed as a result of going through the migration/implementation process).

4.4 Post Office Testing

4.4.1. High Level Approach

> Asmall dedicated PO Ltd core team

» Additional team members added dependent upon the release content

4.4.2 Initial Task

An appropriate High Level Test Strategy developed to reflect the release contents.

4.4.3 Significant Release

A release which includes changes which impact on a wider scope than Fujitsu Services and
therefore needs various phases to achieve E2E Integration e.g. NB, S30, S50. Or a significant
level of change within the Fujitsu Services solution.

In a significant release PO Ltd testing would, generally, include the following stages:-

4.43.1 Internal Functional Testing

Joint working with Fujitsu Services internal functional testing via the following:-
¢ Review Fujitsu Services internal test plans/ scripts for completeness
e Review Fujitsu Services internal test results / progress reports

e Review Fujitsu Services internal testing fault logs for impact

4.43.2 Non Functional Testing

Joint working with Fujitsu Services internal non functional testing via the following:-
e Fujitsu Services document reviews

e Review Fujitsu Services test plans for completeness

¢ Involvement with testing specific key tests during a Fujitsu Services testing cycle

Page: 13 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

oo Testing Approach For The Ref: VIUSTR/064
FUJITSU Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

FUJITSU SERVICES

e Review Fujitsu Services test results

e Review Fujitsu Services test fault logs for impact

4.43.3 Direct Interface Testing

Support Fujitsu Services through the execution of Direct Interface testing between two
suppliers e.g. Horizon to NBE,

¢ Review Interface scripts between the two supplier domains
e Support set — up of test environments

e Support or coordinate the provision of required Ref Data
e Support where appropriate the tests

e Review the test results including any faults

4.4.3.4 Certification or Accreditation Testing

PO Ltd will coordinate supported by Fujitsu Services the preparation and execution of scripts
to achieve certification or accreditation e.g. LINK certification, EPay Accreditation.

© Review and agree Certification / Accreditation scripts

e Support or coordinate set — up of test environments

e Support or coordinate the provision of required Ref Data
e Support or execute where appropriate the tests

e Provide required evidence e.g. counter receipts

e Review the test results including any faults

443.5 E2E Integration Testing

This phase is where PO Ltd would lead, supported by Fujitsu Services, in demonstrating the
successful connection of all the appropriate systems (test versions) in the releases E2E
solution including carrying out some E2E test transactions to confirm the readiness to enter
the PO Ltd E2E functional testing cycles.

4.4.3.6 E2E Functional Testing

Page: 14 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817

FUJ00001817

oo Testing Approach For The Ref: VIUSTR/064
FUJITSU Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

FUJITSU SERVICES

This phase is where PO Ltd would lead, supported by Fujitsu Services, in demonstrating
through short “days in the life of the PO Ltd business” cycles that the revised systems interact
correctly in an E2E manner and with the revised business process and procedures.

This is also to assure PO Ltd that the changes to current systems and the introduction of new
systems has not impacted upon the businesses operation including E2E financial aspects
(accounting, reconciliation, settlement, remuneration) have been and can maintained during
live operation. E2E Management Information is maintained or new information reflects the
requirements and business needs.

Successful completion of this phase would lead to the introduction into the Live environment
via one or more of the following PO Ltd selected options:-

¢ apre-pilot (transactions carried out in a passive Post Office)
© pilot (small number of outlets)

e  go-live.( rolled out to the full estate)

4.4.3.7 Pre-Pilot

This final testing phase is whereby a “live” passive Post Office is used to test that the
connectivity of the live E2E systems has been achieved and that a small number of transactions
representing the changes can be carried out and report correctly in accounting and
management information terms.

Completion of this final phase should be the point of handover to the Implementation team /
phase.
4,4,3.8 Field Trial

A field trial in a small number of outlets may be appropriate for certain products / changes .
This would be defined in the High Level Testing Strategy and agreed by PO Ltd and Fujitsu
Services.

4.4.4 Minor Release

A release which generally has changes which are contained with the one supplier domain and
does not require E2E integration. e.g. S40.

In a minor release PO Ltd testing would, generally, include the following stages:-

4.4.4.1 Internal Functional Testing

Joint working with Fujitsu Services internal functional testing via the following:-
e Review Fujitsu Services internal test plans for completeness

e Review Fujitsu Services internal test results / progress reports

e Review Fujitsu Services internal testing fault logs for impact

e Involvement with testing some key tests around change aspects

Page: 15 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

oo Testing Approach For The Ref: VIUSTR/064
FUJITSU Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

FUJITSU SERVICES

4.4.4.2, Non Functional Testing

Joint working with Fujitsu Services internal non functional testing via the following:-
e Fujitsu Services document reviews

e Review Fujitsu Services test plans for completeness

e Involvement with testing specific key tests during a Fujitsu Services testing cycle
e Review Fujitsu Services test results

e Review Fujitsu Services test fault logs for impact

4.4.4.3 Direct Interface Testing

The scope of a minor release is unlikely to require the execution of a Direct Interface Test. If
it did it would be as defined for a significant release.

4.4.4.4 Certification or Accreditation Testing

The scope of a minor release is unlikely to require the execution of a certification or
accreditation phase. If it did then this could be achieved as a separate phase or during other
phases where practical e.g. Internal testing functional or non functional phases. DIT.

4.4.4.5 E2E Integration Testing

The scope of a minor release is unlikely to require the execution of a E2E Integration phase if
it did it would be carried out as defined for a significant release.

4.4.4.6 E2E Functional Testing

The scope of a minor release is unlikely to require the execution of a E2E Functional phase if
it did it would be carried out as defined for a significant release.

4.4.4.7 Pre-Pilot

This final testing phase is whereby a “live” passive Post Office is used to test that the
connectivity of the live E2E systems has been achieved and that a small number of transactions
representing the changes can be carried out and report correctly in accounting and
management information terms.

Completion of this final phase should be the point of handover to the Implementation team /
phase.
4.4.4.8 Field Trial

A field trial in a small number of outlets may be appropriate for certain products / changes .
This would be defined in the High Level Testing Strategy and agreed by PO Ltd and Fujitsu
Services.

Page: 16 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
FUJ00001817
FUJ00001817

oo Testing Approach For The Ref: VIUSTR/064
FUJITSU Horizon System Version: 1.0
Date: 15th Aug 2003

FUJITSU SERVICES

4.4.5 Acceptance

Testing is one part of PO Ltd giving Acceptance to a release Significant or Minor. Testing
will be able to confirm the acceptance criteria for some requirements have been met during the
various test phases. The criteria and the targeted test phase should be identified during the
requirements analysis phase. The testability of the acceptance criteria should be assessed by
the testing team during the Requirements reviews.

Page: 17 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED
