FUJ00174184
FUJ00174184

From: Bounds Gavin[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=BOUNDSG]
Sent: Tue 06/10/2009 8:31:07 PM (UTC)
To:
Subject: FW: Horizon Data Integity publicity - briefing summary
Duncan

A heads up, in case of questions from Roger and/or the client:

I asked Suzie, RMG Acc Mgr, to summarise our involvement in assisting POL rebut sub masters allegations (made
public) of flawed data integrity caused by Horizon - leading to inaccurate accounts and thus monies owed. Please see
below.

Kind regards,

Gavin

From: Kirkham Suzie

Sent: 06 October 2009 12:36

To: Bounds Gavin

Subject: Horizon Data Integity publicity - briefing summary

Gavin

I have detailed below a brief summary of the sub postmaster claim that Horizon fails to maintain the integrity of branch
accounts if the branch experiences technical issues.

Horizon has been running for around 10 years, during which time Post Office has had to handle a number of legal
cases surrounding system integrity, mostly from apparently disgruntled or fraudulent sub postmasters. Fujitsu has
twice appeared in court to support Post Office. Only once has Post Office conceded its case, and this was at a time
when the audit trails were too short to provide sufficient evidence to refute a sub postmaster’s claims.

In recent weeks a number of sub postmasters are again querying the data integrity of Horizon and are claiming that
they are owed money by the Post Office due to inaccurate branch accounts. These sub postmasters are talking to the
press (London News) and trying to gain some momentum to support their case - it's even rumoured that the BBC is
considering a Watchdog programme on this subject. Post Office is trying to head-off this possible escalation of
interest by preparing a stock of simple responses to possible questions from the media, or from interest groups. I
have summarised below the timeline that details when Post Office asked Fujitsu for assistance in compiling this
information

The initial request from Post Office (Dave Smith and David Gray - POL) was made on 24" September asking us to
join a conference call on Friday 25" September This call was to be hosted by Dave Smith where Dave would
outline his understanding of the situation and outline his response. Fujitsu would only comment if he made any
factual errors on how Horizon works.

« I spoke to Mike Wood, David Roberts and our Press Office as soon as the request was made. FJ Press Office
confirmed with POL Press Office that the journalist would not be present at this conference call and that it was
purely internal POL attendees. They also confirmed they did not want FJ responding to any questions from the
press or external organisations. This was a Post Office issue as the solution has been formally handed over to
Post Office. They only need Fujitsu for “expert” advise if required.

* Friday 25" September — conference call completed. FJ attendees Jeremy Worrell, Alan Hodgkinson, Jim Sweeting
and Howard Pritchard

* During the conference call POL requested from Fujitsu a short paper to describe how Horizon maintains the
integrity of the branch accounts when certain issues affect the branch eg blue screen, hardware failure. Report
requested to be given to Dave Smith by 2" October

* Gareth Jenkins (FJ architect) spent the best part of one day completing the report. The finished report was passed
to Amanda Craib (Commercial - at David Roberts request) before being sent to Dave Smith. Report was sent to
Dave Smith on Friday 2" October late morning just prior to a second conference call.
FUJ00174184
FUJ00174184

* Friday 2" October — second conference call — Dave thanked Fujitsu for the document — no further actions at this
stage.
* I spoke to Andy McLean on 5" October - he didn’t expect any further activity for at least a couple of weeks.

If POL request further involvement from Fujitsu I will discuss with Dave Smith how we will cover this commercially but
at the moment we have nothing further to do.

In summary, our body of evidence is mature, so we're well-placed to help Post Office today. But when "Horizon
Online" is installed in 2010, much of our existing material will become irrelevant, so allegations of system failures in
the future may take more work in preparing evidence or explanations.

Regards

Suzie

Suzie Kirkham

Account Manager
Royal Mail Group

FUSITSL

E-mail: suzie.kirkham

Web: <http://uk.fujitsu.com>

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free
