FUJ00173733
FUJ00173733

From: Rowley Peter[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ROWLEYP]
Sent:
To:
Ce: Roberts David (LON22} _
Subject: FW: Notes from my call with Mike Young (PO) on Friday.
FYI

From: Wolfe Jon

Sent: 11 May 2009 09:18

To: Gilbert Roger; Rowley Peter

Subject: Notes from my call with Mike Young (PO) on Friday.

I spoke to Mike Young (Post Office - Executive Director, Operations.) for quite along while on Friday; or perhaps I
should say he spoke to/at me for quite a while! I called him on the premise that I had heard that PO/Fujitsu relations
were not good and that the PO was high up the agenda in Fujitsu and was there anything I could do to help him out. I
worked with Mike a lot at BT and we shared an office for about 6 months; he and I have always had a good rapport.

He's clearly pretty upset about the delays and feels that Fujitsu's response has always been "we'll change the people"
and he suggests that doing that makes no difference and potentially makes it worse. He feels strongly that we have let
the Post Office down on the infrastructure build side which he suggest should be our bread-and-butter business and we
seem to be struggling.

Mike is and always has been very vocal and does tend to speak a lot rather than allow a conversation to take place.
Reading between the lines here I think his biggest issue is that he has made commitments on our behalf and feels that
he is being compromised in his position; I actually am unsure as to the severity of the delays as the postmasters are
not 100% keen on having a replacement solution as the other one does everything they feel they need. The biggest
issues seems to be face and the commitments they have made to the board of the PO and the leadership team of the
postmasters.

What Mike needs is not an apology but a clear action plan of what we will be doing to resolve the issues and pull
forward the deployment of the new system. He told me that Fujitsu has a special place in the PO as its de-facto
preferred supplier but that could change as a result of this potential "train wreck" ... his words not mine. I guess that
was an un-subtle warning!

I know Mike really well and he will be looking for a way to go back to the PO board and explain how he has been able
to rescue the situation and manage the supplier into complying with what he wants. He'll get some kudos from this and
will be able to demonstrate to the board that he's in control...

Roger, I think you can expect a hard time for the start of the meeting but then it will revert to the practicalities of what
we can actually do and the achievable timeframe.

Regards,

Jon Wolfe
Account Director - NHS

Legally Privileged - made in contemplation of litigation

ss: Fuijits
Mobile:

ad, Slough. SL1 2EY

my Phi !
Email : jon.wolfe, J Web:  htto/uk fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 38W

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and
FUJ00173733
FUJ00173733

may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended
or that it is virus-free
