ICL Pathway

FUJ00232455

FUJ00232455

ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Originator & Dept:

Contributors:

Reviewed By:

Comments By:

Comments To:

Distribution:

ICL PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY

Policy Document

Not Applicable

This Security Policy specifies mandatory security requirements
to be applied throughout ICL Pathway

APPROVED

Peter Harrison (Graham Hooper) — Quality Risk Management

Graham Hooper, Geoffrey Vane, Alan D’Alvarez, Rob Arthan
John Coakes

Graham Hooper, Martyn Bennett, Geoffrey Vane, Alan
D’Alvarez, Peter Jeram, John Coakes, Jim Flynn, Graham
Chatten, lan Morrison, Steve Doyle, Lorraine Holt, Chris
Humphries, Chris Wannell, Martin Riddell, Peter Burden, Paul
Westfield, Gill Jackson, Mike Stares, Tony Oppenheim, Terry
Austin, John Dicks, Stephen Muchow

26" November 2000

Document Controller & Graham Hooper

Graham Hooper, Martyn Bennett, Lorraine Vaughan, Geoffrey
Vane, Alan D’Alvarez, Peter Jeram, John Coakes, Jim Flynn,
Graham Chatten, lan Morrison, Steve Doyle, Lorraine Holt,
Chris Humpries, Chris Wannell, Martin Riddell, Peter Burden,
Paul Westfield, Gill Jackson, Mike Stares, Tony Oppenheim,
Terry Austin, John Dicks, Stephen Muchow

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 1 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

0.0 Document Control

0.1 Document History

Version No. [Date Reason for Issue Associated
(CP/PinICL No.

(0.1 27/5/96 Initial draft issued for comments

0.2 31/5/96 Revised draft issued for comments

(0.3 26/6/96 Incorporates comments from the ICL]
[Pathway Management team

1.0 16/8/96 Incorporates comments from DSS/BAI
and POCL

2.0 23/9/96 Incorporates further comments fromI
(Authority

13.0 8/10/96 Approved

3.1 24/11/97 Revised for internal review purposes

3.2 10/01/98 Incorporates comments from_ internal
review

3.3 23/2/98 Incorporates further comments

13.4 28/9/98 Minor updates

4.0 30/4/99 Approved

4.1 24/6/99 [Removal of references to DSS/BenefitsI
Agency relating to Contract changes.

4.2 (03/10/00 Incorporates changes following internal
review and re-organisation of
responsibilities.

5.0 13/11/00 Approved

0.2 Approval Authorities

IName [Position Signature Date
Mike Stares Managing Director
[Tony Oppenheim Director Commercial and
Finance
[Terry Austin Director Development
Martyn Bennett (Quality and Risk Director
John Dicks (Customer Requirements

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 2 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00
Director
Steve Muchow (Customer Requirements
[Director

0.3 Associated Documents

Reference Version [Date Title Source
2.0 1/5/92 ICL Group Security Policy ICL
1.2 17/9/99 {ICL Pathway  SecuritylCL Pathway
Management Procedures
3.3 1 1/2/00 ICL Pathway AccessiICL Pathway

(Control Policy

Post Office InformationPPOCL
Systems Security Polic’
[Document (KH2879)

Post Office Counters IPOCL
Information Systems
Security Policy

(SSR Appendix 4-1)

4.5 28/10/94 IA Code of Practice for PO [POCL
Information Systems
Security

2.0 15/5/99 IBS7799 - A Code ofBSI

Practice for Information
‘Security Management

5.2 29/10/99 ISystem ArchitecturelCL Pathway
[Design Document

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

‘Abbreviation Definition

IAPS (Automated Payment Services

ICESG (Communications-Electronics Security Group
ICLEF (Commercial Licensed Evaluation Facility
COTS (Commercial Off The Shelf

IDSS [Department of Social Security

IEPOSS Electronic Point Of Sale Service

IOBCS (Order Book Control Service

IPFI Private Finance Initiative

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00
IPPP. Public Private Partnership
IPOCL Post Office Counter Limited

0.5 Changes in this Version

Version (Changes

5.0 (Output from discussions and internal reviews and reorganisation.

0.6 Changes Expected

(Changes

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 23
FUJ00232455

FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002

Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

0.7

Table of Contents

2

Foreword.

Introduction.
2.1 Service OVErVview...........c.ceceecec ee ccseseeeeeecseseeeeeeeseeeseeeeeeesesesetesseeeeneateees 8
2.2 SCOPE... eececcecceceseeeeseeseseeseesesessesecsesetseeaeeaeaesecsesaceeeaeeseeeeeseeaeeseeeneeeee 8
2.3 Policy Review.

Objectives...
3.1 Business Objectives... eee es eceeceseeeseseeeseeeeeeeeeuceeeseceeaneaseeeeeeees 9
3.2 IT Security Objectives... eee eee eceeeee cece ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeereeeeeneeeeees 10
3.3 Legal Obligations... ceceececeeeseseseseseeeseeeseeeeeeecseececeeseeecececeeeeeees 11

Responsibilities For Security...
4.1 Director, Quality Management. .
4.2 ICL Pathway Security Board... ceeeeeeseseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeees 12
4.3 Security Managel..............eecececcecceceeceseeseeceseeseseeseeeeeeeseceeesteseeeeseeeeeeesee 12
4.4 Security Administration.
4.5 Responsibilities for Physical Security.
4.6 All Personnel
4.7 Reporting Security Incidents... eeeceeeeeseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereeeeeeees 14

Responsibilities For Audit..
5.1 Audit Manager’s Responsibilities

5.2 Business Function Monitoring Responsibilitie:
5.3 Security Event Management Responsibilities.

Personnel Security..............:.ccecscscsesesesscececseseseeeeeseeeeeeeeeneeeececeeseeeeneaes

6.1 Recruitment Selection................cccececeeceeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesiseseneeneneeeses

6.2 Job Descriptions, Contracts and Assessment.
6.3 Security Education and Training

Implementation Policies............eecececceceeceeceeeseeseeeeseeeeeeeseeseeeeneeseeseee 17
7.1 Information Classification... cece ec eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 17
7.2 Safeguarding POCL ReCords................ceccccecceceeceseseeseeseeeeseesteeeeseeeeeees 17

7.3 Physical and Environmental Security.

7.4 System Access Control
7.5 Cryptography.........ececececscsesesseeececseseseereecsceeeeereecacereceesesseeseeeeseeecaseeeeee 18

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 23
FUJ00232455

FUJ00232455
ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00
8 Administration of Security..............eececeseseseseeececeseeeeesreeeeeeeseseeeeeetees 19
8.1 System and Network Management..................:ccceeeeeseeeseseereeeeeeeeeees 19
8.2 Audit Management

8.3 Systems Development and Maintenanc
8.4 Malicious Software Control Policy.

8.5 Information Exchange Control. .............ccccecceeeceseeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeneeaees 20
8.6 Control of Proprietary Software............cceeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 21
8.7 External Contractors and Suppliers. ................:c:ccecesceceeeeseeseseeeeeseeeeeee 21
9 Business Continuity... ccc eceeeeeseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereeeeteceeeeeneneees 21
9.1 Contingency Planning.................ececececeeeeeecceeeeeeeseececeeeeecesereeeeeeeeeeeee 22

9.2 Testing Contingency Plans
9.3 Subcontractor’s Contingency Plans.
10 Compliance

10.1 Compliance with ICL Pathway’s Security Policy........0.0... cee 22
10.2 Compliance with Legislative Requirements. ................::::cccceeeeeee 22
10.3 Compliance with BS7799............ eee eeccee cee eeceeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeneteeerenees 28)

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 23
ICL Pathway

FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

1 Foreword

Corporate IcL POCL
Policy Policy Policy
Detailed Security
Policy Policy
Security Baseline Based on
Procedures Controls BS7799
Windows NT Security Physical Security
Standards Unix Security Personnel Security
Oracle Security Fraud & Risk Management
and Network Security Contingency Planning
Guidelines PC Security ‘System Management
Key Management Health & Safety
ete ..... ete...

This document defines ICL Pathway’s policy for the protection of its
assets (including hardware, applications, databases, network, people
and documentation) against loss of confidentiality, integrity and
availability. It also enables ICL Pathway to comply with legislative and
commercial requirements.

ICL Pathway’s policy statement (which is essentially the same as the
Corporate Policy statement used by the ICL Group) is:

It is the policy of ICL Pathway Limited to provide a secure workingI
environment for the protection of employees, and also to ensure the
security of all assets owned by or entrusted to ICL Pathway.

This document fits into the structure illustrated below, with the BS7799
Code of Practice being used as a basis for ICL Pathway’s Security
Procedures. Lower level implementation standards will be incorporated
as appropriate.

ICL Pathway’s Security Policy, Procedures and Standards

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 23
FUJ00232455

FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00
2 Introduction

2.1

2.2

In May 1996, ICL Pathway Limited was selected to set up and operate the
services to automate counter transactions at Post Offices throughout the UK.

The requirement to implement a Benefit Payment Service for the Benefit
Agency was removed when the UK Government’s major Private Finance
Initiative (PFI) project was changed to a Public Private Partnership (PPP)
project during 1999.

The purpose of this policy document is to lay the foundation that will enable
ICL Pathway to protect the integrity, availability and confidentiality of all
assets associated with the services. It also enables ICL Pathway to comply
with legislative and commercial requirements.

Service Overview

The agreement is a PPP project, whereby ICL Pathway will automate 20,000
Post Offices and provide the infrastructure which enables users to make
automated payments at outlets throughout the UK.

Computerised facilities at Post Office counters enable a range of Automated
Payment Services (APS) to be provided, allowing customers to make
payments to utilities and other clients supported by Post Office Counters
Limited (POCL).

The Electronic Point Of Sale Service (EPOSS) supports all services, or
products, provided by the counter clerk to the customer. Order Book Control
Service (OBCS) is an optional counter application operating through EPOSS.

The services are designed to provide secure payment facilities, hence
particular attention is focused upon the security aspects of the services
throughout their life cycle.

Scope

This Security Policy specifies mandatory security requirements to be applied
throughout ICL Pathway.

ICL Pathway has overall responsibility for the design, development,
implementation, roll-out, operation and support of the service throughout the
contract period. Specific activities will be subcontracted to appropriate
organisations, which will be required to work within the security framework
defined by ICL Pathway.

ICL Pathway’s Security Policy must be compatible with POCL Security Policy.
The interfaces between ICL Pathway and all external organisations must be
clearly defined and formally agreed with the organisations concerned.

Security obligations for subcontractors involved in development activities
(including Escher, Oracle and ICL) will be subject to individual agreements
with ICL Pathway. Commercial off the shelf (COTS) products will be provided
by the appropriate product suppliers (including Microsoft).

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 23
FUJ00232455

FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00
2.3 Policy Review

3.1

3.2

Once approved, this policy document will be formally reviewed at least
annually and after any significant security incident or occurrence of fraud, and
updated whenever necessary.

Responsibilities for approval, review and issue of ICL Pathway’s Security
Policy and Procedures are defined in section 3.

Objectives
This document provides a definition of ICL Pathway’s high-level Security
Policy.

ICL Pathway will establish an infrastructure that will minimise and control
liabilities to itself and POCL.

The Security Policy defines the requirements for Pathway enabling it to
protect the integrity, availability and confidentiality of information used and
produced by the services. This includes making adequate provision for:

e Business Continuity, and
*® compliance with relevant legislation.

The responsibilities for policy implementation are defined (in section 3) in
order that the policy requirements can be communicated throughout ICL
Pathway. This will ensure that all parties are fully aware of their
responsibilities and legal obligations.

ICL Pathway has stated its commitment to ensuring that it encompasses the
very best commercial practices for security. ICL Pathway’s aim is to be fully
compliant with BS7799.

Compliance with legislative requirements (including the Data Protection Act)
and BS7799 is considered under “Compliance” (in section 9).

Business Objectives

The business Objectives are:

1. Identifying and managing risks

2. Protection of information assets

3. Protection of IT assets

4. Provide continuity of services

5. Maintenance of ICL Pathway’s reputation.

IT Security Objectives

ICL Pathway’s overall IT security objective can be summarised as achieving
the requirement expressed in the following policy statement:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 23
ICL Pathway

FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

It is the policy of ICL Pathway Limited to protect its investment in ITI
assets, and to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all
information conveyed, processed or stored, by the services.

1.

Security measures in ICL Pathway’s IT systems will ensure
appropriate confidentiality, integrity and availability of services,
software components and data, whether in storage or in transit.

Physical and logical access to the IT systems will be controlled,
with access granted selectively, and permitted only where there is
a specific need. Access will be limited to persons with appropriate
authorisation and a “need to know” requirement.

Authentication, whereby a user’s claimed identity is verified, is
essential before any access is granted to any IT system.
Authentication mechanisms are also required to ensure that trust
relationships can be established between communicating
components within, and external to, ICL Pathway’s services.

All users of ICL Pathway’s services will be individually accountable
for their actions. Accountability for information assets will be
maintained by assigning owners, who will be responsible for
defining who is authorised to access the information. If
responsibilities are delegated then accountability will remain with
the nominated owner of the asset.

Audit mechanisms are required to monitor, detect and record
events that might threaten the security of the ICL Pathway services
or any service(s) to which it is connected. Regular analysis of audit
trails is essential to facilitate the identification and investigation of
security breaches.

Alarm mechanisms are required to alert security personnel to the
occurrence of security violations that could seriously threaten the
secure operation of ICL Pathway’s services. These alarms will be
used to trigger prompt investigation and remedial action in order to
minimise the impact of any security breach.

ICL Pathway will monitor all developments and operations to
maintain assurance that its services are performing in accordance
with approved security procedures and controls. This will give a
high level of confidence that all information is being protected
during processing, transmission and storage.

3.3. Legal Obligations

ICL Pathway must remain fully compliant with all relevant legislation and
regulations.

In addition to the existing legislative obligations, identified in section 9.2, it is
important to track and anticipate emerging UK and European regulations that
could affect ICL Pathway’s operation.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

4 Responsibilities For Security

ICL Pathway’s Managing Director has ultimate responsibility for security.

ICL Pathway’s commitment to security will be communicated throughout ICL
Pathway, as evidenced by board level approval of ICL Pathway’s Security
Policy.

Figure 1 illustrates the security organisation used within ICL Pathway. Senior
management is supported by experienced specialists and technical staff with
specific expertise in the areas of IT, security, fraud prevention and risk

management.
I I
! I
i} i I
External I ICL Pathway Managing Director ICL Pathway I External

I I
1 Director of I
i Commercial 8I i
I Finance I
Director I
ICL Pathway of Quality I
Security Board I
I
Security Advisors ee t
I I i

Risk Security Internal Audit ! PocL

Manager Manager Manager I<“) auait

Business Risk

Management Co

s Security Business
Adept oh Event Function
ministration Management Monitoring
SEM and Audit Management
Figure 1 ICL Pathway’s Security Management Structure

4.1 Director, Quality Management

The responsibilities of the Director, Quality Management, include:

e overall control and management of security throughout ICL
Pathway,

¢ provision of adequate resources for security,

being Chairman of the ICL Pathway Security Board (see section

3.2),

owner of ICL Pathway’s Security Policy,

approval authority for ICL Pathway’s Security Policy,

approval authority for ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures,

overall control of risk management functions,

establishing the security interface with POCL, and

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 23
ICL Pathway

FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

establishing the security interface with all subcontractors.

4.2 ICL Pathway Security Board

The representatives on ICL Pathway’s Security Board are nominated by the
Director, Quality Management, and approved by the ICL Pathway Board.

The Security Board participants, which will include Horizon Security Liaison
staff, represent a broad range of interests to ensure that alternative
perspectives are considered.

Whenever necessary, the Security Board can commission independent
specialists to undertake studies, investigations or audits.

Security Board responsibilities include:

ownership of ICL Pathway’s Security Strategy,

determining the adequacy of ICL Pathway’s Security Policy
definition,

formal review of all Security Policy documents,

review of security incidents, on a regular basis, and

liaison with external bodies and specialists.

4.3 Security Manager

The Security Manager is responsible for ensuring implementation of policy
and procedures, and maintaining “best practice”, within the remit of ICL

Pathway.

ICL Pathway’s Security Manager's responsibilities include:

physical and environmental security,

monitoring for compliance with ICL Pathway’s Security Policy,
providing the point of contact for reporting all types of security
incidents,

ensuring that security incidents are recorded and investigated,
ensuring that security relevant events are recorded,

ensuring that system audit trails are analysed on a regular basis,
documentation of ICL Pathway’s Security Policy,

owner of ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures,

documentation of ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures,
communication of security policy and procedures throughout ICL
Pathway,

authorisation and approval for system changes,

co-ordinating the evaluation of all new security products proposed,
specifying and arranging security education and training,

devising and conducting security awareness programmes,
maintaining a partnership approach to security with Horizon Security
Liaison staff,

liaison with POCL and suppliers’ security personnel, and
recruitment selection of security administration personnel.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 23
FUJ00232455

FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00
4.4 Security Administration

4.5

46

The description “Security Administration” has been used to describe ICL
Pathway personnel assigned to roles with particular responsibility for security.

ICL Pathway’s Security Manager is the normal line manager for this group,
hence many of the activities assigned to Security Administrators will be to
support the functions listed in section 3.3.

Wherever possible, Security Administrators will act in a supporting or
monitoring role rather than as a Service Provider for the operational services.
In this capacity they can:

¢ monitor compliance with ICL Pathway’s Security Policy,

¢ implement ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures,

¢ conduct independent reviews of compliance to policy and
procedures,

¢ report actual and suspected security incidents, and recommend
changes, to enhance ICL Pathway’s security controls, to the
Security Manager.

Responsibilities for Physical Security

The local Site Managers have responsibility for physical security at all sites
used by ICL Pathway.

At some sites, notably Data Centres and support sites, ICL Pathway can
benefit from existing security infrastructure in order to protect against threats
from physical and environmental sources.

At Post Office outlets, the Post Office Manager has particular responsibility
for safeguarding the ICL Pathway equipment installed.

All Personnel

All service users, most of whom will be at Post Office counters, will be
included in ICL Pathway’s awareness and/or training programmes. Security
aspects, an integral part of these programmes, will be set in a context
appropriate to the user’s role (for example, Post Office Manager or clerk).

All ICL Pathway employees, subcontractors and system users have security
responsibilities and they will be required to work together in support of this
security policy. Personnel who may not regard themselves as any kind of
“system user” will still have security responsibilities. In particular, they are
expected to be vigilant in reporting anything they believe may be suspicious.

Promoting security awareness, throughout ICL Pathway, to subcontractors,
and within Post Offices, is an important responsibility assigned to ICL
Pathway’s Security Manager.

Publicising security reporting and escalation procedures will be part of this
awareness strategy.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: — RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00
4.7 Reporting Security Incidents

5.1

ICL Pathway will establish effective procedures for reporting, acting upon and
escalating all incidents that could affect security. It is the responsibility of all
users of the ICL Pathway services and ICL Pathway personnel to use these
procedures.

ICL Pathway’s Security Manager is responsible for ensuring that all incidents
are recorded, investigated and resolved with appropriate urgency. This will
include liaison with Horizon Security Liaison staff to review incidents and
actions.

Responsibilities For Audit

The Director, Quality Management, is accountable for the Audit function
within ICL Pathway, as illustrated in figure 1.

The Audit Manager’s responsibilities, listed in section 4.1, are primarily
concerned with managing the internal Audit function within ICL Pathway but
they also include liaison with POCL audit personnel.

As the point of contact with external audit personnel, the Audit Manager will
need to maintain regular contact with many ICL Pathway groups (e.g.
Customer Service, Programmes, Commercial and Finance) to co-ordinate
audit related activities.

The Security Event Management function, illustrated in figure 1,
encompasses the routine IT Security activities concerned with security
relevant events recorded by ICL Pathway’s systems. It is really part of the day-
to-day security administration activity, but has been highlighted to identify the
need for regular analysis of event logs.

Audit Manager’s Responsibilities

ICL Pathway’s Audit Manager is responsible for ensuring implementation of
ICL Pathway’s Audit Policy and maintaining “best practice”, within the remit of
ICL Pathway.

The Audit Manager's responsibilities include:

e planning and carrying out audits of ICL Pathway’s business
functions,

examining and evaluating the results of (business function) audits,
developing and agreeing improvement programmes,

monitoring and reporting improvement activities,

monitoring for compliance with ICL Pathway’s Audit Policy,
providing the point of contact for all audit related matters,

overall responsibility for ICL Pathway’s Audit activities,
documentation of ICL Pathway’s Audit Policy,

being the owner of ICL Pathway’s Audit Standards,

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of 23
FUJ00232455

FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00
e documentation of ICL Pathway’s Audit Standards,
¢ communication of Audit policy and standards within ICL Pathway,
e co-ordinating the evaluation of all new audit products proposed,
e specifying and arranging Audit education and training,
e liaison with POCL audit personnel,
e liaison with ICL Group Audit personnel, and
e recruitment selection of Audit personnel.

5.2 Business Function Monitoring Responsibilities

The description “Business Function Monitoring” has been used to describe
ICL Pathway personnel assigned to roles with particular responsibility for
Audit.

ICL Pathway’s Audit Manager is the normal line manager for this group,
hence many of the activities assigned to Business Function Monitoring will be
to support the functions listed in section 4.1.

Wherever possible, Business Function Monitoring will act in a supporting role
rather than as a Service Provider for the operational services. In this capacity
they can:

monitor compliance with ICL Pathway’s Audit Policy,

implement ICL Pathway’s Audit Standards,

conduct independent reviews of compliance to policy and standards,
report actual and suspected security incidents, and

recommend changes, to enhance ICL Pathway’s audit controls, to
the Audit Manager.

5.3 Security Event Management Responsibilities

The description “Security Event Management” has been used to describe ICL
Pathway personnel assigned to roles with particular responsibility for security
relevant events recorded by ICL Pathway’s systems.

ICL Pathway’s Security Manager is the normal line manager for this group,
hence many of the activities assigned to Security Event Management
personnel will be supporting functions.

Wherever possible, Security Event Management will act in a monitoring role
supporting the audit related security administration activities. In this capacity
they can:

e ensure that specified events are being audited on the relevant
platforms,

e ensure that all access (and attempted access) to ICL Pathway’s
systems is audited,

¢ monitor usage by ICL Pathway operations and management staff,

e analyse the audit logs generated by the different ICL Pathway
platforms,

¢ assist with investigations (as assigned by the Security Manager),

e extract copies of audit information for investigation purposes,

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 15 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

e ensure that archived audit information is being stored securely,

e implement ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures (particularly with
regard to audit),

e report actual and suspected security incidents, and

e recommend changes, to enhance ICL Pathway’s security controls,
to the Security Manager.

6 Personnel Security

Staff concerned with the operations and management of central services are
to be managed under the guidance of ICL’s Personnel Policy Manual and
associated documents.

Staff working on high-risk areas in the organisation (those classified as
“sensitive”) are to be subject to more frequent vetting reviews and internal
audits. This applies to ICL Pathway’s own employees and to staff from
subcontractor’s organisations.

6.1 Recruitment Selection

All applicants will be subject to an appropriate level of vetting, using criteria
approved and provided by ICL Group Security. This will include checks on
their identification and financial circumstances.

Business and personal references will be checked for all applicants.

6.2 Job Descriptions, Contracts and Assessment

ICL Pathway will apply best commercial practice, based upon BS7799, to
include security considerations within:

Employees Terms and Conditions for Employment, and generic job
descriptions.

6.3 Security Education and Training

ICL Pathway’s education and training programme will promote security
awareness and explain the importance and use of security controls.

The programme will include:

e all ICL Pathway employees,
e training for all system users, tailored to their particular role, and
¢ appropriate training for contractors and third parties.

7 — Implementation Policies

The following subsections provide an overview of the controls required for:
e asset classification and control,

e physical and environmental security, and

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 16 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

¢ system access control.

ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures will provide more detailed guidance
based upon the corresponding BS7799 sections. This will include the
provision and maintenance of an asset register.

7.1 Information Classification

All information used by ICL Pathway will be handled in accordance with its
classification, as specified by its owner. Information owners are required to
classify all information that they own, in accordance with a process that will
be jointly agreed.

The sensitivity of information will be measured by the consequences of a
potential security breach associated with that information.

ICL Pathway will assume that aggregation cannot increase the classification
of any information.

ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures will include guidance on protective
marking and handling of information.

7.2 Safeguarding POCL Records

ICL Pathway will protect all manual and electronic records supplied by POCL
in accordance with agreed contractual obligations. The records will be
safeguarded from unauthorised disclosure, modification, loss, destruction and
falsification.

7.3. Physical and Environmental Security

Use of existing secure computing facilities for ICL Pathway’s central services
will simplify the task of establishing secure areas for the protection of IT
facilities. The physical security measures will include:

e specialist site security staff in attendance 24 hours per day,
e surveillance and intruder detection systems,
e multi-zone areas controlled by a card access system, and
e regular security reviews and audit checks.
All equipment and cabling will be well maintained and protected against
environmental hazards, including fire and water damage.

Post Offices pose some significant challenges for several reasons:

ICL Pathway will use approximately 20,000 sites throughout the UK,
ICL Pathway cannot control the physical security at Post Offices,
ICL Pathway owns the IT assets installed in each Post Office,

high specification commercial PCs will be installed at each site,

ICL Pathway cannot vet or select Post Office personnel, and
changes to the Post Office operating environment can occur.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

The security measures associated with installed equipment will take
these factors into consideration to reduce ICL Pathway’s risks to an
acceptable level.

7.4 System Access Control

Control of access to ICL Pathway’s systems and data will be in accordance
with ICL Pathway’s Access Control Policy, which will be based upon analysis
of security and business requirements.

The Access Control Policy and associated Security Procedures will specify:

e aclear definition of responsibilities for all authorised users,

e specification of roles and responsibilities for all types of system

usage,

control of access to all ICL Pathway systems components,

control of access to all data within the ICL Pathway systems,

control of access to all stored information and documentation,

control of access to database facilities and tools,

control of access to applications running on servers and

workstations,

control of access to the network and network management systems,

procedures for allocation of access rights to IT systems,

management, assignment and revocation of privileges,

identification and authentication of human and system “users”, and
password management, including password generation and expiry.

Accountability of individuals is essential and segregation of duties will be

enforced where appropriate.

Wherever authorisation is given orally, normally over a telephone link,
additional verification methods must be used.

7.5 Cryptography

ICL Pathway will comply with Government Policy with regard to the protection
of Government Data.

ICL Pathway will seek the guidance of Communications-Electronics Security
Group (CESG) on all matters concerning cryptography. This includes:

choice of encryption algorithms,

strength of mechanisms,

encryption of information stored on disks within Post Offices, and
encryption key management (including key generation, distribution
and change).

8 Administration of Security

The following subsections provide an overview of the controls required within
ICL Pathway’s organisation. ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures will provide
further guidance, based upon the BS7799 controls, for:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 18 of 23

FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

e computer and network management, and

e system development and maintenance.

8.1 System and Network Management

Operational control of ICL Pathway’s services will be managed by a central
System Support unit responsible for system and network management.

The system privileges and access permissions required to perform
management functions are considerably higher than those assigned to normal
users. ICL Pathway will therefore ensure that

e staff assigned to management functions are carefully selected,

e physical and logical access controls are clearly defined and
rigorously implemented,

individuals are not granted unnecessary privileges,

separation of duties is achieved whenever appropriate,

individuals are held accountable for all system changes,

the ability to grant and modify access permission is controlled, and
all significant system changes are recorded.

8.2 Audit Management

ICL Pathway will ensure that:

all security critical events are time stamped and recorded,
auditable events are carefully selected to minimise overheads,
audit trail information is protected from modification,

audit trails include a record of all significant system changes,
effective audit analysis reduction and analysis tools are used,
all observed system irregularities are investigated, and

audit trails are archived and stored for an agreed duration.

8.3 Systems Development and Maintenance

ICL Pathway will ensure that system security, considered at the requirements
analysis stage, fully reflects the business value of the information assets
involved. The analysis will consider:

e identification and authentication of human and system “users”,

e control of access to information and services,

e segregation of duties,

e secure operation in degraded mode,

e incorporation and analysis of audit trails,

e data and system integrity protection,

e use of encryption to prevent unauthorised disclosure of data, and

e system resilience, including operation in fall-back mode and
recovery.

All software developed by or for ICL Pathway will be specified and
implemented using proven methodologies, taking care to ensure that:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of 23

FUJ00232455

FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

8.4

8.5

8.6

e input data validation is comprehensive and reliable,

¢ processing protects against errors and attacks, and

e integrity checking is performed where appropriate.
ICL Pathway will ensure that software development activities are fully
supported by procedures and standards that cover all aspects of the
development process. Audits and reviews will be conducted to ensure that the
procedures are being applied effectively and that the supporting
documentation meets approved standards. Security testing will provide
confirmation that the security functionality of the systems has been
implemented to meet the agreed security specifications.

Assurance during development will be supported by the definition of security
requirements, security architecture, detailed security design, design reviews
and security testing.

Design and specification changes will be reviewed to ensure they do not
compromise the security of the systems.

All software will be subject to appropriate acceptance procedures prior to
integration with other components.

Malicious Software Control Policy

ICL Pathway will analyse threats associated with malicious software and,
where appropriate, will implement effective controls. These controls will
include virus prevention, virus detection and appropriate user awareness
procedures.

Information Exchange Control

ICL Pathway will define, agree and enforce (with relevant parties) procedures
for the exchange of information handled electronically and by other means.
The procedures used will comply with legal and contractual requirements and
will depend upon the sensitivity of the information.

In particular, the exchange of information, with POCL, will be subject to
formally agreed controls.

Control of Proprietary Software

Proprietary software will only be used within the terms of the licence
conditions.

Unauthorised copying of software and documentation will be prohibited.

ICL Pathway will not permit any modified or non-standard software
components to be incorporated unless the modifications have been applied
and validated by the normal supplier, and approved by ICL Pathway’s
Security Manager.

ICL Pathway’s configuration management system will maintain an inventory of
all proprietary software used by their services.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 20 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

9.1

9.2

9.3

8.7 External Contractors and Suppliers

ICL Pathway will ensure that appropriate safeguards cover the use of external
contractors and suppliers. This will include agreements with contractual terms
and conditions and checks on the integrity of external contractors before any
work is assigned to them.

External personnel will not be allowed access to any classified information
without prior written authority from the information owner and completion of a
non-disclosure agreement.

Suppliers of goods and services (including Escher and Oracle) will be subject
to formal agreements in support of this security policy. Individual agreements
with suppliers of standard COTS components are not required.

Evidence of the adequacy of suppliers’ security procedures will be sought
where externally supplied goods or services are used to process critical
and/or sensitive information.

Business Continuity

ICL Pathway will ensure that an effective business continuity plan is agreed
with Horizon Security Liaison staff and implemented to reduce the risks from
deliberate or accidental threats to deny access to vital services or
information.

Plans will be developed to enable internal operations and business services
to be maintained following failure or damage to vital services, facilities or
information. All relevant security provisions will be maintained, even if
degraded conditions are in effect.

Contingency Planning
In order to minimise any disruption to the services managed by ICL Pathway,
contingency plans will be developed to encompass:

e handling emergency situations,
¢ operating in fall-back mode, and
e recovery (or Business Resumption) to full operational status.

Testing Contingency Plans

All contingency plans will be tested on a regular basis under representative
operational conditions.

Subcontractor’s Contingency Plans

Contingency arrangements will be examined and managed to ensure that
risks are minimised, wherever ICL Pathway is dependent upon
subcontractors (or third parties), for essential services or supplies.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of 23
FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

ICL Pathway ICL SECURITY POLICY Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 13/11/00

10 Compliance

ICL Pathway is required to comply with legislative requirements and
commercial standards.

10.1 Compliance with ICL Pathway’s Security Policy

Compliance with the requirements defined in this Security Policy is
mandatory. The policy is to be applied throughout ICL Pathway for the secure
management and operation of the services.

Periodic reviews will be carried out, under the direction of ICL Pathway’s line
managers, to verify that ICL Pathway is operating in accordance with its
security policy and procedures.

ICL Pathway’s Audit function (see section 4) will provide the essential
monitoring activities needed to provide senior management with visibility that
ICL Pathway is operating in accordance with this policy.

10.2 Compliance with Legislative Requirements

ICL Pathway will ensure compliance with all legislative requirements,
including the:

¢ Data Protection Act (1984"),

e Computer Misuse Act (1990), and

e Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (1988).
All applications handling personal data on individuals will comply with data
protection legislation and principles.

Under the Computer Misuse Act, it is an offence to access or modify material
without proper authority, or to access material with intent to commit further
offences.

ICL Pathway will protect against unauthorised copying of documentation and
software.

In addition to the Acts identified above, ICL Pathway will comply with
appropriate sections of PACE, Post Office and Telegraph Acts, Official
Secrets Act 1989, Companies Act and relevant EU Directives.

10.3 Compliance with BS7799

The controls defined in BS7799 are designed to provide a sound
baseline for commercial organisations of many types.

ICL Pathway will apply BS7799 to provide a baseline definition for
information security encompassing the ten categories of controls. This
security policy document considers each of the categories, as
indicated in Table 1, and outlines the requirements in the ICL Pathway
context.

’ Change to Data Protection Act (1998) will be subject to CCN approval.
© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of 23

ICL Pathway

ICL SECURITY POLICY

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

FUJ00232455
FUJ00232455

Ref: RS/POL/002
Version: 5.0
Date: 13/11/00

pallbee Category of Controls soca re lley

3 Security Policy All

4 Security organisation 3 (and 4)
5 [Asset classification and control 6.1 and 6.2
6 Personnel security 5

7 Physical and environmental security 6.3

8 Communications and operations 7.1

management

9 [Access control 6.4

10 __ [Systems development and maintenance 7.3

11 Business continuity management 8

12 (Compliance 9

Table 1 BS7799 Control Categories

ICL Pathway’s Security Procedures will provide further guidance,

based upon the BS7799 Code of Practice.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 23 of 23
