FUJ00154902
FUJ00154902 I

Page I of 2

an
Thomas Penny

i
From: Thomas Penny 1 (i I

Sent: 03 July 2010 09:40 —
To: Lillywhite Tom; Thompson Peter; Welsh Graham; Munro Donna
Ce: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: FW: Action Points - Duplicated Records

FYI

"Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 8SN

Tel

Mob
Fax:
E-Mail: f
Web: ‘HIER TTS CoTH

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.
This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to'a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 03 July 2010 09:36

To: ‘Mark Dinsdale’; Alan X Simpson; Jane M Owen
Subject: Action Points - Duplicated Records

Mark/Alan/Jane

I thought it would be useful to put together the agreed action points from our discussion yesterday —:

e POL need to confirm whether West Byfleet and Porters Avenue were the only cases listed that had
progressed to Court. - ACTION: Jane to speak with Jason Collins and Andrew Daley, area managers

e POL to confirm whether transaction records for West Byfleet and Porters Avenue had actually been
presented at Court or whether records had only been passed to the defence expert - ACTION: Jane to
contact Lisa Allen and Jon Longman

e Concern was raised how it would look if we had to replace:transaction data that had already been

presented at Court-and indeed what the defence expert could make of this issue in Court. Penny said
Gareth Jenkins could discuss this with the defence expert (for both West Byfleet and Porters Avenue)
when the CT for his meeting had been signed. - ACTION: Penny

e Mark to progress CT approval — ACTION: Mark
e All ARQ returns identified had duplicate records and investigators needed to be aware where
duplicated records presented. We would need to re-create spreadsheets where progression to Court

would occur — ACTION: Jane to speak with area managers detailing all affected ARQ returns

© POL need to formally accept the suggested workaround to remove duplicated records before any
further records could be returned.

Alan asked whether anyone was working on a fix — it was confirmed development had already started
but that there was currently a Change Freeze. Fujitsu were asked to provide an estimated timeframe

05/07/2010
FUJ00154902
FUJ00154902

Page 2 of 2

for fix implementation should POL accept this workaround. Regular progress reviews would be
required - ACTION: Penny

e Mark/Alan said they needed legal guidance - ACTION: Mark to speak with POL legal

e Penny said that legal guidance would be sought once it had been identified whether transaction
records had been presented in Court or not — ACTION: Penny

e POL to prioritise list for future-returns - ACTION: Jane
Let me know if I've missed any actions. Speak early next week.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 BSN

. Tel
Mob:
Fax
E-Mail: I
Web: “Hip maK ATS:COAT

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England n0.96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U'3BW
This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that itis virus-free.

05/07/2010
