FUJ00086882
FUJ00086882

To:
From: Venables lan[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=,
Sent: Tue 2/2/2010 12:18:25 PM (UTC)

Subject: RE: RMGA Ernst and Young Audit 2010 - User access

‘ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPI ENTS/CN=VENABLES!]

Hi Paul,
Nigel Roberts does still require access to some
Thanks

lan Venables
Royal Mail Group Account; Service Delivery Manager
OBC; Rural Strategy and DMN

FUJITSU
Infinity House, Mallard Way, Off Electra Way, Crewe Bus Park, CW1 6ZQ

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW
This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Stewart Paul

Sent: 26 January 2010 14:17

To: Thompson Adrienne P; Heyes Paul; Lennox Fiona; Harrod Karen; Venables Ian; Little Tony; Hughes Angela
Cc: Membery Bill; Dunks Andy

Subject: RMGA Ernst and Young Audit 2010 - User access

Ernst and Young are in the process of auditing the Royal Mail Group financial systems, part of the audit includes systems that are
managed by Fujitsu on behalf of the Royal Mail Group particularly the Horizon and Credence(POLMI) systems. One area of the audit
concerns user access and whether an individual should have continued access.

Ernst and Young have identified a sample of users, based upon the existence of the user in the Ace Server database, and are
requesting that confirmation the user still requires access to Horizon and Credence(POLMI).

Each of you have been identified as the line manager for a individual or individuals included within the sample. Each user has
accessed the system since January 2009.

Can you please confirm if the users associated with your name are still employed by Fujitsu and if they still require access to RMGA
systems as part of their job role.

Tom Field - Angela Hughes

Paul Fisher - Paul Heyes

Chris Hawkes - Tony Little

Steve Parker - Tony Little

Clare Jackson - Adrienne Thompson

David Johnston - Adrienne Thompson
Susanne McConnell(Doggart) - Fiona Lennox
Muregsan Ramaiah - Karen Harrod

Nigel Roberts - lan Venables

Thank youn

Paul Stewart, UNIX System Administrator

NI Compute Services

FUJITSU

Trident House. 301 Airport Road West, Belfast BT3 SAE
Tel GRO }or Internally f 3

FUJ00086882
FUJ00086882

Moby : 'GRO

er Street, London, W1U 38W

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
