FUJ00168511
FUJ00168511

From: Tait Duncan[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=TAITD]
Sent: Mon 16/04/2012 7:03:48 PM (UTC)
To: — De Long Stephen[

Subject: I RE: Note from meeting with Paula Vennells

Thank you Gavin

From: Bell Gavin

Sent: 13 April 2012 15:53

To: Long Stephen; Tait Duncan

Subject: Note from meeting with Paula Vennells

Duncan, Stephen
I met Paula Vennells the other day on the train.
We spoke about a number of points but there were three points worth noting.

The first is that she is still keen to see how we can work closely together on opportunities in Government. Her exact
words were “not a JV” but perhaps a different commercial model than we have today. I pointed out that this has started
and we have had sessions with Nigel and her Government team and there are two opportunities, DVLA and Wakefield
where we are working as partners rather than as a supplier. I pointed out that the DVLA bid does have challenges as
the contractual vehicle “Horizon” only has three years left to run, against a contract for seven years. Paula
acknowledged this issue and said that she has challenged her team to try to find ways to do deals when initial answers
from Legal are unsupportive.

This led to a positive conversation on Shadow where she was keen to explore this further and feels Mike Young was
seeking IT savings, but she recognises an extension of some form would enable the transformation and stability
needed during the next few years and I pointed out that this could be done more quickly than if we wait until the
Towers model procurement is complete which is August next year.

She then asked about some of the recent system incidents and transaction integrity. I have provided a very high level
response of how the reconciliation service we provide catches any issues and offered her and Lesley Sewell a visit to
Bracknell to meet this team. She then went on to say that she has had enquiries from Oliver Letwin MP West Dorset
and James Arbuthnot MP and Chair of Strategic Review and Security Committee about system outages and a FO!
request on a particular sub Post Master. She said that she might invite Duncan to a meeting with these MPs when she
meets them next.

Regards

Gavin
