FUJ00152940
FUJ00152940

From: Jenkins Gareth
GI[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GARETH.JENKINS]
Sent: Fri 05/02/2010 4:05:46 PM (UTC)

To: Jones David M~
Subject: RE: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged

David / Penny,
Brief responses as follows, but not sure that I should put them in a Witness Statement:

2. I need time to research the background to this case before providing any response
3. This is where I'm reluctant to make a clear statement. I am aware of one problem
where transactions have been lost in particular circumstances due to locking issues. When
this happens we have events in the eventing logs to indicate that there was an issue and
whenever we provide transaction logs to POL we check for any such events. In the case of
West Byfleet we have not provided any transaction logs and so have not made these checks.
This is likely to open a can of works and I'm very reluctant to make any statement in this
area.

4. I have reviewed the statement by Eleanor Nixon. There is nothing technical there
for me to comment on. If POL are able to expand on exactly what they did to resolve the
issues and what they found to be the issues there, then I could comment on that. At first
glance it is purely a case of incorrect use of the system and clearly with any system if
incorrect information is input then incorrect results come out.

If you feel it OK to pass this onto POL then that’s fine by me, but I’m reluctant for it
to go further without POL’s agreement and understanding of the potential implications.

Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road,
Tel: i

e, RG12 8SN
Internal:
mber —

fter 31/12/2009)

Mobile: i Internal:
email: Gareth. Jenkin
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker
Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a
duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this
e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

----- Original Message
From: marilyn.benjamiut.
jarnail.a.singhi Gi
Sent: 05 February 2010
T Jones David M

Cc: Jenkins Gareth GI; Thomas Penny

Subject: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged

] On Behalf Of

15:50

Dear David and Penny,

On first glance points 2 - 4 have not been answered which I reproduce
below.
2) My barrister telephoned me yesterday evening and requested that I find

out any information that Fujitsu may hold in relation to an office called
Callender Square in Falkirk. Apparently, Anne Chambers a Systems
Specialist employed by Fujitsu was cross examined and it is said that she
had full knowledge of an error in the Horizon system at this Post Office.
Our barrister would like Gareth to deal with this matter and expand upon
whatever issue Anne Chambers raised at court within his witness statement.

3) When Gareth completes his statement could he also mention whether there
are any known problems with the Horizon system that Fujitsu are aware of.
If none could this be clarified in the statement.

4) Could Gareth read the statement from Eleanor Nixon attached below and
respond in his statement to the points raised by Eleanor Nixon about
Horizon.

(See attached file: Eleanor Nixon Statement.rtf

Could you please give this matter your urgent attention and look forward to
hearing from you.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Team

Tel.No:!” >
rax.nor, GRO I

JESSIE ISS SISSIES ISS ISS IGG TU CIS S IS EIU CEI SU ICI OCI IOI
Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system.
JOSS EIEIO ISG GSI IGG ISIS ISG IOGEIISC I IGG ICI ISU I ISG ITO ISI ISI ioe

FUJ00152940
FUJ00152940
