FUJ00121482
FUJ00121482

Message

From: Lenton-Smith Colin [/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FELO1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LENTON-SMITHC]
Sent: 21/08/2003 08:30:37

To: Holmes Jan R [/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FELO1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Holmes)]

Subject: RE: Cleverleys - Horizon Equipment

Jan, this is OK.

Colin

— Original Message-—--

From: Holmes Jan R
Sent: Wednesday, August 20, 2003 5:23 PM
To: Lenton-Smith Colin

Subject: Cleverleys - Horizon Equipment

Colin,

Nothing is as clear as it seems. I have some papers faxed over from POL and this is my proposed reply. I've had it
‘technically’ checked by Mik. Are you happy with it? Jim is Jim Cruise with POL Legal Services their in-house sollys.

Jan

For clarification I am not part of Fujitsu's legal department. My role in Post Office Account is restricted to assisting Post Office with
litigation support as and when it is required.

Thanks for the papers. I've done some preliminary work and, perhaps inevitably, the picture is not as clear as we might wish.

Let me start with the easy stuff :

1. We will have no record of any transaction data from Cleverleys dated before November 2000 in the central audit archive since
this is automatically deleted 18 months from the date that it is written. So, if 30th November 2000 was the last active day for the
Counter that data would have been deleted on or about 30th May 2002.

2. Similarly, there will be no Help Desk logs since these are also deleted after 18 months.

Now the hard stuff :

1. Transactions exist on the Counter for no more than 34 days after which they are automatically deleted by a Riposte routine
(Riposte is the messaging software that passes information around the whole system and generates the transaction information).
In the case of this particular system transactions MAY still exist, provided that the counter has not been powered up at any time
since the last “active day"

2. If a Counter has been switched off for more than 35 consecutive days and then switched on Riposte will not start-up. This is a
security device to deter a Counter being stolen and subsequently being attached back onto the network in order to conduct
transactions illegally.

3. If Riposte were made to work after 35 days it would immediately check for transactions >34 days old and delete them.

4. Under no circumstances would we allow a 3rd party direct access to a counter. The filestore is encrypted and for a 3rd party to
make sense of the data we would have to release to them details of the encryption key. This we would not do.

How we can help :

1. If this is to be pursued then the work would have to be undertaken by our technical specialists in Bracknell, possibly with the 3rd
party in attendance as an observer. Said 3rd party would require to be security cleared before being allowed access ?

2. We could make no guarantees about recovering any data since there are a number of activities that we have had no cause to
attempt before and therefore could not be certain of the outcome.

3. There would be a charge associated with this work.
FUJ00121482
FUJ00121482

Jan Holmes

This e-mail is Ghly tor thé Use OF iS Intended Fécipiént. “TlS contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
