FUJ00097071
FUJ00097071

Allen Graham (BRAO1}_ } Welsh

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: Fri 25/06/2010 2:10:51 PM (UTC)
Subject: I RE: ARQs

Geoff,

The reason POL have not raised this on the call this morning is that we haven't told the there is a problem yet. On Guy’s advice,
Penny has not said anything to POL until you give us the say so. This was really to allow you to avoid it becoming an Acceptance
Incident.

The work around would require us to tell POL about the issue. Whether they feel it is acceptable is a different matter. We need to
be careful, since this does relate to evidence used for prosecutions, so I feel that now we know there is an issue we do need to tell
POL about it asap. (The problem was found by Penny and Alan Holmes earlier this week.)

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

_http:/uk fujitsu.com

fh Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Butts Geoff

Sent: 25 June 2010 14:29

To: Cooke David

Cc: Andrews Mark (GD HQ); Allen Graham (BRA01); Welsh Graham; Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: FW: ARQs

Importance: High

Dave,

FYI. This issue has been raised by Graham Welsh. POL did not mention this on the call this morning, but be aware this
may become an Acceptance Incident. Gareth is checking on the viability of the workaround but we do not have any
capacity to include this in Release 1.

Regards,

Geoff

From: Wilkerson Guy
Sent: 25 June 2010 14:21
To: Beresford Peter
FUJ00097071
FUJ00097071

Cc: Butts Geoff; Thomas Penny
Subject: ARQs
Importance: High

Peter,

Please can you keep an eye on this while I’m away. The issue is that I don’t want to be telling POL that they can’t rely on
Branch numbers or that there’s a risk of more complaints from Post masters. They could regard this as a serious issue and
delay acceptance on HNG-X. Geoff Butts tells me he’s aware and that they are working on a permanent fix.

Guy
