Holmes Jan R
26 October 200113
"rashpal.dhesif{
Gardiner Steve"
Subject: RE: Consignia IA Involvement

Rashpal,

that seems to be OK. See you on Tuesday morning.

-Original Message
From: rashpal.dhesil_
[mailto:rashpal.dhes
Sent: 26 October 2001 11:33
To: Jan.Holmes!_ i
Subject: Consignia IA Involvement

Thanks for your note. The reason for mentioning reporting was that
all time has to be accounted for with some form of formal output.
Susan informs me that in the past she has sent a memo to management
of the findings after discussion with yourselves. I was hoping to use
our discussions and observer role as the basis to provide this. I
hope this does not impact on anything you had in mind. We can
discuss this further on Monday if required.

Thanks
Rashpal

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for

the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents
of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender and then delete this email from your
system.

From: Holmes Jan R
+ 25 October 2001 08

To: 'rashpal.dhesil }

Cc: Hooper Graham J; Gardiner Steve
Subject: RE: Pathway Data Centre Visits
Rashpal,

I note in your Para 3 that you are talking about ‘reporting
internally'. To avoid any confusion about your presence at the Data
Centres (and bearing in mind that I have presented you to the Data
Centre management as an observer) can I ask you to confirm to me,
this week, what your objectives are for the two days and what
reporting you propose within PON/Consignia.

So you know our position it is that following the broken audit trail
problem Gary and Susan requested that Gary (now you) attend the next

FUJ00171973
FUJ00171973
FUJ00171973
FUJ00171973

Data Centre audit as an observer. This means that you do not play an
active part in the proceedings - ISD staff are not expecting to be
interviewed by you - although I will no doubt be discussing my
findings with you and will be happy to talk about and potentially
investigate any particular issues you may have.

I trust that this is acceptable to you and seek your confirmation to
these ‘rules of engagement’.

Regards,
Jan

a-- == Original Message=.
From: rashpal.dhesij GRO

C GRO }
Sent: 19 October 2001 17:13

To: Holmes Jan R

Subject: Re: Pathway Data Centre Visits

Thanks for the information. Could you book me a room for Tuesday
night. I am planning on staying overnight on Monday and if you could
let me know of any suitable places around Manchester or Wigan - that
will be useful.

Could you send me a map of the datacentre at Wigan and I will get
back to you about meeting on Monday.

Also could you please send me the terms of reference for the review
and who the outputs will go to. I will need to make some arrangements
re reporting internally and we can discuss these when we meet.

Rashpal Dhesi
Principal Auditor

Consignia Internal Audit, Rowland Hill House, Boythorpe Road,
CHESTERFIELD, $49

1HQ

Postline: “i, STD Phone:
External Email: rashpal.dhesif

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for
the addressee

only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not
use, disclose,

reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have

received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete
this email

from your system.
