FUJ00138733
FUJ00138733

Processes

PROCESS - ID: 408501 - Engineer Refused Access Process

Summary:
Please use this KA if an engineer has called to advise they have been refused access at a post office.

Resolution:
If an engineer has called to advise they have been refused access at a post office, please
follow the below:

Frontline Process:

1. Engineer contacts HSD and advises they have been refused access
2. HSD contacts site and follows call script below in purple.

Introduce yourself, providing your name, and state that you are contacting the branch
from Fujitsu on behalf of Post Office Limited. Request to speak to the PM / Branch
Manager.

Explain the details of the call, and confirm with the PM/Branch Manager that there is an
engineer waiting to get access to the site. Confirm with the PM, the reason that access
has been denied and cross check it against the reason provided by the Engineer. Explain
that we would like the PM to allow the engineer access to the kit so that they can carry
out the required fix

If it is in relation to a call raised internally, then we should explain that we are required
to carry out the work pro-actively as we have detected a fauit that could cause the
logged part to fail in the very near future causing disruption to the branch and
contractual SLT levels would then be applied, which could result in the branch not being
able to trade from that counter for a longer period of time. Ask if the engineer can now
be granted access to carry out the work requested?

If yes, thank the PM for their co-operation, contact the engineer and advise they can
now access the branch and then update the ERA Spreadsheet

If no, explain in that case, that we wil! send the engineer away and will attempt to re-
arrange fitting in with the PM’s requirements, although there is no guarantee that this
will always be possible. Expiain that we will need to pass details of the refusal of access
on to POL who may wish to contact the branch as a charge has been incurred for sending
the engineer to site for a wasted visit. Thank the PM for speaking with you and end the
call, contact the engineer and advise to leave site, update the TFS call and the ERA
spreadsheet with details.

HSD must now decide if the refusal reason given by the PM fits criteria below:
Refused access criteria is:

e Access refused and PM will not provide a reason why
e Engineer arrives on site (During access provided to HSD) and the site is closed
FUJ00138733
FUJ00138733

(E.g. Shutters are down and no answer at the door) — HSD also cannot gain
contact with site on the phone.

PM states they are too busy

PM refuses access because the engineer is late against the eta that had been
provided

PM requests a visit on a future date

PM requests a visit for later in the day

PM states they are unaware of a problem (i.e. Non SLA call/Software call)
Access refused due to which engineer has been allocated to the call

Access refused due to PM not wanting to allow engineer on site when enough
time remains in the day to complete exchange required before branch closing
time

**Please note** Refused Access is not:

Engineer contacts Post Office prior to arrival requesting if it is OK to arrive the
following day or after SLA has expired

Engineer contacts the Post Office to advise that they cannot make it and is it OK
to arrive the following day or after SLA has expired

Access refused due to insufficient time remaining to complete work when the
work will go beyond the closing time for the branch and the PM is unwilling to
remain on site

Engineer fails to produce his valid Horizon pass upon request

Access refused due to H&S issue - for example flooding, fire, building work or
robbery/Power cut

Any other refusal which common sense would dictate is a sensible refusal by the
PM (the actual reason should be specified in the call update)

If you refuse the engineer a no access code then you must update the “Refused
Codes” tab on the EAR spreadsheet.

If the Refusal fits criteria & PM has new access times to provide:

Update call with refusal reason

Update call with new Access times

Inform IMT of new Access times

Inform engineer that call will be re-scheduled and not to return it to HSD

Provide engineer a unique reference to give to Touch. (The unique reference
comes from the Lame-Gen Password generator. The generator should be installed
on your individual base unit. If you don’t have it generate a password from the
Password generator at the Global user kit and make a PSE aware that you need
the Password generator installed.)

Update call with unique reference in a log comment box NOT an OTI log comment
box.

Update the ERA spreadsheet on the M: drive - M:\HSH Documents\OBC
Engineers\Engineer Refused Access

If the Refusal does not fit criteria and access times remain the same:

Update the call with refusal reason

Inform the engineer the PM has allow access and the times remain the same.
Engineer should return or schedule if already outside access times.

Inform the engineer the call should not be returned to the HSD until attended.

If the Refusal fits criteria & PM has not provided new access times:
FUJ00138733

FUJ00138733

e Update the call with refusal reason.

e Inform the engineer that access is refused and they should return call to HSD

e Provide engineer a unique reference to give to Touch. (The unique reference
comes from the Lame-Gen Password generator. The generator should be installed
on your individual base unit. If you don’t have it generate a password from the
Password generator at the Global user kit and make a PSE aware that you need
the Password generator installed.)

e Update call with unique reference in a log comment box NOT an OTI log comment
box.

« Update the ERA spreadsheet on the M: drive - M:\HSH Documents\OBC
Engineers\Engineer Refused Access

Access times script

Summary:
Below is the call script we should use when obtaining access times for an engineering visit.
Resolution:

Access times for engineering calls should be based on access times to the affected kit and not the
following:

* PO opening times
¢ Access times to Post Office

This way we can be sure the Post Master will allow the engineer access to the affected kit during the
access they have specified.

Below are guidelines on how long an engineer may take on site to swap particular hardware, for
network related issues this may take longer than advised below.

Hardware Type Swap time

30 minutes (Normal) 1 hour 15

minutes (Mobile) Store site only

Base Unit

30 minutes for a normal site, 5 for a
mobile

Store or serving
site

Store or serving

5 to 10 minutes (Normal & mobile) site

5 to 10 minutes (Normal & mobile)

Counter

Store or serving
FUJ00138733
FUJ00138733

(printer/PSU/Cable/Monitor site

Store or serving
site

Pin Pad 20 minutes (Normal & mobile)

Store or serving
site

Pin Pad cable/PSU 5 to 10 minutes (Normal & mobile)

Store or serving
site

Back Office Printer/BCR & cable 5 to 10 minutes (Normal & mobile)

These are useful to advise the Post master so the PM is aware of how long an engineer may be
working on a crucial counter. The time the work may take may also affect what access times the PM

allows the engineer to have.

ACCESS TIMES CALL SCRIPT:

Below is the call script that should be used when obtaining access times for all calls that require
engineer visits:

To resolve your issue we will need to send an engineer to visit your kit. It may take up to XXX for the
engineer to resolve your issue, so when would be the most convenient time for the engineer to have
access to your kit?

Your engineer will be there by EOD tomorrow, We are unable to provide any updates until this time
has passed

Please make sure that you update any engineering call with the above script and what the PM
advises - This should go in a log comment prior to sending your call to D1.

Single Counter Printer Script.

The SLA for this incident is to be resolved by End of Next Working Day dependent on Access.
However, we recognise the importance of the printer at one counter branches so we have prioritised
this call to try and get an engineer to you sooner, hopefully within four hours if resource is available
within your area.
FUJ00138733
FUJ00138733

Emergency Closure Script

Summary: . ,
The emergency closure script is to be used for all Post Office closures. OBC contact number! GRO

Problem:
The NBSC contacts HSD to advise of a Post Office closure.

Resolution:

All notifications of office closures or re-openings will be reported into the HSD by the
NBSC. If a PM calls the HSD to notify of an office closure or reopening this should be
treated as an inappropriate call and the caller transferred to the NBSC.

When the NBSC log a call with the HSD advising of an office closure the HSD should log
an incident in TfS with coding as below:

Classification: (Dependant on the type of closure planned/unplanned/enforced)
Urgency: 3

Priority: 5

Configuration Item: OUTLET

Tenant: POA - Fujitsu

If the reason for closure is not obvious, please enter this detail in the call.

For NBSC generated calls please ensure that you enter the NBSC reference number into
the call.

Ensure that the Triole Incident Number is given to the call logger in all cases.

The HSD agent should gather the following information from the NBSC when logging any
closure call and enter all information into the call. If the Call logger does not have the
information, please indicate this in the call.

Is the kit damaged or at risk? Please enter all damaged parts of kit

What is the DATE and TIME of the Post Office closure?

What is the DATE and TIME of the Post Office re-opening?

If the kit is not damaged nor at risk, will the kit be left switched on?

If the closure is for longer than 24 hours, will the kit be rolled over, if applicable?
If the PM is not on site (e.g. Flood) is there an alternative contact telephone
number and times when they can be contacted?

7. In the event of a Branch experiencing theft of Horizon Equipment (i.e. Pinpad,
Base Unit) during a Robbery - please obtain the Police Incident Reference
Number.

Fut uUNE

If this is an ‘enforced closure’ such as: Flood/Fire/Ram
Raid/Burglary/Fraud/Earthquake/Audits/PM Suspended/Electrical problems including non
payment of electricity bills/PM arrested/PM retired/PO closing permanently/PM
absenteeism longer than 2 weeks (includes holidays & sickness)

Electricians certificate of safety will need to issued to the PM to show to any engineers
FUJ00138733

FUJ00138733

that are attending for flood damage or electrical damage.

The HSD should always contact the OBC TEAM on. ‘o that they
can evaluate any health & safety impact. This is necessary whether or not we
believe the Horizon equipment is at risk.

The call should only be put onto the POA-Enforced Closures stack if they request this.
If the OBC team do not ask for the call to be transferred to them the call should be
closed down.

In the event of a branch being unable to trade as a result of their Horizon
system being down, The Post Office needs to be aware that they should, within
reason and subject to the health and safety of the branch and staff, remain
open to issue emergency card account payments (POCA- Post Office Card
Account).

If there is any issues with this please advise the caller they will need to speak
with the NBSC regarding their issue.

For awareness if an engineer or end user reports that they believe their Pin Pad has been
tampered with please follow this process:

¢ Log a call for the Pin Pad to be replaced and include in your call detail as to why
the caller believes it has been tampered with.

« Escalate to Sandie Bothick

« Arrange to swap the Pin Pad (under the POA-Horizon tenant)

« Have your PSE send an email to CSPOA Security mailbox and advise them of the
call details.

If the call is to do with a Pin Pad theft and not tampering of equipment please follow this
document link: M:\DOCUMENT LIBRARY\Documents\FRONTLINE\Stolen Equipment
Process.doc

OTHER - ID: 408535 Passing Calls to Romec

Summary:
This KEL details how HSD escalate call to ROMEC
Problem:

Some calls logged by HSD as well as existing calls logged externally need to be either sent directly to
Romec or reassigned for addition work. The below resolution explains how to notify Romec.
FUJ00138733
FUJ00138733

Resolution:

What classifies as a Romec call:

e A fault where our engineer can not complete the work e.g. wires inaccessible to change, or
health and safety issues.

e LAN port faults.

* Mobile Van cable repairs

e Replenishing the HSD stock of cables

Important: Before carrying out the steps below please gain permission from Sandie or Leighton to
approach Romec. If they are not on the desk please phone them for approval.

Details of any call that Romec need to action must be emailed to the below mailbox, this includes
the TFS reference, the address and the work which we want them to complete:

Romec.NPG.Maintenance.Contracts@:

As well as emailing the full details of both the Post Office and the work HSD need to voice Martin
Fretwell on the below number:

Once calls have been authorised and Romec have been notified these calls must be assigned to the
POA Romec stack

For any work on Mobile Vans (Change of cables etc) HSD need to mail a different mailbox as detailed

below:

And copy in:

Branch_and_IT_systems_team@ GRO

HARDWARE - ID: 408527 - Office needs kit moved to repair office
after unplanned closure.

Summary:
PM has had unplanned closure in which damage was caused to the office but horizon kit is in the

way of repairs.

Problem:
The horizon kit is in the way of repairs being carried out in the office after unplanned closure and
needs to be moved while office is to be repaired.

Resolution:
As this is an unplanned move the pm will need to contact the NBSC to authorize an engineer going
out to move kit.

SERVICE CONTROL: VIP & Hot Sites

Summary:
This article is to provide Service Control with the relevant guidelines to deal with VIP and Hot sites

effectively.

Problem:
VIP Sites and Hot Sites, are PO Branches that are deemed to require extra focus, should any issues
occur. The PO Branches that require this extra focus are provided by POSD.

Resolution:
When a VIP or Hot Site call that's being transferred to another SDU is escalated to HSD
Service Control, the following steps should be completed:

Is the problem either service impacting or causing a problem at a high profile site (i.e. a
printer issue at the House of Commons)? If it is then an SMS to the VIP/Hot Site d list
should be sent, followed up by an email to POL. If it isn't service impacting then no further
action needs to take place.

Is there an OLS problem? If yes then CMT need to be voiced.

If the call is call is assigned for an engineer to attend, then a Touch must be called and
informed that the call is either a Hot or VIP site. Service Control should also ask Touch for

FUJ00138733
FUJ00138733
FUJ00138733
FUJ00138733

the ETA.

A further email and SMS need to be distributed to advise of the ETA that was provided by
Touch. If the ETA changes, a new SMS should be sent.

Did the engineer resolve the fault? If yes then a final update needs to be sent via text and
SMS, however if not then the call should be passed by Service Control to the relevant SDU
and the email and SMS sent out to advise of the action taken.

Once the fault has been resolved then a final email and SMS should be sent advising of this.
