FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Changes in v1.2

SNS ON =>

24.

25.

26.
27.

28.

29.
30.

Changed the word ‘ticket’ to a correct defined term where unclear

Updated the CBIF selection criteria to include BIF explicitly tagged Peaks

Added references to using the BIFApproved and BiFRejected Collections

Applied emphasis that defect Peaks can only be closed when the fix is released to live
Updated Appendix A to add steps to challenge “Re-target” and force to PTF

Inserted Appendix B to add anomaly checks for TfSNow

Renumbered Appendix B to Appendix C and updated it to use Live Defect and correct some
grammar errors

Response Category value “30 -- Pending -- TL confirmed” will cease to be used

Target Release — the values of “Requested For” and “Released at” will cease. to be used

. Removed references to Simon Wilson as the team work for Steve Evans
. Watermark changed to “POA INTERNAL”
. Consolidated Peak document update list action into Live Defect,Section (moved Root Cause

list to this action)

. Improved wording to clarify that a Live Defect is one that ispresent on the LIVE system and

something likely to need a fix (it can also be present on a testsystem but if it is not present
on the live system then it is not a Live Defect)

. Added definition for KBA

. Updated screenshots to be more specific on the screen item they applied to

. Updated the descriptive text for the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection in Peak

. Removed Root Cause values as reasons.to treat'as No Fault Found as too inconsistent at

this time

. Adding cloning instruction screenshots
. Added new Response Category “120 -»,Final -- Cloned to create Defect Peak” to be used

when cloning an investigation Peakto create a defect Peak

. Clarified technique for Peaks declared as on “monitor”
. Added reference to Release Peaks and Peaks that have been Baselined
. Clarified that only one HDR-* Cl or Collection should be set and if both could apply then use

HDR-Fin

. Clarified that when Release. Management set the Planned Out Live date they use the date

the first time the fix was/deployed to the live environment (irrespective of rollout schedules
that may decide On the rollout to the whole live environment)

Added recommendation that Peaks that are resolved but not ready to be closed as the
resolution action is to be ‘monitored’ can remain in a non-closed state but must have a
Forecast Date’added to the Response so that this warns the support specialist and team
leader that the review date has arrived and the Peak should be reviewed for closure
Added statement that Release Management processes will apply to 3 party deployments
that are within the Fujitsu scope of responsibilities. For example, Ingenico fixes will be
deployed under releases and Peaks will be Targeted At, Proposed for, and Reported In
release numbers identified for Ingenico fixes — currently 90.xx

Corrected the incorrect references to RAM/RAB

Added new step that on a release, SSC will ensure relevant KBA updates are checked and
completed

Added new approach for progressing fixes through the release process faster — with
consideration for a hot-fix

Added a screenshot for the Release Management “Reset Dates” feature

Updated Actions, removing ones completed

Changes in v1.1

1

Split Streams 5-7 to a new document

Page I 1

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

2. Added What's New to provide a pseudo Executive Summary for new readers before they

delve into the detail

Added screenshots and diagrams to aid understanding

4. Removed requirement for Development (ManDays) to be entered on any Peak and also

removed Development (ManDays) as a criteria for submission to CBIF

Refined criteria to be reviewed at BIF to guide what is taken to CBIF

Added additional references for Response Category and Root Cause field values

7. Added additional clarification that deferred Peaks that still require investigation are assigned
Call Type “L” not “#”

8. Added guidelines for use of the “Additional comments (Customer visible)” field in TfSNow

. Added criteria currently being used to derive content for CBIF and HDR

10. Added Appendix A to show some data validation checks that certain teams
build in to and expand upon within their own local processes

11. Added Appendix B to show draft criteria for not acting on defects — tl
write to remove any subjectivity from decisions to close defect Reaks 6

ee

baad

On

advised to

12. Updated Actions

Page I 2
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Contents

New terms...

Investigation Peaks becoming Defect Peaks...

New fields in Peak...

New field values in Peak.

New field values in Peak.

Renewed importance for Peak fields.

TfSNow Incident needed for things POL should know.

New field values in TfSNow..

Renewed importance TfSNow fields....
BIF..
CBIF...

PP ers

HDR.

Introduction & Overview.

The Goal

Purpose & Scope.

The Streams...

Terminology — Overview...

Stream 1 - Incident & Problem (links,to Peak, Key Meetings & Live Defect Management!

Managing Incidents...

Managing Problems...

Actions.<...
System Changes.....

One-Time Actions.

New Ways of Working
Stream 2 — Use of Peak (3LS, 4LS & Release)

Release.....

Actions.

System Changes.....

Time Actions..

PageI 3
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FU,

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

New Ways of Working......

Stream 3 — Live Defect Management.....

Live Defect Management — Live Defect Definition.

Live Defect Management — Goals.

Live Defect Management - Key Fields in Pea

Live Defect Management — Reporting..

Actions,

System Changes.

One-Time Actions.

New Ways of Working
Stream 4-BIF, CBIF, PTF and HDR.
BIF..
CBIF...

CBIF Submission Extract Criteria.
PTF.....
HDR....

HDR Submission Extract Criteria

KB — Info only....
Release Mgt tab — for BIF, CBIF and PTF...

CBIF / HDR Diagram...

Actions.

System Change:

One-Time Actions...

New Ways of Working

Appendix A — Peak data anomaly checks.

Page I 4

Version & Last updated See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell

FUJ00232742
1J00232742
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

What’s New?

This document describes a number of changes to the Post Office Account ways of working to
improve the end-to-end process of Live Defect Management. It describes how the systems should be
used and how various teams will need to interact to ensure an effective end-to-end process is
followed and can be tracked and reported on. This section provides highlights but the entire
document should be read to gather awareness of all changes being implemented.

The 4 Streams were introduced in the June 2021 All Hands, with an update provided in the July 2021
All Hands update:

Streams 1-4

Stream 1 - Incident & Stream 3 - Live Defect
Problem Management
(TFSNow, ServiceNow Cross-functional process

Horizon Defects Review (HDR)

Q

Stream 2 - Peak
(Incident, Defect)

Stream 4 - Key Meetings
(BIF, CBIF, HDR)

> Work OUR way
> System & Process Driven
> Management Reporting (Command & Control)

(Fujitsu Restricted - Internal Use Only 3

Our interactions needs to be system and process driven, not people and experience — and that will
create a clear audit trail too.

Page I5
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

We need to limit the dependency on meeting-specific reports or embedded tables in minutes to show
progress on important matters.

Transparency is key — to the fullest sensible extent, POL need to see everything — and they need to
be able to see it in their systems or from consistent reports from our systems. That way, POL are
informed and able to make decisions for us or with us.

New terms

Throughout this document, there are new terms and phrases that will need to be understood so we
increasingly use a common language. A diagram is provided below this list. The main ones are:

Live Defect — is a logged Incident that is present on the Live system that iswithin Fujitsu’s
scope of obligations and is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design or service
specification. It is, therefore, a fault that is likely to need fixing

HDR Defect — Live Defects that affect, or have the potential to affect, branch operations
(financial, experience, or end customer)

Horizon Defect Review (HDR) — a weekly meeting with POL.to review HDR Defects. POL
need to know the HDR Defects and their status. They share this with postmasters. This is a
very important meeting that sees Fujitsu and POL aligned,on the HDR Defects
Investigation Peak — is an Incident that is being investigated where the cause and required
action are not yet confirmed. A linked TfSNow Incident may well exist - and MUST exist if
POL need to be aware. The Peak Call Type should,be “L” if this is a Live Defect

Defect Peak — is a Peak that is not linked)to a TfSNow Incident and that describes the
confirmed Live Defect that will be progressed through the SDLC (BIF, PTF, Dev, Test,
Release) to live deployment

Investigation Incident (TfSNow) — isjan Incident that is being investigated where the cause
and required action are not yet confirmed), The Incident MUST be bonded if POL need to be
aware

Defect Incident (TfSNow) — is.a TfSNow Incident that describes the confirmed Live Defect
that will be progressed by a Resolver Group that does not use Peak (e.g. Networks, Security,
Unix)

Potential Live Defect (Peak) — is a Live Defect that we are still looking into. There will likely
be an investigation Peak open and probably a TfSNow Investigation Incident too. The Peak
Call Type should be “L”

Confirmed Live Defect (Peak) — is a Live Defect where the cause and required action to fix
are known. The investigation has concluded. A defect Peak will exist with Call Type “#”
Potential Live Defect (TfSNow) — is a Live Defect that we are still looking into that is logged
as a TfSNow Investigation Incident. The State will be “Acknowledged, Work in Progress, or
Researching”

Confirmed Live Defect (TfSNow) — is a Live Defect where the cause and required action to
fix are known. The investigation has concluded. A TfSNow Defect Incident will exist with the
State field set to “Fix in Progress”

KBA - Knowledge Base Article. The term KEL is no longer to be used

The diagram below shows the links between ServiceNow, TfSNow and Peak as well as the
differences between Investigation Peaks and Defect Peaks:

Page I 6

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

+ Updates auto replicate
Updates do not show

Fujitsu Investigation Peak

Or KBA reference

numbers

+ POLrely on ServiceNow

Incident — Peak — Defect

Potential Defect

Investigation Peak

Confirmed Defect

{Investigation}

POL Incident

[ServiceNow}

Bonded, updates
replicate
on updates

Fujitsu Internal

‘+ The Defect Peak willbe
managed internally
‘through BIF,CBIF, PTF and
the spic

+ Updates to the Defect
Peak are NOT linked to a
TTSNow Incident so are
internal only

Investigation Peaks becoming Defect Peaks

Peaks can exist to investigate Incidents. These are known as Investigation Peaks

Some Peaks are linked to TfSNow Incidents allowing for updates to flow between TfSNow
and Peak (and via bonding to POL ServiceNow)

When the investigation work has concludedjon an Investigation Peak and a Live Defect has
been confirmed then one of the following actions need to be taken — most likely by
Development

°

Page I 7

If the Investigation Peak has been raised internally and is not linked to a TfSNow
Incident then its Call Type just needs changing to “#” - Defect Identified

If the Investigation Peak,is linked to a TfSNow Incident then the Investigation Peak
must be cloned to create aynew Defect Peak. The Defect Peak must be given the
Call Type “#” - Defect Identified. The Investigation Peak must have the Defect Peak
reference added.to the last progress update. The Investigation Peak must then be
closed with an appropriate Response Category and Root Cause being added. This
Defect Peak reference will then flow back to the TfSNow Incident (via the
Investigation Peak progress update) and also to the POL ServiceNow Incident (if
applicable). The TfSNow Incident will then also be closed. Future tracking of
progress will then be done using Peak by monitoring the Defect Peak created until it
is resolved and released to live

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

a
Peak Inciden

[Targeted At -- HNG-X 21.52
L— Live incidents v
Defect Identified

A-- Administrative use

C~ Cloned call

- Enhancement Request

- Document Review/Design Walkthrough

G — GDC Testing incidents/Defects

I = Internal Development incidentsiDefects

‘on SV&l BAUHBS

ciden
roblem Management

0 ~ Operational (SSC)

- Product Incidents/Defects

R~ Release Notice Forum

system Testing Incidents/Defects
schnical query

security Testing Incidents/Defects

BVAI BAL/HES
all Type:L M-
all Priority:D
[Target Release:HNG-
JRouted to:€0sc - _uI
1-Jun-2021 2:

INCIDENT MANAGEMENTI
Date/Time Raised: 3]
Priority: D

‘ontact Name: POA
fontact Phone:

System Management Testing Incidents/Defects
fData) Data Updates 2

riginator’s referel
Product Serial No:
Product Site:

Service: NA I Platfo

2 NAT Server: NA

New fields in Peak
Some new fields have been added to Peak that must be used from this time:

o POL Problem reference —using the prefix “POLPRB-" so it is obvious and also searchable.
Most likely only required when the Peak is declared to be a HDR Defect (see screenshot later
in the document)

o Fujitsu Problem reference — using the prefix “FJPRB-" so it is obvious and also searchable.
Most likely to be updated by'the Fujitsu Problem Manager to ensure the link is clear (see
screenshot latenin the document)

o Workaround — to state “Yes/No” state if an accepted workaround has been implemented. If
the field is blank or contains “No” then no workaround has been identified (see screenshot
later in the document)

o Release Mgt tab — Initial and Completed dates and text box - We need to know the stage
we are‘at in the fixing process, the date it initially entered the stage and when the stage was
completed and the notes from the meetings at which it was discussed (see screenshot later in
the document)

New field values in Peak

Some new values have been added to existing fields that must be used to improve Peak reporting
and tracking:

o Call Type - must be set to “#” Defect Identified when a Live Defect is confirmed. Prior to this
Live Defects ought to be Call Type “L” Live Incident but can have other Call Types provided
they carry the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection

PageI 8
Version & Last updated:
Document owner:

See file name
Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

New field values in Peak

Some new values have been added to existing fields that must be used to improve Peak reporting
and tracking:

o Call Type — must be set to “#” Defect Identified when a Live Defect is confirmed. Prior to this
Live Defects ought to be Call Type “L” Live Incident but can have other Call Types provided
they carry the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection

Peak In:

PRODUCTS EVIDENCE, IMPACT

1PC0295241
[Reported In -- HNG-X Rel. Ind.
(O —- Operational (SSC) v

‘A-- Administrative use —__—_——
C ~ Cloned call Ing/not yet defined/TBA] St
E — Enhancement Request hl:
F Document Review/Design Walkthrough
‘te:16-Jun-2021 10] G ~ GDC Testing Incidents/Defects

‘LL PC@295241 oper I - Internal Development Incidents/Defects
tails entered areIK — Primark

Summary:testing II -- Live Incidents

M-— Problem Management

O ~ Operational (SSC)

P -- Product Incidents/Defects

Jo] R~ Release Notice Forum

S ~ System Testing Incidents/Defects

T Technical query

U — Security Testing Incidents/Defects

V— Vulnerability

2021 10] W ~ Reference Data Service

he Call record has) X ~ System Management Testing Incidents/Defects ps
ste: 16-Jun-2021 10I Y -- Live (Non-RefData) Data Updates bd
velopment Cost updated? new Cost I=

[Start of Response]

test 1

[End of Response]

lesponse code to call type L as Category 40 -- Pending -- Incident Under Investigation

ste; 16-Jun-2021 10:51:08 User: John Simokins

o Collection ##LiveAffectingDefect (formerly ##LiveAffectingSoftwareFault). This Collection
must,be set when the Peak meets the criteria for a Live Defect at the earliest possible
opportunity. It is likely that Call Type “L” will frequently carry this ##tag but it will not always
be the case so needs selectively applying. The Collection descriptive text is “Fault that is
present on the Live system that is inconsistent with the agreed design and/or service
specification”

ment

IAdd Incident to Collection

‘Add to Collection

ult that is pre:

o Collections of “HDR-Fin” or “HDR-Exp” for HDR Defects

Page I 9
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

IAdd Incident to Collection
I HDR-Exp -- Horizon Defect Review - SPM Te) [Public] II Add to Collection }

HOR Exp Herieon Defect Reto ‘SPM Experience [Public]
Horizon Defect Revie ncial Impact [Public]

o Target Release — the values of “Requested For” and “Released at” will cease to be used

o Collection ##LiveAffectingDefect (formerly ##LiveAffectingSoftwareFault). This Collection
must be set when the Peak meets the criteria for a Live Defect at the earliest possible
opportunity. It is likely that Call Type “L” will frequently carry this ##tag but it will not always
be the case so needs selectively applying. The Collection descriptive text is “Fault that is
present on the Live system that is inconsistent with the agreed design and/or service
specification”

o Collections of “HDR-Fin” or “HDR-Exp” for HDR Defects

Note: Only one HDR-* Collection needs to be set and if both could_apply then HDR-Fin should be
chosen

[Add Incident to Collection
I HDR-Exp -- Horizon Defect Review - SPM pepeines [Public] II Add to Collection }

HDR Exp — Herleon Daect Review - SPH ‘Experience [Public]
Horizon Defect Revie ncial Impact [Public]

e Target Release — the values of “Requested For” and “Released at” will cease to be used

Renewed importance for Peak fields
A number of existing fields have become important and must be completed for all Peaks:

o Call Type - must be set'to,“#” Defect Identified when a Live Defect is confirmed. Prior to this
Live Defects ought to be Call Type “L” Live Incident but can have other Call Types provided
they carry the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection. The Collection descriptive text is “Fault that
is present on a Live system that is inconsistent with the agreed design and/or service
specification”

Page I 10
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742
POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required
FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)
Peak In

IPC0295241
[Reported In -- HNG-X Rel. Ind.

[Impact jng/not yet defined/TBA] St
E — Enhancement Request r
SuRSeey, F - Document Review/Design Walkthrough _
te:16-Jun-2021 10I G - GDC Testing Incidents/Defects
\LL_ PC@295241 oper I -- Internal Development Incidents/Defects
tails entered areIK — Primark
iSummary:testing I L -- Live Incidents
‘all Type:t M - Problem Management
peregrina O -- Operational (SSC)
Roceed tartoee. I P~ Product Incidents/Defects
tes 16-san-7621 Z0I R ~ Release Notice Forum F
[start of Response]I S~ System Testing Incidents/Defects
esting dev MD I 1 ~ Technical query
[End of Response] IU- Security Testing Incidents/Defects
~ Vulnerability lem Identified(38)

The Call record hasI X ~ System Management Testing Incidents/Defects

te: 16-Jun-2021 10) Y --

[End of Response]
jesponse code to call type L as Category 40 -- Pending -- Incident Under Investigation

ate: 16-Jun-2021 10:51:08 User: John Simpkins

o Summary - must be written so,as tobe understandable by most readers. This will need more
thought when Peaks are raised. Management should amend this during weekly clean-ups
(careful to preserve links where raised in another system)

co Impact - tab and free formpfield to articulate impact, status and next steps so it is easy to
understand fonanyoney This will be maintained for HDR Peaks weekly. For other Peaks it can

be as needed
e Business impact: [as used currently, mention how many branches are affected if
helpful]

e Status update: [description of current status — succinct]
«Next action: [next action to be taken and expected date for next update]
o Priority + which must be validated at all times so it is accurately shown as this will affect
reporting and decision making
o Assigned Team — must show which team is currently responsible for taking the next action
or ensuring action is taken
o Product Group and Product - We need to know the part of the system that the Live Defect
relates to for reporting and quality purposes
o Root Cause — we need to know what type of fix was needed, which when matched to the
part of the system affected, gives us further quality data. Some Root Cause options will also
lead to Live Defects being qualified out and not reported on. We may exclude the following
Root Cause values from Live Defects so these need to be applied with caution:
e “39 General — User Knowledge” — caused by lack of knowledge with the user
e “40 General — User” — caused by an action performed by the user which was
outside expected use

PageI 11
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e “41 General — in Procedure” — caused by not following defined procedure
o Response Category -— specific values have been identified to enable clarity and to spot
exclusions. Although there are many values for this field (which are explained in
SVM/SDM/PRO/0875), the following have important meanings — mostly is qualifying Live
Defects as not defects and hence allowing their exclusion from reporting:
e “63 -- Final -- Programme approved - No fix required” — for Peaks rejected at CBIF
e “66 -- Final -- Enhancement Request” — for Peaks tagged with the
##LiveAffectingDefect Collection that were subsequently qualified as not being Live
Defects but enhancement requests
e “68 - Final -- Administrative Response” — for Peaks tagged with the
##LiveAffectingDefect Collection that were subsequently qualified as not being Live
Defects
e “95 -- Final — Advice after Investigation” — for Peaks tagged withthe
##LiveAffectingDefect Collection that were subsequently qualified as not being Live
Defects
e “100 -- Final -- Route call to TfS” — for Peaks tagged,with the ##LiveAffectingDefect
Collection that were subsequently qualified as not being Live Defects within Peak
e “120 -- Final -- Cloned to create Defect Peak”= for Peaks that WERE Investigation
Peaks and have been cloned to create a defect Peak
e The value “30 -- Pending -- TL confirmed” will cease to be used
o Target Release — the values of “Requested For” and “Released at” will cease to be used

TfSNow Incident needed for things POL shuld know

¢ Fujitsu must not raise and manage Incidents that POL should be aware of without having a
bonded TfSNow Incident raised

* Creating a Peak to investigate‘an Incidentis not sufficient if the Incident is something POL
need to be aware of. In that'scenario Fujitsu MAC need to be contacted to create a new and
bonded Incident in TfSNow. This will cause a new Peak to be raised into which the
investigation Peak contents must\be moved and the investigation Peak closed. This ensures
a link exists from themew Peak back to the POL ServiceNow Incident

New field values inelfSNoWy
¢ Configuration Item of —- HDR-Fin, HDR-Exp and LiveAffectingDefect for Incidents and
Problems
o)LiveAffectingDefect must be set when the TfSNow Incident meets the criteria for a
Live Defect at the earliest possible opportunity
oy “HDR-Fin” or “HDR-Exp” for HDR Defects

Configurationitems Search Name

1 to200f1235 >

J _AlName>=HOR
QS rame a setting = Serialnumber mpany
© uoR-Exe Pos mat
© uoR-fn Pos ‘emt

Renewed importance TfSNow fields
e State — will allow reporting on Potential Defects and Confirmed Defects

Page I 12
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
BIF

PTF

HDR

FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

State Work in Progress v

Acknowledged — Fujitsu is aware of the Incident but is not yet working on it

Work In Progress/Researching — Fujitsu is investigating the issue described in the

Incident
o Fix In Progress — Fujitsu has confirmed that the Incident requires an action to fix it —
most likely linked to a Change ticket
Suspend — action is complete by Fujitsu or is required from another entity
Additional comments (Customer visible) — this must provide a latest status view — at least
periodically and for POL bonded Incidents mainly — so it can be easily understood byyany
reader. Peak uses a dedicated field for this and uses the following formats

o Business impact: [description of the business impact, succinct)

o Status update: [description of current status — succinct]

o Next action: [next action to be taken and expecteddate for next update]

BIF now needs to check certain fields have been updated as»part of the review process. In
particular, it needs to set specific CBIF flags if POL involvement is needed.

The forecast man days effort will no longer be a deciding factor for submission to CBIF
The date of the BIF meeting and the notes made at the’meeting will be held in Peak
removing the need to create or review/Separate minutes

Peaks to be taken to CBIF will be identifiable from criteria based on data fields on a Peak
Submissions to CBIF will usé,a new,proposal form to ensure the meeting focusses on the
decision and not the articulation,of the,topic. The proposal will be stored as a file attachment
in the Peak

POL are expected to make a decision based on the proposal (as they would for a CWO)
The date of the CBIF meeting,and the notes made at the meeting will be held in Peak
removing the’Néed to create or review separate minutes

The*date of the PTF meeting and the notes made at the meeting will be held in Peak
removing the need to create or review separate minutes

This is a critical meeting which sees POL and Fujitsu having mutual awareness of the main
Live Defects that could affect branch operations and the progress being made on them

The Horizon Defects Review (HDR) Forum is the new name for what was the Known Error
Review Forum (KERF)

It is a joint Fujitsu and POL weekly forum to manage HDR Defects that meet the stated
definition

POL will maintain a list of all HDR Defects and their progress

Fujitsu will provide updates on the HDR Defects it is tracking using a weekly report that will
extract information from Peak for the applicable Defect Peaks. Hence the importance of the
Peak field values

Fujitsu will also provide updates on Peaks that were deferred from releases where they meet
the HDR Defect criteria as these are, by definition, Live Defects

Page I 13

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Introduction & Overview

The Goal...
To implement the defined list of improvements in this document in substantive part by...

34° July 2021

..-and to have completed all improvement including any early challenges and snags by

315t August 2021

Purpose & Scope

°

°

0000

By running a series of Streams of work we will systematically drive improvements across
POA

The Streams will likely overlap and may well change format as progress is made

Although active participation in a Stream may be low.forisome,it is critical that there is a
common understanding or we will not achieve cross functional change

Stream members may change over time

Each Stream will have a set of actions to complete = initially derived from this document
The team can add additional actions as needed

POA needs to urgently evolve to a cross functionally.agreed set of ways of working so that it
can be explained to any interested party withease

Our interactions needs to be system and process driven not people and experience — and
that will create a clear audit trail foo,

We need to limit the dependency on meeting-specific reports or embedded tables in minutes
to show progress on important matters,

Transparency is key — to the fullest sensible extent, POL need to see everything — and they
need to be able to Séeit in their systems or from consistent reports from our systems. That
way, POL are informed andjable to make decisions for us or with us

That means weneed to’ be clearer and consistent about what we mean by Incidents,
Problems, Service management toolsets, Peak, KB, Live Defects, Live Defect Management,
BIF, CBIF, HDR, Release Notes, agreed deferred Live Defects and probably more

We need to agree the functions of the various platforms and meetings to ensure it all joins up
(this document is a start)

If POLis tracking it - or applying governance to it — then so should we — and our process
should bein advance of theirs so we have no surprises

We do not have all the tools and integrations we would like, so the goal is to make the best
possible use of what we have already

We need to protect our internal systems from a need for routine disclosure — so we can work
our way

We need to ensure any POL desires on our ways of working relate to contracted obligations
and suit how our systems and people work — unless we are commissioned to change any of
those — as this is more likely to be consistent and reliable

For this to succeed we need considerable cross functional support coupled with manager and
team member engagement

The Streams

Stream 1 — Incident & Problem (links to Peak, Key Meetings & Live Defect Management)

Page I 14

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

o  Focusses on clarifying how Incidents & Problems should be managed and reported
on including their relationship to Live Defects and the integrations with POL’s
ServiceNow and Fujitsu's Peak systems.

e Stream 2 - Use of Peak (3LS, 4LS & Release)

o Focusses on the Peak Incident management features and their links to Live Defect

Management and Release Management
e Stream 3 - Live Defect Management

o Defines an improved way to capture Live Defect information and report on it both

internally and to POL
¢ Stream 4-BIF, CBIF, PTF and HDR

o  Refines the ways these key meetings are managed and integrates them with the

revised ways of working on Incidents, Problems, Peak, Release and Live Defects

Each Stream documents the key elements that reinforce an existing way of working or.state a new
way of working. This content will be embedded into existing account documents for it to be
formalised. Each Stream will then contain references to any System Changes made (optional), the
One-Time Actions needed to move to the defined ways of working, and then the New Ways of
Working that will describe what is different from how things aredone today.

Actions that have been completed are scored out. The One-Time Actions that are underway at the
moment are highlighted in green although some of the.other actions may also be partly active too.

Terminology — Overview

We need to be clearer and consistent about what we mean by, and how we use, various tools and
processes within POA. The following entriesjare intended as an initial simple summary. They will be
expanded on as the workstreams progress and'sub elements will also be reviewed too. They cover
Incidents, Problems, Peak, Release, Live Defects)Live Defect Management, BIF, CBIF, HDR and
the KB.

Incidents
co All Incidents which POL should be aware of must be created and managed in TfSNow and be
bonded so that they replicate to POL ServiceNow. Although actions and progress may
happen in other tools, systems and processes, the primary source of all relevant content
MUST be TfSNows

Problems
co AllProblems must be raised in TfSNow and be reviewed on an agreed schedule with POL.
As Problems cannot be bonded, additional work will be needed to manually share updates
and hold mutual reference numbers.

Peaks

o Peaks can be used for many purposes. Where Peaks relate to Incidents initiated from
TfSNow, the relevant Investigation Peak updates MUST be synchronised with TfSNow.
Peaks raised outside of an Incident MUST also be raised as TfSNow Incidents if they require
the awareness or involvement of POL.

o Peak is the only system used to record and manage Live Defects.

o Peaks do not need to be shared with POL. If the awareness or involvement of POL is
applicable then there will be a TfSNow bonded Incident and this will contain all relevant parts
of any Peak so that the Incident that POL see is a suitable complete reference. Progress
updates for POL on HDR Defects will take latest extracts from the Peak system and provide
the update in a report.

Page I 15
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Release
o Release Notes must state all Peaks that are being closed when the Release goes live. This
must be included in the related Change ticket
o There must be a report showing the Peaks and any associated POL HDR Defect references
so that POL are able to keep their tracking in sync
o Release dates must be held in Peak so that Peaks can be tracked to deployment

Live Defects
o ALive Defect is defined as an issue that:
e Is present on a LIVE system
e Is within Fujitsu's scope of obligations
e Is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design or service specification
e Is, therefore, a fault that is likely to need fixing
e The Horizon Defects Review (HDR) scope will be those.Live Defects that also have
at least 1 of the following attributes (HDR Defects):
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, branchsfinancial outcomes (add the
“HDR-Fin” Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affectythe way a postmaster is required to use
the system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp”
Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office
customer or client (add the “HDR-Exp” Collection)

Note: Only one HDR-* Collection‘needs\to be set and if both could apply then HDR-Fin should
be chosen

IAdd Incident to Collection
HDR-Exp -- Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public] ¥ II Add to Collection

=r
Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public]
jorizon Defect Review - Financial Impact [Public]

e There may be a Workaround, but the underlying issue still meets the criteria above

e The HDR Defect may be under investigation and is not confirmed to meet the criteria
above but has attributes that meet the criteria above (a potential HDR Defect)

o When the HDR Defect is being investigated there will be a TfSNow Incident open and
bonded» POL may track status using their ServiceNow Incident reference or may create a
ServiceNow Problem record and manage it with that reference. All progress during
investigation is to be added to the TfSNow Incident so that it is visible to POL in their
corresponding Incident. It is POL’s responsibility to keep their Problem record up to date if
they have opened one.

e Note: If the Incident has been escalated to a Problem in TfSNow then updates on the
investigation work will be provided within the weekly status update report which
shows confirmed Live Defect

o When a HDR Defect is confirmed then a specific defect Peak reference will be added to the
closing comments in the TfSNow Incident. Fujitsu will then manage the HDR Defect in Peak
and will provide status update reports — from Peak — to POL at their weekly HDR Forum.

o Non-HDR Defects will be managed internally by Fujitsu using Peak. Reports will be available
for POL to show overall progress but it is not intended that every non-HDR Defect will be
discussed.

Page I 16
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Live Defect Management

°
°

BIF

KB

All Live Defects must be rigorously managed until resolved.

The status of all Live Defects must be known at all times and they must be shared with POL:
the more branch impacting ones at POL's Horizon Defects Review Forum; and the rest by a

separate report. Fujitsu must assure POL that Live Defects are well managed and must keep
POL aware of progress.

All confirmed Live Defects must go through the Business Impact Forum (BIF) and must have
all the required meta data and tags added/checked.

The dates of BIF meetings, the outcome, and the reasons for CBIF submission must be
recorded in the Peak.

CBIF submissions will be based on criteria held in Peak.
The criteria are shown later in this document and that criteria will be.agreed with POL.
CBIF will become part of the POL HDR weekly meeting.

The Horizon Defects Review (HDR) Forum is theynew name for,what was the Known Error
Review Forum (KERF).

This is a critical meeting which sees POL and Fujitsu having mutual awareness of the main
Live Defects and the progress being made on them,

It is a joint weekly forum to manage HDR Defects that meet the stated definition.

POL will maintain a list of all HDR Defects and their progress. Fujitsu will provide updates to
the HDR Defects being trackedy

There must be a POL Problem reference and a corresponding Fujitsu Incident, Peak or
Problem reference.

The updates to the Fujitsu tracked Incidents, Peaks and Problems will be shared at the HDR
Forum.

The FujitsuKB is)an information repository used for support purposes.

Any observed defects will be recorded as a Knowledge Base Article (KBA) but the progress
to investigate and address them will be done via Peak(s) and/or Incident(s).

KBAs do not need to be shared with POL as the tracking needs to be on the Peak and/or
Incident,

If the awareness or involvement of POL is applicable then there will be a TfSNow bonded
Incident and this will contain all relevant parts of any KBA so that the Incident that POL see
is a suitable complete reference.

Page I 17

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Stream 1—Incident & Problem (links to Peak, Key Meetings & Live
Defect Management)

°

Team — Steve Bansal, Sandie Bothick & Matt Hatch

Managing Incidents

°

An Incident is defined in the HNG-X contract as “any perceived abnormal or undesirable
occurrence relating to the Services”
Incidents for the Live environment that POL need to be notified of and be aware of must be
logged in the Fujitsu service management toolsets, TfSNow, and bonded sojit is visible in the
POL service management toolset, ServiceNow
Fujitsu must ensure TfSNow Incidents are raised and bonded where POL notification is
required (e.g. when relevant KBAs are created, or faults are identified whilst doing other work
such as testing or problem determination)
Service Operations should only use TfSNow for communicating,Incidents between Fujitsu
and POL
Incidents cannot be raised by email by POL or Fujitsu. Incidents must be raised in TfSNow
by Fujitsu or in ServiceNow by POL
The Summary field should be understandable by most readers as this feeds Peak and also
shows on reports
e For system monitoring this is set’by SMC, bonded Incidents it comes from POL,
otherwise it's Fujitsu staff (MAC & Security) that choose its content
The Incident should be a complete and comprehensive self-contained reference to the status
of an Incident
Incident progress MUST be shown onithe Incident in TfSNow and cannot be managed via
separate emails. Emails must,be added to the Incident in TfSNow if relevant to
demonstrating progress or status.
The Incident should appear to be integral — the fact that 3° and 4" line use a different toolset
should not be apparent
There should be no references visible to POL (going forward) to toolsets used by Fujitsu that
are not accessible to POL such as Peak or KBA for status information (as these are Fujitsu
internal) - a Peak reference is acceptable for a reference to a defect Peak that is being
progressed, References for Fujitsu use only must be maintained
Incidents, must,be- updated to contain relevant updates from systems such as Peak (but not
private updates) and relevant parts of KBAs (not the internal instructions)
Incidents raised as Fujitsu internal that do not need to be notified to POL may contain
internal system references
Incident updates should contain meaningful and appropriately detailed technical content
Incident updates, and in particular updates summarising the current status, should be written
in plain English to be understandable to most readers
A clear statement of the latest status and the next action should be obvious within the
Incident. This needs to be the last, or very recent, update
e The “Additional comments (Customer visible)” field must provide a latest status view
— at least periodically and for POL bonded Incidents mainly — so it can be easily
understood by any reader. Peak uses a dedicated field for this and uses the following
format:
= Business impact: [description of the business impact, succinct]
= Status update: [description of current status — succinct]
= Next action: [next action to be taken and expected date for next update]

Page I 18

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

o For bonded Incidents we need to use the agreed set of categories, sub-categories and Cls so
that the replication interface retains the settings. The original setting will stand throughout the
life of the Incident. You cannot change the Category/Sub-Category or it breaks the replication
link. You can change the Cl but it will be retained Fujitsu side but will not replicate

o We need to use the designated open and close categories to better monitor Incident
categories

e Open category — TfSNow has Configuration Items that should be used
* Closure code — TfSNow has these and they should be used

co The Peak closure codes must map to TfSNow Incident closure codes. As at the date of this

document the mappings are as follows:

Peak Closure Code

Fujitsu

‘Advice after Investigation

POA-Advice & Guidance

Avoidance Action Supplied

POA-Fujitsu Operational

Administrative Response

POA-Administration

‘Advice and guidance given

POA-Advice & Guidance

POA-No FaultFound/No Action

No fault in product La

Duplicate Call Cancelled

Solicited Known Error POA-Advice& Guidance

Insufficient evidence Unidentified Root Cause

Fix Released to Call Logger POA-Peak Fault Found

User error POA-User Error

Unspecified Insufficient evidence Unidentified Root Cause

Call withdrawn by user Cancelled

Fixedvat/Future Release POA-Peak Fault Found

Enhancement Request POA-POL domain.

‘Suspected hardware fault Unidentified Root Cause

o Incidents outside of the Fujitsu domain that are identified by Fujitsu are passed to POL
ITDSD. If there are no consequential implications for Fujitsu then the TfSNow Incident will be
set to Suspended to await feedback to help us advance our KB (perhaps for the agreed
Suspend period and then we close). If there are implications then we leave the Incident open
as we need to know the outcome

o Only the originating organisation can close an Incident

e Incidents we have marked as requiring a fix should be closed in TfSNow with the
defect Peak reference added as that is what will be tracked and managed to
conclusion

e For Incidents closed that relate to process or user issues then we should propose
system improvements — and this should be done in conjunction with an equivalent
process for Peaks closed with the same reasons

o Fujitsu will set an Incident to Suspended in TfSNow until POL close their original Incident

Page I 19
See file name
Steve Browell

Version & Last updated
Document owner
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

* Note: Resolved in TfSNow only means that the last assigned Resolver Group has completed
their action — but it may require other actions by other Resolver Groups. Therefore, Resolved is
not replicated to ServiceNow or POL will wrongly assume it is Resolved and will likely close their
Incident. When all possible actions are complete and MAC believe it is truly Resolved then they
will request POL to close it.

« When POL close an Incident it notifies MAC and MAC can then close the TfSNow
Incident

e Incidents in a Suspended state are reviewed weekly between the MAC and POL
teams and it is included in the monthly SMR pack

= Where the Incident is Suspended as no further action by Fujitsu is possible
then after 10 days the Incident will be closed. When the Incident is set to
Suspended the following text will be added as the final update “Please be
aware that the incident will automatically be closed after 10 days if no
response is received from you.”

o Fujitsu must tag Incidents that POL are tracking (mostly for HDR) so it is awarevof Incidents
where POL have an interest so that it can review content and status frequently. Adding any
relevant POL references, such as the POL Problem referenceyshould,be considered

o ALive Defect is defined as an issue that:

e Is present on a LIVE system

e Is within Fujitsu’s scope of obligations

e Is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design or service specification

e Is, therefore, a fault that is likely toyneed fixing

¢ Incidents that meet the definition of a Live\Defect must have the
“LiveAffectingDefect” Cl added in TfSNow

«The State field values must be used

State Work in Progress v

= Acknowledged — Fujitsu is aware of the Incident but is not yet working on it
= Work In Progress/Researching — Fujitsu is investigating the issue described
in the Incident
=  Fixn Progress — Fujitsu has confirmed that the Incident requires an action to
fix it— most likely linked to a Change ticket
= Suspend — action is complete by Fujitsu or is required from another entity
e An Incident that has the LiveAffectingDefect Cl and State of Acknowledged/Work In
Progress/Researching is a potential Live Defect. Suspend will also be classed as a
potential Live Defect too for simplicity
e An Incident that has the LiveAffectingDefect Cl and State of Fix In Progress is a
confirmed Live Defect
o The POL Horizon Defects Review scope will be those Live Defects that also have at least 1
of the following attributes (HDR Defects):

Page I 20
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

= Configuration items Search Name

1 I to200f1235 >
7 _Al>Name>=HOR
Q Bname a SAssettag = Serialnumber = Company = Managed by
Search Search Search Search Search
HOR-EXP POA (empty)
HOR-FIN POA (empty)

e Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add the “HDR-Fin”
Cl)

e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required'to use the
system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp” Cl)

e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experiencéof.a Post Office customer or
client (add the “HDR-Exp” Cl)

Note: Only one HDR-* Cl needs to be set and if both Could apply themHDR-Fin should be chosen

o When the HDR* Cl is applied to an Incident, Fujitsu MAC.will also email the Fujitsu Duty
Manager email alias and a POL designated, alias to provide’an email early warning that a
new HDR Incident has been raised

o Incidents carrying a HDR* Cl will have the POL Problem references added to the Incident to
enable cross-checking

o Incidents carrying a HDR* Cl will still be.classified as potential or confirmed Live Defects
using the classifications mentioned above

o Peaks that are cloned that have a ServiceNow reference cannot be closed by EDSC until the
cloned Peak that was created isyalso closed or has its Call Type changed to “#”. The original
Peak must be kept open until the cloned Peak is closed and updates must be applied to the
original Peak so that the,related TfSNow and ServiceNow Incidents continue to receive
updates. For Peaks cloned for, GDC for GDPR obfuscation reasons this will only apply up to
April 2020 as'from that date the original Peak was obfuscated and a clone was not created

o Peaks that are closed that have a ServiceNow reference with the reason being that a cloned
Peak is now to be tracked will be sent back to Peak by MAC to reopen the Peak as this must
be maintained,to ensure the continued automatic flow of updates to the originator

o Reeturring Incidents and Incidents with follow up actions require a Problem record to be
created, The Incidents are linked to the Problem

o To ensuréwe avoid updates being overtly associated with an individual, meetings, updates,
and reports relating to Incidents must be system driven from the relevant toolset — not
separate emails or meeting comments

o Weneed management reports for Incidents to see trends. This needs to be part of the
monthly SMR and/or internal Service Operations meetings:

e Open, Active and Closed Incidents
e Live Defect Incidents — potential and confirmed
e HDR Defects — potential and confirmed
e For each, show views based on:
= Open category & Close codes
= Cl associations
« — Internal response times by type/priority

Page I 21
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
°

FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

= Branch Code - an Incident may relate to one FAD (Branch Code will be set to
the nnnnnn FAD by either Fujitsu or POL) but it may relate to many FADs
(Branch Code set to POA SMC by Fujitsu or MAC by POL)
Service requests should not be accepted as Incidents, but whilst they are very few (those that
relate to investigations are now re-directed through other channels) this will be accepted and
reviewed periodically

Managing Problems

°
°

°
°

Problems must be logged in the Fujitsu service management toolset, TfSNow

Problems cannot be bonded, like Incidents, to cause mutual replication between the Fujitsu
and POL service management toolsets so each organisation needs to maintain its own
records independently

POL need to provide their Problem reference for Fujitsu to record and link to its own Problem
& POL also may need to provide status updates back to Fujitsu —- we need to escalate POL
inefficiencies at SMR as well as at the inter-company Problem Review Meeting

Fujitsu internal Problems are managed entirely in TfSNow.

If a Problem is tracking a Live Defect then the Problem needs to hold the Peak reference as
that is where progress will be actively updated and reported

Peaks related to Fujitsu Problems will need to have the Fujitsu Problem reference added so
the association is clear when checked from either system

Note: Fujitsu use Problem tasks and manage the updates to those

Major Incidents will lead to Problems being raised to close out on all findings

Fujitsu MAC will notify Problem of underlying issuesidentified from Incidents -these tend to
relate to Unix, NT etc (TfSNow Resolver Groups) and no Peaks (Peak has its own processes)
Problems also use the State field - Acknowledged, Work In Progress, Researching, Fix In
Progress, Suspend — to record and'track status

The Problem should have the applicable Configuration Item assigned (HDR Defects):

= Configuration items Search Name

1 to200f1,235 >

FJ Al>Name>=HoR

Q  SName a S Asset tag

= company = Managed by
Search Search Search Search Search

HOR- EXP POA fempty)

@  HOR-FIN POA fempty)

e Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add the “HDR-Fin”
cl)

e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required to use the
system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp” Cl)

e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office customer or
client (add the “HDR-Exp” Cl)

Note: Only one HDR-* Cl needs to be set and if both could apply then HDR-Fin should be chosen

Problem reporting should have HDR tagged Problems
Incidents where the resolution is a fix to address a Live Defect may be both a Peak and a
Problem (the former for management, the latter for joint process validation)

Page I 22

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
Actions

FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

System Changes
e Added Cls for HDR-Exp, HDR-Fin, LiveAffectingDefect

New Ways of Working
1. Sandie - We need to regularly check

that any Incident that POL need to be notified of or be aware of has been logged in
TfSNow and bonded

that we do not reference KBAs, Peaks or include internal content in TfSNow bonded
Incidents and that the TfSNow Incident contain all relevant contentand be a
comprehensive self-contained reference to the status of an Incident. The only Peak
reference that should be added is for defect Peaks (if applicable)

Incidents are being updated and that we are not using separate emails to share
progress that is not embedded into the Incident updates

Incident updates are well worded and use language. that is understandable to most
readers — challenging and coaching where needed

the current status and the next action on an Incident is clearly stated so any reader is
in no doubt that the Incident is under full control - challenging and coaching where
needed

the Summary field is well worded and understandable by most readers

the relevant open and close categories are being used when handling Incidents —
applying additional caution withybonded Incidents to use the mutually agreed settings
the LiveAffectingDefect Cl is being set for Live Defects

the HDR* Cls are being set by,Fujitsu management where applicable (and that the
POL Problem Referenceiis.also added to the Incident)

when an Incident is,placed into Suspend as no further Fujitsu action is applicable
then the text of “Please be aware that the incident will automatically be closed after
10 days if no response isyreceived from you.” has added. After 10 days, these
Incidents should be closed

2. Sandie/Steve Ba — create,a process/report to share Incidents and Peaks closed due to
process or user issues with POL monthly to encourage POL to consider system
enhancements that could avoid the occurrence of the issue

Page I 23

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Stream 2 — Use of Peak (3LS, 4LS & Release)

°

Peak

Team — Adam Woodley, Tariq Arain, Matt Swain, Tomi Okelola — plus John Simpkins & Mark
Wright

The use of Peak and the updates to Peaks must be consistent and documented. That takes
the onus off the people and it enables anomaly reporting and management oversight
If the awareness or involvement of POL is applicable then there will be a TfSNow bonded
Incident and this will contain all relevant parts of any Peak so that the Incident that POL see
is a suitable complete reference
If any 3LS, 4LS or Architect creates a Peak in the course of their normal duties thatmatches
the definition of Live Defect:

e Is present on a LIVE system

e Is within Fujitsu's scope of obligations

e Is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design onservice specification

e Is, therefore, a fault that is likely to need fixing

...then it must be given the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collectionand an Incident must be raised
in TfSNow if one is not already open.

II Add to Collection

If a Peak has had the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection added, and it also has at least 1 of
the following attributes (Horizon Defect Review):
e Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add the “HDR-Fin”
Collection)
e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required to use the
system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp” Collection)
e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office customer or
client (add,the “HDR-Exp” Collection)

Note: Only one HDR-* Collection needs to be set and if both could apply then HDR-Fin should be
chosen

[Add Incident to Collection
I HDR-Exp -- Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public] II Add to Collection

—
jorizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public]
jorizon Defect Review - Financial Impact [Public]

HDR-Exp ~
Hl

If a Peak raised independent of TfSNow is subsequently qualified as being an Incident that
POL should be aware of, then Fujitsu MAC need to be contacted. Fujitsu MAC will create a
new TfSNow Incident which will be bonded and then assigned to 3LS. This will create a new
Peak. The content of the original Peak must be copied to the new Peak so that updates can
automatically flow back to TfSNow. The original Peak should be closed citing that it has been
superseded by a Peak linked to TfSNow

When the investigation into an issue defined in a Peak originating from TfSNow is concluded,
the ‘investigation’ Peak can be closed

Page I 24

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e If the investigation Peak is an existing clone then the Peak can have its Call Type
changed to “#” (for GDC obfuscated Peaks this will apply to any cloned Peaks
created prior to April 2020)

e The investigation Peak has not been cloned then it needs to be cloned to create a
defect Peak (for GDC obfuscated Peaks this will apply to any Peaks obfuscated
since April 2020)

e The defect Peak reference should be added to the investigation Peak as part of its
closure activity. The defect Peak reference will then be mentioned in the TfSNow
Incident so that it replicates to POL ServiceNow

co The interface between TfSNow and Peak (OTI) must protect the internal system references
to Peaks or KBAs and updates should appear to all be generated in TfSNow,— except for a
reference to a defect Peak that is shared for future tracking purposes

o The Summary field needs to be written so as to be understandable to most readers as it will
be used in internal management and external POL reports

o New fields are being introduced to help Live Defect Managementitracking and reporting and
these will need to be completed by various parties as the Peak progresses

« See section Live Defect Management — Key Fields ih,Peak

co Cloning processes and rules need to be applied consistently:

e Cloning carries forward all Collections, References,and Key Fields and it must show
cloned from and cloned to support chain of events tracking

e Cloning should be for specific purposes andthe reason will appear as a prompt when
cloning is initiated:

= Assignment to GDC (so we. can redact/obfuscate)

* Note: Since April 2020 UK Bridge do not clone Peaks but instead they
obfuscate the Original so it;can be widely shared and updated whilst
maintaining,any links to TfSNow Incidents. Peaks cloned prior to this date
that,remain open'will have broken the auto links to any TfSNow Incidents

= — Splitting into multiple threads linked to a single origin (e.g. Data Centre &
Counter, phased, fix — urgent perhaps by script/refdata and follow-on for
code)

=  Disassociating from the TfSNow incident (e.g. documentation, follow-on to
an initialresponse to an Incident)

* Creating the defect Peak to progress the Live Defect to resolution

= Creating Test Only Peaks where the test in a particular environment can't
mirror the entirety of the issue described e.g. 3° party connections are not
available. This is rare. Testing is then done on the clone in that environment.
The master defect Peak is still open as it may be used for the full testing in
LST. The Test Only Peak will be closed once testing is completed
successfully

= Note: if a Peak has been assigned to a Baseline then cloning should be done
with caution and include consultation with the Baseline owner in advance

e When the [Clone] button is clicked, the following menu is displayed:

Page I 25
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e The user selects from the list (Defect is the default option) and clicks confirm. The
reason is captured in the clone Peak:

Date:11-Aug-2021 09:00:38 User: John Simpkins
ICALL PC@25898 opened

Details entered are:-

iSummary:test mb problem

ical Type:#

icall Priority:D

Target Release:HNG-X 12.12

Routed to:EDSC - John Simpkins -
Date:11-Aug-2021 09:00:38 User: John Simpkins
Clone Reason: Create a Defect Peak
Date:14-Dec-2015 15:52:55 User: Customer Call_
ICALL_PC@244669 opened

Details entered are:-

iSummary:test mb problem

¢ — If the’Defect reason is selected, the clone will be created with Call Type ‘#’.
o Peaks raised in Test or Dev that also relate to the Live environment will not have Call Type
a
* Test will raise a new Peak within the release being tested for unexpected Live
Defects and then assign it to the Developers. It has a Call Type “P” by default
e The Developers & Architects decide if it relates to Live and must set the relevant
Live Defect meta data as described above
o Peaks that are cloned that have a ServiceNow reference cannot be closed by EDSC until the
cloned Peak that was created is also closed or has its Call Type changed to “#”. The original
Peak must be kept open until the cloned Peak is closed and updates must be applied to the
original Peak by EDSC so that the related TfSNow and ServiceNow Incidents continue to
receive updates. For Peaks cloned for GDC for GDPR obfuscation reasons this will only

apply up to April 2020 as from that date the original Peak was obfuscated and a clone was
not created

o Peaks that have been held by EDSC due to having been cloned and having a ServiceNow
reference must be periodically reviewed to ensure updates from the cloned Peak are applied

o Peaks that are closed that have a ServiceNow reference with the reason being that a cloned
Peak is now to be tracked will be sent back to Peak by MAC to reopen the Peak as this must
be maintained to ensure the continued automatic flow of updates to the originator

Page I 26
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

o Rules on use of Call Type need restating so we ensure greater consistency

o All Peaks must be owned by a team whose manager will check that progress is being made
We need regular management quality checks — use of fields, age of Peaks, progress being
made — and this needs to be summarised and reported upwards to ensure executive visibility
and confidence

e The report created by Fujitsu MAC is useful but does not appear to cause action to
be taken

o The origin of a Peak - SPM, POL, SMC, Fujitsu — is identifiable by scraping the Contact
Name: field — but this cannot be done using standard Peak reporting and requires a custom
script to be run. This has been created to help the POA Defect Manager report on this
content

© 'Private’ Peak updates can be added to the Progress field. They stay in Peak and are not
replicated across the OTI

1501
Just for info based upon this meeting. When adding progress to a ‘bonded’ Peak the default
response option is '-- Progress Only’ this does NOT flow back to Peak.

Edited
prwes.zes ose sons + [esea}+ (119-1-a6-809-3)« [sttangt to wie imalid Journal Sequence numer 3846447), sablet the corre
Progress Tet Prope Tempe
: _
Note Th an OTT Provider Ice
‘+ Progress Ontywpates wl ot be emo the Commer
1 Peeing Repos willbe eto he Ce
1 Final Responses wl poe ck wo the Consumer
(lounge Pek)
Response Caegery 7 I Pa) Eset (howe)
Propess my 0 .
Forecast Date Development Mane) NoFerecat Date
ei

Edited
Note the Text on the right-hand side of the progress entry box for further guidence.

If you select a response category then the text above the Progress changes to reflect this:

—
‘Nowe This wan OTT Provider incdent
=

No references will be sent across to TFSNow (or beyond) so all Documents, Baselines, KBs, Peak etc
can be added as references

Updates added the Response field are replicated across the OTI

The References field is manually maintained so can miss Incident or KBA references. SMC.
may add KBA into reference text instead of into the References field which limits query-
ability

o Peaks closures:

°

Page I 27
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e Incident related Peaks are closed when the investigation phase has concluded and
no further action is needed, when further info required (as it passes back to TfSNow),
or when the next action needs to be assigned to another TfSNow Resolver Group
(the Peak is no longer needed)

e Incident related Peaks are closed when the investigation phase has concluded and
we have a confirmed Live Defect. This would see a cloned Peak raised as Call Type
“#". If the Peak is not linked to a TfSNow Incident bonded to POL then the Peak can
just be reassigned to Call Type “#”

« Defect Peaks are closed when the Release they are targeted at is deployed —
ideally by automating the process — this will probably be Peaks at Status “F”

e All other Peaks are closed based on team/process specific rules ~as per current
processes

Peaks closed as user/process error should be considered along with TfSNow Incidents closed
for the same reasons to provide a monthly report to POL to recommend enhancements that
could avoid the occurrence of the issue. A likely source of these could be Peaks closed with
the following Root Cause values:

e “39 General — User Knowledge” — caused by lack of knowledge with the user

e “40 General — User” — caused by an action performed by the user which was
outside expected use

« “41 General —in Procedure” — caused/by not following defined procedure

Peaks/Incidents closed as “66 — Final - Enhancement Request” should also be reported on
monthly to POL to recommend enhancements are submitted to Fujitsu. KBAs also needs to
be updated to show the outcome was that POL need.to raise an enhancement request
Peaks that are resolved but not ready to be closed as the resolution action is to be
‘monitored’ can remain in a non-closed)state butmust have a Forecast Date added to the
Response so that this warns the Support Specialist and team leader that the review date has
arrived and the Peak should,be reviewed for closure

The Peak closure codes must map to, TfSNow Incident closure codes. As at the date of this
document the mappings are as follows:

Peak Closure Code. Fujitsu

Advicevafter Investigation POA-Advice & Guidance
‘Avoidance Action Supplied POA-Fujitsu Operational
Administrative Response POA-Administration
Advice and guidance given POA-Advice & Guidance

No fault in product POA-No Fault Found/No Action

Taken
Duplicate Call Cancelled
Solicited Known Error POA-Advice & Guidance
Insufficient evidence Unidentified Root Cause
Fix Released to Call Logger POA-Peak Fault Found
User error POA-User Error
Unspecified Insufficient evidence Unidentified Root Cause
Call withdrawn by user Cancelled

Page I 28

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Fixed at Future Release POA-Peak Fault Found
Enhancement Request POA-POL domain.
‘Suspected hardware fault Unidentified Root Cause

o An Incident may relate to one FAD but it may relate to many FADs - this is recorded in the
Business Impact text showing the number of branches affected

o To ensure we avoid updates being overtly associated with an individual the updates should
be system driven — not separate emails or meeting comments

o For the occasions where Fujitsu is required to share actual Peaks, it will need to define a
Peak extract process that will brand, classify and version control content. The process must
also redact/obfuscate to remove Pll and remove internal only Progress updates. This extract
process is not under consideration as at the date of this report

Release

o Deferred Peaks should be recognisable against the release they were deferred from and the
release to which they are subsequently targeted

o Only Peaks can be deferred — POA Jira’s or other things stored outside of Peak CANNOT be
deferred

o Deferred Peaks are by definition Live Defects. When a Peak is deferred, the Fujitsu party
obtaining the agreement must ensure:

e the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection is set

¥ I Add to Collection

«the “Deferral Agreed” Collection set
e The Call Type set to “#” if the Live Defect is confirmed and a fix can be progressed,
or the Call Type set to “L” if the Live Defect still needs further investigation
e Target Release Type changed to “Proposed for” for subsequent update via BIF/PTF
e If the deferred Peak has at least 1 of the following attributes (Horizon Defect
Review):
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add the
“HDR-Fin” Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required to use
the system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp”
Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office
customer or client (add the “HDR-Exp” Collection)

Note: Only one HDR-* Collection needs to be set and if both could apply then HDR-Fin
should be chosen

[Add Incident to Collection
HDR-Exp -- Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public] ‘II Add to Collection }
TESORO

—
HDR-Exp ~ Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public]
HODR-Fin ~ Horizon Defect Review - Financial impact [Public]

o Release Notes must list all Peaks that are fixed and being deployed. The extract/report must
also show the POLPRB- reference for HDR Defects and the Fujitsu Problem references if

Page I 29
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

they have been tagged to be tracked by the Problem manager(s). This is achieved by
clicking the button to the right of the listed Peaks in the Release Note which creates an Excel
spreadsheet that can attached to the TfSNow Change ticket (format similar to below):

(Cannery [POL Problom Reffjasu Problem Red
'PC0295314-LST20.94 Proper messages has to dpa stead of Ageteweus in DCM_UREC.DCM_CREATE LREC_C4D jo

19C0295403 LST: 20.94: Too may D records in LREC fe

1960295711 PBS Piot INCE349716: Amex tus nt sete as expected when econsing DRS? reports

1960295725 PBs: INC83S4763 (TFSNow) :INCO3887I8 Lys £300 witaval [MCSUK-16376]

o Release Notes will not list:
e the Peaks that are being deferred (as they are not fixed yet)
«any clone Peaks raised by Test for Test Only actions (as these are notiadditional
Live Defects but are just a tracking mechanism for the Test team),
o The action of deploying the Release should cause the relevant Peaks on the Release Note to
be closed. As a minimum it should ensure all are set to Status “F” and alert the originator that
the fix is deployed and they are asked to close the Peak

St

o “Release Peaks” are administrative reference Peaks for Release Management. They do not
act as master Peaks so the defect Peaks must/be kept updated independent of the Release
Peak settings and dates

co If a Peak has been assigned to a Baseline then cloningShould be done with caution and
include consultation with the Baselineowner,in advance

o Release Management processes will\apply to 3° party deployments that are within the Fujitsu
scope of responsibilities. For example, Ingenico fixes will be deployed under releases and
Peaks will be Targeted At, Proposed for, and Reported In release numbers identified for
Ingenico fixes — currently 90.xx

co Hotfixes are a mini release and)will use the new 3-node release numbering xx.yy.zz where
the primary 2 nodes are the release that they relate to and the third node is the hotfix
number. Peaks that form. part of a hotfix will be targeted at the 3 node Release

o Release Management will maintain the Target Release date table:

e All past Releases must state the actual release date for deployment (if phased, this
should be the Pilot release date when at least 1 live branch saw new code installed)

e All future Releases must show the latest anticipated release date for deployment —
irrespective of who will be leading the deployment

The Release date should be the first time that the deployment was made to any live
environment (Model Office or agreed pilot rollout sites). The date will therefore show
the first time the fix was deployed to a live counter/branch eventhough a phased
rollout may mean other counters/branches did not receive the fix until a later agreed
date

e The Target Release screen should be used to make universal changes to Peaks
when release information changes. The Plan Out Live date can be changed and then
the “Reset Date” button is used to apply the new date to all Peaks Targeted At the
updated release (see below):

Page I 30
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

Page 30 Comments

BS1 RM will need to ensure SSC are overtly notified

SSC will need a process to take the required action
Browell, Steven, 25/08/2021 03:44 PM
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

SS a
Peak Incident Management System
Stow arate
eve
Pan it Test

¢ Hotfix releases must also be included in the date table

e Targeted Releases with no stated deployment date must be reported on and
validated to ensure progress — or the intentional lack of it — is defined by process and
cannot go unnoticed

e Weall know that the goal is to progress from logging a perceived fault to fixing it
(unless it isn’t really a fault) as quickly as we can. The added objective here is to
ensure POA management and POL management are aware of the packages of work
we have and are fully engaged in determining priorities and,dates. The only thing
stopping us making an immediate fix should be a POL’supported decision to not take
immediate action. We should never determine.what We fix or don’t by ourselves
(unless Fujitsu is the only beneficiary of the-fix). So, heréare some actions I feel
move us closer to that goal:

Actions

System Changes
* Create a button alongside the listed Peaks onthe Release Note that gather the content for
into an Excel sheet for easy upload into,the TfSNow Change ticket, updated the cloning
process to ask for a reason and thenrecord it in the new cloned Peak, updated the cloning
process to take more fields across to the clone

New Ways of Working

1. Managers will need to\conduct spot checks on Peak data entry quality and encourage new
habits — fields filled in, fields\read well, clones created for correct situations - See Appendix
A

2. Adam/Tariq/Sandie - regular checks should be made to ensure 3LS, 4LS or Architects who
create Peaks in the course of their normal duties that relate to the Live system where POL
shouldbe notified are contacting Fujitsu MAC to raise an Incident and determine how to
ensure the Peak is correctly associated

Page I 31

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

44 Ad Check Reak-ck id is-being-followed

9 ig
12. Adam/Steve Ba/Sandie — Peaks closed as user/process error should be considered along

with TfSNow Incidents closed for the same reasons to send a monthly report to POL to
recommend enhancements that could avoid the occurrence of the issue
13. Adam/Steve Ba/Sandie — Peaks/Incidents closed as “66 — Final - Enhancement Request”
should also be reported on monthly to POL to recommend enhancements are submitted to
Fujitsu. KBAs also needs to be updated to show the outcome was that POL need to raise an
enhancement request

d + target-the-rel t Peaks-at the hotfix refi

em _ [POL Problem Ref nu Problem Ref
20.94: Prope mesage aso dsply teal of Age evetsinDCM_LRBC.DCM. CREATE. LREC_C4D jo

1T:20 9: Too many D records n LREC fle

0295711 PBS Plot INCK349716: Amex tos not sett a expected when reson DRS2 reports

PC029S725 PBS: INC83S4763 (TFSNow) :INCO388718 Lloyds £300 wihirawal (MCSUK-16376]

qd:

48. Matt-S—Hotfi intro and should-b ged_that.way ble Reaks-to-b
targeted_at-th: d-the rel dates to bi Jearly-t I

19. Matt S — Targeted Releases with no stated deployment date must be reported on and
validated to ensure progress — or the intentional lack of it — is defined by process and cannot
go unnoticed

20.

o the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection is set
the “Deferral Agreed” Collection set
© (The Call Type set to “#” if the Live Defect is confirmed and a fix can be progressed,
or the Call Type set to “L’” if the Live Defect still needs further investigation
oy Target Release Type changed to “Proposed for” for subsequent update via BIF/PTF
o Ifthe deferred Peak has at least 1 of the following attributes (Horizon Defect
Review):
« Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add the
“HDR-Fin” Collection)
« Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required to use
the system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp”
Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office
customer or client (add the “HDR-Exp” Collection)

°

Page I 32
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Stream 3 — Live Defect Management
o Team -— Adam Woodley & Tariq Arain — plus John Simpkins

Live Defect Management — Live Defect Definition
o All Live Defects are managed in Peak only
o Some classifications of Live Defects are managed in a joint weekly Horizon Defect Review
Forum chaired by POL. These are known as HDR Defects.
o ALive Defect is defined as an issue that:
e Is present on a LIVE system
e Is within Fujitsu’s scope of obligations
e Is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design or service specification
e Is, therefore, a fault that is likely to need fixing
« The Horizon Defects Review (HDR) scope will be those Live Defects that also have
at least 1 of the following attributes (HDR Defects):
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add the
“HDR-Fin” Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required to use
the system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp”
Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office
customer or client (add'the “HDR-Exp” Collection)

[Add Incident to Collection
HDR-Exp ~- Horizon Defect Review-SPM Experience [Public] II Add to Collection I

jorizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public]
Horizon Defect Review - Financial Impact [Public]

HDR-Exp -
HOR.

e There may be a workaround, but the underlying issue still meets the criteria above
e An Incident may be under investigation that is not confirmed to meet the criteria
above but has attributes that meet the criteria above (a potential Live Defect/HDR
Defect),
© Note 1: Only one HDR-* Collection needs to be set and if both could apply then HDR-Fin should be
chosen
© — Note.2»Defeets identified and managed throughout the Development and Test stages are not under this
Live Defect Management process as they do not relate to the Live system. Hence there are 3 types of
defect:
«Live HDR Defects
+ _ Live (Non-HDR) Defects
* — Non-Live Defects (test/dev etc) — not tracked by Live Defect Management
© Note 3: KBAs can be raised to describe Live Defects but the management of the Live Defect is done by
the Peak and this Live Defect Management process

Live Defect Management — Goals
A banner will appear on the Peak login screen to remind support staff of the changes that are
described below. This will most likely be removed when new habits are successfully formed and
the reminder is no longer needed:

Page I 33
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

efect Management Changes

hhave been some changes to the Defect Management process to enable more accurate reporting. Please consider the following when reviewing a potential defect Peak:

Is this a Live Defect? If so, add the ##LiveA fectingDefect Collection,
Is the Call Type correct? Change to L ~ Live Incident or # ~ Defect Identified as applicable.
Does could this affect branch operations? If so, add either the HDR-Fin (Financial) or HDR-Exp (Experience) Collection.
Is there a Workaround? If so, add the Workaround Reference field and set it to Yes.
Have you added a Impact update? There is a new template to guide adding an impact.
Is the Priority correct? The default priority from TFSNow is often too low
re the Product & Product Group fields correct? Multiple products can be added if required,
is the Status (Response Category) correct? Does it reflect the current activity inthe defect process,
Where possible ensure your progress updates are understandable to non-technical users.

Peak Incident Management System - RMG Account

o Live Defect Management must have a designated owner on POA to manage and evolve the
processes and systems used
o Staff will need training and guidance on how POA wants Live.Defects to be managed and
how the systems need to be kept up to date
o Live Defects must be recorded as Peaks and managed using the Peak system
e Fujitsu may have Problems open for Live Defects but the Problem record needs to
hold the relevant Peak reference as this will be where progress updates will be
derived
o We must know how many Live Defects there are at any,point in time — and importantly, we
must know which ones are part of the HDR\Defect tracking led by POL and we must store the
POL tracking reference on our defect Peak
o We need to be able to differentiate between Live Defects that are still being investigated and
are not confirmed, and Live Defects:that have been confirmed and require action to resolve
o We need to know the statusjof all Live Defects and whether there are any issues needing
attention
o We need to be able to review trends and attributes of Live Defects to identify patterns — for
example, we need new.reports to show trends, volumes, efficient areas, inefficient areas,
process stalled, aging entries, mix by priority, targeted at, time by stage, defects by system
area
Live Defects must be clearly titled so that they can be understood by the majority of readers
Live Defect status must be clearly stated and be current and not require the reader to read
contentiand come.to a summarised view themselves
All Live Defects must have a clear next action stated that can be tracked
All Live Defects must be owned by a team at all times whose manager will ensure the right
actions are being taken (this can be a different team throughout the lifetime of the Live
Defect)
o Managers must ensure that Live Defects within their areas are reviewed regularly and action
taken to ensure processes are being followed — this may require manual reviews
o When a HDR Defect is being investigated there will be a TfSNow Incident open and bonded.
POL will track status by referring to their ServiceNow Incident. All progress on the
investigation is to be added to the TfSNow Incident so that it is visible to POL in their
corresponding ServiceNow Incident
e It is POL’s responsibility to keep their Problem record up to date if they have opened
one
o If Fujitsu completes its investigation and confirms there is no HDR Defect then the
investigation Peak and Incident will be closed with no further actions required. The Peak will
be closed with Response Category “95 -- Final — Advice after Investigation” [or “66 — Final —

Page I 34
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Enhancement Request’] which will see it excluded from Live Defect counts in the future. The
HDR-* Collection should remain so we know it was considered within the HDR Forum

o When a HDR Defect is confirmed as a Fujitsu owned Live Defect, then a new defect Peak
will be created that summarises the fault and the required fix and carries all the required
meta data tags. The defect Peak reference will be added to the investigation Peak which will
then replicate to the TfSNow Incident. The investigation Peak will be closed along with the
TfSNow Incident. Fujitsu will then manage the Live Defect in Peak and will provide status
update reports from Peak that will be shared with POL for POL to use as part of the weekly
HDR Forum

o Live Defects that are not classified as HDR Defects are managed internally by Fujitsu using
Peak. Reports will be available for POL to show overall progress but it is not intended that
every non-HDR Defect will be discussed

co There are a number of new and updated fields that comprise the key meta data used to
manage defect Peaks. These fields must be kept up to date by Fujitsu staff and checked and
amended by team managers regularly

o Defect Peaks that are approved for deferral when a release.is deployed are, by definition,
Live Defects. The party obtaining agreement to defer the Peak must.ensure:

e the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection is set

[Add Incident to Collection

‘Add to Collection

e the “Deferral Agreed” Collection is set

e The Call Type is set to “#” if the Live Defect is confirmed and a fix can be
progressed, or the Call Type set,to “L” if the Live Defect still needs further

investigation
CT
Peak Inciden
DETAILS —II_ REFERENCES
allReference _[PC0294913

[Release [Targeted At -- HNG-X 21.52

[Call Type T-- Live Incidents v

Ic Defect Identified «

A--Administrative use

C~ Cloned call

E ~ Enhancement Request

F — Document Review/Design Walkthrough

fon SV&l BAUHBS

_—__
G ~ GDC Testing Incidents/Defects
I — Internal Development Incidents/Defects
K — Primark

iSummary: INCB092244 VAT BAL/HES

‘all Type:L 'M -- Problem Management
all Priority:D I I 0 - Operational (SSC)
arget Release:HNs-I
outed to:eDsc - Uf Product Incidents/Defects
ter@1-Jun-2021, 22 R — Release Notice Forum 7
es ra ‘S ~ System Testing Incidents/Defects

INCIDENT Manaenent] T ~ Technical query
jate/Time Raised: 3IU— Security Testing Incidents/Defects
Priority: D V— Vulnerability
contact Name: teference Data Service
2 ;stem Management Testing Incidents/Defects
ive (Non-RefData) Data Updates bd

pesessssese==

riginator’s refere!
Product Serial No:

Page I 35
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e Target Release Type changed to “Proposed for” for subsequent update via BIF/PTF
e If the deferred Peak has at least 1 of the following attributes (Horizon Defect
Review):
« Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes (add the
“HDR-Fin” Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is required to use
the system (User Interface, Report, Function) (add the “HDR-Exp”
Collection)
= Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office
customer or client (add the “HDR-Exp” Collection)

Note: Only one HDR-* Collection needs to be set and if both could applythen HDR-Fin
should be chosen

IAdd Incident to Collection
HDR-Exp -- Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public] II Add to Collection I

7
HDR-Exp ~ Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public]
HOR-Fin — Horizon Defect Review - Financial Impact [Public]

o We need a documented process that reviews any Fujitsu internal Jiras and ensures they are
monitored and raised as Peaks when needed so:they follow the»processes. Jiras meeting the
criteria stated in Appendix C require no action'as Appendix C is a POA policy

o We need to hold dates when Releases went live,and when future Releases are proposed for

so we have an outcome for any defect Peak

We need to provide a full list of ALL Live Defects closed in a Release with their associated

POL Problem references so that POLare also able to manage their HDR process

o Reports are needed for management to show the overall status, trends, and patterns related
to all current Live Defects and historical Live Defects

co CBIF rejections will get a POL,reference that we will add to the Peak References field and
also to the KBA so we know this was a POL decision not to take further action. The Peak will
be closed with Response “63 -- Final -- Programme approved - No fix required”

o CBIF submissions will be\documented in a file that will be attached to Peak. The file will use
the File Type “CBIF Proposal” so it can be readily identified. This will be sent to HDR so that
the meeting has the information in advance

co The outcome of BIF/CBIF/PTF meetings will be held in concise notes in the relevant text
boxes,on the Release Mgt tab. No need for separate minutes

o Peaks that haveibeen tested successfully and are still to be deployed must not be closed and
mustbe routed to RM-x and assigned to “Release to Live" so it is clear that the Live Defect is
still present in the system but that its fix has been tested and is awaiting release

o “Release Peaks” are administrative reference Peaks for Release Management. They do not
act as master Peaks so the defect Peaks must be kept updated independent of the Release

Peak_settings and dates
°
for a slot to deploy as it is the date the fix could have been applied that is key — not the date

°

Page I 36
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

Page 36 Comments

BS2 SB to decide how this is tracked
Browell, Steven, 09/08/2021 03:31 PM
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

co The following Response Category field values are considered No Fault Found:

Response Category — 62 -- Final — No fault in product

Response Category — 63 -- Final -- Programme Approved — No Fix Required
Response Category — 66 -- Final -- Enhancement Request
Response Category — 68 -- Final -- Administrative Response
Response Category — 94 -- Final -- Advice and guidance given
Response Category — 95 -- Final -- Advice after Investigation
Response Category — 96 -- Final -- Insufficient evidence

Response Category — 97 -- Final -- Unspecified insufficient evidence
Response Category — 98 -- Final -- User error

Response Category — 100 -- Final -- Route call to TIS

Response Category — 120 -- Final -- Cloned to create Defect Peak

Response Category — 200 -— Final -- Call withdrawn by user

o We should ensure that any Live Defect is promptly investigated until we confirm no fault is
found or that a fix is needed and change the status to Defect Identified. Anyone owning a
stack with Peaks classed as ##LiveAffectingDefect that is open and still being investigated
should ensure progress is made optimally

co If we have a Live Defect that is Defect Identified and it has either of the HDR-* Collections,
or is Priority Aor B we.should:

a. Explore every option we can to find a workaround — and implement it

b. Get it Targeted At a release as fast as possible (immediate BIF and PTF)

c. Get a strong proposed date for these Releases (so we have a go live date in
mind) — this may require more input from POL

d. Propose a hot-fix is considered and invite POA management and POL
management to decide if they want to or not (forget the constraints — this is a
management call)

e. Stack owners and Release Management must ensure this is done

co If we have a Live Defect that is Defect Identified and is Priority C/D/Z we should:

a. Get it Targeted At a maintenance release as fast as possible

b. Normal BIF and PTF scheduled meetings can continue

c. Demand more maintenance releases with confirmed dates

d. Stack owners and Release Management must ensure this is done

e. We should expect to put Live Defects that are Defect Identified into the next
month's maintenance release ‘at the latest’

o Take ALL numbered and dated Releases to Demand Planning so they can be prioritised
alongside other work by POA and by POL and POL know the implication of not allowing us to
progress them

Page I 37
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

Page 37 Comments

BS3 Added and subject to review and action planning
Browell, Steven, 01/09/2021 10:42 AM
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Live Defect Management — Key Fields in Peak
The following are the key fields needed for Live Defect Management:

o Call Type - must be set to “#” Defect Identified when a Live Defect is confirmed. Prior to this
Live Defects ought to be Call Type “L” Live Incident but can have other Call Types provided
they carry the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection. The Collection descriptive text is “Fault that
is present on the Live system that is inconsistent with the agreed design and/or service
specification”

Peak In
PRODUCTS EVIDENCE IMPACT

1PC0295241
[Release [Reported In -- HNG-X Rel. Ind.
()

A--Areaaieicaive Vee _—
Impact C -- Cloned call fpg/not yet defined/TBA] St
E — Enhancement Request «°° °°
F -- Document Review/Design Walkthrough

I

Isummary: testing
‘all Type:L

all Priority:D
‘arget Release: HNG-

L Live Incidents

M— Problem Management

O -- Operational (SSC)

Routed to:eosc - _uIP ~ Product Incidents/Defects
te:16-Jun-2021 19] R~ Release Notice Forum F

[start of Response]] S ~ System Testing Incidents/Defects

esting dev MD T ~ Technical query

I[End of Response] IU ~ Security Testing Incidents/Defects

Response code to caI V — Vulnerability lem Identified(38)
ate: 16-Jun-2021 10 W ~ Reference Data Service

he Call record hasI X ~ System Management Testing Incidents/Defects ps

ate: 16-Jun-2021 10 Y ~- Live (Non-RefData) Data Updates ba

velopment Cost updated? new cost is 2 (Man Days)

[Start of Response]

est 1

[End of Response]

esponse code to call type L as Category 40 -- Pending -- Incident Under Investigation

ate: 16-Jun-2021 10:51:08 User: John Simpkins

o Summary - must be written so as to be understandable by most readers. This will need more
thought when Peaks are raised. Management should amend this during weekly clean-ups
(careful to, preserve links where raised in another system)

co Impact - tab and free form field to articulate impact, status and next steps so it is easy to
understand for anyone. This will be maintained for HDR Peaks weekly. For other Peaks it can

be as needed
e Business impact: [as used currently, mention how many branches are affected if
helpful]

e Status update: [description of current status — succinct]
e Next action: [next action to be taken and expected date for next update]

o Collection ##LiveAffectingDefect (formerly ##LiveAffectingSoftwareFault). This Collection
must be set when the Peak meets the criteria for a Live Defect at the earliest possible
opportunity. It is likely that Call Type “L” will frequently carry this ##tag but it will not always
be the case so needs selectively applying. The Collection descriptive text is “Fault that is

Page I 38

Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

present on the Live system that is inconsistent with the agreed design and/or service
specification”

‘Add to Collection

ant on the Live system that is inconsisten... [Publi

o Priority —- which must be validated at all times so it is accurately shown as this will affect

reporting and decision making
o Collections of “HDR-Fin” or “HDR-Exp” for HDR Defects

Note: Only one HDR-* Collection needs to be set and if both could apply then HDR-Fin should be

chosen
[Add Incident to Collection
I HDR-Exp -- Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public] ‘y II Add to Collection I
Srecrnee te pce on reteep eee

HDR-Exp ~- Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public] .
HDR-Fin — Horizon Defect Review - Financial Impact [Public]

o POL Problem reference — using the prefix “POLPRB-“ so it is obvious and also searchable
e POL Problem Reference is a Reference-field and the following screenshots shows
how to add the field:

Peak Incident Management System -PU298241

= = eS

o Fujitsu Problem reference — using the prefix “FUPRB-“ so it is obvious and also searchable
Fujitsu Problem Reference is a Reference field and the following screenshots shows

how tovadd the field:
ea aia Mansgeeat Sytem PCO9S47
ie = 2a

o Workaround - to state “Yes/No” state if a workaround has been implemented. If the field is

blank or contains “No” then no workaround has been identified. If it is “Yes” then an accepted
workaround is in place

Page I 39
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e Workaround is a Reference field and the following 2 screenshots show how to add

the field and set its value:
eak incident Management System -PCUZ9S241

pens ments mopar eae prc couse. sora I rns or

[een ae

I: Eepeaad Ferma)

Peak Incident Management System - PC0Z
vevrPrScrs of ASE UOT

ae

(Call rteence

(Cat reference
(Cat reference

Reiewace Type

Aad Relea)

ona van

o Release Mgt tab — Initial and Completed dates and text box - We need to know the stage
we are at in the fixing process, the date it initially entered the stage and when the stage was
completed and the notes from the meetings at which it was discussed

o Assigned Team — must,show which team is currently responsible for taking the next action
or ensuring action is taken

o Product Groupiand Product - We need to know the part of the system that the Live Defect
relates to for reporting and quality purposes

o Root Cause — we need to know what type of fix was needed, which when matched to the
part of the system affected, gives us further quality data

o Response Category - specific values have been identified to enable clarity and to spot
exclusions:

e “63 - Final -- Programme approved - No fix required” — for Peaks rejected at CBIF

e “66 — Final -- Enhancement Request” — for Peaks tagged with the HDR Collection
that were subsequently qualified as not being HDR Defects but enhancement
requests

e “95 ~ Final — Advice after Investigation” — for Peaks tagged with the HDR Collection
that were subsequently qualified as not being HDR Defects

e The value “30 -- Pending -- TL confirmed” will cease to be used

co Target Release — the values of “Requested For” and “Released at” will cease to be used

o Management governance and checking is needed to ensure this is how the system is being
used — correcting at least weekly

o Areminder will pop up on certain changes of Peak status to remind support staff to consider
the key fields:

Page I 40
Version & Last updated:
Document owner:

See file name
Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e Events triggering presentation of the pop-up:
= The Peak Routing is changed
The Call Type is changed
The Response Category is changed
The ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection is added
The HDR-Fin or HDR-Exp Collections are added
e Pop-up wording:
= Is this a Live Defect? — if so, add the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection
= Is the Call Type correct (Live Incident or Defect Identified if applicable)?
= Does/could this affect branch operations? — if so, add the HDR-Fin or HDR-
Exp Collection
= — Is there a Workaround? - if so, add the Workaround References field and
set it to Yes
Does your last update read well to users not involved in the, Peak progress?
Have you added a helpful Impact update?
Is the Priority correct?
Are the Product & Product Group fields correct?,
Is the Status (Response Category) correct?

Live Defect Management — Reporting

From 2 queries/datasets it should be possible:to create views of potential Live Defects,

confirmed Live Defects, deferred Live Defects, and Peaks needing customer input

The 2 reports are:

1. Report to extract all ##LiveAffectingDefect tagged Peaks and show the columns as.
below

2. Report to extract all Open Peaks and show the columns as below

e The output fields for both queries are to be (at least):

Call Reference, Summary, Date Opened, Product, Product Group, Call Type, Priority,
Assigned Team, Status, Root Cause, Collections, References, TfSNow Incident, POL
SNOW Incident, ContactName, Workaround, Business Impact, Target Release, Target
Release Type, Response Category, BIF Initial Date, BIF Completed Date, BIF Text,
CBIF Initial Date, CBIF Completed Date, CBIF Text, CBIF Proposal (exists or doesn’t for
now), PTF Initial Date, PTF Completed Date, PTF Text, Development (Man Days),
Cloned from, Cloned to, Date Time Last Updated, Planned Out Live, Call Logger,
Actioned Team, Date Last Closed, Call Loggers Team, BIF_Ticked_Questions,
HDR_User, HDR_Date, BIF_User, BIF_Date, TFSBonded (1/0), Assignee, Time to
Target (Days)

Actions

System Changes

Rename ##LiveAffectingSoftwareFault to ##LiveAffectingDefect and apply to all currently
tagged Peaks

Rename Call Type "L" to remove “/Defects” from label

New Workaround field with optional text values Yes/No

New Call Type value of "#" for Defect Identified

New HDR Collections of “HDR-Fin” and “HDR-Exp”

Updated Release Mgt tab to add BIF, CBIF and PTF fields above current list (to hold dates of
meetings and outcome summaries)

Amended default guidance text for the Impact text box

Page I 41

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e New Reference type of POL Problem Reference and enforce POLPRB- prefix

e New File Type of “CBIF Proposal”

« Removed “30 -- Pending -TL confirmed” Response Category

« Amended the descriptive text for ##LiveAffectingDefect to “Fault that is present on the Live
system that is inconsistent with the agreed design and/or service specification”

e Added new Response Category “Cloned to create Defect Peak”

e Added text box to ask user why they are cloning, writing the response into the start of the
clone

e Added capability to setup email alerts if specific Collections are added or removed

e Added temporary reminder pop-up until the new fields and values become more embedded

e Remove the values of “Requested For” and “Released at” from list of Target,Release field
values

One-Time Actions

St lient,-add-the HDR-Exp-Collecti

Page I 42
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742
POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

° Busi impact: f a tly_-mention-hi
Fnany_branches-are-affected if helpful}

+ Status-update:- [deseription-of tstat "
ALMOST as one wade Laderstasd]

* Nextaction- — frext action to-be tak d ted-dat
fe tupdat itis-ch hat is-being db:
when}

« RootCause

« References
a ifakBAref is-not shown-but appeais-in-the detail text
then-add it to the Ref field-se-it.can Bi ied-easil
3
4.
5. Adam/Sandie/St fey ILHDR Peak tagged,the-Busi Jmpact-field-need
to-be well written and checked weekly
.
i. Root Cause values need explaining and.adding to the Application Support
Strategy document
¢ 1 Architecture
e 6 Design - Platform Design
¢ 7  Des8ign,-High Level Design
¢ 8 Design - System Outline
e« 13 “Development - Build Scripts
e 14 Development - Code
#15 Development - Low Level Design
® 16%Development - Reference Data
© 21 Requirements
e 24 Cfg Mgt - Config Data Error
e 26 = Integration - Build
« 31 Test - Test interpretation
e 32 Test - Script
¢ 33 Test - Data
¢ 34° Test - Environment
e 37 General - Network Change
e¢ 38 General - Hardware Fault
e 39 General - User Knowledge
e 40 General - User
e 41° General - in Procedure
e 42 Gen - Outside Program Control
e 43 General - Operational Change
e 96 Gen - Investigation On-Going
e« 97 General - 3rd Party issue
¢ 99 General - Unknown
+ SSCWIS Will be linked to the ASS changes
Page I 43

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

10. Steve Br/Steve Ba/Tariq/Adam/Graham -— when the final list of Live Defects is visible,
identify policy statements and decision criteria that can be defined that sees defect Peaks
either closed or actioned where currently they seem to have stagnated

17. Steve Br - Agree a process for CBIF Proposal creation

22. Steve Br — Investigate implications, of Post Office Cloud on ways of working. Check how Live
Defects are being recorded in AWS JIRA and be sure it is aligned to this Live Defect
Management process or thatjan agreed alternative way of working is defined and agreed at
DE/VP level

New Ways of Working
The identified fields necessary for Live Defect Management must be kept up to date.

1. Adam ~Mandate weekly refreshes of Impact field for all HDR- tagged Peaks (and ideally all
##LiveAffectingDefect tagged Peaks)

2. Steve Br/Adam - Implement a management process to check the new fields and ensure they

are correctly used for the next few weeks until habits form — see Appendix A for checks

a. Outcome - see Appendix A

Page I 44
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FU,

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Stream 4 -BIF, CBIF, PTF and HDR

o Team — Steve Bansal, Sandie Bothick, Adam Woodley, Tariq Arain, Matt Swain, Tomi
Okelola, James Guy — plus cascade to all 3LS, 4LS, and Architects

BIF
co BIF is a Fujitsu internal meeting
o When a Developer is ready for BIF to consider their proposal then they must
e Set BIF Action flag on the relevant Peak
¢ = If the Peak:
= Is present on a LIVE system
* — Is within Fujitsu’s scope of obligations
= — Is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design or service

specification
= — Is, therefore, a fault that is likely to need fixing
e = Then
= Add the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection.
IAdd Incident to Collection.
'##LiveAffectingDefect ~ Fault that fs present on the Live system thal fs inconsisten._ [Publ ¥] Add to Collection I

= If the cause and required action toremedy are:
¢ — Still being investigated — then set the Call Type to "L"
« Are confirmed,— set the.Call Type to “#” and also update:
o @Root Cause field is up to date

Peak In
{ petans REFERENCES PRODUCTS EVIDENCE IMPACT
[Call Reference [Pco295241
[Release [Reported In - HNG-X Rel. Ind.

[Call Type ‘0 — Operational (SSC) 7)

‘A-- Administrative use

(C= Cloned call Porat yet defined TBA] St

E ~ Enhancement Request ———;

F Document Review Design Walkthrough

G GDC Testing Incidents/Defects

I ~ Intemal Development Incidents/Defects
Primark

Live Incidents

Problem Management

~ Operational (SSC)

Product incidents/Defects

Release Notice Forum

S ~ System Testing Incidents/Defects

T Technical query

U. Securty Testing Incidents/Defects,

ent

jen Identified(38)

ss X ~ System Management Testing Incidents/Defects
Y ~ Live (Non-RefData) Data Updates

-+ Pending -- Incident Under Investigation

= Ensure Workaround field is up to date

= Ensure Product Group field is up to date
= Ensure Product field is up to date

= Ensure Priority field is up to date

= Ensure Impact field is up to date

Page I 45
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell

FUJ00232742
1J00232742
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

co All Peaks with the BIF Action flag set will be reviewed at BIF
e This will include all defects Peaks with the ##LiveAffectingDefect tag
e — It will also include other Peaks that may relate to other topics such as environments
or Peaks that the Developers wish to discuss at the forum
oO. If a Peak had previously been rejected - as more information was required - then it will have
the BIF Action flag set again when the Developer is ready to re-present their proposal
oc. BIF must consider the proposal (as it does currently) and also validate the following data
values for defect Peaks:
e If the Peak:
= Is present on a LIVE system
« — Is within Fujitsu’s scope of obligations
= Is, or appears to be, inconsistent with the agreed design or service
specification
= — Is, therefore, a fault that is likely to need fixing

= Ensure the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collectiomis set

II Add to Collection

= If the cause and required action to remedyjare:
¢ — Still being investigated = then set the Call Type to "L"
e Are confirmed = set the Call Type to “#” and also update:
o Root Cause field is up to date

Peak In

DETAILS I REFERENCES I PRODUCTS _ EVIDENCE
[Gall Reference [PC0295241
[Release [Reported In -- HNG-X Rel. Ind.
[Call Type ‘0 — Operational (SSC) v
[Contact .

-iiomiieaes aes _——
C— Cloned call figinot yet defined TBA] St
E ~ Enhancement Request is
F —- Document Review/Design Walkthrough

Summary: testing

L~ Live Incidents
all Type:L

M-~ Problem Management
0 ~ Operational (SSC)
P Product Incidents/Defects

llem Identified(38)

he Call record has) X ~ System Management Testing Incidents/Defects ps
ste: 16-Jun-2021 10) Y ~ Live (Non-RefData) Data Updates :

[End of Response]

iesponse code to call type L as Category 40 -- Pending -- Incident Under Investigation
ste: 16-Jun-2021 10:51:08 User: John Simpkins

* Ensure Workaround field is up to date

= Ensure Product Group field is up to date

= Ensure Product field is up to date

Page I 46
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell

FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

= Ensure Priority field is up to date
= Ensure Impact field is up to date
= Check if the new HDR Collections of “HDR-Fin” or “HDR-Exp” should apply.
If it needs applying then the chair must alert Steve Bansal, Adam Woodley
and Sandie Bothick. If the issue in the Peak:
e Affects, or has the potential to affect, branch financial outcomes, add
the HDR-Fin Collection
e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the way a postmaster is
required to use the system (User Interface, Report, Function), add
the HDR-Exp Collection
e Affects, or has the potential to affect, the experience of a Post Office
customer or client, add the HDR-Exp Collection

Note: Only one HDR-* Collection needs to be set and if both couldapply then HDR-Fin
should be chosen

Incident to Collection
HOR-Exp ~ Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Publc] © J] Add 0 Collection

HOR-Exp ~ Horizon Defect Review - SPM Experience [Public] .
HOR-Fin ~ Horizon Defect Review - Financial Impact [Public]

= Check if there are conditions that would mean the Peak needs POL input and
hence must go to CBIF. The ‘questions arejon the Release Mgt tab under the
BIF section

« The fix Gan be done in more than one way and POL would need to
guide Fujitsu on choosing the preferred option.

*  Thesfix may change the functionality of the system and consequently
POL will be required to provide appropriate communication, and
potentially training, to the subpostmasters.

* The fix may need to be done in conjunction with changes performed
by some of POL’s other suppliers and POL will need to manage and
synchronise that activity.

* — The fix may need to be done concurrently with a separate future
planned change, due to the two fixes being logically related, and
POL would need to confirm their willingness to accept any potential
delays in deploying the fix.

* The fix may relate to active discussions between Fujitsu and POL on
a specific and separate topic and hence should be discussed within
that context (Fujitsu management discretion).

* — Fujitsu does not believe a fix is a sensible option and seeks POL’s
agreement to record the circumstances in a KBA only.

= Note: The forecast Development (ManDays) will no longer be a deciding
factor for submission to CBIF
oO. The BIF chair must record, in Peak on the Release Mgt tab, what decisions are made:

Page I 47
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

The new BIF date fields (Initial and Completed) will,need tobe completed during, or
after, the BIF meeting (not before or it will affect status reporting)
= Initial date - will hold the date of the first\BIF the Peak was first presented at
— this value should not change
= Completed date - will hold the last BIF meetingythe Peak was discussed at —
this value will change if the Peak is,iteratively presented for review and it will
allow reporting on what was reviewed at the last BIF meeting
The outcome of BIF discussions should be)added to the BIF text box on the Release
Mgt tab. A concise note is all that is needed. No need for separate BIF minutes
If the Peak is approved at BIF\then the BIFApproved Collection must be added (also

for BIFRejected)

[Add Incident to Collection

[EiFApproved — Approved for fx by the Business Impact Forum [Team] SJ Add 0 Collection

e If the Peak is to go\to CBIF this will be determined by the field values and the BIF

chair.should not set the PTF Action flag

e Ifthe Peak.does not need to go to CBIF then the PTF Action flag will be set

The definition of BIF in the contract ASM schedule needs to be updated

CBIF is a joint meeting with POL

CBIF willhcontinue to exist and it will be merged with the
HDR Forum

CBIF will evolve to being more system driven (more
explanation below)

Items to be discussed at CBIF must have a “CBIF
Proposal” that has been created in advance using the
agreed template (see right) and approval process so it
is clear that this is what the decision needs to be made
on (not additional dialogue during a meeting)

Peaks to be discussed at CBIF are determined by Peak

data items so it is system driven. See CBIF Submission I

Extract Criteria below for the system value that will ~
determine CBIF applicability

Page I 48

MM
Document owner:

Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

o Peaks required to go to CBIF will be identifiable via system query and report and will be
shared in advance with POL so that the meeting can focus on the decision not the
familiarisation

e If we need to invite an SME to elaborate (only for exceptional submissions) then the
SME will be invited. If the submission text is well worded then SME attendance

should not be required — as is currently the case when CWOs are approved
oO The CBIF representative must record, in Peak on the Release Mgt tab (but not in the

presence of POL), what decisions are made:

e The new CBIF date fields (Initial and Completed) will need to be completed during,
or after, the BIF meeting (not,before or it will affect status reporting)
= Initial date - will hold the date ofthe first CBIF the Peak was first presented
at — this value’should,not change
= Completed date - will hold the last CBIF meeting the Peak was discussed at
— this value will.change if the Peak is iteratively presented for review and it
will allow reporting.on what was reviewed at the last CBIF meeting
e The outcomeéiof CBIF discussions should be added to the CBIF text box on the
Release Mgt tab. Aiconcise note is all that is needed. No need for separate in CBIF
minutes,
e Ifthe Peakyneeds to go back to the Developer then it should be assigned to the
Developer team
#” if the, Peak can proceed as discussed then the PTF Action flag will be set
e  If the Peak is to be discussed next time (as POL wish to seek wider feedback within
their own organisation) then the PTF Action flag will not be set and this will cause the
Peak to reappear on the weekly report
¢ CBIF rejections must get a POL reference which we add to the Peak and also to the
KBA so we know this was a POL decision. The Peak is then closed with Response
Category “63 -- Final -- Programme approved - No fix required”
co There will need to be a weekly report seen by management of what is to be presented at
CBIF, and what the status is of open CBIF items and POL decisions
co There is no definition of CBIF in the contract — it says BIF — this needs to be addressed

CBIF Submission Extract Criteria
o Asat the date of this document, the criteria to be used to determine CBIF candidates to
share with POL will be determined by creating 3 lists using the following logic. The resulting
lists will then be merged and the CBIF candidates identified. A CBIF Proposal will then be
needed as this is what will be submitted to POL.

Page I 49
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

o Filter on these values first:
e Must have the ##LiveAffectingDefect tag (relates to the Live system and does, or
might, need a fix)
e Must be Call Type "#" (a fix is needed)
e Must have a Planned Out Date in the future or blank (it has not been deployed)
«Must not be Targeted At as this means it has gone through PTF already
e Must not have a HDR Collection (or it has been to HDR anyway)

e Must not have the PTF action set (it has gone past CBIF)

e Must not have PTF dates (it has gone past CBIF)

e Must not have the Response Category set to any of these values’as these are No
Fault Found:

Response Category — 62 -- Final — No fault in product
Response Category — 63 -- Final - Programme Approved — No Fix Required
Response Category — 66 -- Final -- Enhancement Request

Response Category — 68 -- Final - Administrative Response

Response Category — 94 -- Final -- Advice and guidance given

Response Category — 95 -- Final -- Advice after Investigation

Response Category — 96 -- Final -- Insufficient evidence

Response Category — 97 -- Final -- Unspecified insufficient evidence
Response Category — 98 -- Final -- User error

Response Category — 100 -- Final -- Route call to TfS

Response Category — 120 -- Final -- Cloned to create Defect Peak

Response Category — 200 -- Final -- Call withdrawn by user

o Then, in tum, check these filters to build the 3 lists:

* List 4)— high priority Live Defects:
= Must be Priority A or B (highest impact defects)

e I List 2 — Live Defects that originated from a POL ServiceNow bonded Incident:
= Must have a POL SNOW Reference

e List 3 - Live Defects explicitly identified at BIF for taking to CBIF:
= Must have a CBIF Criteria checked marker — BIF_Ticked_Questions is not

blank (BIF selected it for CBIF)

PTF
o PTF is a Fujitsu internal meeting
o All Peaks with the PTF Action flag set will be reviewed at BIF
e This will include all defect Peaks with the ##LiveAffectingDefect tag
e It will also include other Peaks that may relate to other topics such as environments
or Peaks that the Developers wish to discuss at the forum
oO. If a Peak needs to be re-presented at PTF then it will have the PTF Action flag set again

Page I 50
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

o PTF must consider the proposal (as it does currently) and additionally be mindful that any
that carry a HDR Collection or that have been presented at CBIF must get additional scrutiny
— and potentially prioritisation —- as progress will be reported to POL weekly

o. The PTF chair must record, in Peak on the Release Mgt tab, what decisions are made:

HDR

The new PTF date fields (Initial and Completed) will need to be completed during, or
after, the PTF meeting (not before.or it will affect status reporting)
= Initial date - will hold the date of the first PTF the Peak was first presented at
— this value should not change
= Completed date - willhold the last PTF meeting the Peak was discussed at —
this value will change ifthe Peak is iteratively presented for review and it will
allow reporting on whatwas reviewed at the last PTF meeting
The outcome of PTFidiscussions should be added to the PTF text box on the
Release Mgt tab. A concise note is all that is needed. No need for separate in PTF
minutes

co There is anwpdated Terms of Reference (currently v2.2) but it has yet to be presented for
sign off. CBIF will need adding at some stage once Fujitsu are ready with the internal CBIF
processes

o Overview of the process:

Page I 51

Fujitsu takes new items as Incidents to HDR not KBAs or Peaks.

Fujitsu must ask POL for their Problem reference so it can be added to the Fujitsu
Incident (and any related Peaks) so we have the POL reference

Fujitsu embeds any relevant KBA or Peak content into the Incident it shares
Fujitsu tags its Incidents and Peaks with the applicable HDR-* Cl or Collection tags
Fujitsu does not reference its KBAs (and does not share them with POL in their
native form)

The only Peak reference is the defect Peak reference Fujitsu raises when the cause
is known and a fix is to be taken through the fixing process. Fujitsu will close the
investigation Peak and the linked Incident as the confirmed defect Peak reference
will be the one that will be managed from this point

If a KBA, or internal Peak, is created that identifies a condition that meets the
definition of HDR Defect then Fujitsu raises an Incident by contacting Fujitsu MAC
with the relevant KBA content in it and Fujitsu MAC bonds the Incident and alerts
POL

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e Updates on potential Live Defects is provided via bonded Incident updates
e Updates on confirmed Live Defects is provided by defect Peak weekly reports
e The above ensure POL has visibility at all times either from their ServiceNow
Incident or by maintaining their ServiceNow Problem record (POL will need to
transpose data from the weekly Fujitsu reports into its Problem records)
e As this is an early warning forum too, we will also issue an email alert to the Fujitsu
Duty Manager distribution list and a POL distribution list to alert interested parties
Summary
e Potential HDR Defects will be reported automatically to POL via the service
management toolset replication driven by Fujitsu updates to the TfSNow Incident
e Actual HDR Defects (including any deferred) will be shared with POL weekly by an
extract report from Peak that will be sent to POL in advance of the meeting showing
the latest update
e New CBIF content will be shared with POL on a weekly report from Peak that will
include the proposal and will be sent to POL in advance of the meeting
e Updates to CBIF content will be shared with POL weekly by a extract report from
Peak that will be sent to POL in advance of the meeting showing the latest update
The Incident will be worked by Fujitsu if it is within the Fujitsu scope of obligations —
otherwise it will be passed to POL ITDSD to assign to,the relevant POL third party
POL will probably convert the ServiceNow Incident to a ServiceNow Problem — but that is
their choice
If Fujitsu completes its investigation and confirms theres no HDR Defect then the
investigation Peak and Incident will beclosed with no further actions required. The defect
Peak will be closed with Response Category “95 -- Final — Advice after Investigation” to say
the HDR Defect was not confirmed
For the purposes of Live Defect Management, Fujitsu will use Peak references not TfSNow
Problem references
Fujitsu will provide its view of status = from its systems — and manage any difference of
opinion with POL
Fujitsu will provide'weekly updates prior to the meeting
e Potential HDR Defects — no action required as the updates will already be in POL
ServiceNow
e Confirmed and deferred HDR Defects — by sharing the latest update on the defect
Peak we are managing our side in the form of a report.
«© CB!FynewLive Defects — for decision by sharing the pro-forma proposal in a report
and inviting a decision
* Note: Any reports will be checked and sent in advance of the HDR Forum so POL can add it to

their Problem record and ensure they are ready to provide a decision to the CBIF new Live
Defects

The HDR Forum needs to evolve away from a “talking shop” to one of quick facts that
demonstrate systematic control and confidence. Fujitsu should reduce the number of
attendees

If POL need more information, the Fujitsu Incident, Peak or Problem owner is tasked to get it
and add it to our system — or we get the CBIF proposal updated for resubmission. The new
information must be added to the system

POL need to hold the Fujitsu Incident or defect Peak reference in their Problem record so
they know what to ask us for an update on — and what to apply our report updates to in their
system

Page I 52

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

o The HDR minutes need an overhaul for Fujitsu. This is the Fujitsu specific meeting and yet it
lists numerous Live Defects that are not related to Fujitsu and the minutes are sprawling and
hard to follow. POL will be advised that:

« They need to make it clear which HDR Defects are within Fujitsu's scope of
obligations

e They need to show the Fujitsu Live Defect reference (ServiceNow/TfSNow Incident
or defect Peak)

e They need to show Fujitsu's latest update

« Asummary view at the top is needed - New, Open, Closed, by Severity, by area
affected, and trend

o Any ad-hoc calls should only be required when the next scheduled meetingjis too far away.
Updates from Fujitsu must come from the Incident update or defect Peak report withsany
additional comments made during the meeting being added to the Incident or defect Peak

co There is no definition of HDR in the contract — this needs to be addressed

HDR Submission Extract Criteria
o Asat the date of this document, the criteria to be used to determineé:HDR reporting
candidates to share with POL will be determined by creating 3 lists using the following logic.
The resulting lists will then be merged and the HDR candidates identified.
o Aspreadsheet format has been used to date sothe previous week's submission should be
used as the basis for the new report
o Filter on these values first:

e Must have the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection (relates to the Live system and
does, or might, need a fix)
e Must have the either the HDR-Fin or HDR-Exp Collection (Collections contains HDR)
« Must have a Planned Out Date in\the future or blank (it has not been deployed)
e Must not have the Response Category set to any of these values as these are No
Fault Found:
Response Category — 62 -- Final — No fault in product
Response Category — 63 -- Final - Programme Approved — No Fix Required
Response Category — 66 -- Final -- Enhancement Request
Response Category — 68 -- Final - Administrative Response
Response Category — 94 -- Final -- Advice and guidance given
Response Category — 95 -- Final -- Advice after Investigation
Response Category — 96 -- Final -- Insufficient evidence
Response Category — 97 -- Final -- Unspecified insufficient evidence
Response Category — 98 -- Final -- User error
Response Category — 100 -- Final -- Route call to TfS
Response Category — 120 -- Final -- Cloned to create Defect Peak

Response Category — 200 -- Final -- Call withdrawn by user

o List 1 — Deferred Live Defect Peaks
e Must also have the Collection “Deferral Agreed”

Page I 53
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e These are unlikely to be discussed at HDR as they are previously approved and
understood but are provided to show the level of Fujitsu control
e Extract the list showing:
= Category (HDR-Fin = Impact, HDR-Exp = Experience)
¢ Sort on this field
= POL Reference (N/A at this time)
« Fujitsu Reference (the Peak Call reference)
¢ Sort on this field too
= Summary
= Confirmed Defect (Call Type is # = Yes, otherwise No)
= Workaround

o
category POLReference Fulitsu Reference summary ‘Defect? Workaround
Impact_IWA INONE,

o Next Lists — non-Deferred Peaks
* Must NOT have the Collection “Deferral Agreed”
e List 2 — Project Live Defects.
= If clearly from a Project that is undera controlled,rollout where the Fujitsu
and POL Project Managers are working together (e.g. PBS — identifiable by
the use of “PBS” or “PITPOS” { which is an Ingenico Jira reference}, or other
identifiable text)
e¢ Summary contains “PBS or contains “PITPOS”
= There may be none
= These are unlikely to.be discussed at HDR as they are part of the ongoing
Project Manager regular review calls
= Extract the list showing:
« Category (HDR-Fin = Impact, HDR-Exp = Experience)
o \ Sort on this field
« POL Reference (N/A at this time)
© Fujitsu Reference (the Peak Call reference for Call Type #,
othenwise the TfSNow/ServiceNow Incident reference)
o Sort on this field too
Summary
* Confirmed Defect (Call Type is # = Yes, otherwise No)
¢ Workaround

category _ poLReference Fula
imps. NONE

e List 3 — non-Project Live Defects (likely originating from an Incident during normal
service delivery)

= These require more comprehensive information as these will be discussed at
the HDR meeting

= Having reached this point there will be a small number of entries left

= This needs cross-referencing to the previous week’s submission to check if
anything is new or if anything has disappeared. This will need manual
checking for confidence

= Some may still be under investigation. They will have a Call Type of “Live
Incident” and will have TfSNow/ServiceNow Incident references. For these,
the Fujitsu Update should be “See TfSNow/ServiceNow Incident update” as
this is where the latest status should be recorded

Page I 54
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

= Some may relate to Fujitsu Problems. The Collections should contain
“FJPRB-“. For these, the Fujitsu Update should be the latest entry in the
relevant Fujitsu Problem record in TfSNow
= The remainder should have the Call Type “Defect Identified”. For these, the
Fujitsu Update should be derived from the Business Impact field which will
need to be checked and improved if necessary
= Extract the list showing:
e Category (HDR-Fin = Impact, HDR-Exp = Experience)
o Sort on this field
e POL Reference (this should be known unless the entry is new)
¢ Fujitsu Reference (the Peak Call reference for Call, Type #,
otherwise the TfSNow/ServiceNow Incident or Problem reference)
o Sort on this field too
e Summary
« Confirmed Defect (Call Type is # = Yes, otherwise No)
¢ Workaround
e Business Impact (See Incident, latest,Problem record update, or
Business Impact field)

a i I

Beene L L _ J

KB — Info only

The Fujitsu KB is an information repository used for support purposes
Any observed Live Defects will be recorded as a KBA but the progress to investigate and
address them will be done via Peak(s) and Incident(s)

o KBAs do not need to be shared with POL as the tracking needs to be on the Peak and
Incident raised to progress them

co If the awareness or involvement of POL is applicable then there will be a TfSNow bonded
Incident and this wilkcontain all relevant parts of any KBA so that the Incident that POL see
is a suitable complete reference

o If POL accept.a Live Defect — namely decide that no action is required — then the KBA will be
updated accordingly and will have the POL applicable reference added so it is clear that it
was not fixed by POL decision. This is a contract responsibility on POL to record these and
issue, Fujitsu.with a notification

Page I 55
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Release Mgt tab — for BIF, CBIF and PTF aq

[-BIF Questions:
‘The fu can be dane m more than one way ané POL would need to gue Fuytsu on choosing the prefered ation

i

I__The ema cnange me cent he ate and conseuerty POL vb equres 9 prowde aeropiaeconmuncaton and plenty taneg 10 e subpostmases
(7 Te cay neato be done im cenucon wh changes promed by some of POL er upper and POL il need to manage and eyctone tha chy,
[
[
[

“The may neato be ne concent wih 3 separate Me sed change de foe ho is Borg oe els, a POL wo edo cf er wang to cet ay pole asi deploying Re
The may rate ace Gece beheen Fy and POL wpect and veparse ae ad hee std be ceed win at contd Fis managment aceon. I
Felts dosnt beleve afi» erie open and seeks POL agreemert io record he ceumsanes in a KE on

Test CIF progress

Test PTF progress

Test wr update

Page I 56
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
CBIF / HDR Diagram

Ifit is a Live Defect then
add the
LiveAffectingDefect Cl
If itis a HDR Incident
then add relevant Cl
Updates auto replicate
POL rely on ServiceNow

Page I 57

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

Incident — Peak — Defect — HDR — CBIF

Potential Defect

Investigation Peak

(Investigation) I

POL Incident
[ServiceNow]

Fujitsu
[T

If POL notification
needed

Fujitsu Internal

Internal Live
Investigation Peak
[Call Type “U")

Version & Last updated
Document owner

Confirmed Defect

Fujitsu Internal

I
Fujitsu Reports

HDR/CBIF, or
Continuous Improvement

Live Defec

Internal Liv
Defect Peak
[Call Type changed
to “#”]

Deferred Live Peak

See file name
Steve Browell

All should be Call Type “#”
All should have the Collection
HifLiveAffectingDefect
If HDR then relevant Collection should be
added
Updates do not auto replicate
Updates are system driven by reports:
1. Live Defects with the HDR Collection -
for the HDR meeting
2. CBIF qualifying Peaks — for the HDR
meeting
3. Live Defects excluding the HDR
Collection — reported (TBC) under
Continuous Improvement
4. Deferred Defect Peaks - for
information and tracking
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4

Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Actions
System Changes

fF POL:

Fujitsu-d t bel fic ible-opti d Seeks ROL tt

o =BIF

tabtor the Peaks being discussed

4. Tariq/Matt S — identify any documents that refer to BIF that need to be updated (e.g.
Work Instructions)

5. Steve Br-look at amending the BIF references in the contract documents

6
o «CBIF
TS
2.
3
4
5
6. James/Steve Br — identify the POL obligations to provide references for rejected
proposals and ensure they are appropriately stored in Peak and on KBAs
7. Steve Br —- look at amending the BIF references in the contract documents
Page I 58

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

/James. th ss-for-th Kt rt-creati lidation and
9. Steve Bi ig pA y-Fept Fi o

sharing with POL.

o PTF

6. Steve Br — look at how HDR should be referenced in the contract documents

New Ways of Working
o «6BIF

« Tarig—Devel taking defect Peaks_to BIF-need-to- the Peak-field:

= Create any BIF minutes by using Peak queries that extract the fields required®="
o CBIF
e James - The CBIF representative must record, in Peak on the Release Mgt tab (but
not in the presence of POL), what decisions are made

Page I 59
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

Page 59 Comments

Browell, Steven, 09/08/2021 03:46 PM

FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

= The new CBIF date fields (Initial and Completed) will need to be completed
during, or after, the CBIF meeting (not before or it will affect status reporting)
¢ Initial date - will hold the date of the first CBIF the Peak was first
presented at — this value should not change
« Completed date - will hold the last CBIF meeting the Peak was
discussed at — this value will change if the Peak is iteratively
presented for review and it will allow reporting on what was reviewed
at the last CBIF meeting
= The outcome of CBIF discussions should be added to the CBIF text box on
the Release Mgt tab. A concise note is all that is needed. No need for
separate in CBIF minutes
= If the Peak needs to go back to the Developer then it should be assigned to
the Developer team
= If the Peak can proceed as discussed then the PTF Action flag will be set
= — If the Peak is to be discussed next time (as POL\wish to.seek wider feedback
within their own organisation) then the PTF Action flag will not be set and this
will cause the Peak to reappear on the weekly report
= CBIF rejections must get a POL reference which we add to the Peak and
also to the KBA so we know this was a POL decision. The Peak is then
closed with Response “63 -- Final -- Programme approved - No fix required”

e Steve Br/Steve'Ba/Adam/Sandie — the meeting needs to be fed with a report shared
in advance for confirmed Live Defects and CBIF updates (potential Live Defects are
updated through the service management toolsets)

e Steve Ba/Adam/Sandie - Incidents in either Peak or TfSNow need to be robustly
managed and management will need to check and coach the teams

« Steve/Ba/Adam/Sandie — Incidents tagged with “HDR*” need to be intercepted early
and an alert sent to an agreed distribution list in both Fujitsu and POL

Page I 60
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)
(pss)

Appendix A — Peak data anomaly checks

To ensure the data in Peak remains consistent with the intentions of the changes within this
document, managers will need to conduct manual checks. Those checks should cover at least the
following. Expanded checklists should be created within each team. The POA Defect Manager will
also need to do this at a cross-function level.

The checks relate to Peaks that have had, or probably should have, the ##LiveAffectingDefect
Collection added.

Data Consistency & Accuracy

1. [ALL POA Managers] Any manager or senior manager on POA should ensure they have a
process to review all of the areas under their control to determine that progress isappropriate —
whether related to TfSNow or Peak. Live Defects need active managementiand it cannot be
left to individuals, escalations and exception management

2. [ALL Team Managers] Does the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection need setting on any Peaks in
your area

3. [ALL Team Managers] Does a HDR-* Collection need setting On any Peaks in your area

4. [ALL Team Managers] If the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection is set, is it (still) correct?

5. [ALL Team Managers] If the ##LiveAffectingDefect is set then is progress to an outcome going
as quickly as it could?

6. [ALL Team Managers] All Peaks with a HDR-* Collection must have a well worded Impact
update

7. [ALL Team Managers] Any Peaks that have both HDR-* Collections set should retain the HDR-
Fin Collection as this is more important to POL and HDR-Exp. A Peak should only have one
HDR-* Collection

8. [ALL Team Managers] If a Workaround is,in placefor a Peak then the Workaround Reference
field must have the value “Yes”

9. [ALL Team Managers] Irrespective of any Peak settings, is progress being made as quickly as
possible?

10. [ALL Team Managers] Any delay in.making progress on Peaks due to other priorities e.g.
projects or changes must be raised to the next level of management as Live service should
always be the priority

11. [ALL Team Managers] Peaks that have the following No Fault Found Response Category
outcome should 'be,checked to ensure this is the right Response Category and also Closed as a
conclusion has been reached with no ‘fix’ action required by Fujitsu:

Response Category — 62 -- Final — No fault in product

Response Category — 63 -- Final -- Programme Approved — No Fix Required

Response Category — 66 -- Final -- Enhancement Request

Response Category — 68 -- Final - Administrative Response

Response Category — 94 -- Final -- Advice and guidance given

Response Category — 95 -- Final -- Advice after Investigation

Response Category — 96 -- Final -- Insufficient evidence

Response Category — 97 -- Final -- Unspecified insufficient evidence

Response Category — 98 -- Final -- User error

Response Category — 100 -- Final -- Route call to TIS

Response Category — 120 -- Final -- Cloned to create Defect Peak
Page I 61

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

Page 61 Comments

BS5 Generate error checking reporting — filter by Assigned Team or Call Logger
Browell, Steven, 05/08/2021 01:43 PM
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

FUJ00232742

FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Response Category — 200 -- Final -- Call withdrawn by user
Note: The Response Category must be changed if this is not a No Fault Found outcome

[ALL Team Managers] Peaks closed as Administrative Response should be checked as this is
sometimes a default selection. If it is wrong e.g. as it was in fact a software fix that was
deployed, then the Peak will need to be re-opened and correctly updated before being closed
again
[All Team Managers] Peaks with the ##LiveAffectingDefect Collection should be Call Type L or
#. Where they are not, the Call Type should be challenged and changed
e This can exclude Peaks where the Planned Out Live (Date Out Live field on Peak
screens) is in the past and the ‘fix’ has been deployed
«These Peaks can be closed if they have a No Fault Found Response)Category as
this shows they were subsequently determined to require no,action by Fujitsu
[All Team Managers] These Response Categories with the following field values should be Call
Type “#” as they explicitly state there is a Live Defect to ‘fix’:

Response Category — 41 - Pending ~ Product Error Diagnosed

Response Category — 42 ~ Pending ~ Documentation Error Diagnosed

Note: The Response Category must be changed if this is not a confirmed Live Defect

[All Team Managers] Peaks where the Call Logger starts with "Deleted User" or is blank need
the Call Logger Team oversight as the referenced Call Logger has left the system and hence
the Peak may be orphaned

e This can exclude Peaks where:the,Planned Out Live (Date Out Live field on Peak

screens) is in the past and the ‘fix’ has been deployed

[All Team Managers] Peaks need to accurately state the Product and Product Group as this will
be used to identify the system components\to which Live Defects are associated
[ALL Team Managers] Peaks that have been set to Status “F” (Final) should be deployed fixes
awaiting closure. If they are not\deployed then the status should be changed to a “P” status. If
they are Status F then the Call Logger or Call Logger Team manager should ensure these are
closed
[ALL Team Managers] The Summary field should be as clear as it possible and all updates
added to show progress should,be clearly understandable by any reader
[ALL Team Managers] The Root Cause on any Peak should be maintained and it should be
checked carefully when being changed from Status “F” to Status “C”
[ALL Team Managers] Any Peaks that have a confirmed cause and require a fix must have the
Call Type.changed to “#”
[All Team Managers] Any Peaks that are Call Type “#” can be bonded to TfSNow Incidents but
NOT ifjthe TfSNow Incident is also bonded to POL ServiceNow. Peaks that are Call Type “#”
must be cloned to break the automatic replication with POL ServiceNow bonded Incidents
[Release Management] The key fields on any Peaks presented at BIF, CBIF or PTF must be
checked and amended accordingly
[Release Management] Peaks with release set to “Re-target” should have the PTF Action
automatically set
[Release Management] Check that Peaks that have the CBIF flags set do not have the PTF
action set until CBIF has been updated (catch the accidental setting of PTF Action after BIF but
before CBIF decision provided)
[Release Management] All Peaks with Planned Out Live (Date Out Live field on Peak screens)
in the past should be Closed. The ‘fix’ has been deployed. If they are Status F then the Call
Logger or Call Logger Team manager should ensure these are closed
[Release Management] All Peaks where the Planned Out Live (Date Out Live field on Peak
screens) is blank or in the future should not be Closed as the ‘fix’ has not yet been deployed

o These Peaks can be closed if they have a No Fault Found Response Category as

this shows they were subsequently determined to require no action by Fujitsu

Page I 62

Version & Last updated. See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

27. [Release Management] All Peaks with Target Release Type of “Targeted At” are Release
Management responsibility to drive to deployment demanding action from other teams as
needed to ensure timely progress

28. [Release Management] When a Peak is discussed for the first time at a BIF, CBIF or PTF
meeting then the applicable Planned Date and Actual Date should be set to the same date. If
the Peak is re-presented at any of these meetings then the Actual Date should change to the
date they were reviewed. Suitable comments should be added to the relevant section and
updates should be appended to maintain a log

29. [Release Management] If a Peak is approved at BIF then it must have the “BIFApproved”
Collection added and the BIF Action removed

30. [Release Management] If a Peak is approved at BIF and does not need to go to CBIF then it
must have the PTF Action set and the BIF Action removed

31. [Release Management] If a Peak is rejected at BIF then it is expected that the Peak will be
closed with an appropriate update. The Peak must have the “BIFRejected” Collectionadded
and the BIF Action removed

32. [Release Management] If a Peak is not approved at BIF (and not fejected) then the BIF Action
should remain so the Peak is picked up at the next BIF meeting

33. [Release Management] If a Peak is targeted at PTF then the PTF,Action should be removed

34. [Release Management] If a Peak is not targeted at PTF then the. PTF Action should remain so
the Peak is picked up at the next PTF meeting

35. [Release Management] The BIF Action should only be removed if BIF approves or rejects a
Peak

36. [Release Management] The Root Cause on any Peak,should,be maintained and it should be
checked carefully when being targeted and prepared for release to live

37. [Business Development] Any Peaks with the Collection "Deferral Agreed" should be Call Type
"#" unless the defect needs further investigation in which case it is Call Type "L"

e This can exclude Peaks where the Planned Out Live (Date Out Live field on Peak
screens) is in the past and the ‘fix’ has been deployed

38. [ALL Dev Teams] When a Live Defectis;confirmed, if the Peak is bonded to TfSNow and POL
ServiceNow then it must be cloned: The clone reference is to be added to the original Peak
and the original Peak closed withthe Response Category “Cloned to create defect Peak”. If the
Peak is not bonded to TfSNow and POL ServiceNow then it can just have the Call Type
changed to “#”

39. [ALL Dev Teams] When a Live Defect is confirmed and the Call Type is changed to “#” the BIF
Action must be set as soon possible so that the Peak moves quickly towards being targeted

40. [SSC] Peakscontaining the HDR Collection that:

e Are not Call Type "#"

*__ Do not the Planned Out Live (Date Out Live field on Peak screens) in the past as the

‘fix’ has. been deployed

* Are not closed as they had a No Fault Found Response Category

e And were not Deferred
must have a TfSNow and a ServiceNow Incident reference as they are under active
investigation and affect a POL branch so POL must be aware through the service management
toolsets

41. [SSC] Peaks containing the HDR Collection that are Call Type "#" may have a TfSNow and a
ServiceNow Incident reference but they should not be linked to TfSNow. If they are, they need
to be cloned as they are investigation Peaks. The investigation Peak needs to be closed with
the defect Peak reference added. These will also include defect Peaks that originated from an
Incident raised within Fujitsu which POL did not need to be made aware of

Process Consistency & Rigour

[Release Management] Peaks that are Defect Identified that are Priority A or B or have a HDR-
* Collection must get an urgent BIF/PTF review to be assigned a Release as well as a Release
Date. A hot-fix must also be proposed for POA/POL management decision

Page I 63
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

e [Release Management] Peaks that are Call Type "# - Defect Identified” but have not yet been
to BIF (BIF action not yet set and BIFApproved not in Collection) then action is needed unless
they are scheduled for the next BIF meeting

e This can exclude Peaks where the Planned Out Live (Date Out Live field on Peak
screens) is in the past and the ‘fix’ has been deployed

e This can exclude Peaks that are Targeted At as they may have been handled prior to
the new processes

« These Peaks can be closed if they have a No Fault Found Response Category as
this shows they were subsequently determined to require no action by Fujitsu

e [Release Management] Targeted At Peaks should be Call Type "#" as the Defect is identified.
This should have been caught at BIF and/or PTF

«This can exclude Peaks where the Planned Out Live (Date Out Live,field on Peak
screens) is in the past and the ‘fix’ has been deployed

« These Peaks can be closed if they have a No Fault Found Response Category as
this shows they were subsequently determined to require no action by Fujitsu

« [Release Management] Peaks that are identified as “Re-target” should have the PTF action set
to force the continued discussion so a next step is clear

e [Release Management] Targeted At and Proposed For - where Planned Out Live (Date Out
Live field on Peak screens) is blank or in the future shouldibe Open (O or P) and not Closed (F
or C). Although F is still technically open, the Call Logger may deem it acceptable to close it
prematurely — hence Status F should be avoided

e [Release Management] Where release numbers are referenced in Target Releases, a date for
the release should be added and reasons why, no date can be assigned should be challenged

e [Release Management] We need to highlight where the Target Release is ‘Rel. Ind.’ or ‘Next
Counter Release’ — perhaps with POL so they,share our enthusiasm to schedule and fix - and
in so doing we keep momentum.

e [Release Management] If a Peak has been to BIF it needs to have the BIFApproved or
BIFRejected collection added. If not'then it should have the BIF Action flag set as it is to be re-
presented

e [All] Managers/Team Leaders must check for Peaks that have been cloned to ensure the
reasons match the conditions agreed. If they do not, then appropriate action must be taken
(update the cloning rules, remove the’clone, ensure the reason for cloning is captured on the
master Peak and that the purpose of the new clone is captured in the cloned Peak)

Page I 64
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

BST,

To ensure the data in TfSNow remains consistent with the intentions of the changes within this
document, managers will need to conduct manual checks. Those checks should cover at least the
following. Expanded checklists should be created within each team. The POA Defect Manager will
also need to do this at a cross-function level.

The checks relate to TfSNow Incidents that have had the ##LiveAffectingDefect or any HDR-*
Configuration Items added.

Data Consistency & Accuracy
e [Defect Manager] Check TfSNow Incidents ...

Page I 65
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

Page 65 Comments

BS6 Generate error checking reporting — filter by Assigned Team or Call Logger
Browell, Steven, 05/08/2021 01:43 PM

BS7 Create per manager checklist
Browell, Steven, 05/08/2021 01:43 PM
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

POA Improvements — Streams 1-4
Improved Ways of Working & Actions Required

FUJITSU CONFIDENTIAL — INTERNAL USE ONLY (POA ONLY)

Appendix C — draft criteria for closing defect Peaks with NO action

There will always be Live Defects that experience and judgement says are simply not worth fixing. To
ensure this is a matter of policy and not one of subjective decision making, criteria is needed that
staff can use to make decisions.

The following is an initial draft to build upon.
A fix for a Live Defect will NOT be progressed if at least THREE of the following conditions apply:

* The frequency of occurrence of the Live Defect is rare — less than TWICE penannum

* — The impact of the Live defect is minor — it does NOT affect branch operations,or Fujitsu
service delivery

* The impact of the Live defect only affects Fujitsu service delivery— and Fujitsu has
compensating controls in place and Fujitsu management.has agreed to taking no action

* The impact of the Live defect is accepted by POL — and.a KBA has been created by both
Fujitsu and POL clearly stating the decision and the decision maker

* The time to remedy the Live Defect would have noticeable implications on other delivery
work — it would be an unwanted distractionjof resources

* — The Live Defect is in a part of the system that will be decommissioned before any fix could
be developed and deployed

* The Live Defect relates to Fujitsu internal documenta’ tinr only and the remedy will not affect
the understanding or support of the.system by Fuitst

Live Defects recorded in Jira’s that meet the above criteria do not need to be raised as Peaks as
doing so would simply se@,the Peaks immediately closed. A Jira that describes a Live Defect that
would warrant a KBA must havea KBA written to help future support activities.

Page I 66
Version & Last updated: See file name
Document owner: Steve Browell
FUJ00232742
FUJ00232742

Page 66 Comments

Browell, Steven, 09/08/2021 03:36 PM

