FUJ00120452
FUJ00120452

Fujitsu Services Service Description for Systems Management Service Ref: CS/SER/008

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Version: 1.0

Date: 18-Dec-2002

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Originator & Dept:

Contributors:

Internal Distribution:

External Distribution:

Service Description for Systems Management Service

Customer Service Specification

N/A

A description of the Systems Management Service provided under
contract to Post Office Limited

APPROVED

Peter Burden, Fujitsu Services Customer Service

Peter Burden, Martin Riddell

[Approval Authorities: {Position Signature Date
Name

Martin Riddell (Customer Services Director]
[Fujitsu Services

Liz Tuddenham Supplier & Service
Performance Manager, Post
(Office Ltd

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: I of 7

CONTRACT CONTROLLED DOCUMENT
FUJ00120452
FUJ00120452

Fujitsu Services Service Description for Systems Management Service Ref: CS/SER/008
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Dec-2002
0.0 Document Control
0.1 Document History
\Version No. [Date Reason for Issue IAssociated
(CP/PinICL
1.0 18/12/02 First authorised version of this CCD
0.2 Review Details
Mandatory Review Authority Name
Optional Review / Issued for Information
(*) = Reviewers that returned comments
0.3 Associated Documents
Reference ersion [Date Title ‘Source
[PA/TEM/001 17.0 /04/ 2002 [Fujitsu Services Document Template [PVCS
\CS/SIP/002 0 Business Continuity Framework IPVCS
\CS/PRO/097 (CSR+ Operating Environmentpycs
Processes and Procedure:
[Description
ICS/SER/0014 1.0 Service Management — Servicepycs

[Description

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current
approved versions of the documents.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

CONTRACT CONTROLLED DOCUMENT

Page: 2 of 7
FUJ00120452

FUJ00120452
Fujitsu Services Service Description for Systems Management Service Ref: CS/SER/008
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Dec-2002

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms have the following meanings:
(Abbreviation Definition
Branch [For the purposes of this document “Branch” shall mean all Post Office;

Premises with the Horizon Service Infrastructure. For the avoidance of doubt,
his excludes stand alone Horizon terminals.

IHSH Customers Post Office staff and staff of Post Office Clients having a direc
interface with the Horizon Service Infrastructure, providing that the
satisfy the relevant validation criteria.

Terms defined in this Agreement shall have the same meaning where used in this CCD

0.5 Changes in this Version

\Version (Changes

1.0 Final version agreed between Post Office & Fujitsu Services

0.6 Changes Expected

(Changes

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 7
CONTRACT CONTROLLED DOCUMENT
FUJ00120452
FUJ00120452

Fujitsu Services Service Description for Systems Management Service Ref: CS/SER/008
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Dec-2002

0.7 Table of Contents

1 SERVICE SUMMARY...

2 SERVICE PRINCIPLES....

3. SERVICE DEFINITION...

4 SERVICE AVAILABILITY.

5 SERVICE TARGETS AND LIMITS

6 SERVICE DEPENDENCIES.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 7
CONTRACT CONTROLLED DOCUMENT
FUJ00120452

FUJ00120452

Fujitsu Services Service Description for Systems Management Ref: CS/SER/008

Service
Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Dec-2002

1 Service Summary

The primary elements of this service are an event management service and a software
distribution service, which are deployed based on a central service delivery capability, able to
interact with cach of the Branches.

2 Service Principles

The following service principles will apply to the provision of the Systems Management
Service.

a)

)

c)

d)

°)

Operational staff will be appropriately trained to carry out the Systems Management
Service.

From time to time, Fujitsu Services shall be entitled to vary the number of operational
staff, subject to the number of available staff being sufficient to meet the operational
demand for this Systems Management Service.

The service is based on remote unattended principles that seek to minimise
interruptions to the normal business operation of the branch estate.

The System Management Service shall carry out system management of all the
Applications in a consistent and coherent manner. The activities within each
Application shall be co-ordinated such that, for example, changes and faults can be
tracked across Application boundaries.

Changes to the Applications shall be made speedily and accurately.

3 Service Definition

Fujitsu Services will provide a service with the following attributes:

a)

b)

Monitoring of events in the Branch infrastructure and data centre estate. Events are the
indications of conditions that have operational significance. They include software,
hardware or security conditions that may require investigation and also include
occurrences of events such as low battery in PIN Pads. Investigations may involve
other Operational Services or a defined recovery procedure.

Software distribution to the Branch and data centre in accordance with direction from
the release management activity included in the Service Management Service. New and
updated software will be deployed and remotely installed across the network to a
specific Branch, all Branches, or a group of Branches. The distribution process
separates the transfer of software from its subsequent installation, thus enabling the
installation process to take effect from a particular date or time. Updated software can
be reversed out. The definition of platforms eligible for a particular distribution can be
based on a range of criteria. Such criteria can range from a nominated PC in a specific
branch to all PC’s that do not have a specific version of software installed

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 1

CONTRACT CONTROLLED DOCUMENT
FUJ00120452
FUJ00120452

Fujitsu Services Service Description for Systems Management Ref: CS/SER/008
Service
Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Dec-2002

c) Software repository management through the update of a software inventory database
which identifies which software versions are stored on the components of the Branch
infrastructure and selected data centre platforms.

d) Asset management - the storage and maintenance of information required for provision
of the Systems Management Service.

e) Fujitsu Services shall provide and maintain an asset register. This shall be a detailed list
of all physical components installed at Post Office Premises and made available to Post
Office on request.

The asset register shall identify all of the Horizon equipment that is installed at each
Branch and shall be available to Post Office.

The asset register shall contain operational information that shall support the
management and control of both implementation activities where appropriate and
Operational Services. Including, inter alia:

site address and contact information;
© site implementation status details;

© system configuration details;

e Equipment types and serial numbers;
e Software versions;

e Applications versions.

The Asset Register shall be available for enquiries by Help Desk staff as necessary
in responding to queries from HSH Customers. It shall be updated promptly when
any new equipment is installed in a Branch or other Post Office location or when
new or updated software is distributed and installed.

The Asset Register shall be capable to accept any additions to the Horizon Service
Infrastructure.

The Asset Register need not be a single physical entity, but may be logical collection
of information from separates systems within any of the Operational Services

f) Configuration Management - the non-static configuration parameters that drive the
Applications and operating system.

g) Support for the Data Centre Operations Service, including support for network
management in terms of the network/Branch connectivity.

h) Support for other services, including Branch Change Service and Engineer Service.
This includes the provision of a software distribution service integrated with the
installation of new or replacement PC’s within the counter estate, including
configuration details being made available to support equipment replacement at a

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED DOCUMENT
FUJ00120452
FUJ00120452

Fujitsu Services Service Description for Systems Management Ref: CS/SER/008
Service
Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 18-Dec-2002

Branch in situations where configuration details cannot be loaded from a local PC
(typically at single counter position Branch).

i) In line with the CCD entitled “Business Continuity Framework” (CS/SIP/002) carry
out business continuity testing in accordance with relevant plans and supporting
operational procedures.

g) The Systems Management Service provides a time synchronisation service to all the
branch and data centre estate. All platforms have access to a highly reliable time source
and this access is configures to ensure a consistent date and time. This caters for the
handling of clock changes at the beginning and end of British Summer Time.

4 Service Availability
The service is not directly available to Post Office Ltd. It is a service internal to Fujitsu

Services and is available 24 hours a day, every day of the year.

5 Service Targets and Limits

There are no specific Service Targets linked directly with this service. Limits are as identified
below.

Systems Management and _ Software/Monitoring 50,000 events a week.
Distribution

Distributing 40 software packages centrally pe
jmonth.

Distributing 18 software packages to the outlets per
month.

6 Service Dependencies

The processors in the branch estate must remain available to the Systems Management Service
outside normal business hours. Specifically this means each processor in the Branch estate
must be kept switched on in accordance with the CCD CSR+ Operating Environment
Processes and Procedures Description (CS/PRO/097).

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 1
CONTRACT CONTROLLED DOCUMENT
