FUJ00092875
FUJ00092875

To: Harrison Chrisi. et hited J
From: Cooper Steve[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=COOPERS4]
Sent: Thur 2/4/2010 4:09:15 PM (UTC)

Subject: RE: HNGX Pilot Update

Hi Chris,

Bizarrely enough the QoS issue seems to have been resolved as of today. Wayne sent us a mail indicating that some 10,000 sites
have had the drop and only 180 or so remain. Of course, no-one has been able to access the webpage since around lunch time so
it's not all good news....

Cheers

Steve

From: Harrison Chris

Sent: 04 February 2010 15:21
To: Cooper Steve

Subject: RE: HNGX Pilot Update

Hi Steve,

See below mail. Can you add to any of the issues/problems/general crapness of anything?! I'm sure you can!

Yeah!

Service type not updated - impact 4

The service type on Tivoli is not updating for every site that has a Branch Router installed. Should be Horizon + 20 but there are
some site that have had a Branch Router installed that are still showing Horizon service type. We had been advised this had been
resolved but this still appears to be an issue. PEAK was closed.

QoS unavailable - impact 5
Sites that have the Branch Router migration package committed are not showing QoS from the commit date onwards. CMT
diagnostics are extremely difficult without this information as they are unable to check comms history. PEAK ref: 193853

No CMT reporting on WWAN usage - impact 2

HNG sites should now be able to use the Orange service as backup but there is currently no reporting in place. The more sites that
have Orange the more POL may want to know what sites are using what service type and CMT will not be able to run a report to
raise necessary calls from. No PEAK I am aware of.

Chris Harrison

Post Office Account
Fujitsu
Caven Stevenage, Hertfordshire, SG1 2DY

Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fuj

services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registe

fice: 22 Baker Street, London, W1L

Disclaimer: This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. If you are not the intended
recipient then please disregard this email. Please do not forward/copy/store this email. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted
and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Machin Leighton

Sent: 04 February 2010 14:54
To: Harrison Chris

Subject: FW: HNGX Pilot Update

Anything to add to these?
FUJ00092875
FUJ00092875

From: Hill Sarah(POA HSD)
Sent: 04 February 2010 10:40
To: Machin Leighton

Subject: RE: HNGX Pilot Update

New HNG openings are not appearing in Triole
New HNG branch openings are not being added to the D1 feed so there is no way to log a call for these branches in Triole at this time. HSD may
refuse support as they cannot vefiry Post Office and caller. Issue with Nicola Young

Incorrect QoS data being shown
QoS showing sites with ISDN connections when ISDN is not a network type for the site. Call 1944042 was with Chris Hawkes and is now with
MSS.

Connection to the data centre
If we move to MVP with the connection to the data centre issue unresolved HSD will be impacted by calls

Regards
Sarah Hill
Team Manager
Fujitsu Servic

“Real & Royal Mail Group Account

Internal: 7

GRO

Mobil
wv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Disclaimer: This email is for the intended recipient only. If you are not the intended
Recipient then please disregard this email. Please do not forward/copy/store this email

From: Machin Leighton

Sent: 04 February 2010 09:51

To: Gallacher John; Hill Sarah(POA HSD); HSD Duty Manager; Bennett Nicola; Appleby-Robbins Susan; Bothick Sandie; Jones Mark
L; Sujith Pooja; Harrison Chris

Subject: FW: HNGX Pilot Update

Importance: High

I want to pull together a list of all of the outstanding fixes/actions that we have still which will cause us difficulty and pain when
medium volume pilot commences

Could you please provide me with a list so I can collate and forward? Please indicate a rating on a scale of 1(low) to 5(high) in terms
of direct impact to the BAU service with a brief description. Please include PEAK numbers if they have one — and/or who the action
is currently with.

Thanks

Leighotn

From: Van Achte Gaetan

Sent: 04 February 2010 09:46

To: Gallacher Kirsty; Rhodes Seth; Bull Sarah; Machin Leighton; Wilcox David
Subject: Fw: HNGX Pilot Update

Please cascade
Kind Regards,

Gaétan Van Achte
Service Director, Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Fujitsu, Services. Lovelace, Road, Bracknell RG12 8SN
3

FUJ00092875
FUJ00092875

E-mail
Web: http://uk. fujitsu.com

From: D'Alvarez Alan

To: Bounds Gavin; Keeling David; Wood Mike; Van Achte Gaetan

Cc: Welsh Graham; Butts Geoff; Dodington Chris; Richardson Debbie DB; Cochrane Vince; Allen Graham (BRAO1)
Sent: Wed Feb 03 19:01:06 2010

Subject: HNGX Pilot Update

HNGX pilot update:

1. The decision has been taken to deploy HNGX to a further 10 branches with the migration button being pressed tomorrow
for migration to complete Friday
2. There are two issues that require fixing prior to being able to enter into medium volume pilot:
a. Branch Trading Statement: This is where the in day migration process that happens once a branch hits the migration
button is not correctly migrating across the summary data. This data is used to produce the branch trading statement.
The base data is being migrated correctly and therefore the central accounting is unaffected. However, should a post
office manager do a trading statement in branch there is a high chance that the statement produced, which uses the
summary data, will not reconcile. We are manually ‘fixing’ the summary data prior to the BTS being run for those
branches already migrated. This manual fix will also need to be applied to the 10 branches going tomorrow
b. Counter Pauses In Live: Yesterday and today a number of branches reported ‘screen freezes’ whilst operating
HNGX. What actually happened was an error message was reported to multiple positions at a branch when a reversal
was put into the system and the response from the data centre had not been returned within the operating parameters.
The choice given to clerk is to either cancel the transaction or retry. If the clerk presses retry this caused the system to
hang momentarily
3. Currently the team are still investigating both issues above and, as yet, have not determined the root cause for either. As
such a target date for fixing these cannot be given. Both issues are proving complex to diagnose and matters have been
made more difficult as the architect ‘knowledge’ base in this area went home sick today. We are actively trying to contact the
contract Designer/Implementer to see whether he is available to come back into the team to add to the support capability. It
should be noted that Infinite have taken ownership for fourth line support of the counter but we have assessed they do not
currently have the capability to resolve this without requiring significant additional time.
4. We had a meeting with Post Office this evening which Mark Burley led from the Post Office side. Post Office are
desperate for a date to start planning/rescheduling medium volume pilot. They accepted our position that we were not able to
give this today. I expect that Mark will be keeping Dave Smith briefed and my reading is that if we are not in a position to
give a target date by COP tomorrow it is likely to result in an escalation to Mike Young.

5. The way forward:
a. Complete investigations and produce fix plan for both incidents
b. Work with Post Office to re-plan Pilot/Roll Out
c. Deliver

Rgds

Alan D' Alvarez

Associate P&PM Academy
FUJIT:
Mob : ~ ; E-mail:
Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England nj , London W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail
has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

