FUJ00156923
FUJ00156923

From: Harvey Michael[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HARVEYM]
Sent:
To: }, Jones David
Subject: FW: Horizon Integrity Challenges
Attachment: Horizon Core Audit Process - v1.0.pptx
Attachment: UPDATE ON SECOND SIGHT AND ASSOCIATED ISSUES.docx
David(s),

Further to our discussion a few weeks ago, | providing this email by way of an update as to where we are.

The word document is a document that | prepared for Haydn with some detail as to all the “spinning plates” with
some recommendations as to how we may manage them — it was not originally part of the email chain below.

The powerpoint document is the summary document that we were asked to provide to scope for any expert view
required by Post Office for the expert determinations. This scope aligns with that offerred prior to the Second Sight
audit coming into being. | believe we were in discussions with KPMG to commence this audit prior to it being shelved
due to other events.

The intention is to share the powerpoint document with Post Office in due course and so any comments you have
would be useful.

Kind regards,
Mike

From: Davidson James

Sent: 03 December 2013 16:02

To: Thompson Peter; Jones Haydn; Guest Sarah

Cc: Harvey Michael; Bell Gavin; Newsome Pete; Jenkins Gareth GI; Lamb Helen; Maclean Danny; Phillips Mark
(HOM99); Sharma Manu; Godeseth Torstein

Subject: Horizon Integrity Challenges

Importance: High

Sensitivity: Confidential

Folks,

Mike, Pete and myself met with Post Office Lawyers last Friday to discuss the proposal Post Office have come forward
with for an Independent External Expert review of the integrity of the Horizon system. In essence, the problem that
Post Office have is that they are being given legal advice that the ‘rules of evidence’ mean that submissions which in
the past have sufficed to support prosecutions (namely the input from Gareth Jenkins), cannot be used in future
prosecutions. They are therefore seeking the view of an external expert who can warrant that the data they are
basing prosecutions upon has integrity.

In that meeting, we were successful in moving the discussion away from a full ‘system’ review (which would not
achieve their aims and is unworkable in practice) to focus it on what we are calling the ‘Core Audit Process’. This
scope is aligned to the audit we were intending to do in 2012 and for which we had already agreed a terms of
reference with KPMG. The attached slides describe the Core Audit Process and sets out a terms of reference for an
audit that is achievable and that we could support. We have made it clear to Post Office that whilst we will cooperate
and provide access to our experts (in a controlled way), we reserve the right to challenge any findings of an external
expert. The support will also be chargeable and a CT is being drafted by myself in parallel. All content has been
reviewed by Mike, Pete, Gareth.
FUJ00156923
FUJ00156923

Given the importance of this to future business, please can you review and give me your views on the content and
that you are happy for this to be submitted to Post Office. If you would like me to set up a meeting to discuss, please
advise. In terms of timescales, | said that we would need 7-10 days to turn around so would be good if we could get
out of the door by Friday or sooner if possible.

With regards the ‘Mediation Process’, some clarifications were forthcoming in the meeting;

e Spot reviews that were being undertaken by Second Sight were effectively suspended and had to be raised
via the Mediation Process to continue

e There are approximately 150 applications that have been made prior to the deadline expiring

e — The first 8 are under detailed review and we have been asked for data and are starting to get questions on
some of the data

e Post Office have been advised that we will be submitting a CT to ask for funding to provide further support
for detailed investigations for the support process

¢ Post Office have also been advised that Fujitsu will need to appoint Project Management support to
coordinate responses related to the process, again this is subject to agreement via a CT

¢ Nochange request has been submitted by Post Office to date so a proactive CT is being drafted (by myself)
to summarise our understanding of the requirements and obtain commercial cover

e Post Office have been asked to appoint a SPOC for Fujitsu to work with so efforts across the Mediation
Process / Expert Review can be coordinated / controlled effectively

If you have any questions, please give me a call.

Regards,

James Davidson

Fujitsu
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN
Mol 3

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Hoe

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
