Telephone Conference Friday 27 Jul 12

POL: Jane Owens, Security Manager
Simon Baker, Programme Manager, (Forensic Side)
lan Henderson, External Audit Team, (Technology Element)

Fujitsu: Penny Thomas
Gareth Jenkins

POL/AF - Advanced Forensics has been commissioned to undertake an
independent review of the Horizon System which POL recently announced.
They are expecting in the region of 10-20 cases to be reviewed; they have a
starting list of 5. They require access to Horizon data new and old — relevant
to the cases in scope to audit. Help desk calls would also be required.

Gareth explained the audit of the activities of the counter systems which is
retained for 7 years. We can provide transaction records 31 days per outlet
which equals 1 ARQ. This covers both Horizon and HNGX based records.
Old and New Horizon architecture are different in appearance but audit data
is converted to .xml and are pretty consistent. Spreadsheet based records.
Description of records provided.

Other event information could be looked at but not provided in the standard
service. Can be done but will need explanation. Commercial discussion
needed.

Standard witness statement which we provide to support transaction material
would provide an initial overview for POL/AF.

SLA request volumes and timeframes for ARQ and helpdesk returns advised.

POL will require 7 years worth of records for the specific cases - NOTE: This
may be in addition to the ARQ service.

Gareth suggested a workshop to discuss the system architecture. POL/AF
thought that was a good idea. Gareth said that commercial discussions
would need to be agreed and should be started sooner as against later as the
process could take 3-4 weeks.

Raw data is not part of this service although we may be able provide. Raw
data is converted to xml. Commercial discussion here, too.

POL/AF - Had a discussion with someone at the House of Commons this am
- 5 cases identified, 3 more suggested — they plan to give MPs to the end of
next month to submit potential cases.

We said that if outlets had already been identified we would prefer requests
sooner as against later. This would have the benefit that they would then
have a view on what we could provide.

FUJ00232048
FUJ00232048
An internal (POL/AF) review of proposed cases is to be held to ensure that
relevant criteria is met and this may screen out some cases they are not
going to deal with. Those already nominated will be subject to a process of
filtering next week, probably the week after they will be in a position to
request records.

Jane/Simon to start the CT process from the POL side and this will be fed
through to Fujitsu via the standard process.

FUJ00232048
FUJ00232048
