FUJ00155490
FUJ00155490

From: Westfield Ken[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KENW]
Sent: Fri 17/07/2009 12:55:00 PM (UTC)

To: Hinde David

Ce: Allen ¢
Johnf}

Subject: RE: H nable analysis of Counter event messages within the HNG-X Audit
solution

Attachment: CP0336 ISS.xIs

David, Wendy,

Just to clarify the CP was presented to and approved at CCB on 31*' March, CCB Minutes repeated below. The figures
David quoted earlier were a previous variant and the final figures as approved were:

Incremental Mds 78.5
Incremental Cost £30,172.83
Non-Inc Mds 22

Non Inc Cost £9,531.65

I have attached a copy of the final CP Impact Spreadsheet in case you require further detail.

CCB Minutes:
CP presented by D Hinde and W Warham who confirmed that this was a must have from CS perspective and as such W Warham had agreed to
cover the 100.5mds impacted (78.5 incremental).

$ Denham identified that this was currently being performed by a series of people using manual pro: with the inherent risk to data
integrity and was of the order of 9mds a month. G Wilkerson queried the savings on this and after discussion S Denham identified that this
change was to introduce automation to bring us back to a baseline position.

W Warham requested S$ Denham take an action to include this in the CS Forecast for April and S Denham agreed to do this.

Over and above that W Warham stressed that this was needed for accreditation and for acceptance into service as reducing litigation risk and
improving data integrity and confidence in the records.

R Wright asked when this was expected to be delivered and D Hinde stated that this was towards the end of June (i.e. post Pilot).

G Wilkerson identified that the CP contained the words “is fit for purpose” and stated that this statement should not be used, even on internal
documents and P Sewell accepted an action to amend this.

CCB had no further comment and approved the CP.

Actions:
1 S Denham to include the mds are included in the CS Forecast for April.
2 P Sewell to amend words in the CP from “"if fit for purpose” to “meets the contractual requirements”.

P.M.N. CP wording updated by P Sewell and ChM to reflect the request made at CCB, Action complete.

To pre-empt the next question, Action 1 was reported complete at CCB on 14" April with the statement:
Action I — (P.M.N.) $ Denham/W Warham confirmed that the mds had been added to the forecast. Action complete.

If you require anything further, please do not hesitate to let me know.

Regards

Ken Westfield MBCS
Change Manager, Royal Mail Group Account
Associate of the P&PM Academy

FUJITSU
Lovelace
Tel

FUJ00155490
FUJ00155490

Mobile:
Fax £
E-mail: ken:
Web: <http:/uk.fujtsu

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office: 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Hinde David

Sent: 17 July 2009 13:38

To: Warham Wendy; Westfield Ken; Burton John

Cc: Allen Graham (BRAO1)

Subject: HNG-X CP0336 — Enable analysis of Counter event messages within the HNG-X Audit solution

Wendy,
Confirming our discussion re the above Audit CP.

This was approved by CCB it was on the basis that the change would be implemented post-release 1 and would be
funded by CS. Given where we are now it would seem to make sense to develop and test this alongside release 2.
However it will not be funded by POL, so will still be funded by CS.

I believe the impact was 68.5 days incremental and 23 days non-incremental. I do not currently have access to the
details of the change to confirm this or give you a cost in £.

Ken, Can you please confirm the costs on this for Wendy? Thanks.

Regards

David Hinde, Project Manager
Royal Mail Group
Practitioner of the P&PM Academy

FUJITSU.

eS Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office: 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that itis virus-free.
