FUJ00001516

FUJ00001516
ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ RefIM/STR/O40
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE “ate:22/10/99
Document Title: Scheduling Strategy
Document Type: Strategy
Abstract: Documents the strategy by which the Scheduling of the Rollout
Events will occur to achieve installation of Horizon counter
system in the post office outlets.
Status: Approved
Distribution:
ICL Pathway POCL Suppliers
Jim Flynn Andy Jones Bob McCully, Sorbus
Bob McDermott Barry Evans Alastair Cameron, Celestica
Steve Lovegrove Steve Grayston Stuart Kearns, Peritas
Rom Zbieranowski Douglas Craik Moira Petrie, Peritas
Linda Melvin, Exel
John O’Ggrady Graham Katon Richard Quantrell, Energis
Tony Southwell Martin O’ Toole
Bill Herd Trevor Rollason John Wilkinson, Pearce
Celia Tebbs Les Betts, Sorbus
Mark Phillips Jon Chapple, WTple
Tan Openshaw
Marie Roberts
Joanne Grocott
Dave Tunstall
Steve Melvin
Library
Author: Steve Burgess
Comments to: Steve Burgess
Comments by: N/A
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 1

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516

FUJ00001516
ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Veen Se N/STRIOM
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99
0 Document control
0.1 Document history
Version Date Reason
0.1 12/02/98 First draft of the document for limited circulation only
0.2 02/03/98 Second draft incorporating comments
0.3 5/5/98 Third draft incorporating comments and including updates to thinking
around the POCL readiness review and rescheduling.
0.4 19/5/98 Updated with comments, issued for comment / approval.
0.5 29/07/98 Updated with comments, issued for inspection.
0.6 21/09/98 Updated with comments, issued for inspection
1.0 2/11/98 Definitive Version - Issued for approval
2.0 5/5/99 Updated to include the capability to enable annual agreement for
additional zero activity dates & Revised approval authority. Issued for
approval.
21 18/10/99 Section 3, Schedule Optimisation added, dlist amended, Gkaton

removed from list of approval authorities, redundant sections on Parcel
Force and BA Equipment Indicator removed.

2.2 26/10/99 Updated in line with inspection, conducted 21/22 October. Changes
revision tracked.

0.2 Approval authorities

Name Position Signature Date
Bob McDermott Rollout Manager
Steve Grayston Horizon Implementation

Rollout Mgr

0.3 Associated documents

Reference Vers Date Title Source

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
ICL Pathway

Scheduling Strategy
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Version:3.0
Date:22/10/99

FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

Ref:IM/STR/040

1 IM/STR/0025 5.0 22/10/99 High Level Counter Rollout Strategy B McDermott
2 BP/TRN/001 2.0 10/11/97 Training and User Awareness Baseline L Holt
document
3 PATH/29/036 0.1 17/11/97 BA/POCL Counter Automation User M Taylor
Awareness — MIB event
4 IM/PLA/011 1.0 08/03/99 Infrastructure Programme Plan Version 9. S Burgess
5 IM/PLA/010 13.0 26/10/99 Installation Programme Plan Version 13. M.Roberts
6 IM/REQ/18 2.0 22/10/99  In-Office Installation Requirements W Herd
7 IM/REQ/O11 1.0 20/10/98 Counter Hardware Ordering Requirements 1 Openshaw
8 IM/REQ/37_ 0.3. 31/1/99 Inspectorate Requirements J Bates
9 IM/REQ/030 1.0 3/12/98 Site Preparation Requirements M Fisk
10 IM/REQ/005 4.0 3/12/98 Survey Requirements M Fisk
11 IM/REQ/014 1.0 27/5/98 ‘Training Scheduling and Minimum Training A Barkham
Compliance
12 IM/STR/049 3.0 22/10/99 Split Implementation Strategy B McDermott
13 IM/STR/055 1.0 22/9/99 Compliant Offices Document M. Hauxwell
14 IM/DOC/018 1.0 15/12/98 Scheduling Terms & Definitions C Tebbs
0.4 Abbreviations
BAD Benefit Agency District
DRI Designated Responsible Individual
FAD Financial Accounting Division
HSHD Horizon System Help Desk
NHIT National Horizon Implementation Team
IP Implementation Programme
IPP Implementation Programme Plan
TU Implementation Unit
InfrU Infrastructure Unit
InstU Installation Unit
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
POCL Post Office Counters Ltd
RoDB Rollout Database
ReadU Readiness Unit
RGM Regional General Manager
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 1

CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516

FUJ00001516
ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE :

RFI Ready For Installation

sIP Split Implementation Programme

UAE User Awareness Event

WTple Workplace Technologies ple

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 1

CONTRACT CON TROLLED
ICL Pathway

FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040
Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

0.5 Common Terms

Suppliers
Live

Operational
Service

Implementation
Programme

Sub Programmes

References to suppliers includes POCL in their Supplier capacity

The Horizon system is installed and fully functional, however stock unit
migration has not yet taken place and the outlet itself is not ready to proceed

with business through the Horizon system

An outlet is said to be in Operational Service in scheduling terms when the
Horizon system has been installed and its stock units migrated.

Four distinct groups of outlets that are managed as separate rollout
programmes.

Groups of outlets within an Implementation Programme that are composed
of as number of BA Districts, these represents a geographic region of variable
size

0.6 Changes in this version

All changes are highlighted.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FU.
ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ RefIM/STR/O40
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE “ate:22/10/99
0.7 Table of content
1 Introduction

Scheduling Constraints
11

... Timing of Events
alt

Beat Rate
wll

sess Christmas Constraints
wll

Bank Holidays

Non-Cash Account Outlets
12

ISIS (Security Capitalisation Project)
12

Other Constraints
13

Displacement Factor
15

Rescheduling
sees 15

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED

FUJ00001516
}J00001516
Fu
ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ RefIM/STR/O40
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE “Dated /10/99
Outlet Capping
215

.... Resource Constraints
15

Capping Reviews
16

Daily/Weekly Constraints

IP Weekly Target Proportions

18

Deferred Migrations
8

. Beat rate Achievement

Assumptions
20

Rescheduling Processes
21

SIP Rescheduling Stages
21

Rescheduling during the SIP

Rescheduling - Geographic Considerations
22

POCL Readin WV
23

..Infrastructure Phase
24

Activating Infrastructure Units (InfraU)

RGM Letter
24

Management Infrastructure Briefing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED

FUJ00001516
}J00001516
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040

Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

Site Survey call
25

Site Survey
26

e Re-survey Call
26

ite Resurvey
- 26

Pre Preparation Call
.26

‘e Modifications
27

roduction of outlet labels
27

Site Preparations
27

Ready for Installation

. Inspectorate
29

Installation planning phase
30

Installation phase
31

RGM Phase 2 letter (Installation Letter)
31

Installation Appointment Call
31

Forecast to hardware suppliers
31

ue Invitation for the User Awaren nt

31

Invitation to training
33

Auto configuration of the Hori

n Counter equipment
33

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ RefIM/STR/O40
Versi 33.4
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE “Dares22/10/99

Outlet Managers Preview Event
33

Communications line installation
33

Inspectorate (Phase 2)
34

uild of the counter systems

34

User Training
35

Collection of overshippers

8.1 . Equipment installation
~35

Completion of the installation phase (Migration)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
ICL Pathway

Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040
Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

1. Introduction

This document has been produced as one in a series of strategy documents reflecting the
processes involved in the implementation of the Horizon counter system:

The Rollout of the Horizon System is critically dependant on the efficiency of the
scheduling process. The process is not complex in respect of each post office but when
dealing with approximately 18,500 post offices it produces a logistic complexity. To
manage the large number of events involved in the rollout a database has been
developed (the Rollout Database RoDB). The concept behind the RoDB is to develop a
database that interfaces between all parties involved in the delivery of the Rollout and
schedule their appropriate events. The main interfaces are illustrated below:

National Network DB
POCL. POCL Reference Data
Databases POCL Regions
POCL .
Distribution r oe stati
Contre mplementation
Peritas
WIL
Local Pathway Pathway porus
Users RoDB Suppliers oneret
Celestica
Pathway Exel Logisties
Pathway Planning Implementation CPM OBISHC
Pathway Management
Rollout Helpdesk
Pathway I IPM’s
Regional I IPE’s
Users PLM’s
Fig 1.0

1.1 Scope

This document describes the strategy of how ICL Pathway and its suppliers will schedule
the Rollout events. There will be appropriate references to requirements documents
from which the detailed specification of scheduling for each party will be produced.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CON TROLLED

Page 10 of 4

FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

2. The Scheduling Process

2.1 Overview

The scheduling process has been defined around the management of Implementation
Units (IU) of post offic
defined in the Split Implementation Strategy Ref [12]. Throughout the programme each
post office outlet is assigned to three different kinds of Implementation Unit.

scheduled in line with the Split Implementation Programme as

Readiness Review Unit (ReadU) is a four weekly cut of outlets that is delivered to
POCL to check the readiness of each outlet to enter the implementation programme.

Infrastructure Unit (InfrU) is a weekly cut of outlets that will progress through the
infrastructure phase of the programme in the same time cycle.

Installation Unit (InstU) is a weekly cut of outlets that will progress through the
installation phase of the programme in the same time cycle.

Each of the above units relate to a stage in the implementation process, the creation of
each of these is dependant on the successful completion of the previous stage.

The diagram below illustrates the high level scheduling processes which will be applied
to each outlet during the course of its implementation. This shows that a greater
number of outlets than the beat rate as defined in ref [5] will need to be put into the
front end of the SIP in order to maintain the weekly beat rate. ‘The maximum number
of outlets that can be entered into a given stage of the SIP will be governed by Supplier
contracts & in agreement with POCL.

See example diagram below, Fig 2.0.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway. Week chedulipg.Strategynanc Wealy TE / STR AR
Bucket Cut Readiness Cat, Phase Cut Vprsimae3. State
Readt I COMMERCIAL INiCQNFIDENCE Inst Daie22/10/ygucis

Drop Drop Dep

X: Outlets dropping out during the POCL Readiness Review
Y: Outlets dropping out during the Infrastructure Phase
Z: Outlets dropping out during the Installation Phase

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
CONTRACT CON TROLLED

Page 12 of 4
FUJ00001516

FUJ00001516
ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy Ref:IM/STR/040
Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99
Fig 2.0

Outlet a Weeki] POCL fWweckiy Infastrcture weekly Tastallation Steady
Bucket Cut Readiness Cut Phase Cut Phase State

Read Review Inf Insit Bucket
Approx 1200 + 4(X+¥4Z) 300+ YZ 300+ +300
20,000 Outlets Outlets Outlets Outets
Outlets \ ve . Per Week

Drop Drop

X: Outlets dropping out during the POC. Readiness Review
Y Outlets dropping out during the Infastrcture Phase
Z: Outlets dropping ot during the installation Phase

The Post Office estate of approximately 18,527 outlets has been divided on a
geographical basis into four Implementation Programmes (IP). The IP’s are sub divided
into Sub Programmes, Benefit Agency Districts which define the relationship between
BA and the post offices. The outlets are then further divided into groups defined by the
first half of their Post Code, these groups are then sequenced into a geographically
optimal order within their BAD to produce a list. Post offices will then be cut from this
list at each stage of the programme as illustrated above, at each scheduling point within
the process where outlets are cut, rescheduling may take place at key stages between
programmes to realign the outlets back into the original geographically optimal
sequence.

‘The flow of scheduling information throughout each phase of the implementation is
illustrated in the Split Implementation Strategy [12].

Outlets that are delayed from their targeted progression through the roll out will be
suspended within the RoDB, while the issue surrounding their delay is resolved. Once
this occurs the outlet will be rescheduled back into the program at an appropriate time
and event by assigning it to an alternative Implementation Unit [See Section 3].

2.2 Scheduling Constraints

‘These are the rules which govern the time cycle in which groups of outlets will be
entered into and proceed through the SIP.
2.2.1 Timing of Events

The timing of the events are detailed in the Split Implementation Strategy - Ref [12].

2.2.2 Beat Rate
The Beat rate is defined for the Infrastructure programme in Ref [4] and for the
installation programme in Ref [5].

2.2.3 Christmas Constraints

A\s Christmas is the post office’s busiest period there is a restriction on when outlets can
be entered to carry out work related to the Horizon System. The effects of this are
illustrated in Ref [1].

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

2.2.4 Bank Holidays

The effects of Bank Holidays on scheduling have been incorporated into Ref [4] and Ref
BI.

2.2.5 Additional Zero activity Dates
An opportunity will be provided on at least an annual basis for ICL Pathway and POCL
to review the zero activity dates which need to be enforced as part of the scheduling
processes. A zero activity day is one in which no disruptive activities will be performed
in outlets without the explicit consent of POCL.

2.2.6 Outlet requiring particular permission in respect to modifications

It is anticipated that before any modification or preparation work is carried out in some
outlets specific permission may be required. This permission may be due to one of the
following reasons;

© Outlet is a grade 1 listed building or has grade 1 listed fittings.
© Outlet is part of a franchise/multiple, see Ref [10].
© Outlet is owned by a Landlord, see Ref [10]

Data in respect to Grade 1 listed buildings has been produced by our suppliers and the
franchise/multiple data is supplied by POCL. This information is processed in line with
procedures defined in the Survey Requirements Ref [10] . Requirements in respect to
Landlords consent are also covered in the Survey Requirements Ref [10].

2.2.7 No Fixed Counter Outlets

These outlets will be entered into the Infrastructure programme when suitable survey
proc have been agreed.

2.2.8 Non-Cash Account Outlets

These outlets may proceed through the infrastructure programme but will not be
entered into the installation programme until they have been converted to cash account
status.

2.2.9 ISIS (Security Capitalisation Project)

‘There are a number of POCL Projects running in parallel with the Horizon automation
project. The most significant of these is ISIS which up until recently has been know as
the Security Capitalisation Project. Management around this project has been detailed in
a separate proposal, Ref [13].

2.2.10 Other Constraints
Other scheduling constraints include:

¢ Known outlet refurbishment requirements, (This should be highlighted at Readiness
Review).

e Non - ISDN data communications, (This will restrict entry into the installation
programme if a suitable solution is not available.).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

3. Schedule Optimisation

3.1 Drop Out Rates

Pathway anticipate that it will be necessary to schedule a greater number of outlets into
the installation programme than will actually be installed, this is due to attrition caused
by outlet suspension and aborts. A proportion of these will occur prior to the training
and installation weeks and others during these weeks. Based on current experience this
is anticipated to be 13% with 7.2% attrition happening before user training commences
and 5.8% attrition from user training or other activities during the installation week.
Actual installation drop out rates will be closely monitored and reviewed with POCL on
a monthly basis. ‘The number of outlets being scheduled into the rollout programme
will then be altered accordingly to attain beat rate and to recapture any shortfall against
plan.

In order to compensate for the drop out rate the number of outlets scheduled into the
rollout needs to be evaluated by the following formulae.

Number to be Scheduled (X) — Number dropped Out (£X) = Beat Rate (Y)
E.G. for a 13% drop out and 306 beat rate

X —0.13X = 306

0.87X = 306
X= 306/0.87

352.

5.8% of 352 = 20, 306 +20 = 326, providing an interim figure prior to the start of
training and installation at week —3, relative to an installation week of -1. It is
anticipated that ECCO outlets, which are subject to an extended training window, will
never be chosen as offices to cap.

The maximum guaranteed migrations in any given week is 315, the number of
migrations will need to be reduced in line with this unless additional HFSO capacity is
available, see section 3.4.1.

Review Point

[Tuesday

126 B15 106

13 Weeks Install Week (-1)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

There will be a variation in weekly drop out rates around the anticipated mean of 13%,
this variation will be greater on a daily basis and greater still on a regional basis due to
the decreased sample size.

3.2 Displacement Factor

Some outlets, with a valid reason, will be displaced from their target installation week
into alternative installation weeks due to unavailability of outlet personnel and other
outlet related problems. During a period of steady beat rate the net displacement should
be zero. However in reality the number displaced will vary from week to week, these
fluctuations will exaggerate peaks and troughs in the number of outlets installed per
week.

Exel and POCL will look to minimise displacement as outlined in Ref [6].

3.3 Rescheduling

Outlets which have previously been suspended from the installation programme will
either be closed or released back into the programme at a later date. The release point
for these outlets will principally be based upon geographic proximity and resource
profiles. Rescheduling may be used to smooth the rollout profile where suitable outlets
are released from suspension.

When rescheduling outlets back into the installation programme the number of outlets
currently in the target installation unit, for the particular IP region, will be assessed in
relation to the position of the installation unit in the timecycle. Rescheduling will then
take place to bolster Installation Units with the aim of attaining an even beat rate plus a
small margin of contingency.

3.4 Outlet Capping

3.4.1 Resource Constraints

Due to the uncertainty of drop out rates, displacement and outlet release it is evident
that there will be some variance from the beat rate in the number of outlets available to
install in each rollout w

k. It is anticipated that generally suppliers will be able to cope
with these fluctuations, although this cannot always be guaranteed.

The maximum number of outlets guaranteed to be installed by Exel is the beat rate +
12%, ie 306 + 37 = 343.
‘The maximum number of outlets guaranteed to be migrated by HFSO’s is 315.

Reasonable endeavours will be employed to complete additional activities to those
guaranteed.

3.4.2 Capping Reviews

If, by the Tuesday of Week -3 relative to an Installation Week —1, the quantity of
planned installations remains greater than 315, POCL and Pathway will jointly review
and agree the number of migrations that can be achieved during the forthcoming week.
This capping review will consider the following inputs:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 1

CONTRACT CON TROLLED

FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Versi 33.4
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE “Dares22/10/99

© Additional Outlets: Number of outlets remaining in the programme at the time of
the capping review above the IP Weekly Constraint as illustrated in section 3.4.3.

e Additional HFSO Capacity: HFSO resource surplus beyond the guaranteed
maximum of 315 migrations on a National basis and beyond the agreed weekly IP
constraints. This resource capacity will need to consider rollout attrition rates and a
factor of late HFSO unavailability due to sickness, annual leave and other factors.

e Resource Secondment: Cross IP HFSO resource secondment, where this is
practical numerically and geographically.

¢ Number Deferred: Outlets which exceed the weekly capacity for which it is
accepted that the migration will occur on a different week to the installation. See
section 3.4.5 for details.

© Number to be Capped: number of outlets to be forcibly suspended from the week
of the installation programme in question due to resource constraints.

Capping Formulae

On a national basis there will be an interaction within POCL to consider cross IP
secondment of HFSO resource.

On a regional level, local agreement will be reached as to whether or not the weekly IP
constraint can be exceeded to accommodate additional outlets, taking into account
factors such as additional HFSO capacity, resource secondments and deferred migration.
An example formulae for how this may be evaluated is outlined below:

Number to be Capped = Greater of (Additional Outlets — (Additional HPFSO Capacity
+Resource Secondment + Number Deferred))

OR (Sum of Daily Caps)

E.G,

IP=3

Additional Outlets = 10

Additional HFSO Capacity = 4

Resource Secondment = 1

Daily Caps = 1

Number Deferred = 2

Number to be Capped = (10— (4+ 1 +2) OR (1) =

NB. If the Number above works out to be negative then consideration will be given to
rescheduling additional outlets into user training and installation in line with the
forthcoming installation week.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040

Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

3.4.3 Daily/Weekly Constraints

Additional consideration will need to be given to capping outlets where the daily limit
within an IP has been exceeded. IP daily and weekly constraints are defined below:

IP Weekly Constraint: Will be determined from di
the capping point, 326, proportionally across all IP’s. ”
the national limit of 315.

ing the National Weekly total at
his is an additional constraint to

IP Daily Constraint: Will be determined by dividing the number of outlets to be
scheduled at the time of the Installation Unit cut per IP by 5 and rounding up to the
nearest whole number. This is an additional constraint to the National limit of 315 and
IP Weekly constraints.

IP Daily IP Constraint Weekly IP [IP % of Total (Post
Constraint 1999)

1 I 11 (Pre - Committed resource) 47 14.43

2 19 (+Pre - Committed resource) 87 26.77

3 20 (+Pre - Committed resource) 93 28.41

4 22 (+Pre - Committed resource) 99 30.39

Daily Additional Outlets; Daily Additional HFSO Capacity, Number Deferred:
are all similar to the parameters employed in the weekly calculation other than daily
figures apply rather than weekly.

Number Rescheduled: Outlets which exceed daily capacity which can be rescheduled
within the target week.

Pre-Committed Resource: If outlets are rescheduled within the target week due to
valid exceptional circumstances then the guaranteed daily limit will be increased
proportionally for the appropriate IP on the day in question. Valid exceptional
circumstances are detailed in Ref [6]. Deferral of migration may occur where sufficient
HFSO resource is not available to cope with increased daily rates of this manner.

Daily CAP Formulae

The Daily IP constraints may be exceeded by local agreement, factors similar to these
employed for weekly Cap rates will be considered plus the possibility of rescheduling
installation within the target week. An example formulae is provided below, this will
need to be assessed for each day of the week.

Number to be Capped = (Daily Additional Outlets — (Daily Additional HFSO Capacity
+ Number Rescheduled + Number Deferred))

EG.
Ip=2
Daily Additional Outlets = 2

Daily Additional HFSO Capacity = 0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 1

CONTRACT CON TROLLED

FUJ00001516

FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040

Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

3.4.4

3.4.5

Number Rescheduled = 1
Number Deferred = 0
Number to be Capped = (2) — (0+1+0)= 1

If the Sum of the number of outlets that need to be capped due to daily constraints is
greater that the weekly calculation then this will be the number of outlets that need to be
forcibly removed from the programme.

IP Weekly Target Proportions

Due to the unpredictability of rollout drop outs it will not be possible to maintain an
even proportion of outlets within each IP at all stages of the rollout. However by
aiming to achieve a proportional rate of installations and adjusting the programme entry
levels on an IP basis to cope with variations in regional drop out rates, proportional
installation rates will be closely achieved over the course of the rollout. The IP targets
relating to key national totals are outlined in the table below, the figures do not represent
additional constraints on top of any previously stated but are representative of
scheduling targets.

IP Weekly IP Weekly IP Weekly IP Weekly IP IIP % of Total
Scheduled Capping Pt Migration Beat Rate (Post 1999)
Proportions I Proportions I Proportions I Proportions

1 51 47 45 44 14.43
2 94 87 84. 82 26.77
3 100 93 90, 87 28.41
4 107 99 96 93 30.39
Tot 352 326 315 306 100

Deferred Migrations

If at the capping review the number of additional migrations in the target week under
review cannot be accommodated by the resource available after considering resource
secondments, attrition rates and additional HFSO capacity then the following will be
considered:

© If it is foreseen that Migration resource will be available within 5 days of the
installation date, then installation can proceed, migration can be deferred to a later
date subject to agreement from outlet managers to a suitable migration date.

© If migration can not take place within 5 days but can within 10 days, installation can
still take place but migration will be deferred to 5-10 days after install, with refresher
training provided by ICL Pathway at no charge.

¢ If migration can not take place within 10 days then installation can proceed as long
as the outlet can work manually with the Horizon equipment on the counter (if not
the office will need to be suspended, see Section 3.4.8). Migration will be deferred to
a later and a new training course scheduled by Pathway at no charge.

The decision to defer an outlets migration will be taken jointly by ICL Pathway and
POCL, this will be subject to Knowledgepool course availability where appropriate.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516

FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040

Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

3.4.6

3.4.7

3.4.8

Beat rate Achievement

Wherever possible enough outlets must be retained beyond the capping point to enter
the installation week with sufficient outlets to achieve the target beat rate, to do this we
must account for the current attrition rate. Currently this would mean entering training
with 326 outlets to account for an attrition rate of 5.8% of the total number scheduled
(352) to hit the beat rate of 306.

Where the attrition rate prior to the capping review point is greater than the anticipated
level it will not be possible to enter the install week with the desired level of outlets and
it is likely that the beat rate will not be attained. Therefore where permitted by the
capping reviews, the number of outlets proceeding beyond the capping point should
allow the beat rate to be surpassed to maintain the average beat rate.

Additional Capping Considerations

ICL Pathway will use reasonable endeavours to supplement HFSO resource with ICL
Pathway field based resource to enable agreed activities to go ahead where anticipated
post cap attrition does not occur.

Where HFSO resource permits entry of > 343 outlets beyond the capping point, Exel
will be included in the capping review.

Outlet Removal

POCL and ICL Pathway will jointly agree which outlets are to be removed ftom the
programme, so as to maximise opportunities to achieve even scheduling, whilst also
maintaining geographic continuity. Removal of outlets from the installation programme
will be on the Tuesday of week -3 relative to the installation week (-1). POCL, will be
responsible for informing postmasters of their outlet suspension from the programme
and this will be done on the Wednesday of the capping review week, (Due to the
sensitive nature of these calls, the organisation making them will be subject to review to
ensure they are being conducted by the most appropriate party). This will then result in
suspension of the outlets via normal processes to inform Suppliers of their removal
from the forthcoming scheduled activities, the outlets will then be released to be
considered for immediate rescheduling.

3.5 Scheduling Review

ICL Pathway and POCL will meet on a monthly basis to review progress todate against
Ref [5] and agree the following parameters for the next 4 weeks scheduling activity:

Installation Programme Attrition Rate: The installation programme attrition rate is
the percentage of outlets which fall out of the installation programme at some point in
the 16 week cycle leading to a reduced number of migrations in the target week. This
will be reviewed and agreed based upon trends in historical data and other influencing
factors. These parameters will be reviewed for each IP.

The Number of Outlets to be Scheduled: Will be evaluated from the agreed IP
attrition rate and the beat rate from Ref [5], as defined in section 3.1.

Post Cap Attrition Rate: The currently agreed attrition rate between the date the cap is
applied and the end of a weeks installations and migrations. This will be reviewed as per
the full attrition rate.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

Attrition Factor: this agreed factor represents the proportion of the post-cap attrition
rate which will be retained in the rollout at the capping review point. This factor needs
to be evaluated to maximise use of available resources without over committing them
such that outlets will need to be aborted during the installation week itself. This will be
reviewed based upon historical data relating to HFSO resource utilisation. Attrition rate
statistics will be agreed between POCL and ICL Pathway based upon shared data, this
data will be baselined prior to monthly reviews.

3.6 Assumptions

It is assumed that for the migration of 315 outlets nationally, the division across IP’s will
be constrained by the weekly IP constraints outlined in section 3.4.3. POCL will use
reasonable endeavours to resource migrations beyond IP limitations.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

4. Rescheduling Processes

4.1 SIP Rescheduling Stages

The first stage in the SIP where rescheduling takes place is in selecting outlets for entry
into the infrastructure rescheduling terminology is defined in Ref [14]. Outlets
undergoing readiness review [Section 4] will be returned to Pathway either as part of a 4
weekly drop as Ackl or Ack2 or as part of a weekly release of outlets that were
previously placed on hold, Ack3 (Wednesday of each week). Outlets that are released
after being placed on hold, Ack3’s, will be rescheduled back into the programme at the
optimal position taking into account geography and the number of outlets in
surrounding infrastructure units.

‘The next key rescheduling stage is prior to entry into the installation programme. The
optimal geographic sequence of outlets disrupted during the Readiness Review and
Infrastructure phases will be realigned as much as possible prior to entry into the
Installation Programme.

The Pathway RoDB will highlight outlets that have been diverted from their optimal
position in the implementation sequence at both of these two key stages and present
them for rescheduling. Rescheduling will be done by assigning a virtual BA District and
Post Code Group to the outlet which will be used solely for determining where in the
sequence these outlets will be brought back into the programme (The outlet will retain
its own BA District identifier and Post Code for all other purposes). Four separate
geographic sequences will be managed in this way, one for each IP region.

4.2 Rescheduling during the SIP

Issues arising during the course of the Horizon programme will be managed by the
Helpdesk / Regional infrastructure and in some cases will lead to outlets being
suspended. This information will be captured on the RoDB by the Rollout Helpdesk
who will amend the outlet status to suspended, this data will then be communicated to
appropriate Suppliers by means of the overnight interfaces.

When the problems surrounding an outlet suspension have been resolved it will be
released via the Rollout Helpdesk to implementation planning for rescheduling. In order
to reschedule the outlet back into the programme details surrounding its event history
and geography will be investigated and considered in line with the high level programme
plans. Once the optimal programme re-entry point is determined the outlet will be
rescheduled via the RoDB, the Implementation Planning team will simply assign the
outlet to the appropriate implementation unit. This will cause the outlet to fall in line
with the new implementation unit such that its subsequent event target weeks will be
updated and issued to appropriate suppliers.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

4.3 Rescheduling - Geographic Considerations

‘An outlet may be rescheduled back into the Horizon Programme on one of the
following basis:

1. Rescheduled back into its own geographic area, having been released from
suspension prior to field based resources moving out of the locality.

2. Rescheduled with a group of outlets that is close to the geography of its original
group and is being visited at a later period of the rollout.

3. Clustering, where rescheduling of type 1 and 2 is not viable, consideration will be
given to clustering. If a number of outlets in a given area have been suspended and
subsequently released over a period of time they will be reintroduced into the rollout
programme as a cluster and complete the rollout programme together. In such
circumstances consideration will be given to the availability of field based resources.
A cluster may consist of 2 or more outlets.

4. Where none of the above options are available an outlet will be rescheduled based
upon the availability of field based resources.

‘The above will be determined in consultation with Suppliers, maps and mapping tools
will be used where appropriate.

When rescheduling consideration will be given to the number of outlets that have been
suspended within a given Infrastructure Unit

Whilst rescheduling during the infrastructure phase consideration will be given to the
potential for realignment at the end of the infrastructure phase. The period available to
regroup outlets with neighbouring outlets depends on the time period between the
infrastructure and installation phases.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Versi 33.4
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE “Dares22/10/99

5. POCL Readiness Review

The Implementation Planning Department will sequence the post office estate in line
with the Infrastructure Programme Plan, Ref. [4]. This plan details the breakdown of the
estate into Implementation Programmes (IP), Sub Programmes and finally BA Districts
(BAD’s).

A four weekly cut of Post Offices will be taken in line with the IPP and issued to POCL
6 weeks prior to the RGM letter issue. The Regions will review the readiness of each
outlet to enter the Implementation Program. An indication of the readiness of each
outlet will be returned to Pathway 3 weeks after issue of the Post Offices to POCL.

The POCL Regions will also veri
period, this will include an 2
automated for each outlet if this has not previously been determined.

y reference data related to the ReadU during this
essment of the number of counters positions to be

Outlets that are not ready for the implementation program will be put on hold by the
POCL Regions while they resolve the associated issues, at which point they will be
released to Pathway for inclusion in the SIP. An outlets that has been placed on hold
for a significant period of time may miss out on being rescheduled back into the
infrastructure program with its own geographic group. Other rescheduling options will
then be considered and may lead to the outlet being scheduled back into the program at
much later date. Therefore it is in the interest of the outlet manager as well as POCL
and ICL Pathway to restrict the time period outlets are placed on hold. Example
reasons for placing an outlet on hold are:

© Outlet has been identified for refurbishment which must be completed before being
included as part of the Horizon programme.

¢ Outlet has been scheduled to undertake activities as part of another POCL
programme that will introduce serious conflict with the Horizon implementation
schedule.

The outlets ready to go ahead with the Horizon implementation programme will then be
placed in an RODB table ready for assignment to appropriate infrastructure units. The
InfrU are then produced in line with the BAD sequence defined in the Infrastructure
Programme Plan, Ref. [4].

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040

Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

6. Infrastructure Phase

6.1 Activating Infrastructure Units (InfraU)

The number of outlets selected for inclusion in an infrastructure unit will be aimed at
achieving the required beat rate of 300 installations per week. ‘This will require a
minimum of 300 outlets to be selected, plus a variable number of additional outlets to
allow for delays and drop outs. The variable number will be determined by utilising
historical data and data modelling tools. Consideration will also need to be given to the
number selected for each IP in order to ensure each region stays on target with the
Infrastructure Programme Plan, Ref [4].

Once the number of outlets in an InfrU has been selected for each IP these will be
logically grouped and activated within the RoDB. 'This takes place two wee

ks prior to issuing of RGM letters and instigates the issue of start/finish dates for
particular events to NHIT, Peritas and WTple. NHIT receive the target week for issuing
the RGM letter, Peritas receive the target week for issuing the Invitation for the
Management Infrastructure Briefing (MIB) and the week for the MIB event. Finally
WTplc receive the target weeks for Pre Survey Call, Site Survey and Preparation.

From issue of the InfrU two weeks are available to perform preparatory tasks prior to
commencement of the SIP proper. This time is utilised by POCL Regions to prepare
RGM letters for each of the post offices in the InfrU. It also gives Peritas additional
time to organise briefing venues and schedule outlet managers to the appropriate
location.

6.2 RGM Letter

Each outlet in an Implementation Unit will receive from their post office region an
RGM letter. The letter is the first official contact with the outlet. NHIT are required to
notify the RoDB by the Wednesday of the appropriate week that the letters have been
issued.

6.3 Management Infrastructure Briefing

The outlet manger at each outlet in the Implementation Unit is invited to attend a
Management Infrastructure Briefing. Details of the contents of the Management
Infrastructure Briefing is documented in Ref. [3]. The issuing of the invitation to the
MIB is dependant on confirmation that the RGM letter has been sent. The MIB
invitation will be issued at least 4 weeks prior to the event being held.

At the MIB, outlet managers will be asked of their availability for the target survey call,
survey and preparation weeks. This will help identify potential problems with the
scheduling of these activities later in the programme and the information will need to be
logged on the Horizon System Help Desk (HSHD). To minimise the need for
rescheduling, a DRI (Designated Responsible Individual) should be nominated at the
MIB to act on behalf of the Post Master should they be unavoidably absent during
identified activity periods.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 25 of 1

CONTRACT CON TROLLED

FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

All outlets with a representative attending a MIB are confirmed via the RoDB. All non
attendees are also reported via the RoDB with confirmation that they have been sent a
pack of information which describes the forthcoming infrastructure activities.

6.4 Site Survey call

The Site Survey call is dependant on a representative member of the outlet having
attended a MIB or receiving a MIB pack. This information will be available via the
RoDB to WTple.

A\ telephone call is made to each outlet to arrange the site survey and preparation dates.
Outlet managers will be asked to agree their availability for the survey and preparation
activities based on target weeks. If the outlet manager is available then dates will be
agreed for the survey and preparation activities. If the outlet manager is not available to
attend Survey or Preparation, confirmation that the DRI is available will be sought, in
exceptional circumstances where neither is available during the target weeks they are
asked for the duration and timing of their unavailability. On the basis that the majority
of people take up to 2 weeks holiday at one time, the outlet manager will be advised that
the dates will be either 1 or 2 weeks after the target week as appropriate. During the Site
Survey call, agreement will be reached with the outlet manager as to whether the survey
activities are carried out in the morning or afternoon and that preparations are
commenced in the morning. The call will also identify an individual at the outlet who can
authorise any work to be carried out. This may be the outlet manager or a Designated
Responsible Individual at the outlet.

Consideration will be made for outlets that need to agree the dates/times with their
landlords. Two prospective dates/times will be offered and the outlet will be contacted
two days following the initial contact to find which date/time is acceptable to the
landlord.

Details of the site survey call is provided in the site survey requirements document Ref
(10).

Successful calls result in the RODB being updated with baseline dates for the survey and
preparation events and whether the activities are to be carried out in the morning or
afternoon. After 3 unsuccessful attempts to contact an outlet a call will be made to the
appropriate POCL contact. At the end of the week all outlets that could not be
contacted will be issued to the POCL Region with appropriate information on why they
were not successful. The process for managing these post offices back into the
programme is outlined in the rescheduling section of this document [Section 3].

6.5 Site Survey

‘The Site Survey is dependant on a date being agreed with the outlet manager at the Site
Survey call. The site survey process is defined in detail in the Site Survey Requirements
Document Ref: [10]. Following the Site Survey the RoDB will be notified of any
additional Re-surveys or Modifications that are required in the outlet. This information
determines the additional events to be scheduled for the outlet ie whether the outlet
requires a Re-survey and /or Modifications.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 26 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Versi 33.4
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE “Dares22/10/99

The Site Survey work is completed within one working day. Notification of Site Survey
being complete on the Baseline date will take place on the overnight interface to the
RoDB, this notification will be forwarded the to POCL on the same night. Non
completion will be notified via the Rollout Helpdesk and confirmed when complete via
the RoDB.

Up to 40% of Site Surveys will be attended by POCL, fluctuations in the number of Site
Surveys to be performed around the beat rate will be indicated to POCL and Suppliers
by the RoDB approx 10 weeks in advance and via Survey Schedules approximately 1
week in advance. Any decisions to make sustained increases to the number of surveys
will be agreed with suppliers as per contracts and notified to POCL as far in advance as
possible.

6.6 Site Re-survey Call

The Site Re-survey call is dependant on the outlet being registered as requiring a Re-
survey at the Site Survey. The Target week for the Re-Survey Call and Re-survey will be
in line with the Split Implementation Strategy, Ref [12], unless dates were agreed at the
Site Survey call in each of the weeks following the target IU week. If this has occurred all
the subsequent Infrastructure events will move forward the same number of weeks.
Again if the outlet manager is unavailable during this period the DRI should preside.

The Baseline date & time will be sent to the RoDB following agreement with the outlet.
This information will be forwarded to NHIT to organise the appropriate POCL
attendance, POCL will attend 100% of resurveys.

6.7 Site Resurvey

‘The site resurvey will be dependant on the date/time being agreed with the post master
at the Site Re-survey Call and advising POCL of the requirements for attendance.

On completion of the Re-survey the Actual date will be reported to the RoDB as will
notification that the outlet requires screen parts and/or modifications.

6.8 Pre Preparation Call

The outlet is to be contacted to confirm the Preparation date unless the outlet required
modifications, in which case the preparation date will be reinforced at the time of the
Site Modifications event. Where applicable this call is also an opportunity to check that
the post master has completed any works they have agreed too

6.9 Site Modifications

The site modifications are dependant on quotes for alterations being authorised and the
date for the work being agreed with the outlet. If appropriate the landlords consent to
carry out the modifications is also required. Site modifications are those activities carried
out in an outlet which have to be performed by a specialist organisation.

In some cases it may be necessary to close the outlet to enable the work to be carried
out. This usually applies where the modification work carried out in the outlet affects the

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 27 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516

FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040

Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

6.10

6.11

security of the outlet. Notification of Modifications being complete on the Baseline date
will take place on the overnight interface to the RODB. Non completion will be notified
via the Rollout Helpdesk and confirmed when complete via the RoDB.

All site modifications have to be complete prior the Site Preparations commencing.

Production of outlet labels

As part of the Site Preparation process, document Ref [9], a label is fixed to a wall in the
outlet to signify the IS! circuit position.. These labels have to be ordered in batches
of approximately 500 with a 7 week lead time. They will be required for inclusion in the
Site Preparation pack which is assembled. the week following the Pre Preparations Call.
Therefore the order will need to be placed at least 11 weeks prior to the Preparation.

The labels are produced from information supplied by the RoDB.

Site Preparations

Site preparation activities are those which are carried out after any modification work
has been completed to prepare the outlet ready for installation of the Horizon counter
equipment. Where applicable an authorised landlords consent form will need to be
returned by the outlet manager, this would have been issued to the outlet manager
following site survey.

The site preparation work is usually completed within one working day. Notification of
Preparation being complete on the Baseline date will take place on the overnight
interface to the RoDB within 48 hours of the preparation taking place. Non completion
will be notified via the Rollout Helpdesk and confirmed when complete via the RoDB.

Preparation of ECCO outlets will be scheduled to avoid taking place on Wednesdays
when cash accounts are balanced.

The only exception to the Preparation being complete in one day is the connection of
electrical tails which will be completed within 2 weeks of the Preparation date.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516

FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040

Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

6.12

6.13

Ready for Installation

Ready for installation occurs a week after the Preparation, which accommodates the
return of the Preparation pack and the subsequent issue of the Completion Pack to ICL
Pathway. The Completion pack may be held for up to 2 weeks following Prep awaiting
the connection of electrical tails by the local electricity board. Arrangements are made
for the electrical tail circuits to be connected through the appropriate regional electricity
board.

Once a post office is registered as Ready for Installation it is available to enter the
Planning phase prior to the Installation Phase.

Inspectorate

The contract defines that 10 percent of the outlets will be inspected for the quality of
preparation. Since the introduction of the Split Implementation Plan the timing of this
inspection has required revision. Due to the Preparation of the outlet and the
Installation of the ISDN now occurring on different days it has been agreed that half the
inspections will take place following the preparation and the other half following the
ISDN Installation.

The first half of the inspections are selected the week after RFI is achieved unless the
outlet requires electrical tails in which case it may be selected the week following
completion electrical tail works upto 3 full weeks after the preparation has taken place.
Details of this activity including the selection criteria are detailed in the Pre Installation
Inspectorate requirements document, ref [8].

This 2 week period is to allow for the confirmation of tail connections. The inspections
are then scheduled and the planned Inspection dates, being 2 weeks hence, agreed with
the outlet manager. The dates for the Inspection will be available to those parties
required to attend the inspection.

On completion of the Inspection the inspector will notify the results to their responsible
manager. If the outlet has passed the inspection the inspection report will be issued by
post to the responsible manager. If on the other hand it fails the inspection the report
will be both faxed and issued by post to the appropriate manager. Resolution of faults
highlighted during inspection will be managed by the inspectorate service provider, once
resolved the outlet will be re-inspected for confirmation.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 29 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Versi 33.4
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE “Dares22/10/99

7. Installation planning phase

At least four weeks prior to the commencement of the Installation Phase and following
the Infrastructure Phase there is a 4 week Planning Phase. This phase is for the
scheduling of post offices prior to entering the Installation Phase and agreeing baseline
dates for key events.

Tt is anticipated that a buffer of Post Offices that are ‘Ready for Install’ will be created
between the two Implementation Phases. ‘This will have two major benefits, firstly to
help ensure there is always enough Post Offices available to enter the Installation Phase
at the required rate and secondly providing additional time to ensure optimal sequencing
of outlets.

The number of outlets selected for inclusion in an installation unit (InstU) will be aimed
at achieving the required beat rate as defined in IM/PLA/010. This will need to account
for Drop outs as outlined in section 3.1 and regional proportions as defined in section
3.4.2.

Once an InstU of post offices has been activated in the RoDB related scheduling
information will be issued to appropriate suppliers, including POCL for HFSO
scheduling. Exel will be issued target weeks for Installation, Energis provided with target
ISDN install dates and Peritas issued with target weeks for User Awareness events.

ISDN lines will not be required at outlets which are already installed with ALPS
equipment (subject to commercial agreement). Endeavours will be made to agree
installation dates for ECCO offices so that they are evenly distributed across the week.

The agreed baseline dates are submitted to the RoDB for the remaining Installation
event dates to be calculated.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 30 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RetlM/ STR/040
rsion:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

8. Installation phase

The installation phase covers those activities required for the installation and delivery of
the Horizon equipment in the post office outlets. Entry to the Installation phase is
dependent on the post office completing the Infrastructure phase and Planning phase.
On entering the Installation phase the outlet will have agreed Baseline dates for the key
events and the appropriate suppliers will have been notified of planned dates for their
events. It is envisaged approximately 13% of outlets will drop out of the programme
once entering the Installation phase. These drop outs will be rescheduled in line with the
processes outlined in Section 3.

Completion of the installation phase results in the outlet moving to the in office data
migration and acceptance phase.

8.1 RGM Phase 2 letter (Installation Letter)

‘This letter will be issued to each outlet scheduled into the installation programme prior
to outlets being contacted to agree installation dates. ‘The letter will be issued by the
Wednesday of the appropriate week.

8.2 Installation Appointment Call

Following receipt of the RGM Phase 2 letter outlets will be contacted to agree dates for
their Horizon installation and Communications installation. This will also infer
acceptance by the outlet manager of a training window in the period immediately prior
to the installation.

8.3 Forecast to hardware suppliers

Information provided by the RoDB to Celestica allows a forecast to be provided to
hardware suppliers for the equipment required to satisfy the installation. The forecast is
derived from figures based on the number of counter positions to be automated,
number of back office systems and the office printer type, in accordance with Ref. [7].

8.4 Issue Invitation for the User Awareness Event

A minimum of 4 weeks prior to the User Awareness event the outlet will receive an
invitation informing them of the UAE venue and reminding them of the dates agreed
for data communications & Horizon installation. The RoDB will receive confirmation of
the UAE Invite being issued.

Included with the invitation will be a questionnaire in respect of requirements for
training. If this questionnaire is not returned within 8 days the outlet will be contacted by
telephone to collect the information. This discussion will be confirmed in writing. This
process is defined in detail in the Training Scheduling Requirements Document Ref 11.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 31 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy RefiIM/STR/040
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE :

8.5 Firm hardware requirements

A firm committed hardware forecast will be issued to Celestica on a four week rolling
basis, 8 weeks prior to installation of the Horizon system.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 32 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

8.6 User Awareness Event

To ensure that all appropriate outlet staff understand the Installation series of events, a
User Awareness Event is arranged. Details of the contents of the User Awareness Event
is documented in Ref. [2]. Attendance on the User Awareness event will be dependant
on the invitations being issued 4 weeks prior to the event.

The User Awareness event is designed to offer a detailed explanation of what is expected
of the outlet manager and staff, and what they should expect to happen during this
phase. By this stage all the dates appropriate to the outlet manager have been agreed,
with the exception of the training date.

Non attendees of the UAE will be sent a User awareness pack to explain the
forthcoming events.

8.7 Invitation to training

Information collated at the User Awareness Event will allow the training requirements
for each outlet to be scheduled and the venues confirmed. Once training venues are
established invitations are sent to outlet staff via the outlet manager. Details of the
invitation to training is provided in the training strategy Ref. [2]. This process is defined
in detail in the Training Scheduling Requirements Document Ref [11].

8.8 Auto configuration of the Horizon Counter equipment

All Horizon equipment will be built with a minimal configuration. On installation the
outlet specific configuration will be transferred to the counters. To undertake this
configuration an Auto configuration system has been developed. This system requires
supplied by the RoDB. The interfac
triggered 30 days prior to the Baselined Installation date and will be updated with any
changes up to the point the Auto configuration system configures the counters.

certain reference data for the outlet which

is

8.9 Outlet Managers Preview Event

This is an optional introductory training course targetted at outlet staff who are
unfamiliar with computers or have experienced problems with the current outlet
balancing processes. Selection of attendees will take place after the User Awareness
Event.

8.10 Communications line installation

The ordering and confirmation of the Communications Line (In the majority of cases
this will be ISDN) installation date was completed during the Planning phase. Data
communications will be installed at the outlet, with the exception of Alps offices that
already have an ISDN line that can be utilised by the Horizon system in those offices.
Furthermore approximately 2% of outlets will not have ISDN coverage and an
alternative means of communication will be installed., under these circumstances the

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 33 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

same scheduling processes will be followed and the most appropriate type of
communications link installed

Where an ISDN line is installed it will be monitored by Energis at agreed times relative
to the time of install. Should the ISDN line fail this will be detected by Energis and
rectified before installation of the Horizon equipment.

Should a failure on the ISDN line be detected within 2 days of the baseline installation
date and it is anticipated that the Horizon counter equipment installation may be
affected, then telephone escalation to ICL Pathway will occur.

Confirmation of the ISDN installation will take place no more that 2 days after the date
of installation.

At this time the full range of communication solutions have not been defined. In the
event that an outlet reaches this stage in the programme and a communications solution
is still not available ICL Path shall suspend the outlet from the programme
informing POCL appropriately.

8.11 Inspectorate (Phase 2)

‘The second phase of inspections will be scheduled to follow the Installation of the
ISDN line. The outlets will be selected in a similar manner to those selected for phase 1
inspections as outlined in ref [8]. ‘These inspections will be conducted 2 days after
ISDN installation where this can be agreed with the outlet manager.

resolution. Once resolved the outlet will be re-inspected for confirmation. There is a
very short period for resolution of failures so the systems may be short circuited as long
as the audit trail via the Rollout Helpdesk is retained. The process for this escalation is
detailed in Ref. [8].

8.12 Build of the counter systems

The equipment that will be delivered to the outlet will be tested and packaged into boxes
known as overshippers. The forecast information will be available as detailed in Ref. [7].
The appropriate overshippers will need to be available at least 5 days prior to Collection.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 34 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Jersion:3.{
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

8.13 User Training

The outlet manager & staff attend a specialised training event to ensure they are suitably
prepared to operate the Horizon counter equipment. The Invitation for these training
events will have been issued under the constraints defined earlier, at least 4 weeks prior
to the event taking place. ‘The training events are scheduled to be complete no earlier
than 7 days prior to installation for manual outlets or 10 days for ECCO outlets. Before
the installation of the Horizon equipment can take place in the outlet, a minimum
number of users must have passed the competency test to use the
for minimum training requirements will be agreed by Pathway & POCL training teams.

em. The criteria

The RoDB will be notified when the training commences for an outlet and when
minimum training compliance has been achieved.

Management of the scheduling of training is detailed in the ‘Training Scheduling
Requirements Document Ref [11].

8.14 Collection of overshippers

Between 1 and 5 days prior to the Baselined Installation date the appropriate
overshippers will be collected from Celestica. Once collected the overshippers will be
distributed to the appropriate distribution depot and be available for loading on the
delivery vehicle.

8.15 Equipment installation

The installation is dependant on the outlet being prepared, the data communications
being operable, the minimum training compliance achieved and the Horizon equipment
available for installation. The delivery vehicle will be scheduled to arrive am or pm on
the Installation day. Dependant on the number of counters Installation will take up to a
day to complete, the installation will take place in the outlets hours of business. Once the
equipment has been installed and the auto configuration taken place the system is
considered to be Live (This is ‘Live’ in so much as the Horizon system is installed and
fully functional and therefore supported by the ICL support infrastructure from that
point onwards, however until migration of stock units has taken place the Post Office
itself is not ready to proceed with business through the Horizon system). When the
system is Live the installer will request a signature from the outlet manager for
acceptance of th allation and they will log a call on the HSHD (NB. This may be the
Rollout Helpdesk) as confirmation.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 35 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
FUJ00001516
FUJ00001516

ICL Pathway Scheduling Strategy \ Rew STR/040
Version:3.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:22/10/99

8.16 Completion of the installation phase (Migration)

Scheduling of migration activities will be done based upon the baseline dates of
installation, any deviations in this will be reported via the Helpdesk / Regional
infrastructure to affected parties. With the system Live the Migration team will assist the
outlet staff in migrating the outlets accounts onto the Horizon system.

On completion of Migration the outlet manager signs the acceptance document for the
system in Operational Service. If this is not achieved by 11:30 on the day following
notification of Live status a call will need to be logged on the HSHD (NB. This may be
the Rollout Helpdesk) to hold the instruction that the system is in Operational Service.

Completion of migration activities will also result in updating the outlet status to
Operational, this will be forwarded to POCL and interested Suppliers by means of the
overnight interfaces.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 36 of 1
CONTRACT CON TROLLED
