FUJ00174724
FUJ00174724

From: Tait Duncan[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=TAITD]
Sent: Mon 08/07/2013 10:30:05 AM (UTC)
To: ‘Paula Vennells'

Subject: I RE:
Paula, thank you. I will update my team accordingly.

Best regards. Duncan

Duncan Tait
Chief Executive Officer
Fujitsu UK&!

Fujitsu
22 Baker Street, L¢

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity
Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

Kw Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Theresa Iles;
Sent: 08 July 2013 11:
To: Tait Duncan

Subject:

I On Behalf Of Paula Vennells

Duncan
Thanks again for our useful catch-up on Thursday and for your email received this morning.

Following our session I met up with Lesley, and I have asked her to pick-up on some of the other matters we
discussed. I am very keen that we maintain the momentum, and provide our teams with the necessary support and
direction.

Lesley has also further clarified the Data Centre and Transitional Service agreement (TSS) position and I can confirm
that, although we are not attempting to align the contract awards, we are motivated to get both finalised as quickly as
possible. The TSS proposition will be going to Board later this month, whilst in parallel dialogue on the Data Centre
Tower is advancing. We are targeting a Data Centre contract award in September; due to the value this will also need
to be endorsed by the Board. The Data Centre position does of course need to be considered alongside the wider IT
Supply Chain position, specifically the alignment with our SI procurement.

The Home Phone and Broadband initiative is a great example of how our teams are working together. Thank you for
raising the points you did: whilst we are keen to advance this as quickly as possible, I am also mindful that any failings
would have a significant customer impact. Therefore, I have asked Lesley and Martin to review the timings with a
view to ensuring a smooth transition for our customers. They will keep in close touch with your team on this.

I agree we should meet again, probably in August. I intend to ask Lesley to join us as she will be able to provide
further context on our overall IT strategy, which would be good to relate to your point on future Horizon evolution. I
FUJ00174724
FUJ00174724

will ask Theresa to find a slot in our diaries.

Kind regards
Paula

Paula Vennells I Chief Executive

postoffice.co.uk

@postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

