FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

Contents

1 INTRODUCTION.
1.1. Assurance in Fujitsu.
1.2 About this Handbook.
1.3. Post Sales Activity.

2 The Customer Solution Lifecycle (CSL
2.1. Opportunity Classification.....
2.2 General Review Process Flows for Europe Services: Services..
3 OVERVIEW OF THE STAGES WITHIN THE CUSTOMER SOLUTION LIFECYCLE.
3.1. REQUESTING AUTHORIZATION AND ASSURANCE MEETINGS.
3.1.1 HOUSE RULES: AUTHORIZATION MEETINGS.
3.2. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY (DofA).
3.3 MULTI REGION BIDS...
3.4. PARENT COMPANY GUARANTEE.

37 INDICATIVE OFFER..
3.8 PRICE ORIENTED BID APPROACH (POBA- Update WIP).

4 ASSURANCE & AUTHORIZATION STEP DESCRIPTIONS..
4.1. STAGE 1-LEAD MANAGEMENT....
4.2 STAGE 2- IDENTIFY OPPORTUNITY.
4.2.1 Opportunity Qualification.
4.2.2 Solution Alignment.
4.3 STAGE 3- DEFINE THE VALUE PROPOSITION
4.3.1 Bid No Bid.
44 STAGE 4 - DESIGN THE SOLUTION.
4.4.1 Peer Quality Check (PQC).
4.5 STAGE 5-BID....
4.5.1 Deliverability and RAID Workshoy
4.5.2 Financial and Commercial Quality Gate.
4.5.3 Bid Authorization Review...
4.6 STAGE 6- CLOSE THE DEAL.
4.6.1 Contract Readiness Check (CRC:
4.6.2 Contract Authorization Review (CAR).
4.7 STAGE 7 - START PROJECT....
4.7.1 Bid to Delivery Handover.
4.7.2 Ready for initiation
4.8 STAGE 8 —- POST CONTRACT VERIFICATION OR KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER REVIEW... 42
4.8.1 Post Contract Verification or Knowledge Transfer review..
4.8.2 Ready to Go Live, Pilot and/or Rollou
4.9 STAGE 9- PROGRAM CLOSURE...
4.9.1 Closure Readiness Review.
4.10 STAGE 10 - MANAGE SERVICES & ENHANCEMENT (Change Requests)..
4.10.1 Manage Service & Enhancements.

4.11. STAGE 11 - CLOSE THE CONTRACT.

4.11.1Close the Contract.

Classification Fujitsu Restricted
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

4.12 SWARM, ALERTS AND CRISIS MANAGEMENT.....
4.13 LESSONS LEARNED AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT/LEARNING.
4.14 APPENDIX 1 - INDICATIVE OFFER FLOW CHART..........:c0c00000

4.15 APPENDIX 2- POBA WITH CSLC...
4.16 APPENDIX 3— EUROPE BUSINESS ASSURANCE STEP ALIGNMENT WITH CSLC GLOBAL

GATEWAY .. 52

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 1 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

1 Introduction

1.1. Assurance in Fujitsu
The Assurance function is responsible for enabling authorizers to make informed decisions by
providing reliable and holistic deal proposition and risk assessments. The Assurance function
defines, enables and manages the business to ensure Bids, Programs and Service Delivery is
delivered in accordance with approved and commercially acceptable practices. The Customer
Solution Lifecycle (CSLC) in line with the sales stages and the Fujitsu Global Assurance standards
builds the frame of the Assurance Framework.

The Assurance functions in Europe Services covers the following countries Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland and United Kingdom.

All countries above are under Europe Services but there will be references throughout this
document to Germany specifically and United Kingdom (UK or UKI when Ireland included).

The Assurance Framework is the detailed outline of the Assurance and Authorizations steps.
Detailed information to all presales activities are described in the Presales Playbook

Fujitsu continues to operate based on an integrated business management system that promotes a
consistent approach to fulfilling Customer requirements and the pursuit of continual improvement in
Customer satisfaction and business performance.

The Best Practices and Processes are described within the Europe Business Management System
(EBMS) and Fujitsu bid, delivery activity and governance is standardized through the Customer
Solution Lifecycle (CSLC). NB: not all references to the CSLC in this document will be linked to the
diagram

In essence, what we do in an engagement is apply hard thinking to represent the capabilities and assets of
Fujitsu so that a customer wants to buy from Fujitsu and not a competitor. Just as important is to win good
business that makes the right level of margin and profit and has a positive impact on the end-to-end
reputation of Fujitsu in the market.

The Presales Playbook focusses on the activities in all the stages of the sales cycle; also detailing
the activities and management support during the sales process until the engagement is
successfully handed to central and / or country operations for activation, transition and delivery.

It describes the guidelines, templates, processes and tools required to:
= Structure the presales and engagement process;
= Define work products, deliverables, roles and responsibilities;
= Ensure compliance with approval and review processes;
= Ensure full alignment with the Customer Solution Lifecycle.

Embedded in the pre-sales and engagement process CSLC, the Assurance and Authorization steps
are milestones in the overall process to move to the next sales stage.

Presales is far wider as it is about leading a team with Sales and the applicable Business Lines
(BL), Verticals and Functions to beat the competition and win the deal, often with a significant
portion of activities prior to the release of any tender, RFI or RFP. This covers a wide range of
knowledge, acumen and experience. The Bid Manager, driving the overall engagement and the
lead architect, driving the solution design, are expected to bring the right level of knowledge,
acumen and experience to support this within the team in close collaboration with the Business
Lines and Functions

Glossary:
Term Europe Services
Services Services & Connected Services

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 2 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
Delivery

Service Delivery

Service Line (when P&L is concerned)
Sales Growth, Own the Customer
Relationship

Sales Verticals (Germany), Platform
Business (Products), Enterprise Platform
Services (EPS), Delivery Service Lines

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

(Uvance Vertical, Uvance Horizontal,
Regional Offerings, Legacy Offerings UK
ting-fenced accounts -Defence & National
Security (DNS)

Service Line (when Delivery is
concerned) Own Delivery Cost and
Quality

Service Delivery, Products, EPS, Delivery
Service Line DNS (UK only)

1.2 About this Handbook

Fujitsu’s approach to Bid, Program (Transition & Transformation) and Service Delivery is outlined
in the Customer Solution Lifecycle (CSLC). The content and importance of the CSLC for Europe
Services Region is further described in the section below. This handbook:

= — Is applicable to all Service Lines, Portfolios and all Opportunities (regardless of the level of
risk)

= Describes the key activities to be undertaken in each of CSLC Sales Stages;

= Explains which processes and tools need to be used to manage, authorize and assure
Opportunities, Transition & Transformation Programs and Service Delivery;

= The processes and tools are designed to achieve standardization and a consistent
approach across Europe Services and will be implemented in a way that avoids causing
major disruption to current country specific approaches.

= References specific Assurance guidelines, the Europe Business Management System
(EBMS) and the other subsequent phases of the Customer Solution Lifecycle (CSLC).

= Digital Accessibility should be considered throughout all stages of the process.

Fujitsu continues to operate based on an integrated business management system that promotes a
consistent approach to fulfilling customer requirements and the pursuit of continual improvement in
Customer satisfaction and business performance.

1.3 Post Sales Activity

The Post Sales Activities cover the CSLC Stages from 7-11, but actually start during the Bid phase
with the commencement of Preparations to Mobilize and Deliver to our Customers once a Contract
is signed.

The stage commences with the BA Program Gateways Reviews, where responsibility passes from
the Sales Team that have negotiated and secured the Contract to the Delivery Team and they will
then take Accountability for delivering the contract to meet the Customers’ requirements and
achieve Fujitsu's Business objectives.

= The normal structure for the Delivery Team will be as defined by the Business Lines in their
Operating Handbooks.

The Fujitsu Team must strive to deliver all of the contracted customer requirements in a seamless
and pro-active manner achieving both Fujitsu's and the Customers defined Business outcomes.
They need to work on building long term relationships with the customer and achieve high levels of
customer satisfaction, whilst ensuring our services continue to deliver benefits to the customers’
business.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 3 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

2 The Customer Solution Lifecycle (CSLC)

The Customer Solution Lifecycle (CSLC) is a Global framework that defines how Fujitsu controls the winning
and delivery of good business. It describes the stages of progression from an initial lead, through description
of the proposition and solution to bid and contract signature and delivery. Stages 1 to 6 cover all stages of
the sales activity from qualifying an Opportunity to contracting. Whilst 7-11 describe the stages of take-on of
the contract through Implementation followed by ongoing service management, to exit of the contract.

The CSLC additionally identifies the mandated assurance and authorization points, activities and knowledge
that all of the Europe Services countries must undertake and acquire when bidding and delivering to the
Customer. The risk profile classification determines the layers of engagement of stakeholders, which may
require independent assessment for large complex opportunities

The following graphic illustrates the different base stages

Stage 1 stage 2 ena Stage 6 Stage 7 stages I Stage ‘Stage 10 Stage 11

I identity Define the Bid ‘Close the Deal Start the Execute Hand over to I Manage I ose thie,
peste Bay cha Oa er Delwery ‘Manage Operations Services and Contract Ext)
Propostion Project and Clove Ephancements

More information on the CSLC can be found here:

The Customer Solution Lifecycle provides an understanding of the logical order of all Customer facing
activities. It defines the stage of any Customer deliverable through a life cycle that begins with the discovery
of a possible opportunity, through the qualification and development of the opportunity, through the Winning
of the deal, Transition and Transformation, service delivery and finally end of contract.

The Customer Solution Lifecycle documents core principles and processes that are understood and
operated throughout Fujitsu Europe Services to respond to the right Customer Opportunities in time, with the
required quality and in an efficient way.

The Customer Solution Lifecycle enables Fujitsu to be faster, less expensive, and more reliable at the
Customer interface, including the required internal interfaces that Fujitsu operates to create a Customer
proposal and to deliver what was contracted. It combines existing best practices and aims to ensure that
within Fujitsu, only one set of processes and tools is used to support Opportunities for the complete portfolio
(product-led to services-led).

The Customer Solution Lifecycle always applies for all Risk Level projects, the general ideas and principles
must be reflected across Europe Services for all projects on all risk levels.

2.1 Opportunity Classification

The Opportunity Classification Tool (OCT) is designed to do the following things and it is embedded in
Salesforce (see Salesforce Implementation Table below for details on this implementation):

1. Determine the level of authorization required for an Opportunity — based on the EUROPE
Delegation of Authority

2. Determine which route can be taken to gain authorization to submit a priced proposal or sign
a contract

3. Determine the complexity of an Opportunity — based on key topics that drive risk within that
Opportunity

It is important to note that if a topic would lead us to qualify out of an opportunity it is not picked up through
opportunity classification; instead, it is addressed through the qualification activities. The overall opportunity

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 4 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

classification (of Low, Medium or High) is an indicator of the relative business risk to the company and takes
into account the Total Contract Value (TCV) of the opportunity.

From Sales Stage 2 the OCT will be completed for each Opportunity. It is also mandatory to complete the
OCT again when moving from Sales Stages 3 to 4 and again when moving from Sales Stage 4 to 5.

The OCT is not required for Churn Run Rate entered into Salesforce as a monthly rolled up entry for an
account;

4 For the authorization level: the OCT will perform a lookup against the EUROPE Delegation of
Authority thresholds for each Country within Europe Services Region. It will also take the
following criteria into consideration to determine which level of authorization (Levels 1 — 5,
where Level 5 is a Regional (Global) Review authorization) is required. In addition to the the
Regional defined TCV threshold (> 65m US $ which equates to > 55m EUR) Level V
Authorization Review is also required if:

= Requirements for Parent Company Guarantees * Note: PCG requested under local entity
follow local guidelines with the Legal Representative and inform DoA Office.

= Multi-Region Sales (where TCV /Revenue flow outside Lead Sales Region (LSR) is 2 US
$2m ) Note: The utilization of a GDC/GPMO/Uvance/CoE by a single Region does not
create a Multi Region Sale.

= Strategic Accounts for Japanese Owned Company (JoC) as determined by Region Head
and/or Global Panel Members jointly from time to time during sales cycle

= Opportunities identified as high risk above a threshold of US$35m (30m EUR) will require a
Regional Authorization Review (Level V).

= Financial investments are needed (e.g., buy company, equity in joint venture) *
o *Following Europe Services Region Authorization, EMC Approval must also be
obtained

= Where there is a Material Change in the contents (eg. Risk, scope, financing, onerous
terms) of the business proposition occurs, or the amount approved increases or decreases
that exceeds the amount (below) after the approval is given by the Authorizer. The Sales
team must submit again an updated business proposal for approval for change and obtain
approval from the Authorizer. (Article 19 of Group DoA)

© *Either 20% (TCV) of the approved amount or USD 1M, whichever is lower.

= Expiration of Approval is set at 6 months after authorization of the approved application
fails to be started within said period. (Article 20 of Group DoA)

Please note that from time to time the business may change or add parameters, which may be managed
outside of the OCT by Assurance (via Central or local Assurance representatives).

For the authorization route: the outcome will be influenced by the complexity of the Opportunity and the type
of submission that is being made to a customer. The Opportunity will be deemed eligible for one of the
following methods of authorization:

= Rapid Assessment (see Rapid Assessment (RA) section for further details)
= Indicative Offer authorization (see Indicative Offer section for further details)
* Bid Authorization (BAR) & Contract Authorization (CAR) Reviews

For the complexity (also known _as risk) classification: it is applicable for all Opportunities regardless of
which Business Line/country they are led from. The low, medium or high outcome determines the level of
bid assurance that will be applicable for the Opportunity. The classification is also referred to by Sales, the
bid process and the delivery assurance steps post contract signature.

NB: Changes to contracts requiring a CAR

All changes to a contract are subject to the rules regarding Churn. However, for significant
changes, it is expected that such changes will require approval at a CAR at the same level that the
original contract was approved.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 5 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

For example, if a deal was approved at a Level IV CAR, if there is a significant change to that
contract, such change will be subject to approval at a CAR at Level IV regardless of the value
assigned to that change. See guiding principles document here

During the lifetime of a contract (beyond SS7) we may need to revisit the classification of the risk of a
contract from time to time.

The following table shows an Overview of Complexity Classification:

AUTHORIZATION & Europe Services/EPS Service Delivery

ASSURANCE TRACK

HIGH Full Track (by Business Line &
Central Business Assurance) *

MEDIUM Medium Track (by Business Line
and Local Assurance) *

LOW No Assurance — straight to
Rapid Assessment via
eAuthorization

MEDIUM/HIGH Indicative Offer (option

applicable to Medium & High
complexity opportunities)

“Full track means that all Authorization and Assurance steps as described below have to be
completed. Medium track means that only a selection of the Authorization and Assurance steps as
described below have to be completed, but explicit approval must be sought and granted from the
Chairperson for each review and the Delivery function to skip an Assurance step.

NOTE: For DNS Low, Medium and High are the same as shown for UK Services.
General Process Flow for Services diagram — click here

General Process Flow for EPS — click here

The effort, in time and cost, associated with assuring and governing a High Assurance Opportunity is
generally substantially more than for a Low or Medium Opportunity. Whilst this is intuitively correct,
pragmatically it may not be appropriate for all High Assurance Category Opportunities to receive the same
level of extensive assurance as is described in the standard Bid Assurance approach. There are also
circumstances where the full process application is judged upon by the Business Assurance team. These
scenarios could be:

= Low TCV — where the customer is requesting a PCG which drives High categorization

= Low TCV - where multinational/Region delivery drives High categorization

= Extension to existing contract — High categorization driven by High TCV

= — An opportunity with a significant volume of standard services/product which drives a High TCV

and for the rest of Europe to EuropeGovernanceOperations( — GRO___Ito discuss the assurance approach

for the specific opportunity at hand. Within Business Assurance there is an agreed way of handling such
exceptions.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 6 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

Salesforce Summary Table:

OCT ELEMENT Europe SALESFORCE

Complexity Level — informing the user of the level of Assurance required for an vee

opportunity (High, Medium or Low)

Authority Level — using the Europe Services Delegation of Authority (DofA) Y
es

(Levels I-V)

Authorization Route — eligibility for Rapid Assessment, Indicative Offer or Bid vee

Reviews (OQ, BNB, BAR & CAR)

Mandatory triggers to complete the OCT at specified Sales Stages Yes

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 7 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

2.2 General Review Process Flows for Europe Services: Services
The following diagrams Illustrate the overall approach and guidelines

cage Cosette I
Eoacemems (Get)

ans I me
Opens
‘Cone Projet

: Secon!
ey! Manage
“ete tuenee eo

ication

Bid No Bid Review
Bid Authorisation Review (3

Opportunity Quali

Program Closure

Contract Authorization Review (3)

Authorization / Gateway

Autoren Rapid Assessment

indicative

" , Solon Debveaity Contre tot commer ntaon
Racenbs ‘igre nt RADWodahop Reine Check "Winn cena recon
Seep Su Aaverance

Peer to Peet Quaity Checks I smepevman NST Resiem

Tools, Templates &
Guidelines.

‘Authorization Sporty faNobe Prd Autoren corti
Review Qusivestion Review Review thorzation Review

Classification Fujitsu Restricted
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

General Bid Review Process Flows for EPS

The following diagrams illustrate the overall approach and guidelines.

Opportunity
i Assurance Design The Start Delivery /
Classification ae iia 3 vals rari i Tsue ‘ aaa Close The Deal fn

Too!

I
I Peer to Peer
L ‘Quality Check

High Risk

Deliverability and
RAID Workshop
completed
Ready for Initiation

Bid to Delivery handover

Solution Alignment

z
g
=
3
«
zB
cy
S
2
z
a

Contract Readiness Check

Financial and
Quality Gate

5 3
s Fy
& g
2 2
= é
Ei 5
g s
2 3
= 2
5 3
4 £
§ 3
2
A 2
° 3
a

iq
>.
3
2
c
$
§
5
£
5
2
z
5
fs

Authorization / Assurance Step

iy

General Review Process flow for EPS

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 9 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

3 Overview of the Stages within the Customer Solution Lifecycle

The following table defines on a high level the key actions during the Stages and Assurance
activities that are required

Stage Descri
CSLC STAGE 1: An unqualified opportunity, called a Lead “Above the Funnel”. The Sales
LEAD Lead / Opportunity Owner needs to investigate whether this is an

MANAGEMENT opportunity for Fujitsu.
This stage enables Presales to identify the volume of bids to expect and
perform the initial planning, initial resource management and scheduling.
Leads are registered in the eCRM tool (salesforce.com) by the Sales Lead /
Opportunity Owner or by Marketing (if the Opportunity was generated by a
marketing campaign)and the Presales team is informed the moment it
becomes relevant. Review Steps Stage 1

CSLC STAGE 2: _ This Stage is about identifying and “qualifying in” the sales opportunities on

IDENTIFY which to focus our bid resources; and “qualifying out” those which are

OPPORTUNITY judged too unlikely to win against strategy, scalability, and alignment to
Fujitsu’s portfolio

This is done in close collaboration with the applicable Delivery function and
Sales Operations thus ensuring all key stakeholders are informed and
implicated and the eCRM System is up to date.

The Presales team undertakes an initial scoping of Stages 3-6 outputs that
will be required, with an evaluation of complexity, risk, and investment of
effort as appropriate in the form of a first pass at the Capture Plan. Much of
this initial scoping should invoke Standard Offerings as much as possible
and the right Best Practice.

This Stage concludes with an Opportunity Qualification (OQ) review. If
positive, the Opportunity Review will authorize an “initial bid budget” to
carry out sufficient work on solution strategy that a quality decision can be
taken at Stage 3 Bid/No Bid (BNB).

Review Steps Stage 2.

csLe This Stage is about agreeing if the solution is viable from a high-
STAGE level perspective and mobilizing to win. This is achieved by building
ie and documenting the understanding of the Customer's

requirements and business drivers, shaping a compelling

vate proposition that can be delivered successfully, and securing the
PROPOS appropriate resources to bid, win and deliver the project.
ITION The Lead Architect starts the creation of the Architecture Overview

Document (AOD) which describes all the primary architectural aspects of
the solution, including but not limited to the architectural choices and
interpretation of the functional and non-functional requirements. The AOD
form the basis for the High-Level Design documents that are created by the
Capability Solution Architects (Sales) in collaboration with the assigned
Delivery Architects (Business Line) and Delivery Domain Architects
(Business Line). The Business Line Architects are part the virtual team that
is created for the specific Opportunity.

For retention and renewals (rebid, extension, expansion and auto-
renewals), we engage the account team and secure the current account
view/data as incumbents for building our strategy. A decision at the

Classification Fujitsu Restricted
CSLC
STAGE

4:
DESIGN
THE
SOLUTI

CSLC
STAGE
5: BID

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

Opportunity Review may be given to the team to skip Bid No Bid and move
to the next stage as it will be assumed Fujitsu as incumbent will be bid to
retain the account.

The key output from this Stage is to determine if Fujitsu has the
capability and capacity to deliver the solution and the value
proposition i.e. why Fujitsu?

Presales supports this endeavor by an initial view of the solution
strategy to establish strategic fit, provide direction and define the
skills that will be required during the balance of the actual bid
process.

This stage can be repeated if there is a material change to the
value proposition requiring a decision to authorize additional bid
budget or re-qualify the Opportunity through further assessment.
The bid project documentation library must be set up by this stage
and managed until handed over to the Delivery Manager at Stage
%

This Stage starts with the Solution Alignment (SA) concludes with a
Bid No Bid (BNB) Review. Review Steps Stage 3.

The aim during this Stage is to confirm that Fujitsu has a viable

solution that meets the Customer's mandatory requirements and

selection criteria and that it is deliverable by the Business Lines.
The aim during this Stage is to confirm that the solution that Fujitsu has
developed is deliverable and compelling. The solution is expected to be a
balanced view between price and time. It should comply with the
Customer's requirements and differentiates Fujitsu from the competition.
The design and any limitations need to be logged as part of the Solution
baseline

This stage happens, usually when the Customer publishes the
requirements document (possibly as part of the Tender
documentation), and the team moves into proposal creation.
During this stage further development and refinement of the
Capture Plan should be completed, with the focus on refining the
value proposition and critically defining the solution to deliver it.
This stage can include a second BNB Review if there is relevant
additional information requiring a management checkpoint.
Ongoing Peer to Peer Quality Checks ensure Fujitsu has a viable
and compelling solution that will meet Customer needs and be
deliverable without undue risk. If positive, the Review will confirm
the Bid Budget. If negative, it may result in a No Bid decision.
Review Steps Stage 4.

During this stage, the team brings together all the elements of the
opportunity response in a way that presents a compelling
proposition to the Customer and that will also work for Fujitsu.
Generally, the proposal is created at this stage.

Elements of the opportunity include the technical solution, the
service descriptions, the commercial solution and the
Implementation Plan. We bring these together into a proposal that
will deliver an acceptable margin, cash and risk profile for Fujitsu,
building on the initiated solution design work carried out at Stage 4.
The Lead Architect completes the Architecture Overview Document

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 11 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
CSLC
STAGE

CLOSE
THE
DEAL

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

(AOD) that describes all the primary architectural aspects of the
solution. Development of the overall technical solution including
costs. The High-Level Design documents are finalized by are
created by the Capability Solution Architects (Sales) in
collaboration with the assigned Delivery Architects (Business Line)
and Delivery Domain Architects (Business Line).

Prior to moving to the Bid Authorization Review (BAR) Peer to Peer
Quality Checks are conducted, defined per scope and risk profile of
the opportunity.

For Medium and High-Risk Opportunities, a Deliverability and RAID
workshop is mandatory. This is not applicable for the Low-Risk
Opportunities (Rapid Assessment) and Indicative Offer
Opportunities. These only require a BAR including a special
commercial sign off (Contact Legal and Commercial (L&C) via their_
ASK Legal portal to access L&C support)

The Sales and Presales team provides the whole proposition
presented to the Bid Authorization Review (BAR). All opportunities
must undertake the BAR authorization before submission of the
proposal to the customer. The bid team are expected to return for
approval each time there is a significant change* that requires a
submission to the customer. In the case of Indicative Offer
(budgetary estimates) and during Rapid Assessment this can
electronically submitted.

Review Steps Stage 5.

Stage 6 indicates that Fujitsu has been selected as preferred
supplier. During stage 5 Fujitsu needs to submit multiple
documents to the Customer who then goes through down-select
evaluation and decision process. Unless these down select to just
Fujitsu, the Stage remains 5 even if a Best and Final Offer (BAFO)
or preliminary contractual documents needs to be created.

At this stage, the team takes into account all Due Diligence (DD; if
applicable) findings and any other open issues and address them
through price and/or timescale changes to be negotiated with the
Customer to arrive at a contract that is ready to be signed. The
signature is always subject to Contract Authorization Review
(CAR).

For Medium and High-Risk Opportunities, a Contract Readiness
Check workshop is mandatory. This is not applicable for the Low-
Risk Opportunities (Rapid Assessment). Prior to Contract
Readiness Checks, Peer to Peer Quality Checks should be
performed to agree on the final position and to cover any changes
since last BAR.

The account delivery team, including the Transition and
Transformation Program Team is appointed and preparations made
to initiate the Mobilization to Program Delivery upon contract
signature.

It is considered Best Practice and highly recommended that these
teams have already been involved as early as possible in the
process, even as early as Stage 4 and 5 so potential handover
gaps are closed even during Presales phases.

All dependencies and obligations must be validated in the contract

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 12 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
CSLC
STAGE
Tie
START
PROJE
CT

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

and agreed and considered in the costing and pricing. The
Business Delivery Lead accountable for ensuring that the solution
is deliverable must ensure that the review takes place and confirm
their understanding and acceptance of the contract they will have
the oversight to deliver, with the last chance to influence
A Legal Review should take place with mature information
available, but this information might still not be final. It shall ensure
that the Terms and Conditions are consistent across all parts of the
Customer facing documents and that the schedules are consistent,
unambiguous and commit Fujitsu to only what we have proposed
and costed.
At the end of the stage, the responsibility is handed over to the
account team within the (lead) Business Line. Similarly, from an
Assurance perspective responsibility transfer from Bid Assurance
to Delivery Assurance and for all contracts assessed as High Risk
through the Opportunity Classification Tool, Delivery Assurance will
appoint a Lead, who will be the primary contact for the Account
Team through the delivery of the contract and particularly the T&T
Phase.
The Bid to Delivery Handover Process that can be found here is
the point where responsibility transfers from the Sales / Bid Team
to the Account Team and this process will be assured through the
Bid to Delivery Quality Gate. Review Steps Stage 6.

The objective of this stage is to get formal authorization to pass

accountability to the delivery team and start the Project

To establish the Project and Account governance. To understand, assess
and complete handover of the work done during the bid.

To review the contract and understand our obligations as well as any
aspects that cause concern for delivery.

To ensure that the pre-requisites for the start of delivery stage are
completed before commencing delivery. To undertake Post Contract
Verification (PCV), if detailed in the contract, to assess any changes that
result and take through CAR2, if required

Stage 7 starts on the day of contract signature and is authorized by the
Business Delivery Lead. No work must be undertaken on the Project until
the contract has been signed or written authorization has been given
according to the Delegation of Authority for working at risk

This stage is in two parts. The first is the work covered by the ‘Start of
Project’ gate and the second is the work to ‘start implementation’ which
effectively completes the stage. The criteria for both is defined in

the Delivery Assurance Checklist.

The Account Delivery team, other key resources, Parent company
guarantees, Inter-Company Agreements (ICAs), Statements of Work, sub-
contracts are all in place and signed prior to start of Stage 7. Purchase
Orders should also be raised to allow third parties and capability units to
commence work.

The Account Delivery Lead takes over accountability for the contract from
the Bid team at the point that the contract is signed, having been involved
in the latter stages of the bid. It establishes the Business Governance of

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 13 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

the Program by the business and moves the accountability from the bid
team to the Account Lead and the Project Lead for Delivery.

The Account Delivery Lead is accountable for establishing a review of the
contract within 2 weeks of Contract signature. This is the Contract Baseline
Review (CBR) which will look at the key contractual obligations and levers.
It takes place with appropriate stakeholders who need to understand the
Contract and what it stipulates we need to deliver, this includes Project and
Service Leads, it should also include the equivalent team from the bid
stages. Contractual obligations should be logged in an appropriate tool and
incorporated into the Project Baseline.

The Internal Governance regime is established, including the
corresponding reporting regime. This will be weekly Project reporting and
Monthly Cockpit reporting (if applicable). Data-based metrics should be
agreed and used as the basis of reporting progress.

The external Governance and reporting regimes should be established in
accordance with the contract or if not defined in accordance with
established best practices to allow Fujitsu to best manage the Customer.

As part of the handover representatives from the bid team should provide
knowledge transfer, background and the intent behind the decisions
reached. The RAID Plan in particular must be carried through from Bid and
into delivery with risks tracked and closure agreed and authorized at The
Business review of the Project

The Project Manager will establish the review and reporting regime for the
workstreams including data-based metrics by which progress can be
judged. This is different from the Governance reviews.

The Project Manager will create the Project Baseline Documents (Such as
a Project Initiation Document or Project Charter) that describes how the
project will be delivered, its scope. These works should be formally
approved by The Business Review of the Project .

The Project Lead is accountable for inducting and recruiting the Project
Organization ensuring that agreed Terms of Reference are in place for all.

The Project Solution Lead to review all designs produced in the Project and
ensure that they reflect the contract, and we have a cohesive solution; this
is known as technical governance. Ensuring that the Overarching

Designs are matured and complete as they will set the framework for the
designs that will follow, any changes resulting from PCV must also be
incorporated. Any changes to the solution from that approved at BAR /
CAR must be presented to the Business review of the Project. as a change
control for approval. All design assets produced during the bid need to be
assessed, confirmed as complete and agreed during this stage as part of
technical governance

If Post Contract Verification (PCV) of the baseline has been agreed
within the contract, including any Assumptions that need to be
clarified, then this is carried out during stage 7 and prior to
implementation work commencing in Stage 8. Differences identified
through the PCV need to be assessed, dealt with under Change
Control and negotiated with the customer. The objective is to retain
the profitability and risk profile of the deal to what was agreed at

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 14 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
CSLC
STAGE
8:
MANAG
E AND
IMPLEM
ENT
PROJE
CT

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

the Contract Authorization Review (CAR). Significant variations,
affecting profit, schedule or risk to the Fujitsu business case
detected as part of Post Contract Verification need to be authorized
through a second CAR2 at the same level as the original deal,
minor variations that do not have a material implication can be
authorized in the Business review of the Project according to
the Delegation of Authority Stage 7 is closed when the following
have been completed.

» Internal governance and reporting have been established.

= The Stage 7 Gate: Start Implementation gate has completed and
been signed off with the Quality Criteria for the Gate reviewed and
the risk of proceeding to stage 8 agreed as part of the Business
review of the Project.

= Any Post Contract Verification (PCV) has completed.

= The solution has been baselined Overarching Designs have been
completed and signed off by the Project Solution Lead.

= The Contract Baseline Review has been completed.

= Project Finance structure has been established

* Data-based metrics established

= The Project Plan has been approved by the Business review of the
Project.

Review Steps Stage 7.
Stage 8 is to implement the Project solution successfully, to quality, time
and budget, in accordance with the contract whilst maintaining the
customer relationship. If applicable to take into service phases of the
solution and to commence provision of the service.

This stage reviews the solution delivery, in the manner and timescales
described in the contract. The contract takes precedence over any
methodology or Delivery Unit view on what and how we are delivering. It is
incumbent on all individuals working on the Project to make sure that they
understand and are compliant with the aspects of the contract that relate to
their aspects of the solution/work with the Account Delivery Lead, Project
Lead and Project Solution Lead responsible for ensuring this happens.

The exact approach to delivering this stage will vary dependent upon the
type of Project being implemented and the regional methods associated
with that scope.

As well as managing the Project in accordance with the contract the
Account and Project need to manage the contract in accordance with
Fujitsu’s financial and commercial policies.

* All changes must be proactively managed under Change Control
making sure that all changes are formally logged even if there is no
cost to the client. Ensuring that any changes are proactively
managed and approved by the individual in Fujitsu with the
appropriate level of Delegation of Authority. Maintaining a register of
changes, including internal and external authorizations.

* Contract obligations making sure that we deliver what the contract
says in the way that the contract specifies including any milestone
acceptance criteria or rights of review. We show each contractual
requirement, a process of how to fulfil that obligation, what the
output is (deliverable) to clearly show that it’s being delivered to the

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 15 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= frequency laid out in the contract.

= Customer's dependencies, regularly formally reminding the
customer that they have dependencies that will become due and
faising formal delay events detailing the occurrence and implications
of any failure and holding a record of all such events. Dependencies
should have quality criteria associated with them and be tested
against those criteria rejecting if they do not achieve.

= Contract assumptions, where these are found not to be correct
should be raised utilizing the mechanisms detailed in the contract to
seek recourse including the raising and negotiation of any changes
to the contract and getting those approved before release to the
Customer.

= Not commencing any work that is not within the current scope of the
Project, even if it is planned to be a Change control until such time
as work has been agreed and the contract or change control is
signed by both parties. This is defined as working at risk and any
such occurrence needs to be formally agreed in advance by the
Fujitsu individual with the appropriate Delegation of Authority.

= Technical governance is working effectively to ensure that the
solution remains consistent with the contract, is cohesive, complete
and all designs are baselined, held in a dedicated repository and
signed off.

= Any Settlements or disputes including waivers of payment must be
done in accordance with the Delegation of Authority.

Every project with a value over $100k is required to submit a
project status report and update the Risk Plan, and to update the
project financial information on the Regional Finance platform
monthly
Regular reviews will be held with the designated Customer contacts
to track progress, manage dependencies and mitigate issues. The
Customer review cannot place actions on the Project that conflict
with Fujitsu Policies, such as requesting working at risk.
Milestones, where applicable, are delivered in accordance with the
contract and formal acceptance certificates signed and held that
confirm successful completion of the associated deliverables to the
required quality. Where accreditation is required, the Project must
ensure that the appropriate internal and external audits have been
undertaken with sufficient time to achieve any aligned milestone.
All projects will have some element of testing associated with their
outcome, which will be defined in the test strategy document baselined in
Stage 7. This will contain associated detail regarding the tests to be carried
out and when they will be performed. This is elaborated in Stage 8 in the
test plan and individual test cases. There will be an associated set of
criteria that indicates whether the solution has passed testing. Once testing
has completed and agreed criteria achieved, there will also be an agreed
set of defects and an approach to manage or resolve those.

For many Projects, it is expected that Fujitsu will conduct a series of
internal Service Readiness Reviews (SRR) prior to Service Commencement
during Stage 8. The successful outcome being confirmation that the
organization is ready to deliver the service, achieved via sign-off from all
Operational and Functional Units involved. The service is accepted during

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 16 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
CSLC
STAGE
9:
CLOSE
PROJEC
ig

FUJ00243269

FUJ00243269

an Acceptance into Service by the Account Lead and confirmed at the
Business Review of the Project.

There may be a requirement to conduct an Acceptance into Service Review
with the Customer, potentially as a contractual requirement. This is a
different review and the material, meeting structure and attendees needs to
be orchestrated; accordingly, the customer doesn't attend the internal
Service Readiness Reviews.

Once the Service has been accepted the activities required to achieve cut-
over into live operation can commence. These will have been tested as part
of establishing the solution including any fallback processes, detailing what
happens if cut over is not successful and associated criteria / triggers. Once
the cut-over criteria have been confirmed as achieved the responsibility for
the on-going service transfers from the Project to Operations (either Fujitsu
or Customer). It is important that the Service Readiness Review confirms
that the service about to go-live is compliant with the contract. As part of
Acceptance into Service there needs to be a documented set of
accountabilities for early life support, risks and defects.

The Project may be completed in Phases. At the completion of Stage 8,
both Fujitsu and the Customer should have met their contractual obligations
for all the project phases of the contract.

Review Steps Stage 8.
The objective of this stage is to ensure that all the contracted deliverables
to be delivered by the project have successfully completed and we are able
to close the Project.

At this stage, the Program Lead is looking for Go / No Go decision
to go-live with part or all the Service. This stage may be runa
number of times as different phases of the service are implemented
The Project Lead is accountable, if in scope, for handing over to
Live Operations. If Fujitsu are providing a managed service, then
this will be to Fujitsu Operations but in other circumstances it could
also be Customer Operations or in certain circumstances there may
be no associated service. The transfer into service is expected to
have already completed as part of Stage 8. This may include
multiple SRRs, followed by an acceptance into service, for each
phase taken into service dependent on the contract and type of
Project.

There must be a formal handover of responsibility from Project
Lead to the Account or Client Service Delivery Lead which is
approved by the Account Delivery Lead. The Business review of
the Project will review the Closure Report as a prerequisite to
closure and highlight any potential items for re-use. It is the Project
Lead's responsibility to make sure that the collateral to support
closure is available.

All contractual obligations required to be achieved by the Project
are expected to be complete. The decision to close the Project can
also be a risk-based decision in which case there needs to be a

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 17 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269

FUJ00243269

clear plan to achieve the contracted outcomes formally agreed to
by the client

Specific and agreed deliverables will be handed over to the
account team, support, operations, service units and Customer in
line with the plan. These will include all required process
deliverables (e.g., Service Level Agreements (SLAs), Operational
Level Agreements (OLAs), Capacity Plan, tooling etc.)

* Contractual Assets including Contractual Obligations Log,
Acceptance certificates, Contract Terms and Conditions and
schedules, Service Level Agreements (SLAs),

= The Project Baseline consists of the key design and build assets. At
this stage it describes what the Project has delivered and may need
to be updated to ensure it accurately details the solution delivered
by the project and which is now in Service. The Project Baseline will
be handed over to the Service teams so that it can be maintained as
the service develops in the future such that there is always a clear
understanding of what supports the live operations.

* Any outstanding issue is highlighted and the plan for resolution has
to be agreed with relevant stakeholders, or they may be transferred
to the Incident/Problem management system with the agreement of
the receiving groups and functions. The RAID will be updated to
reflect the current position.

The completion of Stage 9 will be marked by a final Program Closure
Readiness Review to confirm that there are no outstanding delivery or
service issues that need to be resolved by the Implementation team and
that we are ready to close the Project. Once Closure approval has been
given by the Business review of the Project then the final steps to complete
the handover to "steady state" mode of operation.

We complete lessons learnt, release the final members of the Project and
close the project budget.

Any minor outstanding delivery or service issues at this stage should be
managed until completion by the relevant Service Delivery Teams, unless
Project resource is still available to do so.

Stage Outputs

= Project Closure Report produced and approved, including Lessons
learned.

= Customer approves all Milestones, if appropriate.
* Closure Readiness completed successfully

= Updated Project Baseline

= Project Budget is closed

* Updated RAID

Review Steps Stage 9

This stage is the day to day running of the service and making sure that we
continue to meet our contractual obligations, service levels and nurture the

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 18 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
10:
MANAGE
SERVICE
SAND
ENHANC
EMENTS
(Change
Requests
)

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

client.

During this stage the Account and Delivery teams deliver Customer
satisfaction by effective execution of the contracted service to Service
Level Agreements (SLAs), Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and
Customer Experience Level Agreement (XLAs), as appropriate. As well

as seeing the service from the customer's perspective and adapting to
changes within the Customer and Fujitsu environments. As a team they
improve the service delivered whilst potentially improving Fujitsu's margin
by effectively managing the risks and issues, creating efficiencies and
selling new services / solutions as well as enhancements to existing service

A contract may move into Stage 10 in phases during Stage 8 and
completely following Stage 9 with the builds on the service /
solution completing handover at that time. The vast majority of the
contract is typically delivered in this stage, staying there until the
contract comes up for extension and or rebid (at which point it
reverts to Stage 2) or we lose the account and go into Stage
11, Exit.
The Account Lead ensures that:

* The contract is actively managed,

= That governance is in place, with the Customer over all aspects of
the contract

= Fujitsu meets our contractual obligations
The Account Lead, Account team and Delivery Teams form an
account partnership with each owning the responsibility to deliver
all contractual obligations to cost based on the solution that was
contracted.
The Account Lead is accountable for the Fujitsu Business results
this includes margin and revenue delivering the budgeted Profit &
Loss (P&L) and cash flows over the contract term. They also
develop the customer's business with Fujitsu using the account
plan to communicate to and involve the wider Fujitsu organization
and leverage experiences from other Fujitsu customers to
demonstrate innovation and thought leadership through a joint
strategy board
The Account Lead and Service Management Team should
establish the Fujitsu operational governance based upon data-
driven metrics against which the account will review the
performance of the service with the Delivery teams including any
third parties. The more accountable Fujitsu is for Business
outcomes the more this will influence the data-driven metrics
including key drivers for the business process in addition to the
more traditional service orientated areas. They will report
comprehensively, regularly and in timely fashion on all aspects of
delivery performance.
The Account Lead and Service Management team will manage
Change through the pro-active use of Change Control and ensure
compliance with Fujitsu commercial and financial policies. This
includes NOT undertaking work without a signed contract being in
place for that scope or written approval for the value of working to
be undertaken at risk as per the delegation of authority. The
Account Lead will ensure that Fujitsu, if the contract allows, is

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 19 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

reimbursed for the work it has done to investigate and impact
assess any change controls or in responding to such requests.
The Account Lead will ensure that the mechanisms to log, manage
and report on progress of these requests through to delivery are in
place and that new business or changes are appropriately
authorized in accordance with the formal Delegation of Authority,
for that size and complexity of business. Typically, this will be in
accordance with a local regional policy with assurance and sign-off
gates based on Business Approval Levels. These

should ensure that risks are called out and considered to the same
level of detail as new pursuits.

Before ‘Churn’ business is moved into Service a simplified Service
Readiness review commensurate with the complexity of the
service will take place with formal acceptance from

the Service Delivery teams confirming that they are in a position

to take on and execute service.

The Service Management organization will ensure that the
mechanisms are in place to meet the contracted Fallback, Data,
Security and patching requirements to adequately protect the
customer's business and that they are regularly tested.

For those Accounts, where it is applicable, Cockpit reporting will be
undertaken, typically this is those approved at Level 4 /5 or those
with, or at risk of, a negative margin; see the Cockpit Reporting
Guidance for further information.

The milestones/work products for Stage 10 are to:

Deliver the contracted Service Level Agreements (SLAs) to the
Customer and delight the Customer (evidenced through high
Customer satisfaction ratings);

Ensure sound Governance, with the Customer, over all aspects of
the contract;

Exercise technology and thought leadership through the joint
strategy board;

Manage Change through pro-active use of Change Control and
service quality through pro-active Problem management - apply
Fujitsu Standard Practice, ITIL and ISO/IEC20000 standards as
appropriate;

Up-sell profitably through Change Control;

Deliver new projects successfully, on time and budget;

Improve processes and productivity and reduce delivery costs year
on year over the term through continuous improvement and
exploitation of technology;

Protect and account for Fujitsu and Customer assets;

Report comprehensively and in timely fashion on all aspects of
delivery performance;

Deliver the budgeted financial performance and cash flows over the
contract term;

Ensure that Fujitsu is well positioned for contract extension without
are-compete

If a contract is ending, the exit activities should be considered a T&T
project and dealt with under appropriate guidance.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 20 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
CSLC
STAGE
Al:
CLOSE
THE
CONTRA
CT
(EXIT)

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

Review Steps Stage 10.

The objective of this stage is to ensure that there is an orderly
closure of the contract, that Fujitsu manages the risks to its
business, that there is an agreed scope and basis for the work to
be performed, a formal sign-off between customer, new service
provider or other third party that work has been completed in
accordance with the contract, and any post project work is handed
over to the functional parts of the business to complete.

A compelling event and decision to end the contract precede this
stage and could occur during any CSLC stage either as part of the
original contract or a recompete.

This is normally when the contract is prematurely ended prior to the
completion of the full term, where monies are going to be given
back to the client, where the contract will extend past the current
term and the existing contract does not provision for that and where
services are being reduced and that reduction is not in accordance
with existing contract provision

As a precursor, in this stage, is a negotiation with the customer
governed within Fujitsu's delegation of authority and according to
the local settlements / negotiation policy, ensuring adequate
briefings and reporting to management. It is important that
negotiation is informed by the right subject matter experts and
dependent on circumstances, could include consideration of the
following:

The strategy we wish to adopt with this customer given the
likelihood of further business, impact in marketplace, reputational
risk and charging opportunities.

The current contract provisions,

Local legal regulations,

Any pre-existing exit plans. The contract with the customer will often
include an Exit Schedule, which will state the terms of Fujitsu’s
departure from the contract. This document will likely have been
created at contract start and may not have been updated during the
life of the contract

The implications on service,

The implications on people,

The implications on our third parties

The implications on the GDCs, GPMO and other capability units
Costs to break pre-existing arrangements such as third-party
contracts, leases and license costs

Stranded costs — costs planned to be recovered during the contract
term but now outstanding

Compensation for loss of forecast profits

Redundancy costs and/or pension provisions

The work that needs to be performed and the costs of doing that
work

Whether or not there is an expectation to meet SLAs, KPIs, etc.
right through the end of the contract in addition to transition out
work or if a let has been agreed, to alleviate additional cost to the
client to run programs concurrently.

Intellectual Property rights

Customer requirements for Fujitsu staff to be available for eventual

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 21 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= help over a considerable time period after contract end. This is not
Fujitsu's policy as the staff may have been redeployed with no time
to spare or have left the company leaving an open obligation on
Fujitsu.

It is recommended that this is formalized with the client through a Change
Control Notice (CCN) that describes the scope, treatment, accountabilities,
price, charging approach and acceptance process. This will be
consolidated by the commercial lead who is responsible for updating the
appropriate schedules in line with the negotiation and the services currently
being delivered and the agreed approach to closure. It is vital that Fujitsu
has strong commercial management in place during this period to ensure
that Fujitsu’s obligations are correctly understood and accurately
represented in the Change Control Notice CCN and that the associated
pricing terms are agreed with the customer

There should be an Authorization Review chaired and signed off according
to the Delegation of Authority, looking into the adjusted solution, scope of
work, additional cost implications, budgets and the updated business case.
That review should consider marketplace and reputational impact, if
appropriate.

It is key to establish with the client a joint Governance Forum, which will
become a point of reference, control and decision making during the ‘End
of Contract’ project with auditable decision making and authorization of
acceptance. All organizations involved need to ensure that they have a
senior designated representative to act as a point of escalation sitting
above the projects.

Fujitsu will run the end of contract event in a controlled and managed
manner. In most scenarios this will be through the delivery of an ‘End of
Contract’ project to hand over services to a new supplier or the customer
themselves. Fujitsu will usually allocate a dedicated Project Manager, who
is fully briefed on Fujitsu’s strategy, intent and the CCN itself. A dedicated
project team will commonly support ‘End of Contract’ transfer and will go
through the normal project lifecycle including start of project, start of
implementation and closure of project (described in stages 7-9). This
implementation activity will typically include:

= Knowledge Transfer to the customer or new supplier

= Transfer of artefacts to the customer or new supplier

= Transfer of Hardware Assets to the customer or new supplier

= Transfer of Network connections to the customer or new supplier

= Transfer of VMs to the customer or new supplier

= Transfer of staff to the customer or new supplier

= Close of services (including decommissioning where required)

= Changes to ICAs and statements of work

= Termination or changes to contracts and leases

= Transfer or termination of licenses

= Return of admission right / access rights

= Secure deletion of data in accordance with the negotiated
agreement or local data policies

All the above will be subject to the negotiated position as agreed in the
Contract Change Notice.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 22 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

When the ‘End of Contract’ project completes there will be some remaining
work outstanding, but no account or project to perform that work. This
should be handed over to the functional parts of the business to progress
and may include.

= Charges

= Financial reporting, adjustments and de-books
= Disposal of assets not transferred

= Project codes & administration closed down

Request Authorization Review from your local Assurance
representative.
NB: Lost in the OneCRM system will be categorised under Stage 7.

3.1. REQUESTING AUTHORIZATION AND ASSURANCE MEETINGS

The following Authorization and Assurance meetings are to be requested through Salesforce (there is a link
on each Opportunity record) where the facility is available to that country:

= Opportunity Qualification

= Solution Alignment

= Bid No Bid

= Peer Quality Checks

= Deliverability & RAID Workshop
= Bid Authorization Review

= Contract Readiness Check

= Contract Authorization Review

Full functionality is available in Salesforce. Please use this function unless specific exemption has been
granted.

Where meeting invitations need to be issued, they will be sent via Outlook to the relevant participants.

Apart from the regular series of Assurance meetings (e.g. for high-risk programs or contracts deviating
substantially from the initial business case) the following meetings can be requested on as_per need-basis

via e-mail to CEEAssurance‘ ‘for Hor Germany or EuropeGovernanceOperations¢

the rest of Europe Services

:

= Delivery Assurance Review

NOTE: Readiness Reviews will be organized between the Delivery Leads and the Business Lines/Verticals
(or Delivery Assurance where they are involved).

Participants Matrix in Assurance Steps - Participant Matrices can be found by clicking here
Participants Matrix for Authorization Steps can be found by clicking here.

3.1.1 HOUSE RULES: AUTHORIZATION MEETINGS
The following rules are applicable to Authorization Meetings:

= The Opportunity Owner is accountable for the Capture Plan and it being available to Review
attendees at least 1 working day prior to each Review.

= Invitations are not to be forwarded under any circumstances. If you cannot attend and need to send
a delegate or deputy tl advise the meeting organizer (Local Assurance for Level:

Ill, or CEEAssurance} for Germany or EuropeGovernanceOperations, GRO I
for the rest of Europe el IV, Global Business Assurance for LV) of who ni J
invited to represent you.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 23 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= Where an invitation is forwarded, the recipient may be removed from the invitation by the meeting
organizer. Additionally, they will not receive notice of change of the meeting or the review
documentation.

= If you are in receipt of a placeholder invitation, you are expected to respond to ALL placeholders.
Please decline any you cannot make and advise the meeting organizer of your delegate/deputy.

3.2 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY (DofA)
For the full Delegation of Authority (DofA) - Bids and Contracts (CSLC 1 — 6) click here

The DofA defines the types and limits of authority designated by the executive management team of Europe
Services which is aligned with the Group Delegation of Authority (Group DofA) to specified roles. These
roles are given authority to make commitments on behalf of Fujitsu to its Customers (including committing
to bid costs). The individuals holding the designated roles are accountable on behalf of their respective
Countries, Verticals and /or Business Lines.

The following represents the standard authority to enter single, domestic customer contracts for products
and / or services based on standards for good business and commercial principles.

The standard authority covers

«Bid Budget Authorization (in relation to the TCV thresholds)

* Bid Authorization

= Contract Authorization also applies to related Letters of Intent (Lol), Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU), Working at Risk, Authority to Proceed (ATP).

There are key principles that are applicable to the DofA. The limits of authority are in alignment with the
Group DofA and are designated by the Europe Services Leadership Team to specified functions, which are
responsible to establish the types and maximum number of obligations that may be authorized by
individuals holding the designated Business Lines and Functions.

Following key principles are applied

= Sales & Country Leadership own all sales activities (in alignment with EPS sales and Europe
Platform Business if applicable) with the exception of churn

» Authorization (OQ, BNB, BAR, CAR) of Services Led Opportunities will take place in Opportunity
Authorization Reviews. Consisting of the members defined in the Opportunity Authorization
Review's Terms of Reference, including Head of Sales, Head of Business Line/or Vertical and Head
of Finance and others as nominated. Head of Sales is the Chairperson of the Opportunity
Authorization Reviews.

= The Head of Sales has the final decision-making authority where to bid and allocate the bid budget
(Opportunity Qualification (OQ), Bid No Bid (BNB).

= Bid and Contract Authorizations (BAR, CAR) are decided in consensus of the members. CAR
presentation to be run through by the Delivery Team.

NB: Any authorization gained outside of a formal OQ, BNB, BAR or CAR must be in written form and must
be uploaded either to the Opportunity Record in Salesforce or in the Deal Tracker in the Opportunity email
folder. This is valid for all opportunities, including the ones that qualify for Rapid Assessment

In case no agreement could be reached during an authorization meeting the topic should be escalated to the
senior managers — not simply escalated to the next Level BAR/ CAR.

The full DofA document including Authorizers and Escalation matrices can be found here

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 24 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269

FUJ00243269
3.3 MULTI REGION BIDS
REGIONS IN THE FUJITSU ORGANIZATION:
Cout S Leader
Special China, Hong Kong, Korea, and Taiwan and Brazil. Junichi Saito
Management
Countries
Europe Services Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Paul Patterson/
Region Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Mikihito Saito
Switzerland, United Kingdom.
Global Platform All countries Fujitsu location. TBA
Business
Americas North America, Canada, Caribbean, South America, Asif
Brazil Poonja
ASEAN+1I Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Alfee Lee
Indonesia, Thailand, and India.
Oceania Australia, New Zealand, Singapore. Graeme Beardsell
JAPAN & — Japan and Group Tatsuya Tanaka
GROUP

A Multi-Region Sale (MRS) is a bid that will be delivered in more than one Region (see notes below) where
TCV /Revenue flow outside Lead Sales Region (LSR) is 2 US $2m (see notes below)

It is important to note that for all bids that span across multiple Fujitsu Regions it is necessary to get
commitment from all participating Regions during the bid process. This is managed by Sales directly with
participating Regions; where Sales requires support to find contact points into participating Regions, they
can contact their Local Assurance Team.

Where Europe Services is the lead Region, Sales will ensure information about the opportunity is distributed
to all participating Regions and concerned delivery units. Prior to the Bid & Contract Authorization Reviews,
the written commitment from all Participating Regions (PRs) must be obtained to carry out the Statement of
Work and obtain agreement as to pricing, SLAs and any risk transfer the LSR may seek over and above the
default Global Trading Mode! Time and Material (T&M) terms.

Representation from PRs at the Level V Bid & Contract Authorization Reviews will be necessary where PRs
have a material involvement in the bid or where non-standard terms are sought. Sales is to tell Europe
Services or Germany Assurance which countries meet this criterion, so their presence can be requested for
the Level V review.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 25 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

3.4 PARENT COMPANY GUARANTEE

There are different types and levels of Parent Company Guarantee (PCG) that may be required when we
are bidding. The Europe Delegation of Authority defines the level of authorization required for each type and
level of guarantee.

It is the Company's policy to approve requests for the provision of a PCG only in limited circumstances,
taking into consideration the business value and strategic importance of the proposed business transaction
or other matter which is to be guaranteed.

The approval of a PCG must be done in conjunction with Bid Authorization and Contract Authorization
Reviews. No commitment is to be made to the Customer to provide guarantees at any level in advance of
approval being confirmed to do so.

If you have been asked to provide a PCG of any type, contact the Group DoA office through your local
Legal department. Business Management Unit based in Japan must be informed if a PCG from Fujitsu
Limited is sought.

Please contact the relevant departments as soon as possible as it takes time to get the necessary
approvals, particularly for a Parent Company Guarantee from Fujitsu Limited. Only contracts of significant
value and/or strategic importance will be considered for a PCG from the ultimate parent (Fujitsu Limited)

There are new guidelines for PCGs requested from subsidiaries of Fujitsu Limited - contact DoA Office
through Regional Group Legal Representative.

3.5 GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION (GDPR) PRIVACY BY DESIGN
Data Privacy by Design is a core requirement under GDPR and is intended to:

= Ensure the protection of personal data is considered from the earliest stages onwards ensuring data
protection is an integrate part of every solution and contract.

= Ensure all legal and contractual data protection requirements are fractured in and priced before
contracts are agreed and signed.

= Ensure that Fujitsu only agrees to solutions it can deliver and are compliant with data protection
legal and contractual requirements.

= Ensure that Fujitsu is transparent on data processing and data protection towards all parties
concerned.

To support customer discussions and the design of compliant services and solutions, specific GDPR guides,
and tools are now embedded into the EBMS and Bid Management and Bid Assurance Processes.

Resources are available for Sales and Pre-Sales; located in the Europe Services Europe Data Protection
GDPR SharePoint:

For additional support and information, contact EMEIA_DPOffice

3.6 RAPID ASSESSMENT

Rapid Assessment (RA) is an authorization route that allows an Opportunity to move from CSLC Stage 2 -
Stage 6 without the requirement for authorization and assurance meetings. The Opportunity Classification
Tool (in Salesforce) will advise a user if their Opportunity is eligible for Rapid Assessment; Low complexity
deals typically will qualify for Rapid Assessment (RA6) which would mean no BAR or CAR but
eAuthorization (RA6) in Salesforce.

Criteria - All Rapid Assessments are subject to:

= Completion of a Rapid Assessment form

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 26 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

* This is to be completed in Salesforce, where the facility is available. Otherwise, it can be completed
by e-mail. A record of any email authorization is to be logged with the opportunity in Salesforce or
uploaded to the opportunity record in the Deal Tracker and retained.

= Including acceptance of an undertaking that confirms the person submitting the RA6 is accountable
for the accuracy and integrity of the submission

= Europe Services Delegation of Authority limits

= Any other conditions set at a Contract Authorization Review (particularly relevant for
Framework/Frame Contracts)

= Where no formal Authorization meeting takes place; written authorization is required via the Review
Request form in Salesforce or via email. All evidence of authorizations are to be retained in
Salesforce or the Deal Tracker.

= Periodic audit

RAPID : During CSLC Rapid Assessment route of authorization can be used in any of the
ASSESSMENT Stage 26 following circumstances providing the criteria desoribed i in section
: - 4.6.2 are met: . :

* New business to an existing Customer
« New business to a new Customer
e Extending business. with an existing Customer

Inputs

= P&L (*Capture Plan Lite for Germany)

= Statement of Work (*Capture Plan Lite for Germany)

= Customer Requirements

= Contract pack (contractual documentation such as Change Note)

= Confirmation from Global Delivery Centers (GDC) via the Business Lines (if GDCs are involved
in the opportunity)

Outcomes

= Authorized proposal or contract

3.7 INDICATIVE OFFER
The Indicative Offer authorization allows an Opportunity Owner to present an indicative pricing estimate that
is not capable of acceptance to a customer. Because even this level of pricing may set customer
expectations that can be awkward to change, Indicative Offer pricing must be managed through the process
outlined in this section.

NB: Indicative Offers are sometimes referred to as Rough Order of Magnitude (RoM)

Indicative Offer pricing is separate and distinct from other mechanisms for establishing price information for
communications to customers, including Rapid Assessment approaches. These processes are further
described in sections 3.9 and 4 of this Handbook.

Indicative Offer pricing is intended to:
= Meet customer requests for non-binding price indications (e.g., to enable the customer to shape
their business case) In response to an RFP where the customer has indicated one of the following
and approval is given by Assurance and Governance:
o Draft indicative response with a follow-on response to refine requirements in that same RFP
timeline. E.g. Timeline is draft submission, presentation to refine, final RFP submission.
o Clear statement in the document that the request is for indicative pricing for business case
e.g. an RFI with some elements of pricing.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 27 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= To be based on standard offerings but where these are not available it can cover minor gaps in our
standard offerings (e.g., where no price catalogue or standard pricing exists). In total there should
be very little or no bespoke solutions.

= Enable short notice responses to additional customer requests (e.g., provision of an indicative price
to include an extra language in a service desk which was not part of the original proposal)

= Enable fast unsolicited proposals

Indicative Offer pricing shall not be submitted under any of the following circumstances:
= Together with a Parent Company Guarantee

= Ina multi-country deal where pricing has not been confirmed by all affected Countries (whether
inside or outside of Europe Services) or Business Lines
= Where a financial investment by Fujitsu is required (buying a company, equity in joint venture, etc.)
= In response to multiple pricing requests over a period of time which could lead to an expectation of
a binding offer on short notice
= In any event where not expressly approved by the Legal & Commercial department, for example
where Indicative Offer pricing is too risky or simply not the right approach (e.g., not capable of
acceptance is not allowed by law in a country).
= Submission that are in the procurement process but are “Not Capable of Acceptance” do not fall
under the Indicative Offer process.
= Where an RFP is part of a detailed process e.g., as follows:
o Supplier Questions
o  ITSIT — Invitation to Submit Initial Tender
o Negotiation
o  ITSFT — Invitation to Submit Final Tender

Indicative Offer pricing can never constitute an offer capable of acceptance.

Opportunity Qualification and the relevant level BAR authorization are required before submission of an
Indicative Offer. The authorization for levels I-IIl may be done in Salesforce using the eAuthorization
function. LIV and LV will be done via a meeting (and not electronically in Salesforce).

Where a level of interest has been confirmed in response to an Indicative Offer then the next step should be
the start of the standard bid, assurance and authorization activities according to CSLC (i.e., request for Bid/
No Bid) or the continuation of these where they have been started already.

INDICATIVE During CSLC___ The Indicative Offer aims to:
OFFER =——sSStage 2-6 —_ Provide guidance pricing for information only as a rapid response
: ee to requests for pio ton or for inclusion in an unsolicited
submission

_ - Ensure that the pricing information submitted has been subject to
_ management authorization in line with the DofA —

- Ensure that accompanying documentation and covering letters
(both individually and collectively) make it clear that the Indicative —
Offer does not represent an offer capable of acceptance.

This allows the customer to undertake analysis and budgeting
activities and allows Opportunity Owners to demonstrate to the

_ customer that Fujitsu has an interest in the opportunity and or
further development of the relationship.

Inputs

= Request for non-binding pricing information (from a customer)

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 28 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= Request to provided unsolicited pricing estimate (from an Opportunity Owner)

= Commercial protective wording

= Confirmation from Legal & Commercial that an Indicative Offer authorization is acceptable
= Confirmation of approved multi-country pricing

Outcomes

= Authorized Indicative Offer pricing document
A flow chart describing the steps for Indicative Offer can be found in Appendix 1 of this Handbook.

3.8 PRICE ORIENTED BID APPROACH (POBA update wip)

This approach enables the submission of bids based on top-down pricing. This means that some deals still
in early stages will not be required to produce a full P&L, full Bottoms Up cost base or full solution
documentation.
Instead, bid teams will be able to submit a priced offer to a customer by:
= Pricing the deal to the Customer ‘top down’, based on applicable benchmarks — as defined by the
Fujitsu Solution builder tool
= No requirement for bottom-up costing (except for areas that cannot be benchmarked — as defined
by the Fujitsu solution builder tool and confirmed with POBA team)
» — Asolution documented in the AOD Lite
= Estimated Direct Margin Percentage (DM%) based on mix of services, with these top-down DM%
based on the price levels submitted and their position in the Pro-Benchmark pricing range.

The agreement to use POBA needs to be secured at Bid no Bid as this impacts your Bid Budget in the early
stages.

This does not change the process for later deal stages.

The aim is to reduce internal documentation during the early deal stage work, to at least partially re-invest in
customer facing activities. All proposals made using POBA as a pricing mechanism shall be non-binding
and not capable of acceptance basis.

POBA is used only for proposals requiring Fujitsu to deliver IT services we deem our capability is ‘mature’ -
defined as services, which
= Fujitsu has significant experience in delivering from the relevant delivery locations,
= such that it is confident it can deliver the said services at a market competitive price, and return a
direct margin % that is in line with the expectation of direct margin of that country or region and,
= For which a comprehensive ISG benchmarks exist.

NB: the agreement to use POBA is limited to countries piloted and agreed to do so.

Applicable at BAR.

Price Oriented During CSLC The POBA approach aims to:

Bid Approach Stage 2-6 _ Reduce internal documentation during the early deal stage work to
enable a quicker way to respond to the customer.

- Ensure that the pricing information submitted has been subject to
management authorization in line with the DofA

- Ensure what Bid Team are proposing to offer the Customer is
something Fujitsu is capable of delivering (note — not deliverable to
the proposed prices, but simply deliverable or not).

- Ensure Fujitsu has the capacity available to do what we are
offering the Customer.

- Call out any obvious/major risks in what we are proposing, such
that we should be factoring that into our offer. For example, if,
based on the SME's experience, the T+T timeline is too short, or if
the roll out of user support is too fast.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 29 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

-Approve the bottom-up costs for the scope that falls outside the
benchmarks.
= NB: POBA price levels are likely to be higher than final ‘win’
prices —i.e., those we would approve at BAFO or CAR.
Deals using POBA are to be authorized in line with the
Europe Services Delegation of Authority limits including the
POBA price

Inputs

= Request for non-binding pricing information (from a customer)

= Request to provide Target pricing via POBA approach (from Sales Lead or an Opportunity
Owner)

= Commercial protective wording
= Written confirmation from the POBA team that the POBA approach is acceptable

= Confirmation of assurance of bottom-up costs for the scope that falls outside the benchmark
(non POBA element)

Outcomes

= An early assessment of the likely revenue, cost of bidding, cost of delivery and profit margin

= Assessment of the Customer's budget availability and ability to pay, with a focus on obtaining an
estimation of the winning price.

« Authorized POBA pricing document

A diagram to show the overlay of POBA with the CSLC diagram can be found in Appendix 2 of this
Handbook.

3.9 CHURN
Churn business is defined as additional business in an account arising from an existing service contract. In
most cases, churn business will be a non-competitive business contracted under the terms and processes of
an existing contract Churn is broken down in two categories under Opportunity Type available in Salesforce

= — Churn Normal - Churn-Normal: This is mostly but not exclusively non-competitive services
opportunity at existing customer extending the service scope and typically leading into new
contract addendum. Work based on customer requests but not included in original scope of
services.

= — Churn - Monthly rollup: Additional non-competitive business contracted under the terms
and processes of an existing contract. It may include change controls, project work at pre-agreed
rates or T&M and RPI changes. Churn opportunities should be forecast at least twelve months
in advance that includes (but not limited to):

= Change controls.

= Project work at pre-agreed rates or T&M

= Project work in the in-scope environment, like upgrade project work or IMAC services

= RPI changes.

« — Exit project work

= Growth in capacity, volumetric or estate size, only if above the scope of the original contract

= Other non-competitive opportunities driven by client request.

= Not value limited but generally less than (€500k Germany ) (€5m (c. £3.9m) rest of Europe
Services).??

The following scenarios are not classified as churn business:

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 30 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= New services from additional business lines, even if handled under the existing frame contract

= Growth in capacity, volumetric and estate size within the scope of the original contract

= Product sales under an explicit framework contract (non-competitive or competitive) are excluded
from Churn (this is driven by Product specialist sales).

In principle, churn business is managed within an account and authorized in accordance with the Europe
Delegation of Authority. Where the authorizations are managed within an account, this may be via a BAR,
Change Advisory Board (CAB) or similarly constituted meeting and is subject to the conditions below.
Please note: if a BAR or CAB are held within the account, then a Rapid Assessment authorization is not
required in addition but evidence of approvals must be available if required.

= The criteria for Churn identified above are met and the following conditions are applied where there
are pre-authorized and contractually agreed rate cards in use:

o Where the direct margin is below that normally required for Level I / Ii/Ill due a pre-
authorized and contractually agreed rate card, then no escalation is required to a higher
level of authorization.

o Where it is proposed to discount from a pre-authorized and contractually agreed rate card
then a higher level of authorization is required even if the direct margin remains within that
normally required for Level I / II/IIl authorization.

= Authorization must be obtained from the Delivery Executive (DE) and Business Line Finance, who
must have sufficient authority confirmed in the Delegation of Authority — Bids and Contracts. Where
the DE’s authority limit is exceeded then subsequent authorization (e.g., by e-mail by the next level
authorizer) would be required.

= Approval must be obtained from the relevant supporting functions, to include, as a minimum

o Finance,

o Commercial; and

o Contributing Business Lines.

= When a CAB is held, a record of each meeting must be maintained with attendees and the outcome
of the authorization (or otherwise) of each opportunity detailed. This should be uploaded to the
opportunity in Salesforce.

= Where an appropriate approver is not present then evidence of their support must be provided (e.g.,
e-mail) or authorization of the opportunity should be subject to subsequent approval.

= Where the DE is not present then:

= Evidence of delegation to someone in their reporting line must be provided (e.g., e-mail); or

= Subsequent authorization by the DE may be given via e-mail; or

= The opportunity may be submitted for authorization via Rapid Assessment (subject to
meeting the criteria) / BAR or CAR (depending on where in the bid cycle the opportunity is).

= For Churn Monthly Roll-up - value of these authorizations is to be recorded on Salesforce and this
will be exempt from the Opportunity Classification Tool (OCT).

Where authorizations are not managed within an account, they will be managed by the Local Assurance
teams in country. Individual entries for each churn opportunity would need to be recorded on Salesforce to
enable this. It is likely that most of these opportunities will be of Low Complexity and therefore Authorization
will be via Rapid Assessment; however, the Opportunity Classification Tool must be completed to confirm
this.

Whilst an Opportunity Qualification meeting or Bid No Bid may not be applicable for Churn opportunities it is
good practice for Accounts to qualify major changes which are not contractual obligations to ensure the
resources required to respond are appropriate to the size of the opportunity. This could be done via a
meeting on the Account with minutes captured (such as a CAB used on some UK accounts).

If the Customer is requesting to extend or renew the existing contract or **Framework, then the opportunity
cannot be treated as churn business. The full bid process becomes applicable and as a start the Opportunity
Classification Too! must be completed.
NB:
— Authorization as per the Europe Delegation of Authority is required for Frameworks or Framework
extensions. This table provides guidance of the treatment of Churn opportunities

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 31 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

— Framework without any volume commitment — authorization should be as per estimated TCV/DM
(assurance is required at least from Finance and L&C). Call offs/mini tenders are to be at least
BAR‘d/ CAR'‘d in their own right as per TCV/DM

— Framework with pricing commitment (e.g., rate card) but without volume commitment, the customer
can just place an order(s) in the future/or call off using the original pricing. Individual tenders are to
be authorized either via Rapid Assessment (RA) or BAR'd/CAR'd as per TCV/DM

— Re-BAR/CAR required if call offs are not meeting originally approved DM or if the call offs are over
the TCV limit originally approved

**A Framework agreement is a type of contract that is commonly used as a multi-supplier agreement to
deliver services as an approved supplier into a customer.

For Fujitsu, the outcome is a set of terms and conditions that are used as a basis for future business. Public
bodies use the framework regularly to enter into call-off contracts with suppliers. It must however be noted
that the terms and conditions need to be revisited and considered for each call-off opportunity Fujitsu is
interested in. Framework without any volume commitment — authorization should be as per estimated TCV/
DM (assurance is required at least from Finance and L&C)

3.10 Global Rate Card

In order to transform Fujitsu business in which we receive appropriate compensation matched with the value
we provide to our customers, the CRO introduced the concept of Value Pricing and deploy globally common
Rate Card which applies to all regions. This is to enable increase in profitability, clarify focus area and
establish front end strategy governance.

The Global rate card is applicable to SAP, ServiceNow, Agile, Consulting and Cloud Engineering.
Contact the CRO by following the link for more details Rate Card Deployment to All Regions (sharepoint.com
You should initiate your approval request from your opportunity page within Salesforce.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 32 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

4 ASSURANCE & AUTHORIZATION STEP DESCRIPTIONS

To ensure that Fujitsu targets and wins business that is good for Customers and good for Fujitsu, the teams
need to operate a series of reviews. As Fujitsu undertakes opportunities of different levels of complexity and
value, it is vital to review each with an effective assurance path.

The Assurance framework defines the reviews and timing that an opportunity needs to undertake. Fujitsu
identifies the relevant review path through the mechanics described in the Opportunity Classification section
of this document.

The following section contains the general summary of the various Authorization Reviews, Readiness
Reviews and Assurance Steps

= Opportunity Qualification

» Authorization steps: Bid no bid, Bid Authorization Review, Contract Authorization Review

= Assurance steps: Solution Alignment, Peer Quality Check, Deliverability and RAID Workshop,
Finance & Commercial Quality Gate, Contract Readiness Check

= Delivery Assurance steps: Bid to delivery handover completed, Ready for Initiation, Post Contract
Verification or Knowledge Transfer review, Service Readiness Review Acceptance into Service (SRR AiS),
Ready to Go Live, Pilot or Rollout, Program Closure

A specific process exists for Indicative Offer opportunities which are defined as high level estimates
containing a pricing approximation that is not capable of acceptance to a Customer, because this may set
Customer expectations that can be awkward to change, indicative offers must be managed carefully by
Sales and the Opportunity Owner. It is clear that the indicative offer document must contain the agreed
Commercial statement.

It is good practice, to plan the Review path early in the bid. Discuss and confirm your understanding with the
Assurance lead and get dates book it the diaries early, even if they may need changing later.

= Each step of the CSLC contains certain activities. The following section shows by each CSLC Stage
the activities taking place for the review and assurance steps. Please note, this section here is
reduced to authorization and assurance only and does not reflect all activities which are required
within the bid process.

RACI for Bid can be found here,
All steps include the following

= General description, which is giving a short overview on the purpose.
= Input, work products or deliverables and primary outcomes
= Participants - which are further described in the assurance and authorization participant lists.

4.1. STAGE 1 - LEAD MANAGEMENT

At Stage 1 leads are entered into the eCRM tool for qualification. This stage covers all Lead Generation
activity (e.g., marketing campaigns, sales prospecting, account planning) and will result in specific leads
being entered into Stage 1 for qualification in the CRM tool (Salesforce).

Leads will be entered by the assigned Sales Lead / Opportunity Owner (Sales), Delivery Executive
(Business Line) or by Marketing (Function, if the opportunity was generated by a marketing campaign).

The Sales Lead / Opportunity Owner (Sales) needs to investigate whether this is an opportunity for Fujitsu.
Opportunities in this stage enable Presales to identify the volume of bids to expect and perform the initial
planning and scheduling.

The Presales team is informed by Sales Lead / Opportunity Owner (Sales) the moment it becomes relevant.

The expected output from Stage 1 is to define the owners of the relationships with key target Customer
contacts. Activities defined in this Assurance Framework are starting in Stage 2 only. If qualified, then the
opportunity will be moved to Stage 2.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 33 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

4.2 STAGE 2- IDENTIFY OPPORTUNITY
4.2.1 Opportunity Qualification

OPPORTUNITY = DuringCSLC The Opportunity Qualification provides sales management with
QUALIFICATION Stage2 _ early notification of business opportunities and helps determine
S whether they are consistent with business aims.

The Review enables bid teams to seek guidance and coaching and
test the boundaries within which a deal can be shaped and assigns
a specific budget including resource assignment, if relevant, to get
the Opportunity to the Bid No Bid Review

This meeting provides a decision point about “qualifying in” the
sales opportunity on which to focus our bid resources; and
“qualifying out” those which are judged too unlikely to win against
strategy, scalability, and alignment to Fujitsu's portfolio

This type of review should initially take place as part of CSLC Stage
2. It may then be held as frequently as desired to highlight any
changes and/or updates as the opportunity progresses.

Inputs

= Opportunity Classification tool — 1st view
within Salesforce

= Sales Section Opportunity Qualification
slides

Outcomes

«  Aclear decision to” qualify in” or “qualify out”
« — Defined owners of relationships with key Customer people

= — Initial overview of the requirements (technical, selection criteria and otherwise) in terms of the
business outcomes that the customer wishes to achieve, and in the context of the business
environment

« Identification of risks, blockers and tactics around competition, key stakeholders, and value
proposition
= Identification of differentiators that could enhance our ability to win

« Initial identification of the areas of skill and capability (resourcing and availability) that will be
required for the bid and for the subsequent contract fulfilment, either within Fujitsu or with third
party suppliers

= An early outline of the win strategy

= Updates in the Regional CRM tool
= Provide early information to plan for global/regional presales involvement
= Aset of actions where applicable

= — An outline of the likely solution, together with any assumptions made
= Anearly assessment of the likely revenue, cost of bidding, cost of delivery and profit margin

= Assessment of the Customer's budget availability and ability to pay, with a focus on obtaining an
estimation of the winning price

= Initial bid budget authorized
The Terms of Reference for the Opportunity Qualification can be found here

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 34 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
4.2.2

Outputs

= Status update from the review logged in
the Deal Tracker.

= Information points and Actions recorded
in the Deal Tracker and distributed to
review participants.

= Actions send via Deal Tracker workflow
to individual assigned owners.

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

The Solution Alignment provides a first high level solution view and
delivery outline and approach based on the already identified

Customer needs and sets out how Fujitsu addresses the solution
and delivery strategy (strategies, capabilities and standards)

The primary target is to involve the Business Line early in the bid
and work based on an agreed strategy on the solution from the
onset. Assurance functions are to be involved for high and medium

Solution Alignment
SOLUTION During CSLC
ALIGNMENT Stage 2
risk deals
Inputs

= Customer requirements;

= How to address them, which portfolio used
Architecture Overview Document (AoD),Lite
(AODL);

= High Level solution and delivery view;
* — Required potential partnering;
= Complexity consideration;

= Sales strategy (Capture Plan) incl.
competition information and target win price;

= Opportunity Classification Tool (confirm if Al
included and contact AIEthics team if yes)

= Relevant slides from the Capture Plan

Outcomes

Deliverables or Work packages

= — Initial definition of the Solution Requirements
in terms of the business outcomes that the
Customer wishes to achieve, and in the context
of the business environment;

= Initial definition of the requirements,
encompassing the relevant slides from the
AoD, Capture Plan, the Customer’s Business
Case; and possibly including selection criteria;

= Identification of the areas of skill and capability
(resourcing) that will be required for the bid and
for the subsequent contract fulfilment, either
within Fujitsu incl GDC’s or with third party
suppliers;

= identification of any Fujitsu delivery standards
that cannot be met; identification of the
process owners from whom an exemption will
be gained; the risk to Fujitsu of not adhering to
those standards

= — An outline of the likely solution, together with
any assumptions made, and an initial indication
of the risks; address internal compliance
requirements, our baseline security measures

= An early assessment of the likely revenue, cost
of bidding, cost of delivery and profit margin;

= Assessment of Customer's budget availability
and ability to pay, with a focus on obtaining an
estimation of the winning price;

» Assessment of the bid resources required and
their availability.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 35 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

« Agreement on how the customer requirements is addressed
= Agreed portfolio elements to be used
= Agreed delivery units and 3rd party
= Agreed on how Fujitsu standards in delivery are to be met
= Agreed solution overview in a PowerPoint
= Potential risk already visible;
= Achievement of winning price possible;
= Confirmed Opportunity Classification tool;

NOTE: until standardization of costing models/ tools are implemented across Europe, an agreement on
model, tools etc. shall be done in this meeting

The Terms of Reference for the Solution Alignment can be found here
Outputs
= Status update from the review logged in
the Deal Tracker.
= — Information points and Actions recorded in the
Deal Tracker and distributed to review participants.
= Actions send via Deal Tracker workflow to
individual assigned owners.

4.3 STAGE 3-— DEFINE THE VALUE PROPOSITION

4.3.1 Bid No Bid

BID NO BID Start of CSLC The Bid No Bid Review is a Sales qualification review to
Stage 3 obtain management commitment, authorization and budget
to proceed with bids that match the company’s business
objectives and align to the account growth plan.
During this review the sales and win strategy are confirmed,
the tactics to counter the competition and the value
proposition are reviewed. The bid budget and resourcing plan
is agreed. .
This is the final stage at which the initial formal agreement
between the Sales, country management and Business Lines
is confirmed as to who will be the Leading Business Line and
who the Participating Business Line (i.e., which Business
Line reports the external order and revenue).
The Europe Services Delegation of Authority determines the
level of bid budget authorization required.
This type of review should take place as early as possible in
the sales cycle but typically in/ at the end of CSLC Stage 3.

Inputs Deliverables or Work packages
= Early development of the Proposition = The Value Proposition - Fujitsu's unique selling
depicted within the Capture Plan; proposition articulated (i.e., why buy from us?)
= Early High-Level solution view; = — Solution strategy to achieve the Value

= Early view on Risks identified in Solution Proposition identified;
Alignment = Solution description, building on what was
= Current Capture Plan; agreed at Solution alignment in particular

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 36 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
Initial Bid Budget spent to date (as
relevant);

Bid Plan; Presales resource plan
Bid Budget to achieve contract signature
Opportunity Qualification Documentation

Updated Opportunity Classification Tool
Assessment

Check list for ANU to be considered and
provided if relevant

Outcomes

The team confidently presented the case
for bidding that is evidenced by a ‘qualify
in’ (or have confidently presented the case
for not bidding which is evidenced by a
‘qualify out’). Decisions made: Agreement
will result to proceed to Bid or No Bid

Win and Price Strategy Methodology and
tactics confirmed

How Fujitsu is going to undertake the bid
project, evidenced through a Bid Plan,

The end-to-end bid team is identified and
initial members engaged.

The infrastructure to run the bid is
available.

Early engagement with capability/portfolio
owners

Bid Budget approved

The Terms of Reference for the Bid no Bid can be
found here.

Outputs

Status update from the review logged in
the Deal Tracker.

Information points and Actions recorded
in the Deal Tracker and distributed to
review participants.

Actions send via Deal Tracker workflow
to individual assigned owners.

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

identifying degree of applicability of standard
Portfolio Offerings, use of GDC's, Global Project
Management Office (GPMO), etc., likely third
party

Win price and strategy defined, either as a
freestanding document, or within the Capture
Plan

Outline tactical plan to beat competition

Plan to strengthen relationships with key
customer contacts

Initial Risk Management Plan documented
Bid Plan documented, budget defined;

First major iteration of the Capture Plan
produced - to be enhanced through subsequent
stages;

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 37 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

4.4 STAGE 4- DESIGN THE SOLUTION

4.4.1 Peer Quality Check (PQC)

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 38 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= Scope of individual stream; individual

deliverables (products);

= There is support capability in place that

meets the customer SLA needs;

= The security technologies for both
customer requirements and Fujitsu

standards are in place

* Latest contract documents and schedules
as preparation for Contract Readiness

Check

Outcomes

= Confirmed stream RAID Plan

= Confirmed KPI's

= — Stream individual RAG status

= Commentary and peer recommendations
The full Terms of Reference for the Peer Quality Check can be found here

Outputs

= — Status update from the review logged in

the Deal Tracker.

« Information points and Actions recorded
in the Deal Tracker and distributed to

review participants.

= Actions send via Deal Tracker workflow

to individual assigned owners.

4.5 STAGE 5-BID

4.5.1 Deliverability and RAID Workshop

DELIVERABILIT CSLC Stage 5
Y AND RAID.
WORKSHOP

Inputs

This workshop ensures a fully integrated view (all streams, all
offerings and Business Lines) and customer compliant holistic
view on the solution and financial position with a fully understood
and accepted RAID. The focus is on the cohesiveness of the bid
and underpinning collateral :

The objective of the meeting is to ensure there are:

Fully integrated accepted and signed off solution,
T&T/Program, service
Fully integrated and signed off financial and
commercial proposition
Overall agreed and understood RAID Plan
Recommendations and actions to improve the bid
Management summary for the BAR
Provide a set of recommendations to improve the bid and to
mitigate the identified risks.

Deliverables or Work packages

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 39 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
= Overall deal update;

= Overall solution outline with confirmation on

FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= Stream individual products will be the baseline
for the check;

customer requirements and Fujitsu delivery = The required work products and its expected

standards;

= Open areas of Proposition;
= Confirmed stream RAID Plan;

= Confirmed KPI's;

= Stream individual RAG status;

= Commentary and peer recommendations;

= Cost Model

« Financial assumptions including P&L

= Contractual structure

= Terms and Conditions including customer
requirements and our proposed mitigations

Outcomes

maturity is available on the CSLC products
framework (currently under development);

* Available Bid collateral;

= Requirements (RCTM);

= Solution Document;

= Transition and Transformation Plan;

= Cost Base and P&L;

= RAID;

= Outcome peer-2-peer SME review inputs

« Fully integrated, accepted and signed off solution, T&T/Program, FMO, Service Delivery Model;
= Fully integrated and signed off financial and commercial proposition;
= Overall agreed and understood RAID Plan;

= Recommendations and actions;

= Management summary for the BAR
The Full Terms of Reference for the Deliverability RAID Workshop can be found here.

Outputs

= Status update from the review logged in
the Deal Tracker.

= — Information points and Actions recorded
in the Deal Tracker and distributed to
review participants.

= Actions send via Deal Tracker workflow

to individual assigned owners.

4.5.2 Financial and Commercial Quality Gate

FINANCIAL &
COMMERCIAL
QUALITY GATE

Inputs

CSLC Stage 5

This Quality Gate is only for EPS and Products in Medium Risk.
Medium Risk is defined as being standard products with no ough
major risk — besides: NON-standard T&C's,
FRAMECONTRACTS. The purpose is to validate if the pricing
for the solution fairly reflects all the EPS and Products costs
including the contingency and the payment mechanism when
flexed still gives the desired margin and profit (OPPL).

During the Quality Gate the team also needs to confirm that the
commercial agreement with the Customer protects us to a
known extent with a maximum on potential liabilities and that the
obligations are described and reflect the business requirements
of both parties.

Deliverables or Work packages

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 40 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269

FUJ00243269
= Capture Plan updated = Volumetric Information: Solution baseline, Key
* Contractual overview Assumptions and Dependencies recorded in the

RAID;

= Deal Snapshot, FJ Master Clauses 2
= Customer contractual requirements and our

= Financial Overview mitigation approach

= P&L, Cash Flow = Financial Model and attached assumptions and
= Risk Register billing models

= Value Flow = Negotiation Strategy
= DD outcome peer-2-peer SME review inputs

Outcomes

» Overview of the contractual risks
* Quality Gate Log File including protocol and defined actions
= Risk Summary for BAR
The Full Terms of Reference for the Financial and Commercial Quality Gate can be found here

45.3 Bid Authorization Review

BID End of This Review authorizes Sales and bid team to submit an offer to
AUTHORIZATIO CSLC Stage 5 a customer, subject to satisfactory assessment via the Bid
N REVIEW Assurance Process.

The authorities confirm that the proposed deal is a compelling
proposition for both the Customer and Fujitsu (particularly in
terms of margin, cash and risk), taking into account concerns
raised from Bid Assurance activities.

Identify any conditional actions that must be completed prior to
submitting the proposal to the Customer. Actions can be placed
on specific individuals identified at the Review.

The input from Delivery and RAID workshop are essential inputs,
if applicable.

The Europe Services Delegation of Authority determines the
level of authorization required. :

A BAR is also held if Europe is only a participating region.

\f an E-Authorization is deemed acceptable by the authorizers it
must be completed in Salesforce wherever possible, otherwise e-
mail is acceptable. An E-Authorization must be submitted along

with the required supporting evidence for authorization by the
relevant authorities.

Inputs

= Capture Plan (BAR section)

= Financial Executive Summary

» RAID Plan

= Global Rate Card approval if required

= Outcome from bid assurance (Deliverability and RAID workshop including summary of risks that
may influence authorization) and/or and previous BARs (where applicable)

Check list for ANU to be considered and provided if relevant

Outcomes

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 41 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

Authorization to submit an offer to the Customer
Understood and accepted RAID

Confirm that the panel are happy with the outcome and recommendations from the Solution
Review

Confirm that all issues relating to financials, commercials, delivery (including management and
governance of third parties) have been resolved or addressed and documented

Verify the capability and resources to deliver the proposed solution
Signed off and approved financial position of the proposal

The Terms of Reference for the Bid Authorization Review can be found here

Outputs

Actions

Status update from the review logged in the Deal Tracker.

Information points and Actions recorded in the Deal Tracker and distributed to review
participants.

send via Deal Tracker workflow to individual assigned owners.

4.6 STAGE 6- CLOSE THE DEAL

4.6.1 Contract Readiness Check (CRC)
CONTRACT _ Startof CSLC This workshop ensures the contract Fujitsu is negotiating with
READINESS : Stage 6 __ the Customer is understood and aligned with the Business Lines
and functions and reflects the latest changes since BAR.

CHECK

All dependencies and obligations must be agreed and
considered in the costing and pricing. The Business Line must
confirm their understanding and acceptance of the contract they
must deliver, with the last chance to influence. _

The workshop should take place with mature information
available, but this information might still not be final. It shall
ensure that the Terms and Conditions are consistent across all
parts of the Customer facing documents.

Inputs, Deliverables or Work packages

Overview of the changes since last submission/ or after DD.

Reflection of the impact of those changes, especially accounting for any risks that have changed
significantly or newly emerged

Final delivery model and resource plan
3rd Party B2B agreements
Agreement/ sign off, of the changes by capabilities and Functions (in PQC)

DD finding consideration and implementation. Where the deal is not subject to pre-contract DD,
all Assumptions and Dependencies (from the RAID) to be expressly baselined in the contract (in
a Schedule) as being subject to Change Control following Post Contract Verification (to fulfil the
same function as DD)

Understanding on what the Delivery function have to deliver according to the contract
Overall contractual model

Deal snapshot incl. deviation from FJ redlines

Outline of the key contractual schedules service descriptions

Open items not agreed yet with customer

Latest RAID Plan, AOD, RCTM and KSVI, Final P&L and cost models

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 42 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

I
I = Outcome peer-2-peer SME review inputs with focus on final contract documents and schedules __

* — Status update from the review logged in
the Deal Tracker.

Information points and Actions recorded
in the Deal Tracker and distributed to

= Actions send via Deal Tracker workflow
to individual assigned owners.

4.6.2 Contract Authorization Review (CAR)

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 43 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

only a participating Region.

Inputs

= Customer Decision;
= Capture Plan;

= Output from the Contract Readiness
Check/Legal Review

= Submitted Proposal;

= Due Diligence plan and output; Resource
plan;

= Bid collateral;
= P&L and Cost documents;
= — Initial Contractual documents

Outcomes

Deliverables or Work packages

Account team appointed;

Commitments available on all resources
required for the intended start date for the
contract;

All third-party subcontracts available for
signature once the head contract is signed;

All Participating Region (for multi-region
delivery), GDC and GPMO commitments
underpinned and formally signed off (all
Inter-Company Agreements in place);

Any Financing arrangements in place;

Confirmation from Customer that he can
meet his obligations and dependencies
under the contract

All Program and Delivery plans reviewed
and updated in light of Due Diligence
findings, especially accounting for any risks
that have changed significantly or newly
emerged;

Changes to the Contract negotiated with
Customer to get the deal back to the levels
of P&L, cash flow and risk (net) that were
approved at Bid Authorization Review;

Completeness check against
Implementation Project PID, Resource Plan,
RAID and Quality Plan;

Where the deal is not subject to pre-contract
Due Diligence, all Assumptions and
Dependencies (from the RAID) to be
expressly baselined in the Contract (in a
Schedule) as being subject to Change
Control following Post Contract Verification
(to fulfil the same function as DD);

RAID updated to reflect the contract and all
the above;

For High Risk/ High Value deals (those
requiring Regional-level bid authorization),
the contract readiness check to have been
completed and responded to by the bid team
and Line of Business prior to proceeding to
CAR;

Any Parent Company Guarantee approved if
required;

Delegation of Authority to the nominated
contract signatory authorized at the CAR

* Contract Authorization Review decision to proceed/sign the contract;
= There is a smooth handover to the delivery team with all documentation in place and of the right

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 44 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

standard;

«If applicable, approved Working at Risk and associated parameters are agreed in-line with the local
Delegations of Authority limits (refer to Finance);

= Lessons for improving bid performance are identified and acted upon;
= Bid budget is closed with actual spend tracking the forecast;
= Bid area is cleared and available for the next bid team;
I « All re-usable assets are identified.

The Terms of Reference for the Contract Authorization Review here.

Outputs
= Status update from the review logged in the Deal Tracker.

= — Information points and Actions recorded in the Deal Tracker and distributed to review
participants.

_ Actions send via Deal Tracker workflow to individual assigned owners.

4.7 STAGE 7 - START PROJECT

4.71 Bid to Delivery Handover

I Outcome
= The T&T/Program team is deemed to be ready for preparation measures.

I Outputs

= Review status update and actions recorded in the BA Program Gateway Review file. The internal
steering group of the program has been informed about possible shortcomings and significant
risks.

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 45 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

4.7.2 Ready for initiation

READY. ‘OR : _ Between : S The purpose of this review is to confi firm that the TRT/Program teams
INITIATION Stage 7 and 8) i

s successful outcome of this Setar will show that we pl an can :
be initiated.

This review takes pac etween the CSLC Stage 7 and 8. ea
- before the kickoff event with the customer,

Outcome
=" The T&T/Program is deemed to be ready to be initiated

Outputs
= Review status update and actions recorded in the BA Program Gateway Review file. The internal
steering group of the program has been informed about possible shortcomings and significant risks

4.8 STAGE 8- POST CONTRACT VERIFICATION OR KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER

REVIEW
4.8.1 Post Contract Verification or Knowledge Transfer review
POSE During SLE "The purpose of this gateway is to check what ele. ce
CONTRACT I - Stage 8 - found, either during the Post Contract Verification (PCV) or I
VERIFICATION) “ : Knowledge Transfer (KT from the customer or incumbent _

KT ee a supplier) sessions. This gateway is quite critical to ensure that
eG (Project) Change management process was properly setup,
change log is available and all discrepancies compared with
CAR will be properly managed. Also Contract Change :
_ management process is valid and properly : set up. Solution may
_ need to be updated and if so, impact to costs and timelines _
~ needs to be assessed and managed thru change management.

Inputs
= — PCV and/or KT has been performed and possible discrepancies compared to CAR have been documented

* The full list of deliverables to be verified at the gateway review can be found in the BA Program Gateways
Reviews, ideally being prepared before the review by the T&T/Program team_

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 46 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

I Outcomes
I

= The program is re-baselined considering the findings and related changes (changes to contract, solution,

I
I
P&L, program plan etc) I
I

I Outputs
{ = — Review status update and actions recorded in the BA Program Gateway Review file. The internal
I steering group of the program has been informed about possible shortcomings and significant risks

4.8.2 Ready to Go Live, Pilot and/or Rollout

* The Program deliverables meet the acceptance criteria and are ready to be approved by the
customer

= Service Readiness Reviews and Acceptance into Service has been completed for the services
which are subject to this review

_ = Uncompleted deliverables are being aligned and documented and agreed between the program

I and BAU team

= The full list of deliverables to be verified at the gateway review can be found in the BA Program
Gateways Reviews, ideally being prepared before the review by the T&T/Program team

I Outcome I

= The program deliverables are considered completed and readiness to commence the services
I which are subject to this review, or move to the pilot or implementation phase, depending on the
__phase of the program.

Outputs

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 47 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

I * Review status update and actions recorded in the BA Program Gateway Review file. The internal _
I steering group of the program has been informed about possible shortcomings and significant I
risks. I

4.9 STAGE 9 - PROGRAM CLOSURE

4.9.1 Closure Readiness Review

I Outcomes

= The program is considered ready to be closed I

I = — Review status update and actions recorded in the BA Program Gateway Review file. The internal
__ Steering group of the program has been informed about possible shortcomings and significant risks __I

4.10 STAGE 10 - MANAGE SERVICES & ENHANCEMENT (Change Requests)

4.10.1 Manage Service & Enhancements

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 48 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

I = The outputs from Stages 8 and 9.
{ «= Contract and Contract obligations tracker

I Outcomes

I = Agreement to proceed with the business position
_ = Recommendations and actions

I = Agree business reporting standards

= Review timetable

I Outputs
I = Adherence to Fujitsu Financial and Commercial policies including working at risk and Delegation
of Authority
= Customer Governance and Reporting
=» Management and compliance to the contract and contractual obligations
I «= Management and reporting on customer satisfaction
= Monthly Operational reviews of the service
= Cockpit reporting
= Governance and processes for taking additional business
«= Management of the Portfolio of Projects
= Technical governance of the solution and maintaining solution integrity

= Relevant reporting of data-driven metrics as a measure for Business (if applicable) and BAU.
performance

= Maintaining the service baseline

= — Integrity of the Customer solution and service through managed and testing contracted, Data,
Fallback, Security and Patching services.

4.11 STAGE 11 — CLOSE THE CONTRACT

4.11.1 Close the Contract

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 49 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

= The contract in its current terms

= Third party contracts

= Service Assets

= SOW if so requested and negotiated by the customer

« ICA and SOW’s with GDC’s, GPMO and other Capability units or Regions

I Outcomes

= Formal approval to proceed as well as any conditional actions that must be completed prior to
submitting the CCN / price to the Customer.

[

_ Qutputs

I = The negotiated CCN

= ‘End of Contract’ approved BAR/CAR

= ‘End of Contract’ Plan (scope of services, Ownership and transfer of IP, conditions on exit,

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 50 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

Change Management strategy, Organization structure and Governance, people aspects)
= Customer acceptance certificates reflecting the transfers.
= Final financial statement

4.12 SWARM, ALERTS AND CRISIS MANAGEMENT
The Alerts Process can be applied to any area of the business at any stage after contract signature.

The Europe Swarm, Alerts, and Crisis Management tool manages high impacting issues across the
business. It is the highest form of corporate escalation, designed to facilitate positive outcomes for critical
business and reputational issues.

Swarm is an early-stage escalation, often proactive, designed to positively influence a deteriorating issue
prior to a need for full Alert status. Swarms are short in duration (less than 10 working days) and designed
to be handed back to Business ‘As Usual’ as quickly as possible. If a Swarm does not meet its objectives
quickly it can be moved into Alert status

To request a new Swarm or Alert that requires an immediate response, please contact the 24/7/365 Service Desk

Requests that require a next working day response should be raised via the Online Form

The Manage Alerts process provides a mechanism for invoking the highest levels of escalation within the
organization in the event of serious issues and/or formal customer complaints which impact Fujitsu
Europe. The process facilitates consistent management of the Alert, including senior level management
visibility, reporting, and the tracking of remediation activities to a conclusion. Alerts are usually invoked for
scenarios where issues put our customer's business, or Fujitsu's ability to operate, at risk. The process is
independent from any other problem escalation processes and is also used proactively in cases where a
major risk is identified in order to prevent it from becoming an issue that would result in a higher severity
Alert or damage to Fujitsu's reputation.

Alert and Swarn

Management Process

Guidance on Managing Swarm, Alerts and Crises in Europe

Crisis Management can be applied at any time to any area of the business when Fujitsu’s ability to deliver
Services is compromised. It provides Fujitsu Europe with a framework for the control, co-ordination,
escalation, and communication activities required to manage Fujitsu's response to the most serious events
or issues including, for example, terror, pandemic, and weather events. The framework is used when a
situation has been identified that has led to, or presents risk to, the safety and wellbeing of Fujitsu or
Customer employees, significant disruption to key Fujitsu or Customer products and services, or
Reputational impact to Fujitsu or its Customers.

The documents below provide information and instructions in what to do in the event of a Major Incident
affecting Fujitsu, Customers or Interested Parties. The documents should be read in conjunction with
the Manage Crisis Procedure.

BCP14 Common Services Standard Incident Response

BCP13 Crisis Management Plan

Immediate steps to take in the event of a Crisis affecting one or more of our locations are as
follows:

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 51 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

e Follow normal emergency evacuation procedures if you are working in a customer location or in
one of our buildings and there is an emergency, please follow the usual emergency procedures and
evacuate the building promptly if told to do so. Do not take any laptops; just leave in an orderly
fashion.

« Confirm your whereabouts to your manager in the event of an emergency, it is imperative that
we quickly locate all our people and be assured of their safety. It is the responsibility of all
employees to proactively inform their manager that they are safe. If you can't reach your immediate
manager — then escalate the call to their manager. We appreciate there may be issues with phone
lines but please keep trying until you get through, use any means available. If you are a people
manager, make sure you are familiar with the Business Continuity plan for your area. Our prime
concern in the event of an incident is to locate all our employees and ensure they are safe. If you
are unable to locate an employee, then follow your own area's plan and escalate the issue to HR.

e Use the Crisis Information Lin if calling from outside

UK). This is a recorded message service to let employees know important instructions if there is a

crisis which affects one or more of our locations. This Crisis Information Line will be updated in the
event of an incident.

All the above processes are subject to in-house Root Cause Analysis, designed to ensure that repeat
issues are minimized and that lessons are learnt within the business.

Please visit the Swarm, Alerts, and Crisis Management (sharepoint.com) or

For general enquiries, please email europe.alerts [Note that this mailbox is not

monitored outside UK core office hours]

4.13 LESSONS LEARNED AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT/LEARNING

It is important that we document and share our learnings with the wider community to allow other teams to
avoid issues or to repeat the successes.

Fujitsu operates in a highly competitive marketplace, our colleagues face challenges daily. Not learning
from our experiences is a risk to the future of our organization.

Lessons Learned capture the learning experiences and identify improvement actions from won or lost Bids,
concluded Projects or from delivery activities / onerous or loss-making Contracts, that will inform Learn
Before activities and drive continuous Improvement action.

The Germany Lessons Learned, and Continuous Improvement framework (Germany LL&Cl) aims to enable

a “learning culture" in Fujitsu through a holistic process where you can:

e document the lessons learned in your daily business, either challenges or successes that you
have experienced,

e keep informed what improvements were initiated for the lessons you collected, and

e gain tactical advice(s) that will make your job easier and better for next time
For Germany your access to Global - Germany Lessons Learned & Continuous Improvement

‘sharepoint.com

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 52 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

For Europe Region the Lessons Learned & Continuous Improvement process supports our Bid, Project and
Operational Delivery teams to ‘learn before, during and after’, ensuring that the lessons from past
experience are applied to all future activities.
Lessons are captured and disseminated through:

* Individuals contributing Lessons they have Learned via an online form which is available for reuse

on the Lessons Learned & Continuous Improvement Portal
= Teams or individuals can upload their own Lessons Learned reports in the “Reports Repository"

section.
= The “Lessons Repository” can be consulted to check all submitted lessons and recommendations.
Information can be grouped and sorted by different categories and filters, depending about interest.

= The “Guides and templates” section contains best practice forms and instructions ready to use.

The diagram below provides an overview of the Lesson Learned & Continuous Improvement process

Identifying what is going well

Our Process and not so well during
the activity so far
Ensuring we build our bid, aol
During Identifying improvements that will

project, operational delivery
based on the leamings from :
similar activity. Learn Loain’

benefit future bids, projects,
operational delivery and Fujitsu's

Bene "Aflor competiveness.
: Aligned to CSLC Opportunity level learning
coerce = Stages 1-11 - moe
Organisation level learning
Best practices Lessons from bids won/ lost,
Lessons Learned Projects and Operational delivery

Learn before packs

Improvement Actions in
Country Line Organisations, Sales,
Program & Project Management Services
and Shared Functions

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 53 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

4.14 APPENDIX 1 — INDICATIVE OFFER FLOW CHART

Flow Chart
4) Assess 2) Gain 3) 4) Raise
incoming written Prepare authorizat
request using confirmatio Indicative ion
the OCT in n from Offer request in
Salesforce Legal & pricing Salesforce
Please refer Commerci with Bid e
to Business al and with Finance (including
Lines (see the Lead and attachme
notes below) Business include nts
if you are Line that standard requested
uncertain Indicative Commerc by the
about Offer is ial form)
whether the appropriate wording
ferernss are for the

tandard ubmissio
6) Review 6) 7) When
and approve Authorizati all
Indicative on in necessary
Offer pricing Salesforce authorizati
document (Stage 2) ons
including including received,
confirmation attachment submit

£-protecti (not Indicative
language in authorizati Offer
the ons in pricin

9
subfmissStep 1: Analyze an incomingizequest against the Indticatiare Offer criteria and assess whether

(Stage tindicative Offer pricing rnigtitttye a suitable respons® or whether the response should be to

2.

os

provide an offer capablesifbceptance. Contact thé f#f8VAnt Head of Service Line.

Step 2: Gain confirmation from the Legal & Commercial department to move forward within the
Indicative Offer process. This will include an assessment of whether what the customer is asking
for, what we are planning to respond with and whether the level of detail in the proposed
submission is suitable for an indicative offer submission. And it will consider the customer
relationship on an existing account.

o Via AskLegal — for UK led opportunities or contact local Head of L&C outside UK
Step 3: Create the Indicative Offer pricing and include standard Commercial wording, refer to
indicative Offer Translations
Step 4: Opportunity Owner raises the request for authorization in the Salesforce system
Step 5: Ensure that the Indicative Offer pricing has been subjected to the correct level of
scrutiny before submission to the customer and that the required protective language has been
included (functional sign off by Business Line, Commercial/Legal, Business Line Finance).
NOTE: For DofA Levels I-III, this will be done via a 2-step authorization in Salesforce where this
is step 1.

NOTE: For DofA Levels IV & V, this will be done via a meeting (and not electronically in
Salesforce).

Step 6: Covers the review and authorization activity by management. This includes attaching
evidence of written confirmations given in Step 2 and a P&L that:

o Includes Revenue, Cost, DM and DM% per year, for the duration of the deal

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 54 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

o Includes an early indication on cash flow (i.e. - payback and peak cash period and

amount)
0 Is costed in a way which is approved by the relevant delivery unit/Business Line. In some

circumstances they may request a formal review.
o Is aligned to the commercial terms that are going with the offer (i.e., indexation, etc.)

NOTE: For DofA Levels I-III, this will be done via authorization in Salesforce where this is step 2.

NOTE: For DofA Levels IV & V, this will be done via a meeting (and not electronically in

Salesforce).
7. Step 7: Supports the final submission to the customer.

4.15 APPENDIX 2- POBA WITH CSLC

POBA is an overlay to the CSLC process (represented in the diagram below)

cae
cont
ee)
bY 2 —
~ z ne
a 2 Reviews:
aa z a
é

Authorization / Gateway

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 55 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

4.16 APPENDIX 3 - EUROPE BUSINESS ASSURANCE STEP ALIGNMENT WITH CSLC
GLOBAL GATEWAY

Global
CSE

Europe Assurance

Reporting

Documents:

Europe Too!
Germany Tool _

Europe Swarm, Sudees Enabl

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 56 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

Author: Grace Kelly
Author Role: Head of Bid Governance Operations
Authorizer Name: Nicola Sibley

Authorizer Role: Head of Risk, Business Continuity, Quality Assurance and Bid Governance, Europe
Shared Services

Related Process (all accessible via the EBMS Portal, Bid Management Procedure

Effective Dates/Revision Number
Effective from: 1% April 2016

Last Revision date: 14" February 2024
Next review date: 31% July 2025

Revision number: 23.0

Change History

Versio I Date Comments
n
23.0 18" July 2024 Annual Update, interim version. Further review to take place at end of

October-24 Changes - Material change percentage; Global Rate Card;
definition for MRS; confirm in SA if Al included.

22.0 I 14" February 2024 Material change requiring re-BAR changed from greater than to less than

21.0 I 1* January 2024 Work at Risk link updated.
Indicative Offer criteria updated

Europe Business Assurance Alignment with CSLC Global Gateway diagram
updated

FF 1 September 2023 CSLC stages 7-9 Gateway reviews updated
References to Gross Margin (GM) amended to Direct Margin (DM)
19.0 I 1 May 2023 Annual Update

Chum definition
CSLC stages 7-9 Gateway reviews updated

Assurance Framework Diagram updated to reflect changes to stages 7-9 add
stage 11

References to RAID Log changed to RAID Plan
References to Contract Documents for PQC into CRC

References to DACH removed as per company announcement 8" March
2023

18.0 31st October 2022 Annual Update

Organization changes. References to NWE and CEE changed to either
Europe Services or DACH as appropriate

References to Products Business Line removed or changed to Europe
Platform Business as appropriate

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 57 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

References to Full Portfolio Countries removed
Stages updated in line with revised CSLC project Kyoko

Removed — Appendix 3, Delivery Assurance Step Alignment with Solution
Process Diagram

17.0 30th September 2022 I Document review date extended. Awaiting some clarifications Updates to be
captured in version 18

16.0 31st August 2022 Document review date extended. Awaiting some clarifications Updates to be
captured in version 17

15.0 I 6th Jan 2022 P33 - Terms of Reference for the Bid Authorization Review link updated

14.0 I 31st Dec 2021 Minor changes around abbreviations. Minor clarification on Frameworks

13.0 I 30th April 2021 Annual Update

Updated to include reference to Digital Accessibility, authorization for
Framework extension and input for Security clarification for PQCs

GDPR requirements updated

12.0 2nd June 2020 Updated to remove references to DTS for NWE Delivery.
11.0 I 6th March 2020 Some links and headings updated. Note added re check for ANU list at BNB
stage

10.0 I 28th February 2020 Note added section 3.6 to state written authorization required and should be
retained.

Delivery Assurance sections updated.

CSLC diagrams updated to reflect updated Delivery Assurance sections

9.0 31st December 2019 I Clarification regarding authorizations obtained outside of formal reviews
added to section 3.2

8.0 22nd October 2019 Output included to process steps 4.2 to 4.6 to include the completed Deal
Tracker actions

Lessons Learnt diagram updated to include clarification of how Lessons
Learned can be utilized

References to EMEIA replaced with Europe where appropriate

7.0 2nd August 2019 Updated to reflect changes for CE to CEE and EMEIA to NWE as per
communications received from Global Communications 29th July 2019

6.0 3rd April 2019 Some links within the document updated.

5.0 28th March 2019 Updated to include reference to Region CE and POBA

4.0 1st September 2018 Replacement of MIS and BAS to DTS and DBS. GDPR added.

Other minor updates to fix broken links

3.0 18th September 2017 I Further clarifications for Churn included. Document control updates.

Removal of wording in section 4 because of corrective action identified
through an internal audit.

Amended Author. Fixed broken links.

2.0 6th July 2017 Added section 3.1.1 — House Rules

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 58 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
FUJ00243269
FUJ00243269

11 Included additional information in section 2.1 to clarify focused approach to
high complexity/risk opportunities
1.0 20" September 2016 I Final version agreed for publication

Classification: Fujitsu Restricted 59 @ 2024 Fujitsu Services Limited
