FUJ00175270

FUJ00175270

Meeting at 20 Finsbury Street

Friday 20 November, 2015

In attendance: Chris Broe, Alisdair Cameron, Gavin Bell, Nigel Shaw, Regina Moran

Agenda discussion topics

PY PWN PE

Appetite for proceeding
Governance

Next Steps

Money

Commercials
Communications

There was consensus between the two parties that we wish to proceed as rapidly as possible
to conclude a deal before Christmas on Trinity 1 (existing system and Service) with ROM
pricing also in place for Trinity 2 (new functionality and expanded scope)

From a governance perspective, we outlined our Business Approval Process. Pol plan to go
to the Board with our proposal (to be dealt with under CCN) on Wednesday 25"" November.
Note that BIS will be in attendance. In parallel, they are working on the procurement and
legal challenges. Proceed then to agreement in principle for December 1% when Duncan and
Regina meet with Paula and Al. Board approval to be sought via a Board call by December 7"
or 14" if the first date is unachievable.

Next steps ae for Fujitsu to finalise Trinity 1 pricing and ROM pricing for Trinity 2. PoL to
execute governance plan. Fujitsu to demo Horizon anywhere to Exec team.

Some discussion on the price differential between Fujitsu and the current provider on ongoing run
costs (£12m versus £27m) on Trinity 1. Is there a way to bring it down and bring the cost forward?
PoL have to be able to sell the deal. Trade off between what it costs and how long it takes for Trinity
2. Lengthy discussion on Trinity 2 solutions.

Both parties favour the CCN approach and short commercial negotiation. Need to get commercial
engaged on Pol side to match Mike Harvey on FJ side.

Both parties favour very low key communications approach given the sensitivities. A joint plan will
be agreed

The meeting concluded after one hour. Very cordial and productive discussion between all parties.

Other points

Al raised the issue of FJ independent witness in cases. Gavin explained the independent expert
approach in place. Sparrow was also discussed but not perceived as a major issue.
