FUJ00080645
FUJ00080645

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

o
Fujitsu Restricted FU} ITSU

Security Assessment Ref: GHQ/SEC/BAS-Apt Services /UKI-
Skype/290317

Issue: 0.1
Date: 20" April 2017

Assessment Control Page

Assessment I Internal Assessment Reference I Ref: GHQ/SEC/BAS-Apt

Type Services /UKI-Skype/290317

Area BAS —-SEC-Apt Processes Assessed Privilege Management
Services

Contact(s) Gary Huteson Process Owner(s) Deborah Haworth

Planned 29" March 2017 I Lead Assessor Margaret Thomas

Date

Start Date 29" March 2017 _I Full Report Title Apt Services PAM Report

Assessment Summa:

1. Objectives of Assessment

Undertake an internal security review of the above unit and assess local privilege
management processes and working practice including:

Whether the Account is responsible for privileged account management, or has privileged
accounts, in the following areas:

¢ Domain administration;

e Servers;

e Firewalls;

e Networks;

e Applications;

e Any others.

Where devices and/or systems are managed centrally or there is no privileged access then the
assessment will not be applicable.

Each technology area will be checked to ensure:
Fujitsu Restricted Page 1 of 7
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2017
FUJ00080645
FUJ00080645

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

o
Fujitsu Restricted FU} ITSU

¢ Privileged accounts are identified;

e The principle of least privilege is recognised and implemented;

e The Delivery Exec has accepted accountability for the use of privileged access across
the Account;

e Actions are being taken to minimise the number of privileged accounts;

e A documented process is in place that contains the process steps in the high level
process flow produced by the Security Governance team;

e Regular reporting is being produced which contains the elements listed in the Process
notes produced by the office of the Security Governance team.

2. Scope of Assessment
This Fujitsu Services Internal Assessment was conducted on Skype and involved the

following employees:-

Function / Role Interviewee

Apt Methods and Tools - Operations Manager Gary Huteson

Fujitsu Restricted Page 2 of 7
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2017
FUJ00080645

FUJ00080645

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems fo?)

Fujitsu Restricted FUJITSU
3. Management Summaryl
During this Assessment a total of: 0 Non-conformances, I Observations and 0 Good Practice Observations were raised.
Reference / Sequence See table below Date of Observation 26/09/16
Category See table below Standards / Section ISO 27001 See table below for each finding
Corporate Process Security Policy Manual (Impact see table Local Process See MSCF reference in table below

below)
Unit BAS-SEC-Apt Services Country UK
Location SkyPe Division BAS
Interviewee See table below Interviewee's Role See table below
Area Contact Deborah Haworth Assessor's Name Deborah Haworth
Operations Overview
Findings are limited to the areas sampled during this visit. The context of the findings is described in the commentary below. In summary, the
main findings and recommendations are as follows:
No Cat. I 27001/ Finding Recommendation Interviewee Actionees Completion Impact
MSCF Name and Name by date Minor
Role Moderate
Major

1
Please see Appendix I for details of observation categories
Fujitsu Restricted Page 3 of 7

© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2017
FUJ00080645
FUJ00080645

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

o
Fujitsu Restricted FU} ITSU

4, Assessment Commentary
Apt provides industrialised methods and tools that enable Fujitsu project and account

teams to deliver services to our customers in an efficient, collaborative, consistent and
repeatable way. These tools are fully integrated to provide automation of the project lifecycle
and method.

Specialised support and tools are provided for different endeavours such as Managed Service,
Application Integration, Infrastructure Delivery, Prototyping, Mobile Development etc.
Appropriate methods and tools can be selected to meet specific delivery requirements.

Apt cloud services are delivered as fully managed, hosted, secure and 'ready to

use’ environments consisting of automated processes and integrated methods and tools.

The service is hosted on local cloud at SDCOland managed by the GDC, Kazan, Russia.
Each project has its own SharePoint site and no personal data is held. Awareness is delivered
by the Operations Manager to everyone who is given access.

4.1 Technology Status
Following this assessment the technologies have been RAG coded as follows:

Domain “ — Other
en I Firewall Network I Applications Admin

4.2 Key Principles and Accountability
The Apt Methods and Tools Programme Manager accepts accountability for PAM and is the
approver for all access requests.

4.3 Process Control

The Apt Services Privileged Access Register spreadsheet is the register of the various
elements supporting the Apt Team's approach to Privileged Access Management and is
maintained on an ongoing basis and is reviewed each month at the Apt Monthly Service
review.

The register details access level for cach use and includes removed users as below:-

There is a worksheet that shows Logs of Admin Password Changes which should have been
completed in March but is showing as postponed until the “Bitbucket Accessor” change has
been implemented. Task APTMGNT 307 has been raised as one tool still needs to be updated
so that Bitbucket Accessor can be fully implemented.

KeePass is used by the Core Apt, NI Support and Apt GDC Teams to store and manage
passwords. The Operations Manager changes the password monthly. Users do not store

privileged access passwords using a browser's 'Saved Logins’ feature.

The Apt Local Security Procedure outlines the PAM Process Mapping

Fujitsu Restricted Page 4 of 7
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2017
FUJ00080645

FUJ00080645

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

o
Fujitsu Restricted FU} ITSU

SCOPE

¢ OpenSource Shared Service Administrator Usage
OpenSource Apt Core Internal Access
OpenSource Vendor Licenses
Microsoft Service Administration
Apt SharePoint Portal Owners
Apt SharePoint Contributors

1. Privileged Account Creation (New Joiners and New Privileged access requests)
o Requests for Privileged Access (Administrator Password etc ) are raised via email
with the Apt Service Manager by the Security Officer
= Requests should be raised with the Security Officer via the Apt
Deployment mailbox
= Approvals are actioned by the Apt Security Officer
= Approvals are logged in the register of privileged access
= Rejections are logged in the register of privileged access
2. Privileged Account Management
o Privileged Account Access is reviewed monthly by the Apt Service Manager and
the Apt Security Officer at the Apt Service
= Review.
= Review covers all the element in Scope (above)
= Leavers, Access Renewals, Revocations and Accounts not used
= Register of privileged access is updated
© OpenSource Administrator password is :-
= Changed, at a minimum, on a monthly basis - by Apt Security Officer
= Changed when an administrator password holder leaves the Team - by Apt
Security Officer
© OpenSource Software Licenses
= Password protected spreadsheet in use
= Password changed on a monthly basis - by Apt Security Officer
= Password changed should the Apt PCO or Security Officer leave the team
- by Apt Security Officer
o Access Revocations
= Revocation of Privileged Access are raised via email with the Apt Service
Manager
= Revocations are actioned by the Apt Security Officer
= Revocations are logged in the privileged access register.
3. Privileged Account Reporting
o. The privileged access register contains all privileged users for each of the areas in
Scope
o Privileged access register is reviewed on a Monthly basis

Privileged Account Access is reviewed monthly by the Apt Service Manager and the Apt
Security Officer at the Apt Service to ensure the right level of access is in place and the
access is still needed.

Fujitsu Restricted Page 5 of 7
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2017
FUJ00080645
FUJ00080645

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

Pre)

Five members of the NI Support team have User Admin Access but do not have System
Admin Access. As the NI Support team are a shared service the accounts are not revoked
when not used but the access list is reviewed by the Operations Manager monthly.

A reminder is sent to change passwords every month as an extra precaution since the March
2017 security incident.

Example shown with email to the Apt Methods and Tools Programme Manager, and his
response with the following question

Is there a plan to ensure that this employee is aware of our local security procedures?
The log in the register shows that the example user was given access on 13/12/16 and
received the Security Awareness on the 14/12/16.

Requests once approved are controlled by MIS. GDC Russia have 20 users who have high
level access to make changes following a request via TfS from the Apt Services team.

The Apt Team Changes Checklist details changes required to the various Apt teams and
supporting functions when membership of the Apt Support and/or Apt Development teams
change.

What Needs to Change?
o Apt Server Access
0 Triole for Services Service Desk Access
o Apt Team Changes Attachments

The checklist includes the process for Joiners and Leavers of all the different teams detailing
the naming convention which is linked to access given and shown in the register.

Apt Server Access

For new support team members who will be supporting the Apt for Java Service access to the
live servers ASAPTLCPO1,

ASAPTLCP02 and ASAPTLCPO3will be required. This is done by the MIS GDC teams and
is arranged via a TfS Change Order.

TS Service Desk Access
When there are Apt Support Team joiners or leavers access to the Java and .NET Support
resolver groups needs to be revised. This is actioned by the NI Support Team Manager.

No emergency access process is required as it is a shared service.
4.4 Process Reporting

The privileged access register contains all privileged users for each of the areas in Scope
Privileged access register is reviewed on a Monthly basis at the Apt Monthly Service Review.

Fujitsu Restricted Page 6 of 7
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2017
FUJ00080645
FUJ00080645

Fujitsu Services Business Management Systems

Pre)

Appendix I —- Observation categories

In terms of the Assessment Database, observations fall into 3 categories:

¢ Non-Conformance:

¢ Definition: No evidence that documented policy, minimum controls or

mandatory process are being met.
* Observation:

« Definition: A business observation, usually made where substantial elements of the
requirements of the privilege management process are being met but there are clear
opportunities for improvement.

© Good Practice:

« Definition: A specific local process or general working practice, or the implementation of
a Corporate Process in such a way that it is regarded as being good practice, over and
above expected implementation, and worthy of adoption by other parts of Fujitsu.

Fujitsu Restricted Page 7 of 7
© Copyright Fujitsu Services Limited, 2017
