Pathway

FUJ00078025
FUJ00078025

Ref: Risk 64

PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: I

Date: 18/01/96

0.1

Document Title:

Document Type:

Abstract:

Distribution:

Document Status:

Document Predecessor:

Associated Documents:

Author:

Approval Authority:

Signature/Date:

Comments To:

CONTENT

PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE

RISK: PWY064

Risk Response

This document describes how Pathway is
addressing the above risk contained in the Pathway
BA/POCL Risk Register.

The risk concerns the robust storage of data ina

single counter post office.

BA/POCL Risk Owners : J Folkes
Pathway Quality and Risk Management Director

Issued
None
BA/POCL Risk Register, Version 13, 5th January

1996

D Cooke

M H Bennett, Director Quality and Risk Management

D Cooke

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 0 of 4
FUJ00078025
FUJ00078025

Pathway Ref: Risk 64
PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: 1
Date: 18/01/96

0.1.1 DOCUMENT HISTORY
Version I Date Reason
0.1 16/1/96 Draft
1.0 18/01/96 Issued
0.1.2 ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS
Version I Date Title Source
13 5/1/96 BA/POCL Risk Register
0.1.3 ABBREVIATIONS
BA Benefits Agency
BPS Benefit Payment Service
PAT Project Assurance Team
PID Project Initiation Document
POCL Post Office Counters Limited
sis Strategic Infrastructure Service
SSR Statement of Service Requirement

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 1 of 4
FUJ00078025
FUJ00078025

Pathway Ref: Risk 64
PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: 1
Date: 18/01/96

1. INTRODUCTION

This paper provides the response to risk PWY064 identified by the POCL
Infrastructure Strand meeting. Pathway believes that this response should enable
the BA/POCL team to remove this risk from the risk register.

2. STATEMENT OF THE RISK

Please explain how you will ensure the robust storage of data in a single position
office, where only a single terminal would be installed.

3. PATHWAY RESPONSE

A fundamental part of the Pathway solution to OPS and TMS is the automatic
replication of transactions from an outlet to central TMS servers. This replication can
be configured to occur after a certain time interval or after a certain number of
transactions.

In addition replication will occur whenever an event causes the ISDN line to be
opened. This would occur whenever a high priority message is received (e.g. a card
stop) or is created (e.g. a foreign payment).

Whenever any of these events occurs a co-ordinated exchange takes place between
TMS and OPS and any transactions that have been generated since the last
replication are now sent to TMS. This is in addition to any processing of high priority
messages that may be required.

Two failure scenarios may arise in a single counter post office which will require the
recovery of data.

e Failure of the PC (e.g. PSU failed).

In order to facilitate the recovery of this type of failure, each PC in a single counter
post office will be fitted with a exchangeable secure hard disc bay. This will allow the
controlled removal of the standard hard disc by the Pathway service engineer and its
replacement into the replacement new PC chassis. All system data and transaction
data up to the point of failure will have been written to the exchangeable hard disc
and will be preserved. The Pathway EPOS system will inform the user of the last
transaction(s) that were recorded to enable entry of manual transactions if required,
and to facilitate outlet accounting.

e Failure of the hard disc

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 4
FUJ00078025
FUJ00078025

Pathway Ref: Risk 64
PATHWAY RISK RESPONSE Version: 1
Date: 18/01/96

Where the hard disc has failed, the replacement disc would be automatically
replenished with all transactions from the central TMS server up to the last
replication.

Following this process the Pathway EPOS system will inform the user of the last
known transaction(s). This will enable the clerk to determine which transactions need
to be re-created from the various client vouchers and receipts that will have been
collected.

This together with a comparison of stock and cash positions from a previous known
point will allow the outlet accounting to be maintained.

Pathway are also considering the technical viability of using a RAM drive or
equivalent storage area as an additional method of holding transactions between
replications. This will enable transactions written since the last replication to TMS to
be explicitly written to TMS on encountering a hard disc failure. No commitments
are made on the use of this approach at this stage, and this mechanism does not
represent a commitment or proposal from Pathway.

Pathway believe that the failure scenarios above are unlikely to occur more than
once every four years per single counter position.

5. SUMMARY

Pathway believe that the above mechanisms provide a robust data storage facility in
single counter outlets which will require minimal user involvement and will provide
maximum data security and integrity in a cost effective manner.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 3 of 4
