FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Ref: LA/REP/036
ersion: 2.0

Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1
Document Title: Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Operations

Centre
Document Type: Report
Release: N/A
Abstract: This document presents the results of a planned audit into

the activities and operation of the Horizon Data Centres at
Wigan and Bootle and the Operations Centre in Belfast.

Document Status: APPROVED

Originator & Dept: J. Holmes (Quality & Audit)
G. Hooper (Security)
M.Ascot (IPDU)

Contributors:

Reviewed By: P. Jeram M. Riddell
M. Stewart C. Johnson (ISD)
S. Gardiner (ISD) P. Sandison (ISD)

A. Gibson (ISD)

Comments By:

Comments To: Originator (& Pathway Document Controller)
Distribution: ICL Pathway Document Management
S. Muchow P. Jeram
M. Riddell M. Stewart
G. Hooper C. Johnson (ISD)
S. Gardiner (ISD) P. Sandison (ISD)

A. Gibson (ISD)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 48

© 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Refi IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0

Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1
O Dotwment control
O.1 Document history

Version Date Reason

ol 12/u/o1 First internal draft for comments

0.2 19/1/01 Following review cycle

2.0 21/u/or For Approval
0.2 Approvel authoriticy

Name Position Signature Date

P.Jeram Programme Director

M. Riddell Customer Service Director
0.3 Associated documenty

Reference Vers I Date Title Source

0.4 Abbreviations

Acronym Meaning

ACP Access Control Policy

BDC Bootle Data Centre

BOC Belfast Operations Centre

CGIA Consignia Group Internal Audit
cKc Cryptographic Key Custodian

cs ICL Pathway Customer Service
DEK Data Encryption Key

IPDU Infrastructure Products Delivery Unit
IsD Infrastructure Services Division
KEK Key Encryption Key

SFS Security Functional Specification

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizow Date Centres and Refi IA/REP/036
Pothwoy Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/11/01
UKSS United Kingdom Support Services
WDC Wigan Data Centre

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 48
ICL

FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/o36

Version: 2.0

Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

O.5 Table of content

Introduction ......cccccecseesesseessesseeseessecseessesseessseseesssssesseessseseessessessesssesseenseesees
Scope & Conduct..ccccccccesecseeeseseessessseessesssesesesesassessseesesseseeeneeaes

Management Summary

31 Data Centres..

3.2. Operations Centre

Detailed Observations

41 Organisation and Structur:
4.2 Policy, Contractual and other Security Requirements (Belfast)............
4.3 Physical Security ........cessessesssessesssessessecssesseesssssesseessessesnessessessnessenseeneesss

4.3.1 Data Centres ..eecccccccssseseeesssseneseseeteenseeseenensseseensnseeeestensseneneenenes

oO MAN NN DAAAU

4.3.2 Operations Centre vo... ccc
4.4 Data Centre Safes...........

3

4.5 Personnel Security and Vetting......

4.6 Access Control and Account Administration (Belfast) ..........cccseeee

4.7 Remote Administration (Belfast)

4.8 Storage and the use of Sensitive Information (Belfast)... 14
4.9 SecureID Administration (Belfast) ..........csceseseseseeseeceestesesseenteeeee 14
4.10 Event Handling (Belfast).............
4. Software Distribution, Installation and Platform Builds (Belfast).....15
4.12 Cryptographic (Non-Zergo) Key Management..........c:sssesssseesseesseeee 17
4.3 Cryptographic (Zergo) Key Management «0.0.0... sesseesseeeseeeteeneene IT

4.13.1 Data Centres....

4.13.2 Operations Centre occ ceeseseseerenesesestesesesestseseseseenene IQ
4.13.3 Review and Audit........ccccececssessesseeseeseessesseessssessesseesressesseeseses 20
4.14 Firewall Management ........:.ssecsssssessssseeeseessessecsessseesssareeseesesssesseesseenees 20
4]5 Network Management ........ccsccsssesesseseesssseseeseesessesssseesesesessssesesseesese22,
416 — Backups and Offsite Storage ..........cecseessecseessessecsesseestesseeseesnesseesesseee23

4.17 Business Continuity

4.17.1 Data Centres .

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 48
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Ref.

Version:

Pothwoy Belfost Operations Centre Date:

FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

TA/REP/036
2.0
2i/n1/or

4.17.2 Operations Centre ......c.ccccecsessesecesseseesessesesseesseesesseesessesssessseenes
418 — Operational Procedures... cece eeesseseeseesessesesseeesseseesesneseeness
4.18.1 Data Centres oo.cccccccceseceessesesseenenssseseseeeeneessssseeneneeesseeeeneneees
4.18.2 Operations Centre oc. es seeseseseeneseseseeneneseesseaneeeenetees

4.19 — Supplier Management............ccccssecseeseecsesssesseeseesseesesssessessesseesessseesees

4.20 Audit Workstations...

CoC omrnau

Platform Configuration Audit Results ..........cssesessesesesseeseseesseseeentees
Annex A ~ Audit Terms of Reference .......ccecccscesseseesecseesesseesssssesessseesees
Annex B - Configuration Audit Cabinet Check Results...........0scceee
Annex C - Domains & Servers Audited with “SDUSYSTEST”

Annex D - Configuration Audit Observations & Recommendations...... 39

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 5 of 48
ICL

FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/o36

Version: 2.0

Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

Introductiow

The Belfast Operations Centre is a vital part of the Horizon solution. It is
responsible for the operational management of the Sequent and other systems
at the Pathway Data Centres at Wigan and Bootle. It is also responsible for
application support on Sequent and for Network Management that is
undertaken at the Pathway Data Centres. Both Data Centres and the Belfast
Operations Centre are managed by ICL’s Infrastructure Services Division (ISD)
on behalf of ICL Pathway.

Scope & Conduct

The audit was split into three elements. The first was to look at the operations
and activities of the Data Centres at Wigan and Bootle and to consider the
controls in place their against a number of pre-defined criteria, including
firewall management, cryptographic key handling and physical security. The
second was to look at the Operations Centre at Belfast where much of the work
carried out at the Data Centres is controlled. The third was a configuration
audit of a number of the live servers at the Data Centres to provide assurances
on the state of the platform builds.

This report is a distillation of a number of Working Papers describing what was
found and recording the various activities of the locations. It is not the
intention to present the full extent of that information here, more the opinions
and findings of the audit. If readers require access to the background material it
can be made available through the ICL Pathway Quality & Audit Manager.

The scope of the audit was defined in formal Terms of Reference, issued by
Pathway IA in October 2001 and presented at Annex A to this report. It is part
of the ICL Pathway Internal Audit Plan for 2001 and while it was primarily
interested in the applications and effectiveness of controls it also took into
account the requirements of ISOgo01:2000 and 1S017799:1998.

The audit was conducted during October 2001 by Jan Holmes (Quality and
Audit Manager), Graham Hooper (Security Manager) and Mark Ascot (IPDU),
all from ICL Pathway. Rashpal Dhesi from Consignia Group Internal Audit
attended the Wigan and Bootle elements of this audit as an observer.

The help and co-operation of all members of ISD staff interviewed is
appreciated.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 48
ICL

FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/o36

Version: 2.0

Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

3.1

3.2

Monagement Summary

Dato Centrey

Although there are a lot of recommendations presented for the Data Centres,
the overall opinion is that the management and operations at Wigan and Bootle
are sound and under control.

Scrutiny of the recommendations indicates that a number are linked to the over
arching Pathway Process RS/PRO/036. This process must be reviewed and
updated to reflect local practice (KEK & DEK control forms), which was
considered to be good, and the issues around physical segregation of Keys in
the main safes where a ruling from the Pathway Security Manager may be
required. (See 4.4 and 4.13)

The lack of personnel security vetting, as required in RS/PRO/oo2, must be
addressed, particularly as this process was introduced following a
recommendation made in an earlier audit. (See 4.5).

The Firewall was being managed effectively although the underlying basis for
the Firewall rules is evolutionary and no real baseline has ever been established.
An audit of the Firewall rule base, followed by the production of a specification,
the continued application of the strong controls already in place, and
recommended improvements, should remove any uncertainty about the
integrity provided by this product. (See 4.14).

There is concern about the break in control between allocating an IP address
via OCP to a new terminal and then accepting it into the Network but a simple
check, followed by an update to the IP database, could remove that weakness.
(See 4.15).

The arrangements with Iron Mountain require a review, in particular the staff
vetting procedures and the receipting of tapes and material sent there for
storage. (See 4.16).

Operationy Centre

Although there are a lot of recommendations presented the overall opinion is
that the management and operations at the Belfast Operations Centre are
sound and under control. Most of the recommendations are pertinent to a few
specific areas and non-compliance is generally the result of staff having to
undertake operational support on a complex architectural environment for
which the approved methods of administration are no longer sufficiently
effective.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 48
ICL

FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/o36

Version: 2.0

Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

4.1

Non-approved tools are being used to remotely administer the live estate
resulting in an inability to audit individual user activity as is required by agreed
policy. Alternative options are already being considered by Pathway to address
this issue.

User account administration should be reviewed and enforced to obviate the
need to by-pass approved account policies by using Administrator privilege.

Secondary authentication procedures would benefit from review in conjunction
with CS Security

A number of extant operational security procedures need to be documented
and enforced.

The handling of cryptographic keys needs to be reflected within central
Pathway procedures.

The failure of a number of key processes is contributing to difficulties in
identifying and assuring the correct state of various live platform builds.

Detailed Observetions

Organisation and Structure

Both Data Centres and the Belfast Operations Centre (BOC) operate within an
established organisational structure with clear line management and escalation
routes. This is particularly important at BOC where Pathway is not the only ISD
customer supported from that site.

At the BOC activities are segregated into discrete functional areas (DBA,
Pathway UNIX, Systems Management/Home Services UNIX and NT). DBA,
Pathway UNIX and Systems Management functions are dedicated to Pathway
operations whilst NT support is shared between Pathway and other ISD
supported areas.

Designated Managers are responsible for each functional area and the Head of
Pathway UNIX is dedicated as the lead managerial contact. Pathway’s primary
interface with BOC is via the ISD Pathway Operations Manager based at IREu
and the Pathway CS Service Manager based at BRAoi. Senior ISD Line
Management at Belfast is also responsible for ISD GIO operations at the Wigan
and Bootle Pathway Data Centres.

At the Data Centres the split is essentially between Network Management and
Operations staff. Each site has a nominated Data Centre Manager and a Duty
Manager function operates during the day shifts with technical on-call out
of hours, though the DCs are manned 24/7.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 48
ICL

FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/o36

Version: 2.0

Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

4.2

4.3

Policy, Contractual and other Security Requirementy
(Belfast)

Baseline Information Security Requirements are driven largely by ICL Group
(GISI) policy. This mandates the use of ISO17799 as the approved standard by
which information security is established and maintained. This is evidenced by
Corporate Policy Framework relating to Security. These policies are supported
by legal and general contractual obligations to other customers and best
practice from these is utilised within other contracts including Pathway. BOC
do not undertake additional internal reviews outside the requirements placed
upon them by ICL Group.

The general security ethos within BOC is well established and permeates the
operation at IREu.

BOC believe that they are required to support the requirements of Pathway
specific Contract Controlled Documents (CCDs) primarily the Security Policy
(RS/POL/oo2) and the Security Functional Specification (RS/FSP/oo1). Also of
relevance is the Access Control Policy (RS/POL/o03). There is some doubt
however within BOC that the contract between Pathway and ISD formally
reflects these requirements.

It is recommended that the Pathway Service Manager for ISD reviews the
contract between Pathway and ISD to ensure that Pathway’s contractual
obligations are adequately reflected.

It is also recommended that extant versions of the SFS and ACP are issue to ISD
for formal review.

Physical Security

Both Data Centres are located inside existing Alliance and Leicester premises
and to an extent the general security requirements of those organisations apply
to the ISD staff working there. The approach here was to look at physical
security as a set of layered controls from barriers external to the buildings to the
use of tokens to control movement and access internally.

4.3.1 Date Centrey

The physical barriers in place at Wigan, perimeter fence, road barriers, secured
door, Security Guard, visitor log and passes, airlocks and proximity passes for

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

access to the ICL parts of the building, were all found to be working as
expected. Visitors are escorted and an attempt to use a visitor proximity pass to
obtain access to the external building doors failed.

A log of ICL visitor passes is maintained and copies of passes issued retained. It
was noted that passes can be made out in advance of visits and if not used left
in the log.

It is recommended that this practice is stopped and any unused passed marked as
‘NOT USED’ and destroyed - the record is retained on the second copy of the
Pass.

The workspace is mixed with A&L staff but there is sufficient segregation
between the two groups, including inside the Computer Room, to ensure the
safety and integrity of ICL’s activities there.

As with Wigan the physical barriers were exercised in order to gain access to
the ICL part of the building and, as with Wigan, were all found to be working as
expected.

However, it was noted that the main exit gate for this site was permanently
open allowing unrestricted access. This compromises what is otherwise a strong
regime.

Both Bootle and Wigan Data Centres are located on Alliance & Leicester sites
and are subject to elements of A&L’s security, Health and Safety and fire
requirements. A&L’s Property Manager was able to confirm that following some
problems in the early days there had not been any ‘difficulties’ or security issues
around the ISD tenancy. He also confirmed that a Wigan Tenants Group had
been established and had met a couple of times. Unfortunately ISD had not
been able to attend either one and it was stated that the meetings often dealt
with low level A&L site management and personnel issues. However, there may
be occasions when it is appropriate for ISD to be represented and they should
endeavour to attend Tenants meetings at these times.

4.3.2 Operations Centre

Physical security at IRE is extensive and commensurate with the prevailing
threat. The site is contained within a well-defined and secure perimeter that is
adequately fenced and monitored via CCTV with infrared capability. Access to
the site is via a single entrance point for both vehicles and pedestrians. This is
adjacent to a gatehouse that it manned on a 24-hour basis. All visitors are
subject to bag-search at this point.

Within the perimeter there are separate buildings for the administrative and
data-centre operations. The car park is located some distance from both

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

44

buildings and visitor’s vehicles are allocated parking bays furthest away from
the buildings.

The administrative building has a reception point and all visitors are required to
sign in and be escorted at all times. Intruder detection operates within the
building and access to areas is controlled by proximity pass. Pass control and
the guard force is administered by Chesterton Workplace Management under
contract to ICL. Allocation of passes is permitted only when security vetting
procedures have been successfully completed and all leavers are removed
immediately from the system.

The Data Centre building is protected by an additional perimeter fence. Access
to the building is via proximity pass that permits access only to those personnel
that require access. Internal proximity detectors are configured to provide
further granular segregation so as to restrict access to specific areas within the
Data Centre - most noticeably to the machine room. Intruder detection also
operates within the Data Centre.

No issues were identified or reported and it is considered that the physical
security, fire and Health and Safety arrangements at IRE meet or exceed
requirements.

Dota Centre Safey

This is a specific section in the report as the provision and use of a main safe at
the Data Centres is vital to maintaining the security and integrity of the
Horizon solution. Central to this are the cryptographic keys used to encrypt the
hardware and networks, and the controls exercised over them by Data Centre
staff.

There are two safes at Wigan, The main safe is located in the Computer Room
an contains a variety of items. Of these, the key items are the non-Zergo
cryptographic keys and control documentation, the visitors day passes, the
crypto transfer safe and the CCTV recording tapes. Other important documents
and items are also held within the safe.

An inventory of the safe is maintained and checked on a monthly basis
although records only go back as far as August 2001. A simple tick is used to
indicate the presence of an item and this is not sufficient to identify when the
check as made and by whom.

It is recommended that the inventory check is dated and the checklist to be
signed by the person making the check to indicate the presence of items. A
countersignature should be obtained upon completion of the check. This
recommendation applies equally to Bootle where the same practice takes place.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page u of 48
ICL

FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/o36

Version: 2.0

Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

4.5

Note : All recommendations marked GR will be dealt with as a single
Corrective Action on the CAP.

The second safe is in the Control Room and this holds the Zergo cryptographic
keys, swipes and control documentation.

These are key operated safes and normal access is granted to the Data Centre
Site Manager (Paul Sandison), the Network Manager (Colin Johnston) and the
Duty Manager (Tim Roper). Other access is by exception.

RS/PRO/o36 requires that ALL cryptographic key material is segregated from
other materials either through a separate safe or by some other form of
separation in a shared safe. The non-Zergo crypto keys are not segregated
within the main safe.

There is only one safe at Bootle and this is smaller than Wigan's. There is also
no separate safe for Zergo keys resulting in both sets being stored together and
not segregated from other material in the safe.

It is recommended that the requirements expressed in RS/PRO/036 regarding the
separation and segregation of cryptographic key material from other sensitive
material for storing in safes is reviewed by the Pathway Security Manager. Both
sites currently fail to conform to the requirements of the process and a decision is
required about continuing with the current arrangements and amending the
process to reflect that, or to escalate the non-conformance and mandate the
requirements. This recommendation applies equally to Wigan where the same
problem exists.

Personnel Security and Vetting

The audit of Customer Service in January 1999 identified that personnel security
vetting was not taking place for Pathway employees. As a consequence
RS/PRO/ooz - Pathway Security Vetting Process was developed and published.
The process is invoked by Pathway HR on notification that a new employee has
joined the project, either directly through Pathway or via a key supplier such as
ISD. The audit identified that no new members of the ISD teams at Wigan or
Bootle have been subjected to a security vet for the last 2 years.

All personnel at IREu are required to successfully complete formal HMG vetting
requirements that include police (CRO) and Security Service Counter Terrorist
(CTC) checks. This level of vetting is more extensive than the baseline
requirement mandated by Pathway.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres ana vet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathwoy Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/11/01

Notwithstanding this there is an ongoing requirement to administer the
approved Pathway vetting process. Whilst the BOC Admin reported that this
should be operating correctly it was not possible during the audit to meet with
HR and review implementation and compliance.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager and Pathway HR review
the operation of this process since it does not appear to have been successfully
implemented.

It is recommended that ISD Personnel be asked to confirm that the process
documented in RS/PRO/oo2 has appropriate visibility and is being complied with
for recruits to ISD BOC.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

4.6 Accesy Control and Account Administration (Belfast)

A fundamental security requirement is the segregation of duties relating to the
administration of Unix and NT. The organisational structure of BOC reinforces
this distinction and BOC users are allocated specific roles and responsibilities
based upon the agreed requirements of the Pathway Access Control Policy.

In the main all users requiring Unix level access to the system access it via a
secure menu system on an NT workstation. This constrains the functions called
depending on the user’s role and audits all functions performed by the user.
Particular emphasis is placed on securing the role of System Administrator,
which has access to powerful resources including root privilege, Unix
commands and DBA functions.

It is noted that a decision was made following the initial release of Horizon not
to enable Unix auditing, but to enable “C2” compliance in the Dynix kernel. At
SIPi4 Dynix was updated to version 4.4.4, which silently turned on auditing
when “C2” was selected. This was found to conflict with the implementation of
Metron Athene, and a Pathway decision was made to disable C2 compliance in
the kernel. From a security perspective it is preferable to re-enable C2 in Dynix
and a review of the impact on applications and support will need to be carried
out.

The BOC DBA is responsible for the maintenance of user accounts for access to
live systems. In the main this is controlled but there is evidence that redundant
domains, user roles and users are not being removed from the system as is
required by the SFS and ACP. This is in part due to non-reporting to BOC of
Pathway leavers.

Procedures for authorising access to the live estate are documented in
RS/PRO/o4o and the process is considered to be effective. It was reported that
additional information could be captured on the request form to ensure that
the correct privileges are enabled. It is also apparent that the separate forms
used for KMS-related access and general live estate access should be
rationalised.

It is recommended that the process and activities surrounding access to the live
estate is reviewed. This should include :

e ISD undertaking a full review of the current user accounts with a view to
correcting discrepancies.

e ICL Pathway Security reviewing the process for informing BOC of changes.

e ICP Pathway Security reinforcing with HR the need for regular monthly
updates of leavers.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 48
ICL

FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/o36

Version: 2.0

Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

4.7

e ICL Pathway Security and ISD reviewing RS/PRO/o40 to addressing these

issues.

The Root Administrator password for the live estate has recently been changed
following a request by CS Security. This global password must however be
changed at least quarterly to prevent unauthorised access to the live systems.
This has not been implemented.

It is recommended that ISD develop and document a process for changing this
password and ensure that it is applied by cross-referencing within the Duty
Manager's Checklist.

Remote Administration (Belfast)

Systems are generally configured to reduce the risks of human users interfering
with automated applications. Users accessing sensitive data at the Data Centres
or updating any information use secure build workstations that are connected
via the secure LAN. The corporate LAN is entirely separate. Workstations have
floppy/CD drives disabled except where exceptions have been agreed. All users
generally authenticate to the appropriate PWYDCS domain (but see below) via
secondary (SecurID) token. There is evidence to indicate that SecurID is not
enabled on some support workstations although they are configured with a 10-
minute lockout.

It is recommended that SecurID be enabled on all workstations to comply with
requirements of the SFS and ACP. This will require BOC to monitor the console
sessions of the Firewall and ACE servers.

The SFS mandates the use of Tivoli Remote Console (TRC) for the remote
administration of Data Centre platforms. This records an auditable trail of log-
ins to all boxes accessed by the user. It is a matter of considerable discussion
and correspondence that TRC is slow and difficult to administer. This has lead
over time to BOC personnel relying heavily on the use of unauthorised tools
(predominantly Rclient) to remotely administer the live estate. Its use is
fundamental for the checking of errors. The tool does not however record
individual user access to systems but simply record an event (2002 info, 2004
warning and 2006 info) on the remote box that Administrator access has been
used. No other information is provided including success/fail so it is not
possible to simply audit failures. Their use puts Pathway in contravention of

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 48
ICL

FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/o36

Version: 2.0

Pathwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

4.8

contractual undertakings to Post Office. (See also Software Distribution and
VNC).

It is recommended that Pathway APDU continues its work to establish an
alternative support tool that facilitates the auditing of individual user access or
creates a means by which the use of current tools can be similarly audited.

Where BOC staff need to access the PWYHQ domain they can only do so as
Administrator. This is because PWYHQ and PWYDCS domains have been
created as Master Domains and a trust relationship between the two cannot be
established. There is also evidence of high usage of access to systems via
PWYDCS using root Admin privilege.

It is recommended that the domain structure be reviewed by ICL Pathway
Security with a view to establishing a domain architecture that allows access with
least privilege.

It is also recommended that User Account processes are reviewed to obviate the
need for access using Administrator privileges. This applies equally to NT and
Unix.

Storage and the use of Sensitive Information (Belfast)

Designated BOC staff have access to a fire-safe held in the Technical Support
office. This is used primarily used to store passwords under cover of sealed and
signed envelopes. This includes Unix root and NT Global Admin passwords.
The safe is also used for non-Pathway related storage.

It is recommended that a discrete safe is obtained and used for Pathway related
information. Alternatively a smaller secondary safe should be provided within the
main safe to which only BOC personnel supporting the Horizon system should
have access.

Few sensitive documents or data are held by BOC and all information is
handled within the secure operations area. BOC would however benefit from

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centres and Venn TA/REP/036
jon: 2.0
Pothwoy Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/11/01
the provision of additional, lockable cabinets to remove paperwork from the
operational environment.
4.9 SeeurdD Administration (Belfast)

The recent new ACE/Solaris secure build has caused problems because the
Console Buffer on the Terminal Server is filling, resulting in the system hanging
until a console connection is established in Belfast. This is also true of the
firewall build, and has led to the practice of leaving console sessions on these
platforms open in Belfast. Whilst these are in a secure area, this effectively gives
unmonitored physical access to the platforms.

User accounts are being locked out because the security model assumes users
connect frequently, whereas for these platforms the need to connect is rare,
when a user is on call and there is a problem. The only solution is to force a
logon through anonymous root privilege, which bypasses agreed security
procedures. It is understood that a fix has been developed but has yet to be
released.

It is recommended that Release Management arrange for testing and delivery of
this fix so that SecurID administration can be performed in accordance with
agreed policy.

The current process documented in RS/MANo1o for SecurID token
Administration can delay the time necessary to remove users from the system.

It is recommended that RS/MAN/o10 is reviewed to consider the disabling of the
token by CS Security when a user leaves prior to sending a system-disabling
request to BOC.

4.10 Event Handling (Belfast)

An extensive event handling system is managed by BOC utilising approved
tools BMC Patrol is run on the Unix hosts and HP Openview is used to monitor
networks at the Data Centres. Maestro Scheduler raises specific events and
system events are also forwarded via Tivoli.

Event filtering is undertaken by the use of KELs a recent review of which
substantially improved the handling of events.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

For systems monitoring purposes Insight Manager is used to hook into the BTI
system and forward alerts direct to the Duty Manager.

4.11 Software Distribution, Installation and Platform

Builds (Belfast)

Tivoli Courier is the approved method of distributing and installing software
and patches to the live estate. This has proven unreliable and slow in the
majority of cases - particularly during major upgrades. The demands of
accuracy and expediency have forced the use of VNC, which is now used
extensively for installing patches and applying release notes to live. The use of
this product runs contrary to Pathway policy because it does not audit
individual access to the system or the changes made. This difficulty is
compounded because in the vast majority of cases, software packages require
Domain Admin privileges.

It is recommended that Pathway APDU continues its work to establish an
alternative software installation tool that facilitates the auditing of individual
user access or creates a means by which the use of VNC can be similarly audited.

In the majority of cases software released from CM is sent to ISD via the CM
Signing Server and from there to the ISD Staging Server. This is used to deliver
software to the .26 Rig and is also accessed by ISD via an appropriate share. ISD
report however that they have no way of proving the integrity of packages
originating accessed via SYSDELo1.

It is recommended that this process be reviewed to determine whether it is
appropriate to include a signature verification check on the Staging Server.

A recurring problem concerns the ability of Pathway to obtain assurance that
the build state of live platforms, servers and workstations aligns with the
respective baselines delivered by PIT and held by CM. A significant amount of
historical evidence indicates that the build of live boxes is not representative of
approved Pathway baselines or of the build on the various Test Rigs. The
reasons for this may be manifold (e.g. a failure in the PinICL process to update
baselines after an interim urgent OCP fix has been applied to live, a test
workaround that has not been included in the Release Note, a failure by ISD to
follow the script or a combination of these).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres ana vet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

It is recommended that these various processes be reviewed. The vagaries of build
states is a significant security risk that would affect the ability to recover
functional platforms in the event of a disaster and potentially lead to release
notes working in a test environment but failing in live.

A contributory factor is the lack of a test rig that is fully representative of live.
Advances have been made recently in this area but consideration should be
given to the possibility of combining the Release and .26 Rig for this purpose.

The use of the PIT “Fingerprint” .exe was also designed to provide assurance
that the correct domain and platform were targeted for software upgrades and
that release notes were applied in the correct order. Whilst this provides some
assurance it does not validate the build nor indicate whom was responsible for

applying it.

It is recommended that until a suitable method is devised for tracking Release
Notes (i.e. via CM software), the Fingerprint script should include an event to
indicate who applied the release note.

There is evidence that the initial password included in the PIT baseline is not
being re-named prior to introduction to live. This is of significant security
concern.

It is recommended that ISD develop procedures that ensure that the initial build
password is re-named when platforms are commissioned to live service.

4.12 Cryptographic (Non-Zergo) Key Management

This particular aspect of the Data Centre’s operations was not covered in
sufficient depth to enable an opinion to be drawn.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager conducts a review of non-
Zergo key management at the earliest opportunity.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

4.13 Cryptographic (Zergo) Key Management

4.13.1 Date Centrey

The requirements for these controls are defined in RS/PRO/036 vi.o dated
12/06/00 available on the Pathway BMS and made available to ISD staff by the
ICL Pathway Security Manager. This has in turn been interpreted and the ISD
local procedure ICL/PW/NET/PRO/o06 Zergo Operations Guide v4.0 dated
25/10/01 was seen.

Details for the safekeeping of Zergo keys on-site are described in para 4.2. The
despatch of Keys to the Data Centres is controlled by the Pathway Security
Manager. On receipt at Wigan the Data Centre Site Manager inspects the
package for damage before opening and checks the content against the
Despatch Note enclosed. It was noted that the Despatch Note refers to named
links that do not reflect the real world link and this is a cause for confusion
when identifying Keys for transfer.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager review the Despatch Note
link identities to remove any confusing link names and replace them with
meaningful real-world identities.

The Keys are sorted and those that are destined for Bootle identified and placed
for safekeeping in the secure transfer box inside the main WDC safe. These are
collected at some appropriate time by the Bootle Network Manager are
transferred to Bootle and stored in the main BDC safe. (See recommendation in
Para 4.4 regarding non-segregation of Key material in the main Data Centre
safes).

Access to the safes, and therefore the Keys, is currently limited to the Key
Custodian, the Deputy KC and the Duty Manager. This is contrary to
RS/PRO/o036 that describes access by the Duty Manager as an exceptional item
and subject to extra control. It was suggested during the audit that restricting
access to the KC and DKC only was restrictive and the addition of the Duty
Manager is a necessity. This was subsequently confirmed during the report
review cycle.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager review the arrangements
for access as part of the broader review of RS/PRO/036.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 48
FU,
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Venn IA/REP/036
Pothwoy Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/11/01

FUJ00080514
}J00080514

The Keys are held as sets in a specially made plastic wallet such that the single
KEK is associated with the physical key and the seven DEKs. A Local Key
Inventory Form has been introduced that mirrors the physical position of the
Keys in the wallet and provides details of receipt, use and destruction with a
name and date associated with each state. The nature of the form makes it
extremely easy to identify where a Key is missing and why.

This is a local initiative and was introduced in June 2001 to simplify the tracking
of Keys. It does not conform to the requirements of RS/PRO/o36 although it is
an improvement on the control documentation prescribed.

Similarly there is a revised movement control form for Remote Keys and this
was introduced at the same time. As with the Local Keys Inventory Form the
new form is an improvement over that defined in RS/PRO/036.

It is recommended that RS/PRO/036 is reviewed and updated to reflect the use of
the new inventory and movement forms.

Unfortunately the improvements provided by the new forms is offset by the
inconsistent completion of the fields and the use, on some occasions, of pencil.

It is recommended that the forms are reviewed at both locations for
completeness, updated accordingly and that in future fields are completed using a
pen or biro or other permanent marker.

Finally, it was reported that some of the links for which Zergo encryption keys
had initially been produced had since changed. As DEK and KEK keys are
printed with details of the remote site locations this has potential for confusion.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager and supplier review the
key set and amend details to reflect the current requirements.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres ana vet IA/REP/036

ion: 2.0
Pathwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

4.13.2 Operations Centre

There is a designated Cryptographic Key Custodian (CKC) for BOC but this role
is not currently recognised within extant documentation (RS/PRO/o36). There
is also no designated Deputy in the event that the Primary CKC is unavailable.

It is recommended that RS/PRO/036 be revised to incorporate this role and ISD
identify a suitable deputy.

The CKC is responsible for a small number of Key Encryption swipe cards that
are used on the Zergo hardware encryption devices at IREu and IRE19.

All handling appears to be generally consistent with requirements but the keys
themselves are stored (under sealed cover) in a safe to which unauthorised
individuals have access. There is therefore the potential that keys could be
compromised.

It is recommended that the CKC be provided with a separate safe for the storage
of keys. Alternatively given the small number, keys should be stored in a separate
lockable box within the main safe to which only the CKC or deputy has access.

The CKC has copies of a number of cryptographic procedural manuals
including the Zergo Operations Guide but not RS/PRO/o36. A check of
cryptographic records held by the CKC showed that whilst due diligence is
being applied in the receipt, recording and maintenance of key related
functions, as with the Data Centres, the documentation being used is not as
defined in RS/PRO/036.

It is recommended that RS/PRO/036 be re-circulated for review to capture BOC
requirements and revised to include standardised templates.

4.13.3 Review and Audit

There is no regular independent review of this process, either by ISD or
Pathway. While the audit has identified a number of minor issues at all

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 48
FU,
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Venn IA/REP/036
Pothwoy Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/11/01

FUJ00080514
}J00080514

locations that, if considered independently or collectively, do not represent a
significant threat to the security and integrity of the network, nor is there any
suggestion of accidental or deliberate malpractice within the Data Centres, the
handling and management of the Keys is sufficiently important to warrant a
regular review by ISD management, independent of those who operate the
process.

It is recommended that ISD introduce a regular review of Key management
activity at the Data Centres and Belfast. A six monthly cycle is suggested as being
adequate.

It is also recommended that a review of Key management is conducted by ICL
Pathway on an annual basis. This can be achieved as part of an annual audit of
the Data and Operations Centres’ activities.

4.14 Firewoll Management

Firewall management is achieved through the implementation of the FireWalli
product from Checkpoint. The current rule base has developed over time and
there is no ‘specification’ as such that established the original requirement.
While the firewall has been updated over time it is not clear whether the most
appropriate methods are being used. For example, new AP Clients are simply
added on as a new rule rather than adding a new instance to an existing object
group. A dedicated workstation exists at each location and in terms of coverage
Wigan is responsible for the maintenance of the Wigan firewall while Bootle
manages Bootle and all remote sites, eg. FELo1 and BRAo1.

It is recommended that a design specification is developed for the Firewall rule
base that establishes the optimum approach for defining and maintaining the
rule base.

Changes are managed through the OCP process and evidence was obtained of
one such change (OCP3364) at Wigan. There is no complete audit log of
changes made to the firewall rule base although ISD have recently started to
include the OCP reference against the firewall record where a change has been
made but it is considered that this ‘change log’ would be enhanced if a date and
operator identity can be identified alongside the OCP reference.

It is recommended that the identity of the operator updating the firewall rule
base and the date of update is included in the ‘change log’ field of the database.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 48
FU,
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Venn IA/REP/036
Pothwoy Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/11/01

FUJ00080514
}J00080514

There has not been any central review or audit of the firewall rule base since its
inception although the Pathway Security Manager has access to the current
settings via a terminal in the Secure Room in FELo1 Ao. The lack of regular
review coupled with the historical evolution of the rule base could lead to
incorrect or irregular entries and settings.

It is recommended that the current firewall rule base be audited for completeness
and accuracy by the Pathway Security Manager and an ongoing programme of
reviews established.

It is a requirement that security violations are escalated to the Pathway Security
Manager. However, firewall exceptions have not been defined leaving Data
Centre staff unsure what would constitute a violation should one exist.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager provides clear guidance
on what is a reportable security exception for the firewall.

It was noted that it is possible to monitor traffic passing through the firewall
along a specific link although this is only used accommodate bug fixing or to
monitor traffic across that link on demand. There is no active monitoring of
attempted firewall breaches or other inappropriate activity across the firewall. It
was stated that active intrusion detection is available in the current product but
was not part of the existing agreement between Pathway and ISD.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager reviews the position with
regard to proactive intruder detection on the firewall and if considered necessary
initiate changes to the relevant agreements between ISD and Pathway.

4.15 Network Management

The Data Centres continually monitor the state and status of the Horizon
network using the HP Openview product. Dedicated terminals exist at both
locations and each has a complete view of the full network. Although access to
the terminals is unrestricted within the Control Rooms it is members of the
Network Team who are solely responsible for the active monitoring of the
network. Audible warnings are provided by the system if a link is lost and a

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres ana vet IA/REP/036

ion: 2.0
Pathwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

visible notification is an item appears on the network that has not been
previously notified.

Additions and changes to the network are managed through the OCL process
and evidence was obtained (OCP2373) for one such change at Wigan. Upon
request the IP Database is accessed by Data Centre staff and a free IP address
allocated to the terminal. Unlike the Firewall rule base there is no record on
the IPDb of what initiated a change nor who made it and when it was done.

When a new item is attached to the network is it identified by the HP
Openview and placed in a transit area on the screen. This is then associated to
the appropriate part of the network by one of the Network Management team.
There is no verification of the new item and the IP address is not checked
against the IP Database. Before an IP address is allocated to a new terminal the
addition would have to been approved through the OCP process and, if
initiated by Pathway, the CP process. These are strong controls but they are
compromised by the lack of verification of new items and there is a risk that
rogue items could be connected and accepted into the Horizon network
without check.

It is recommended that the IP Database spreadsheet is improved to include
columns that identify the OCP number, operator identity and date for each new
or changed IP address. It is also recommended that more effective checks be
introduced to verify that new items identified on HP Openview are verified and
authorised by Network Management before being accepted into the Horizon
network. This could be achieved through a further column in the IP Database and
the relevant Network Manager ‘signing’ against the IP address entry
acknowledging that the terminal has been accepted into the Network.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 25 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

4.16 Backups and Offsite Storage

Offsite storage is provided by Iron Mountain (IM), formally DataVault and is
controlled by Belfast although exercised by the Data Centres. The schedule has
been devised by Belfast who provide the Data Centres with a daily schedule of
tapes to be delivered to and collected from IM. This information is transferred
to a local form where any local additions are made and the tapes picked and
packed into strong boxes provided by IM. The local form is faxed by the Data
Centres to IM who pick the tapes for return and arranges for the transfer of
tapes at the Centres. IM provide a delivery schedule with each load although
they do not provide a corresponding receipt for tapes received from the Data
Centres other than the driver signing the local form.

It is recommended that Iron Mountain be requested to provide a Receipt for
tapes/packages taken into their custody. This could be delivered back to the Data
Centres with the next set of tapes being returned.

The handling of off-site storage of back-up media for BOC is also undertaken by
Iron Mountain. They provide secure facilities for the back-up storage of Dynix
operating system, Database and Applications data. A considerable number of
tapes and other media are entrusted to this company but it has been some time
since a review was undertaken into the continued security of their operation.

It is recommended that a vetting review of Iron Mountain operations (storage
arrangements, schedules, staff vetting etc.) is undertaken by ISD in order to
provide continuing security assurance for assets entrusted to them.

4.17 Business Continuity

4.17.1 Date Centrey

The requirement to provide effective Business Continuity is established by R830
of Schedule A15. The overall Business Continuity Framework, including that for
the Data Centres, is owned and managed by Pathway Customer Service and is
documented in CS/SIP/o02 v5.0 dated 31/10/00. This identifies some 22 Business
Continuity Plans covering a number of different technical areas of the Data
Centres, including the physical campus itself, and these are regularly run by ISD
on behalf of CS. A further key document is SU/MAN/o18 the ISD Operational

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 26 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

Procedures Manual Front-End Index. This identifies all current ISD operational
procedures that must exist in order to ensure controlled and continued
operations at the Data Centres and other ISD sites. While CS/SIP/ooz clearly
identifies the existence of SU/MAN/oi8 there is no reciprocating identification
from the ISD list up to the BC Framework. This is a very minor point but
without the upward reference the importance of SU/MAN/o18 in the overall
Business Continuity Framework may be overlooked.

It is recommended that SU/MAN/o18 be updated to include clear references to
CS/SIP/oo2.

There is a scheduled series of Business Continuity tests that are co-ordinated by
Pathway Customer Service in conjunction with ISD. ISD also undertake their
own internal reviews of arrangements, the last such session being February
2001. A short report was prepared and a follow-up visit made approximately 6
months after the test. Copies of the report and follow-up notes were obtained
during the audit. Local procedure ICL/PW/NET/PRO/o12 v1.1 dated 13/09/00
Business Support Contingency Operations Guide describes this activity.

4.17.2 Operations Centre

The physical security arrangements in place at the IRE19 contingency site were
reviewed during the audit.

The site at IREi9 is an inconspicuous building within which BOC has a
designated area within which to conduct operational support for Horizon in the
event of a failover. Adequate physical security is evident comprising perimeter
fencing and CCTV. There is an on-site guard presence during the day, which
ensures suitable reception arrangements for staff and occasional visitors.
Regular failover / fallback tests are undertaken at the site.

Failover procedures are included in the operational procedures manual.

4.18 Operational Procedurey

4.18.1 Dato Centrey

The opportunity was taken to review the existence and status of local
procedures as topics were discussed during the audit. A number of local
procedures were examined including :

ICL/PW/NET/PRO/006 v4.0 dated 25/10/01 - Zergo Operations Guide
ICL/PW/NET/PRO/o10 v1.1 dated 05/01/01 - Remote Site Operations Guide

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 27 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

ICL/PW/NET/PRO/oun v1.6 dated 11/10/01 - Peripheral Operations Guide (W)
ICL/PW/NET/PRO/o12 v1.1 dated 13/09/00 - Business Contingency Guide

There were clearly many more documented procedures available in binders
positioned on the ‘bridge’ and available online on the DC Server. Procedures are
subject to regular reviews and this is indicated by some of the dates and
revision numbers of those seen. PRO/o12 is probably due for a review being now
some 13 months old.

Elsewhere in this report there is evidence of process improvements being made,
in particular the local guidance for the handling and management of Zergo Key
material, and this is commended.

Special emphasis was placed on the handling and management of DLTs at the
Data centres following the recent problems with the broken audit trail and
current difficulties at Wigan. A placement audit of the DLTs in the Bootle tape
drives showed that DLTs were positioned in accordance with the layout plan
provided by Richard Laking. Given the problems being experienced at Wigan
the exercise was not repeated there.

4.18.2 Operations Centre

The operational procedures required by BOC to support the Pathway / Horizon
infrastructure are consolidated into the ISD Pathway Operations Manual. ISD
were not prepared to provide a copy of the manual at the time of the Audit on
the basis that this was an internal ISD document. ISD did provide an overview
of its content headings and format but it is difficult for Pathway to obtain
assurance unless it has formal visibility of this document.

It is recommended that the Pathway CS Service Manager (Mike Stewart) has
access to this document to provide assurance that operational procedures are
consistent with contractual requirements.

Based on the content headings the operational procedures appear to be
extensive in scope and categorise operational support procedures in terms of
application area. This approach is commensurate with service industry
documentation and lends itself well in providing the appropriate structure and
level of detail required to support the live estate. The document is web-based
allowing quick search and readily available guidance for support personnel. It is
reported to be updated regularly in response to changes in support
requirements and has formal approval sign of at senior level. It was evident
from a brief review that the content of at least one application area was in the
process of construction.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Verektt IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

The procedures are designed to enable support personnel at any level to
respond to any type of problem by providing clear guidance on actions required
and appropriate escalation procedures. It supports the Problem Manager model
indicating where necessary who is needed to support end-to-end resolution.

The procedures are also used to populate a Duty Manager’s daily and weekly
checklist. This provides assurance that scheduled operations are actioned in a
correct and timely manner.

Extensive use is made of a pager alerting system via both BT pager and SMS
messages to mobile telephones to alert both duty managers and operational
support staff of issues that require resolution. This is managed automatically by
the BTI system, which operates on dedicated servers at the Data Centres.

4.19 Supplier Management

ISD’s involvement with suppliers is limited to dealing with them on a first line
support basis. Contracts are let to third parties by ICL Pathway and ISD are only
directly responsible for those elements under their direct control, namely NTL.

Regular monthly meetings take place between ICL Pathway, ISD and the
suppliers where performance and issues are discussed. The suppliers provide
monthly reports some days in advance of the meetings and these form the basis
for discussion. Meetings are minuted and actions progressed and documented.

ISD did state that they are to introduce their own internal review cycle for NTL.

4.20 Audit Workstationy

In February 2000 user testing of the Audit Workstations at both Wigan and
Bootle identified that the required connections to the Audit Servers could not
be achieved. PinICLs PCo037623 and PCoo38167 were raised and while fixes
have been developed and applied the opportunity to verify that the fixes had
worked had not arisen.

Objective 3 of the audit was to prove that the Audit Workstations were now
working as designed and could connect to their local Audit Workstation (eg.
Wigan AW to Wigan AS) and to the remote one (eg.Wigan AW to Bootle AS).
All four connections were proven and the PinICLs can now be closed.

Platform Configuration Audit Rewlty

As part of the audit NT Systems belonging to the Horizon solution located in
the Bootle and Wigan Data Centres were scrutinised for compliance to the
latest build release produced by Pathway Development. The current release in
the live estate being CI4Si0.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 29 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

The platform configuration audit consisted of two parts. Firstly, each cabinet
containing NT systems was checked and the servers observed were recorded.
The purpose here was to cross check the findings against RS/DES/054, the
definitive statement of what should exist in the Data Centre. Secondly,
“SDUSYSTEST”, an automated tool was installed and executed on a subset of
the servers at each data centre. The subset of servers was determined by the NT
Domains to which the servers belong. “SDUSYSTEST” generated a set of
comma separated variable (csv) files. These files were collected from the
Primary Domain Controller for each NT domain audited. In all cases the csv
files and “SDUSYSTEST” were removed from the data centre servers after they
had been captured onto a CD-ROM.

The captured audit files were analysed later at BRAo1 using an Access database
populated with the Cl4Sio baseline configuration.

The results of the Cabinet Check can be found at Annex B to this report.

The results of the work using the automated tool can be found at Annex C to
this report.

The detailed observations and recommendations of this element of the audit
can be found at Annex D.

It is recommended that ISD draw up a Corrective Action Plan to address the
observations made at Annex D and put into place those actions that will
eliminate the weaknesses and non-compliances identified.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 30 of 48
FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

6 AnnewdA — Audit Termy of Reference

ICL PATHWAY : Internal Audit Terms of Reference
AUDIT TITLE : Data Centres & Belfast Operations
File Reference : AUD/3/4/32

Date : 5‘ October 2001

Aim

The Pathway Data Centres at Wigan and Bootle and the Operations Centre at Belfast provide
processing and support facilities for the Horizon network and other applications operated as
part of the ICL Pathway project.

This audit will look at the ISD operations which are involved operating and supporting
Pathway, including security matters, both at the Pathway Data Centres and Belfast.

The audit is part of the planned programme of internal audits for 2001 and was also identified as
a pressing requirement in the audit of BS7799 Compliance, completed earlier this year.

The quality requirements expressed in ISOgoo1 : 2000 will be used as a basis for the work as will
the requirements of BS7799:2000.

Objectives

1. To provide assurance to Pathway management that the activities of Pathway Data Centre
and Belfast Operations Centre operations, with particular regard to their management and
security processes, are controlled and in accordance with agreed arrangements, including :

e Physical and logical access controls;

Management of backup procedures and media;

Contingency planning and disaster recovery;

e User administration and token authentication (Belfast);

« KMS procedures and controls (Data Centres);

* Measurement of service quality and other operational performance indicators;
«Analysis of problems, their root causes and means of containing/preventing them;
e Maintenance of Data Centre procedures.

ISD staff will be given the opportunity to raise any problems or issues with regard to the
management of systems in the Data Centres.

2. To provide assurance that the operational state of the Pathway Data Centre systems do not
deviate from defined secure build specifications and that the correct security configuration
of servers, workstations and domain controllers is maintained.

This Objective will be accomplished using an automated compliance “toolkit”, developed “in-
house” by SDU System Test, the output of which will provide an indication of the current level
of compliance with Build Scripts held in PVCS.

3. To provide assurance that the Audit Workstations at both Wigan and Bootle are fully
operational and capable of being used.

Dates

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 31 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
ion: 2.0
Pathway Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/n/o1

The audit will commence 29'" October 2001 with completion and draft report production and
circulation targeted by 16” November. A final report will be issued together with the draft
Corrective Action Plan by 23"! November.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 32 of 48
FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Vernet IA/REP/036
Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

Audit Resources

The Data Centre element of this audit will be conducted by Jan Holmes, Pathway Audit
Manager. Graham Hooper, Pathway Security Manager will conduct the Belfast Operations part.
Mark Ascot (IDPU) will carry out the configuration audits in support of Objective 2.

Reporting
The report reference will be IA/REP/036. The CAP reference will be IA/CAP/036.

At the conclusion of the audit a draft report will be produced and discussed with the auditees. A
final report will be produced and distributed to the Director and Senior Managers of all
departments covered by the audit, as well as the Managing and Programme Directors of ICL
Pathway.

Further distribution will be at the discretion of Programme Management.

Based on the report content, a series of Corrective and Preventive Actions will be agreed and
documented in a Corrective Action Plan. This will be issued, and the agreed actions monitored
ona regular basis.

TOR Distribution

IsD

Andrew Gibson : Operations Manager

Paul Sandison : Data Centre Site Manager
Steve Gardiner : Service Manager

Colin Johnson : Network Operations Manager
Warren Welsh H NT Technician

ICL Pathway

Stephen Muchow : Managing Director

Martin Riddell : Customer Service Director
Peter Burden : Operations Service Manager
Mike Stewart : Service Manager

Tony Wicks : Business Continuity Manager
Peter Jeram : Director, Quality and Risk
Graham Hooper : Security Manager

Mark Ascot : IPDU.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 33 of 48
FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: IA/REP/036
Version: 2.0
Pathwoy Belfost Operations Centre Date: 21/11/01

7 Annex B — Configuration Audit Cabinet Check
Results

‘Data Centre I Server Name_ Missing Server _
L Cs ROD RS O54 to A
Bootle PBOPWYDCSo1 No PDC for PWYDCS domain
PBOBVPNon Yes
BBOBVPNo2 Yes
PBOBOPSSo1 Yes
BBOBOPSSo2 Yes
PBOWSLAMo1 Yes
Bootle PBOBOOo: Yes
MBOMASo1 No P2903 should have removed this server
MBOMSDor No €P 2913 should have removed this server
MBOHDG134 Yes
BBOPHGor7 Yes
WBOISMo1 No ISD Insight Manager Server
Bootle MBOAGEo1 Yes
MBOAGEoa Yes
MBOAGE03 Yes
MBOAGE04 Yes
Bootle MBOVPNo6, Yes
MBOVPNn Yes
MBOVPNos Yes
MBOVPNog Yes
MBOVPNo3 Yes
MBOVPNoz Yes
MBOVPNo1 Yes
Bootle MBOVPMor Yes
MBOVEXo1 Yes
MBOVPNo8. Yes
MBOVPNo4 Yes
MBOVPNio Yes
MBOVPNo2 Yes

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 34 of 48
FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Vv Ref: LA/REP/036
ersion: 2.0
Pothwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1
Server Name Missing Server _ Compliant I Comments
a Names : with : :
/ c. RS/DES/o54_
MBOVPNi2 Yes
Bootle PBORMTo15 Yes
Bootle MBOCORo Yes
Bootle MBOCORo2 Yes
Bootle MBOCORo3, Yes
Bootle MBOCORo4 Yes
Bootle MBOARCo1 Yes
Bootle MBOACFo1 Yes
Bootle MBOSTGor No ISD Staging Server
Bootle MBOSSCor Yes
Bootle WBOVDWo1 Yes
Bootle MOXRAPo1 No ‘Temporary until Oxford SS can accommod:
their site
MOXRAPo2 No Ditto
Bootle MBOWINGo Yes
Bootle MBOWINGo2 Yes
Bootle MBOWINGo3 Yes
Bootle MBOWINGo4 Yes
Bootle MBOFLGor ‘Yes
Bootle PBOPWYFTMSo1 Yes
MBOOCMSo: No Expected name to be MBOOCMo1
MBOLAPo1 Yes
Bootle BBOPWYKMSot Yes
BBOPWYKMSo2, ‘Yes
MBOKMSo1 Yes
Bootle BSBSCLIENToo5, No TIVOLI SYSMAN Systems.
No
BSBSCLIENTo003 No

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 35 of 48
ICL

Audit of Horizow Date Centrey and

FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

Ref: IA/REP/o36
Version: 2.0

Pothwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1
Data Centre Server Name Missing Server Compliant Comments
Names with
RS/DES/054
BSBSCLIENToo2 No
Bs NToot No
BSBMASTERoo: No
Bootle BSYSMASToo1 No.
BSYSCLINoo1 No
BSYSCLINoo2 No
BSYSCLINoo3 No
Bootle BSYSINVo1 No
BSYSCLIENToo4. No
Bootle BRAINBUILDER5 No
BRAINBUILDER6 No
BRAINBUILDER4 No
Bootle BSYSDELo1 No
BSYSMASTERoo2 No
BSYSCLIENToos No
Bootle BBOPPWYDCSor No Server not found
MBOAGEo5, No Server not found
MBOAGE06, No Server not found
MBOAGEo7 No Server not found
MBOAGEo8: No Server not found
WBOACCor No Workstation not found
MBOACSor No Server not found
Wigan BWIPWYKMSo1 Yes
BWIPWYFTMSo1 ‘Yes
MWILAPo Yes
MWIKMSo Yes
Wigan MWIVPMoi Yes
MWIVEXo1 Yes
Wigan MWIVPNi2 Yes

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 36 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Vv Ref: LA/REP/036
ersion: 2.0
Pothwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/1/o1
Server Name Missing Server _ Comments
7 Names) : I
MWIVPNu
MWIVPNio: Yes
MWIVPNog Yes
MWIVPNo8 Yes
Wigan BWIPWYDCSo1 Yes/No Labelled incorrectly. Real name is BWIPWYD]
BWIWSLAMo1 Yes
BWIPWYMASo1 No CP2903 should have removed this server
PWIWOPSSo1 Yes
BWIWOPSSo1 Yes
PWIWVPNo1 Yes
BWIWVPNo2 Yes
Wigan WWIMASo1 No CP2903 should have removed this server
WWIMSDor No CP2913 should have removed this server
PWIBOOo Yes
Wigan PWIDLRo48 No CSR+ should have been removed at BP!
withdrawal
BWIPHGo48 Yes
MWIACSor Yes
WWIAUDo1 Yes
MWIHDG084 Yes
Wigan MWIAGEo Yes
Wigan MWIAGEo2 ‘Yes
Wigan MWIAGEo3 Yes
‘Wigan MWIAGE04, Yes
Wigan PWIPWYKMSo1 Yes
MWIFLGo1 Yes
MWIOCMor Yes
Wigan MWIVPNo1 Yes
MWIVPNo2 Yes
MWIVPNo3 Yes
MWIVPNog. Yes
MWIVPNos, Yes

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 37 of 48
FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Ref: LA/REP/036
ersion: 2.0
Pothwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1
Data Centre Server Name Missing Server Compliant Comments
Names with
RS/DES/054
MWIVPNo6, Yes
MWIVPNo7 Yes
WWIVDWor Yes
Wigan PWIRMTos0 Yes
Wigan MWICORo1 Yes
Wigan MWICORo2 Yes
Wigan MWICOR03 Yes
Wigan MWICORo4 Yes
Wigan MWIARCo1 Yes
Wigan MWIACFor Yes
Wigan MWISTGor No. ISD Staging Server
Wigan MWISSCot Yes
Wigan WSYSMASTERoo2 No ‘TIVOLI SYSMAN Systems
WLCFIMRo No
Wigan WTECoo1 No.
WTECoo3 No
BRAINBUILDER2 No
Wigan WSYSCLNToo5 No
WSYSCLNT003 No
WSYSCLNToo4, No
WSYSDELo1 No
Wigan WSYSMASTERot No
WSYSCLNToot No
WSYSCLNToo2 No
WSYSINVDLT No
Wigan WSBSCLIENToo5 No
WSBSCLIENToo4 No
WSBSCLIENT003 No
WSBSCLIENToo2 No
WSBSCLIENToot No

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 38 of 48
FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizon Date Centres and Ref: IA/REP/036
ersion: 2.0

Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1
Data Centre I Server Name Missing Server Compliant I Comments

Names with

RS/DES/054
‘WSBSMASTERoot No

Wigan MWIAGEos No Server not found

MWIAGE06 No Server not found

MWIAGEo7 No Server not found

MWIAGEc8 No Server not found

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 39 of 48
FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and Vem tt IA/REP/036
Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1

8 Annex C - Domains & Servers Audited with
“SDUSYSTEST”

Domain Server Name Data Comments
Captured
Pwypcs I PBOPWYDCSo1 Yes
BBOPWYDCSo1 No BDC does not exist, it should do
WBOOPSo1 Yes
BWIPWYDCSo2 Yes
BBOOT PBOBOOor Yes
BPOCL PBORMTois Yes
BBOPHGor7 Yes
BoPss PBOBOPSSo1 Yes
BBOBOPSS02 Yes
MBOCORo1 Yes
MBOCORoa Yes
MBOCOR03 Yes
MBOCOR04 Yes
MBOWINGo: Yes
MBOWINGo2 Yes
MBOWINGo3 Yes
MBOWINGo4 Yes
MBOARCo1 Yes
WBOAUDo: No
MBOACFo1 Yes
MBOACCor No
MBOACSo1 Yes
MBOOCMor No
MBOSSCor Yes
MBOAGEo1 Yes
MBOAGEoa Yes
MBOAGE03 Yes
MBOAGE04 Yes
BVPN PBOBVPNo1 Yes
BBOVPNo2 Yes

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 40 of 48
FUJ00080514
FUJ00080514

ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Venn IAIREP/036
Pothwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1
Domain Server Name Data — Comments
Captured
MBOVPNo Yes
MBOVPNo2 Yes
MBOVPNo3, Yes
MBOVPNoq Yes
MBOVPNos, Yes
MBOVPNo6 Yes
MBOVPNo7 No
MBOVPNo8 No
MBOVPNog No
MBOVPNio: No
MBOVPNu No
MBOVPNi12 No
MBOVPMo1 No
WBOVDWor No
PWYFTMS PBOPWYFTMSo1 Yes
MBOLAPot Yes
Yes
WBOOT PWIBOOo1 No
WPOCL PWIRMToso Yes
PWIPHGo48, Yes
PWIWOPSSo1 Yes
BWIWOPSSo2 Yes
MWICORo Yes
MWICORo2 Yes
MWICORo3 Yes
MWICORo4 Yes
MWIAGEo Yes
MWIAGEo2 Yes
MWIAGE03 Yes
MWIAGEo4 Yes
MWIARCo1 Yes
WWIAUDoL No
MWIACFo. Yes
MWIACSo1 Yes
MWIOCMo1 No

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 41 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Venn TA/REP/036
ion; 2.0
Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/n1/o1
Domain I Server Name Data _ Comments _
I Captured

WWISSCo1 No

WVPN PWIWVPNo1 No

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 42 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Rel IA/REP/036
ersion: 2.0
Pathway Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/u/o1
9 Annex D — Configuration Audit Observations & Recommendations
No. Observation Recommendation Action Required from I Priority
Unit
1 S/054 has PDC for PWYDCS domain located in Belfast. It is actually located in I Update RS/DES/054 to reflect PDC is located in Bootle and also BDCs I IPDU Secure Builds Medium
located in Belfast.
2 Servers MBOMASo1 and MBOMSDor should not exist as part of the Bootle data I Physically remove servers from Bootle data centre. Make the server available I CS Security & ISD Medium
centre. for re-use.
3 ‘WBOISMo1 and MBOSTGo1 are not recorded in RS/DES/054. Include these servers in a future update. IPDU Secure Builds Low,
4 APS Remote Gateways for Oxfordshire Social Services have been temporarily I Networks TDA to confirm access arrangements for Oxfordshire SS. CS Security & Network TDA I High
relocated into Bootle data centre. Need to investigate network access for this APS
client. They use ftp to access their gateways. Can they use ftp to access
Correspondence, Agents and Host servers?
5 OCM! rver at Bootle is labelled as MBOOCMSo1. RS/DES/054 states it should be I Confirm computer name. Update RS/DES/054 if required. IsD Medium
MBOCMo1.
on Determine why deviations from the agreed naming conventions are I IPDU Secure Builds
Deviations can result in a failure to populate local group memberships and apply file I occurring if required. ne .
_ - CS Security
security ona platform.
PIT Secure Builds need server names to adhere to the stated naming
convention in RS/DES/054.
6 TIVOLI SYSMAN System names differ from those recorded in RS/DES/054- ISD/SMG to provide IPDU Secure Builds with a list of server names and the I CS Security Medium
. ___I stated convention for generating new server names. .
No naming convention appears to have been followed for these systems, the names in IsD/SMG
Bootle differ slightly from those in Wigan, Update RS/DES/054 to include actual TIVOLI SYSMAN names or remove -
r 7 IPDU Secure Builds
altogether.
7 Server BBOPWYDCSo1 not found. Confirm this server does not exist with ISD and update RS/DES/054. IPDU Secure Builds. Low
8 Servers MBOAGE05 ~ 08 not found. Update RS/DES/054 to remove these servers. IPDU Secure Builds Low
9 Servers WBOACCo1 and MBOACSo1 not found. Confirm these systems do or do not exist with ISD and update RS/DES/o54 I IPDU Secure Builds Medium
as required.
10 Server BWIPWYDCSor is labelled incorrectly. The computer name identifies it as I ISD to re-label this server correctly. IPDU Secure Builds Medium
BWIPWYDCSo2. ° ©. ~c,
RS/DES/054 to be updated to show server as BWIPWYDCSo2.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 43 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Ref: 1A/REP/036
ersion: 2.0
Pathwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/u/o1
No. Observation Recommendation _ Action Required from I Priority —
ny ali ,
ny Servers BWIPWYMASo1, WWIMASo1 and WWIMSDo1 should have been removed by I Physically remove servers from Wigan data centre. Make the server I CS Security & ISD Medium
CP2903 and CP2913. available for re-use.
2 Server PWIDLRo48 should have been removed as part of BPS/DSS withdrawal. Physically remove server from Wigan data centre. Make the server available I CS Security & ISD Medium
for re-use.
B WWIISMo1 and MWISTGo1 are not recorded in RS/DES/054. Include these servers in a future update. IPDU Secure Builds Low
14 ‘The current installation log file generated by the PIT build scripts do not provide easy I PIT Builds to be enhanced to generate a separate log file which records a I CS Security & IPDU PTI High
to find information regarding platform build, release, increment, fast track, work I summary of the build history in terms of release, increment, fast track and
package identifiers. work package identifiers.
15 User account gstepo1 does not appear to have been created from the secure template I Need to confirm whether this user account complies with Pathway Security I CS Security & ISD Medium
2aSYSMANDEV. policy for user accounts, If it has not been created from the secure role then
the account must be disabled and a new account generated from the said
secure template.
6 User account pspenot created from a redundant secure role zzPWY FRM MAN. Need to confirm whether this account is still active. If not then at the least I CS Security & ISD Medium
it should be disabled if not deleted and removed from the system.
7 SecurlD is not installed on ISD Operational Support Workstations and therefore not I Confirm ISD have been given a dispensation to deviate from ACP/SFS. CS Security Medium
used to authenticate with SecurID Token.
8 IIS has been installed a large number of platforms. It is only required on FTMS I PIT to confirm platform builds do not install IIS. An action plan is required I CS Security & IPDU PIT Medium
remote platforms to remove IIS from the errant platforms. Isp
19 Workstation WBOOPSo1 is running SQL Server with Administrator account I CS Security determine remedial action required CS Security Medium,
privileges instead of using a secure service user account.
20 Platforms MBOACSo1, WBOOPSo1 and MWIACSo1 are not running the TIVOLI Event I PIT to confirm that the Auto Config Signing Server build does install and I CS Security & IPDU PIT High
Server Service (TecNT Adapter). This means these platforms are not forwarding NT I configure TecNT Adapter. .,
events for auditing purposes. _ IsD
ISD to configure TecNT Adapter on both AC Signing Servers and all ISD
Platforms
a Server MBOARCot has D:\ shared with a share name of Richard. Identify whether these are legitimate requirements. If they are, they should I CS Security & ISD Medium
. . . be protected with ACLs. If they are not required then they should be
Correspondence Servers have a share for C:\ssc deleted.
Server MBOLAPot has a share of c:\sme
These directories and shares are not documented in any design document and

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 44 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centrey and I Ref IAREP/036
Pothwoy Belfost Operationy Centre Date: 21/11/01
No. Observation Recommendation _ Action Required from I Priority —
1 a i /
therefore are not secured, ie the directories will have Everyone: Change permissions.
22 PBOPWYDCSo1 PWYDCS PDC is populated with the following redundant Global I Confirm action is required to remove these groups from PWYDCS domain. I CS Security & IPDU Secure I Low
Groups: Builds
PWY FRM MAN
DSs FIT
PWY ERM Analysts
PWY FRM Users
RDMC Admin
These groups should have been removed as part of BPS/DSS Withdrawal.
23 Local group Reonsole Users exists on a number of platforms, Members of this local I Resolve use of remote access tools and legitimise configuration required. CS Security High
group are:
PWYDCS\SSC Apps Man
PWYDCS\SSC Apps Sup
PWYDCS\Operational Man
24 Administrator account is not being renamed as per the PIT build instructions. ‘These are both non compliance’s with the Pathway Security Design. IIS user I CS Security Medium
‘The IIS user account is present when it should not be. accounts should be removed or disabled at the very least.
Administrator accounts is a long running problem.
25 Audit Policy set on PBOBOPSSo1 and BOBOPPSo2 is not compliant to Security I IPDU Secure Build investigate determine whether this is right/wrong. And I IPDU Secure Build & PIT Medium
Design. investigate PIT build for these two Domain Controllers.
Audit Privilege use is set on for Success and Fail.
26 Configuration of Event Logs is not compliant to the security design for: PIT investigate build configuration for these platforms. CS Security Medium
MBOARCo1 ISD to correct event log configuration. PIT
MBOSSCo1 IsD
MBOAGEo1
MBOLAPo1
MWIARCor

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 45 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Ref: 1A/REP/036
fersion: 2.0
Pathwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/u/o1
No. Observation Recommendation _ Action Required from I Priority —
Hil sie i /
27 Configuration of user rights is not consistent for Correspondence Servers and Archive I PIT to confirm build is correct. CS Security Medium
wens ISD to correct user right configuration on these platforms. PIT
MBOCORo2, MBOCOR03, MBOCORo4 and MBOARCo1 have Batch Logon Right Isp
which is not compliant with the security design. sD
28 I Examination of recorded logins shows that the highest account usage is by: Use of administrator accounts instead of individual accounts means that I CS Security Medium
PWYETMS\ Administ auditing of individual actions is not possible. ISD to be reminded that
S\Administrator individual accounts should be used.
PWYDCS\Administrator
BOPSS\Administrator
PWYDCS\psteeor
WOPSS\Administrator
PWYDCS\Ikiano1
29 Account Policy is being by passed. Users are not being forced to change passwords at I CS Security and IPDU Secure Build review the policy. CS Security & IPDU Secure I Medium
3o days as per security design. This mainly applies to the operational management Builds
and SSC users, ie-privileged accounts.
30 I Evidence exists that users who leave are not being removed from the system. curity to review the policies regarding staff who leave. CS Security Low
3 User account tempftp suggests that an unauthorised user account has been created. I CS Security to investigate and review policy/processes. If necessary remedial I CS Security High
As templates are not used in PWYFTMS domain this account will be full NT I action to be taken to remove this user.
unsecured.
3 ‘There are a number of global groups across the domains which are not populated I Further analysis required and review with CS Security. IPDU Secure Builds & CS I Medium
with any members. This suggests that a number of the secure roles are not required. Security
For example OCMS DBA does not have a user account.
33 Two users have been configured that do not use the secure build login script: Both users are disabled until it has been determined why these user I CS Security & ISD Medium
PWYDcsitebestor accounts are non compliant with the security design and policy.
PWYDCS\sparkor
34 Duplicate templates exist for ACDB Admin and ACDB Users. This demonstrates that I Determine corrective action. CS Security Low
manual instructions passed from IPDU Secure Builds have not been processed by PIT IPDU Secure Builds
and delivered to the Live estate. Mike Holms-Sharp strikes again. Secure Builds
IPDU PIT

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 46 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizow Data Centrey and Vers : rail
Pothwoy Belfost Operationy Centre Date: 21/11/01
No. Observation Recommendation _ Action Required from I Priority —
1 a i /
35 ‘The following accounts exist but are disabled: Determine corrective action. CS Security Medium
BOPSS\BMUIRot IsD
PWYDCS\ABROWo1
PWYDCS\AVAUGoi
PWYDCS\RPATEot
PWYDCS\SKUMAo1
PWYDCS\SSURoo1
‘The creation of a user account in BOPSS is a fundamental breach of the Security
Policy.
36 The following user accounts are in more than one Secure Role: Determine corrective action. CS security Medium
PWYDCS\DDILLo2 ACDB Admin
PWYDCS\DDILLoz OPERATIUONAL MAN,
PWYDCS\JSIMPo1 SSC APPS MAN
PWYDCS\JSIMPo2 SSC APPS SUP
PWYDCS\NSTREot APPS SUP
PWYDCS\NSTREo1 ACDB Admin
PWYDCS\PCARRoi SSC APPS MAN
PWYDCS\PCARRo1 SSC APPS SUP
This is evidence that the processes used to manage user accounts are not being.
followed. Multiple roles for a single user account is a clear breach of the Security
Design and policy.
37 Server MBOACFor has ISS installed and configured services set to auto. PIT to investigate platform build for this platform type. CS Security & IPDU PIT Medium
IIS should not be installed and the services should not be set to auto.
38 Servers MBOACFo1, MBOACSo1,MBOVPNo3,MBOVPNo4, MBOVPNos, MBOVPNo6 I CS Security to investigate the use of this non standard service and I CS Security & IPDU PIT High
have Compaq Web Agent Service configured and enabled. These services do not I inconsistency of VPN server and Auto Config server builds.
appear on the Wigan servers which says there is inconsistency between the servers.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 47 of 48
FUJ00080514

FUJ00080514
ICL Audit of Horizow Date Centres and v Ref: 1A/REP/036
ersion: 2.0
Pathwoy Belfast Operations Centre Date: 21/u/o1
No. Observation Recommendation _ Action Required from I Priority —
ny ali ,
What is Compaq Web Agent and why is it on these platforms.
39 I Remote Console is installed and configured for use on 54 out of the 56 platforms I CS Security to identify policy on remote admin, Currently this deviates from I CS Security High
audited. the intended security design and ACI
40 TIVOLI OBJECT Dispatcher (port 8002) is disabled on BWIPWYDCSo2. It is running I CS Security determine why this platform differs from the other. ISD to take I CS Security Low
on all other platforms. corrective action.
4 SDUSYSTEST tool is needed as an online tool available to CS Security to access and I Update Security Auditors workstation to include SDUSYSTEST on its I CS Security High
audit live servers. as and when required. menu/toolset or develop special audit workstation for this task.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 48 of 48
