FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

Document Title:

Document Type:

Abstract:

Distribution:

Document Status:

Document Predecessor:

Associated Documents:

Author:

Approval Authority:

Signature/Date

Comments To:

Comments By:

PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY

Policy Document

This Security Policy specifies mandatory security
requirements that must be applied throughout the
life-cycle of the ICL Pathway services.

DSS

POCL

Pathway
Pathway Library

Issued

Version 2.0

See section 0.2
Peter J Harrison
Martyn Bennett,

Director Quality and Risk Management

Author, copy to Martyn Bennett

C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
Page I of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
FOREWORD

This document defines Pathway’s policy for the protection of its assets
(including hardware, applications, databases, network and documentation)
against loss of confidentiality, integrity and availability. It will also ensures
compliance with legislative and commercial requirements.

Pathway’s high level policy statement (which is essentially the same as the
Corporate Policy statement used by the ICL Group) is:

It is the policy of ICL Pathway Limited to provide a secure working
environment for the protection of employees, and also to ensure the security of
all assets owned by or entrusted to Pathway.

This document fits into the structure illustrated below, with the BS7799 Code
of Practice being used as a basis for Pathway’s Security Standards. Lower
level implementation standards will be incorporated as appropriate.

Corporate ICL BA
Policy Policy Policy
T T

Detailed This Security
Policy Document Policy

Security Baseline Based on
Standards Controls BS7799

Procedures
and
Guidelines

Windows NT Security
Unix Security

Oracle Security
Network Security

PC Security

Key Management
ete...

Physical Security
Personnel Security

Fraud & Risk Management
Contingency Planning
System Management
Health & Safety

ete...

Pathway’s Security Policy and Standards

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC

Page 2 of 23
ICL Pathway

Ref:

PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version:

Date:

FUJ00098153
FUJ00098153

RS/POL/0002
3.0
8/10/96

0. CONTENT
0.1 Document History
Version Date Reason
0.1 27/5/96 _I Initial draft issued for comments
0.2 31/5/96 _I Revised draft issued for comments
0.3 26/6/96 I Incorporates comments from the ICL Pathway
Management team
1.0 16/8/96 __I Incorporates comments from DSS/BA and POCL
2.0 23/9/96 _I Incorporates further comments from Authority
3.0 8/10/96 _I Submitted for formal approval
0.2 Associated Documents
Version _I Date Title Source
2 1/5/92 ICL Group Security Policy ICL
5 25/6/95 DSS/POCL Functional Specification Pathwa
TBA ICL Pathway Security Standards Pathwa:
TBA ICL Pathway Access Control Policy Pathwa
6.2 - DSS IT Security Policy (Departmental I DSS
IT Security Standards)
DITSG/ITSS/0001.04
- - Post Office Information Systems POCL
Security Policy Document (KH2879)
- - Post Office Counters Information POCL
Systems Security Policy
(SSR Appendix 4-1)
1.5 28/10/94 I A Code of Practice for PO Information I POCL
Systems Security
TBA - Schedule BO1 - Requirements
Catalogue
1 15/2/95 BS7799 - A Code of Practice for BSI
Information Security Management

C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page 3 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
0.3 Abbreviations
APS Automated Payment Services
BA Benefits Agency
BES Benefit Encashment Service
CASA Contracting Authorities Security Authority
CESG Communications-Electronics Security Group
CMS Card Management Service
CLEF Commercial Licensed Evaluation Facility
DSS Department of Social Security
EPOSS Electronic Point Of Sale Service
OBCS Order Book Control Service
PAS Payment Authorisation Service
PFI Private Finance Initiative
POCL Post Office Counters Limited
PUN Pick Up Notice
0.4 Contents

0. CONTENT.

0.1 Document History ......
0.2 Associated Document:
0.3 Abbreviations
0.4 Contents .....

1. INTRODUCTION...

L.1 Service OVerVieW «2... ceecceeseeesseeesse tess nesssseesneeseseesnenersnessnenensestssensninetsnnesnintesneeeneeseansets
1.2 Scope...
1.3 Policy Review
1.4 Implementation Priorities.

2. OBJECTIVES...

2.1 Business Objectives ...
2.2 IT Security Objectives.
2.3 Legal Obligations

3. RESPONSIBILITIES FOR SECURITY

3.1 Director, Quality and Risk Management .
3.2 Pathway Security Board
3.3 Security Manager...
3.4 Security Administration ....
3.5 Responsibilities for Physical Security
3.6 Hardware Security.
3.7 All Personnel...
3.8 Reporting Security Incidents

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 4 of 23
FU.
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

4, FRAUD AND RISK MANAGEMENT

ALL Risk Mamager ...........cccccccceseeseeseesessessesnessessncesesneevesececesesnesesereesesneseeseseesessneeeaneneeseeneeeenes
4.2 Investigation Team
4.3 Management of Fraud and Ris

5. PERSONNEL SECURITY ....

5.1 Recruitment Selection
5.2 Job Descriptions, Contracts and Assessmen:
5.3 Security Education and Training.

6. IMPLEMENTATION POLICIES

6.1 Information Classification...
6.2 Safeguarding DSS/BA and POCL Records
6.3 Physical and Environmental Security
6.4 System Access Control «0.2.0.0... :
6.5 Cryptography... cecescecceseeccesessessecseeecssseesesncecseseeaeeneetsansecsatenseusarseneanensessaseeeeeeneesenenes

7. ADMINISTRATION OF SECURITY

7.1 System and Network Management
7.2 Audit Management... -
7.3 Systems Development and Maintenance .
7.4 Virus Control Policy ............
7.5 Information Exchange Control
7.6 Control of Proprietary Software..
7.7 External Contractors and Suppliers

8. BUSINESS CONTINUITY...

8.1 Contingency Planning... ec cec ccc eeseeseesesseeeeneesesseseeeteseeeseesneeessneeeeneeneeeeenseeeneeneeseeesnes
8.2 Testing Contingency Plans.
8.3 Subcontractor’s Contingency Plans

9. COMPLIANCE.

9.1 Compliance with Pathway’s Security Polic
9.2 Compliance with Legislative Requirements
9.3 Compliance with BS7799 ...0......ceeeeee

FUJ00098153
}J00098153

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 5 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
1. INTRODUCTION

In May 1996, ICL Pathway Limited was selected to set up and operate the
services that will automate counter transactions at Post Offices throughout the
UK.

The purpose of this policy document is to lay the foundation that will enable
Pathway to protect the integrity, availability and confidentiality of all assets
associated with the services. It also enables Pathway to comply with legislative
and commercial requirements.

11 Service Overview

The agreement is one of the UK Government’s major Private Finance
Initiative (PFI) projects, whereby Pathway will automate 20,000 Post Offices
and provide the infrastructure used to make benefit payments to an estimated
20 million recipients.

The Benefit Payment Service (BPS) translates input from the Benefit Agency
(BA), in the form of authorised payments, into benefit payments that are
collected, from nominated Post Offices, by card holding claimants. It also
provides returns to BA on the payments that are made, together with other
information.

BPS is defined as the end-to-end service provided by the combination of
Benefit Encashment Service (BES), Payment Authorisation Service (PAS) and
Card Management Service (CMS).

Computerised facilities at Post Office counters also enable a range of
Automated Payment Services (APS) to be provided, allowing customers to
make payments to utilities and other clients supported by Post Office Counters
Limited (POCL).

The Electronic Point Of Sale Service (EPOSS) supports all services, or
products, provided by the counter clerk to the customer. Order Book Control
Service (OBCS) is an optional counter application operating through EPOSS.

The services are designed to minimise fraudulent encashment and provide
secure payment facilities, hence particular attention is focused upon the
security aspects of the services throughout their life cycle.

1.2 Scope

This Security Policy specifies mandatory security requirements that must be
applied throughout the life -cycle of the ICL Pathway services.

Pathway has overall responsibility for the design, implementation, roll-out and
operation of the service throughout the contract period. Specific activities will
be subcontracted to appropriate organisations, who will be required to work
within the security framework defined by Pathway.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 6 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

Figure I illustrates how particular service functions are mapped to typical
subcontractors for key components of the operational service.

BA POCL

ICL Pathway Q ao es a

Girobank ICL (CFM) De La Rue
Payment Payment

Authorisation and Authorisation and ie ana PUN

Card Management Card Management i Di i ‘butio
Enquiries Services and Distribution

ICL Sorbus ‘Suppliers [em I [ence ]

System Management
and

Post
NetworkiManagement I_I Pom (aS (a..z

Figure 1 Subcontracted Functions for Pathway’s Services

Pathway’s Security Policy must be compatible with the DSS and POCL
Security Policies. The interfaces between Pathway and all external
organisations must be clearly defined and formally agreed with the
organisations concerned.

Security obligations for subcontractors involved in development activities
(including Escher, Oracle and ICL) and suppliers of key service components
(including De La Rue and Microsoft) will be subject to individual agreements
with Pathway. De La Rue has responsibility for manufacture and initial
distribution of all Cards and Pick Up Notices (PUNs).

1.3 Policy Review

Once approved, this policy document will be formally reviewed at least
annually and after any significant attack or occurrence of fraud, and updated
whenever necessary.

Responsibilities for approval, review and issue of Pathway’s Security Policy
and standards are defined in section 3.

1.4 Implementation Priorities

The short implementation timescales, agreed between Pathway, DSS/BA and.
POCL, dictate that detailed Security Standards may not be in place at the
outset of all development activities.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 7 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

The planned implementation order is:

Pathway Security Policy (this document),

security standards for system development activities,
security standards for system integration and validation,
security standards for pre-release,

security standards for system roll-out, and

security standards for all operational environments.

Guidelines provided by BS7799, a Code of Practice for Information Security
Management, and relevant sections of the documents listed in section 0.2, will
be used. Where appropriate, these will be supplemented by Pathway specific
standards.

2. OBJECTIVES

This document aims to provide a clear definition of Pathway’s high-level
Security Policy.

Pathway will establish an infrastructure that will minimise and control
liabilities to itself, its suppliers, the DSS and POCL (thereby meeting the
requirements outlined in Appendix A).

This policy document is intended to lay the foundation that will enable
Pathway to protect the integrity, availability and confidentiality of information
used by the services. This includes making adequate provision for:

e Business Continuity,
e Fraud Risk Management, and
e compliance with Data Protection legislation.

The responsibilities for policy implementation are defined (in section 3) in
order that the policy requirements can be communicated throughout Pathway.
This will ensure that all parties are fully aware of their responsibilities and
legal obligations.

Pathway has stated its commitment to ensuring that it encompasses the very
best commercial practices for security. Pathway’s aim is to be compliant with
BS7799.

Compliance with legislative requirements (including the Data Protection Act)
and BS7799 is considered under “Compliance” (in section 9)

21 Business Objectives

The profitability and viability of Pathway’s business operation are dependent
upon identifying and managing all risks for which Pathway has accepted
responsibility. Protecting the information assets owned by DSS/BA, POCL
and POCL clients is also of fundamental importance.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 8 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

Pathway will develop Contingency Plans that will be used to ensure continuity
of service. The plans, to be agreed between Pathway, DSS/BA and POCL, will
be based upon the results of comprehensive Risk Assessment.

Maintaining Pathway’s reputation as a supplier of secure, efficient, reliable,
cost-effective services, and the reputation of DSS/BA and POCL, is extremely
important. Any service malfunction might be widely publicised and exploited
to the detriment of Pathway, DSS/BA or POCL.

The opportunities for additional POCL services will be influenced by the
confidence established by the base services.

2.2 IT Security Objectives

Pathway’s overall IT security objective can be summarised as achieving the
requirement expressed in the following policy statement:

It is the policy of ICL Pathway Limited to protect its investment in IT assets,
and to ensure the security of all information conveyed, processed or stored, by
the services.

1. Security measures in Pathway’s IT systems will ensure appropriate
confidentiality, integrity and availability of data, whether in storage or in
transit. Maintaining the integrity of the services and software components
is also essential.

2. Physical and logical access to the system will be controlled, with access
granted selectively and permitted only where there is a specific need.
Access will be limited to persons with appropriate authorisation and a
“need to know” requirement.

3. Authentication, whereby a user’s claimed identity is verified, is essential
before any access is granted to the system. Authentication mechanisms are
also required to ensure that trust relationships can be established between
communicating components within, and external to, the system.

4. Allusers of Pathway’s services will be individually accountable for their
actions. Accountability for information assets will be maintained by
assigning owners, who will be responsible for defining who is authorised
to access the information. If responsibilities are delegated then
accountability will remain with the nominated owner of the asset.

5. Audit mechanisms are required to monitor and detect events that might
threaten the security of the Pathway services or any service(s) to which it
is connected. Regular analysis of audit trails is essential to facilitate the
identification and investigation of security breaches.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 9 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

6. Alarm mechanisms are required to alert security personnel of the
occurrence of security violations that could seriously threaten the secure
operation of the services. These alarms will be used to trigger prompt
investigation and remedial action in order to minimise the impact of any
security breach.

7. Pathway will monitor all developments and operations to maintain
assurance that its services are performing in accordance with approved
security standards and controls. This will give a high level of confidence
that all information is being protected during processing, transmission and
storage.

2.3 Legal Obligations

Pathway must remain fully compliant with all legislation and regulatory
controls.

In addition to the existing legislative obligations, identified in section 9.2, it is
important to track and anticipate emerging UK and European regulations that
could affect Pathway’s operation.

3. RESPONSIBILITIES FOR SECURITY

Pathway’s Managing Director has ultimate responsibility for security.

Pathway’s commitment to security will be communicated throughout Pathway,
as evidenced by board level approval of Pathway’s Security Policy.
\

\
External ' Pathway Managing Director
\
\
\
Director
Pathway I__I Quality and Risk
Security Board Management
T
Security Advisors I
\
\
\
\ =
> I Risk Manager Security
Manager
\
\
\
Girobank I Investigation Security
FRM Services ' Team Administration

Fraud and Risk Management

Figure 2 Pathway’s Security Management Structure

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 10 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

Figure 2 illustrates the security organisation used within Pathway and the
activities subcontracted to Girobank. Senior management is supported by
experienced specialists and technical staff with specific expertise in the areas
of IT, security, fraud prevention and risk management.

3.1 Director, Quality and Risk Management
The responsibilities of the Director, Quality and Risk Management, include:

© overall control of security throughout Pathway,
¢ provision of adequate resources for security,

e being Chairman of the Pathway Security Board (see section 3.2),

© owner of Pathway’s Security Policy,

© approval authority for Pathway’s Security Policy,

e approval authority for Pathway’s Security Standards,

¢ overall control of fraud and risk management functions,

¢ establishing the security interface with the DSS/BA and POCL, and
e establishing the security interface with all subcontractors.

3.2 Pathway Security Board

The representatives on Pathway’s Security Board are selected by the Director,
Quality and Risk Management, and approved by the Pathway Board.

The Security Board participants, which will include the Contracting
Authorities Security Authority (CASA), represent a broad range of interests to
ensure that alternative perspectives are considered.

Whenever necessary, the Security Board can commission independent
specialists to undertake studies, investigations or audits.

Security Board responsibilities include:

ownership of Pathway’s Security Strategy,

determining the adequacy of Pathway’s Security Policy definition,
formal review of all Security Policy documents,

review of security incidents, on a regular basis, and

liaison with external bodies and specialists.

3.3 Security Manager

The Security Manager is responsible for ensuring implementation of policy
and standards, and maintaining “best practice”, within the remit of Pathway.

Pathway’s Security Manager’s responsibilities include:

e physical and environmental security,

© monitoring for compliance with Pathway’s Security Policy,

¢ providing the point of contact for reporting all types of security incidents,
¢ recording and investigating security incidents,

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 11 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

ensuring that security relevant events are audited by the system,
ensuring that audit trails are analysed on a regular basis,
documentation of Pathway’s Security Policy,

owner of Pathway’s Security Standards,

documentation of Pathway’s Security Standards,

communication of security policy and standards throughout Pathway,
authorisation and approval for system changes,

co-ordinating the evaluation of all new security products proposed,
specifying and arranging security education and training,

devising and conducting security awareness programmes,
maintaining a partnership approach to security with CASA,

liaison with DSS/BA, POCL and suppliers’ security personnel, and
recruitment selection of security administration personnel.

3.4 Security Administration

The description “Security Administration” has been used to describe Pathway
personnel assigned to roles with particular responsibility for security.

Pathway’s Security Manager is the normal line manager for this group, hence
many of the activities assigned to Security Administrators will be to support
the functions listed in section 3.3.

Wherever possible, Security Administrators will act in a supporting or
monitoring role rather than as a Service Provider for the operational service. In
this capacity they can:

monitor compliance with Pathway’s Security Policy,

implement Pathway’s Security Standards,

conduct independent reviews of compliance to policy and standards,
report security incidents, and

recommend changes, to enhance Pathway’s security controls, to the
Security Manager.

3.5 Responsibilities for Physical Security

By using existing operational sites, Pathway benefits from the current security
infrastructure in order to protect against threats from physical and
environmental sources.

Pathway has responsibility for reviewing the adequacy of all existing controls,
working with a nominated manager agreed with each subcontractor. The
physical security of facilities used by Pathway and its subcontractors,
including development, test and integration areas, will be maintained by ICL
Pathway.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 12 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
3.6 Hardware Security

Post Offices pose some significant challenges for several reasons:

Pathway will use approximately 20,000 sites throughout the UK,
Pathway cannot control the physical security at Post Offices,
Pathway owns the IT assets installed in each Post Office,

high specification commercial PCs will be installed at each site,
Pathway cannot vet or select Post Office personnel, and

changes to the Post Office operating environment can occur.

The physical security measures associated with equipment installation will
take these factors into account to reduce Pathway’s risks to an acceptable
level.

3.7 All Personnel

All service users, most of whom will be at Post Office counters, will be
included in Pathway’s awareness and/or training programmes. Security
aspects, an integral part of these programmes, will be set in a context
appropriate to the user’s role (for example, Postmaster or clerk).

All Pathway employees, subcontractors and system users have security
responsibilities and they will be required to work together in support of this
security policy. Personnel who may not regard themselves as any kind of
“system user” will still have security responsibilities. In particular, they are
expected to be vigilant in reporting anything they perceive may be suspicious.

Promoting security awareness, throughout Pathway, to subcontractors, and
within Post Offices, is an important responsibility assigned to Pathway’s
Security Manager.

Publicising security reporting and escalation procedures will be part of this
awareness strategy.

3.8 Reporting Security Incidents

Pathway will establish effective procedures for reporting, acting upon and
escalating all incidents that could affect security.

Pathway’s Security Manager will ensure that all incidents are recorded,
investigated and, where appropriate, acted upon, with appropriate urgency.
This will include liaison with CASA to review incidents and actions.

4. FRAUD AND RISK MANAGEMENT

Pathway’s policy is to identify and minimise the risk of fraud within the
Pathway services. However, Pathway recognises that the threat of fraud.
incidents exists inside and outside Pathway’s responsibility.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 13 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

Pathway’s Director, Quality and Risk Management, has responsibility for
fraud and risk management, in addition to security, as outlined in section 3.1.
In this former capacity, he/she is supported by a Risk Manager, an
investigation team, and external specialist services, as illustrated in figure 2.

The Fraud Risk Management (FRM) service will concentrate on the
identification, monitoring and management of encashment fraud within the
Benefit Payment Service and the POCL Strategic Infrastructure.

41 Risk Manager
Pathway’s Risk Manager’s responsibilities include:

e identifying and categorising risks associated with fraud,

¢ analysis of trend incidents and fraud losses,

fraud monitoring, to profile abnormal or irregular encashment patterns and
identify potential fraud incidents,

establishing internal controls to reduce the potential for fraud,
reducing the potential for fraud perpetrated through collusion,
reviewing security policy and standards from a fraud perspective,
providing the point of contact for reporting all fraud incidents,
recording and investigating fraud incidents,

managing the supporting FRM services, and

liaison with external authorities in the event of fraud.

4.2 Investigation Team

The investigation team, shown in figure 2, carry out investigations instigated
by the Risk Manager. The team’s activities include:

collecting and examining system evidence in support of investigations,
reporting on the findings of all investigations,

quantifying the amounts involved in fraud incidents,

identifying persons implicated in fraud perpetration,

recommending measures which could reduce fraud risks, and

working with specialist external bodies developing new techniques.

4.3 Management of Fraud and Risk

As illustrated, in figure 2, specialist fraud and risk management services will
be invoked to supplement Pathway’s internal resources. Girobank’s use of the
data will be restricted to that required for FRM investigations.

Use of external services enables:

specialist skills to be invoked whenever needed,

adequate resources to be available for special investigations,
independent review of Pathway’s own procedures, and
Pathway to keep abreast of new methods for reducing risk.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 14 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
5. PERSONNEL SECURITY

Staff concerned with the operations and management of central services are to
be managed under the guidance of ICL’s Personnel Policy Manual and
associated documents.

Staff working on high risk areas in the organisation (those classified as
“sensitive”), are to be subject to more frequent vetting reviews and internal
audits. This applies to Pathway’s own employees and to staff from
subcontractor’s organisations.

5.1 Recruitment Selection

All applicants will be subject to vetting, which will include checks on their
identification and financial circumstances.

Business and personal references will be checked for all external applicants.

5.2 Job Descriptions, Contracts and Assessment

Pathway will apply best commercial practice, based upon BS7799, to include
security considerations within:

¢ Employees Terms and Conditions for Employment, and
e generic job descriptions.
5.3 Security Education and Training

Pathway’s education and training programme will promote security awareness
and explain the importance and use of security controls.

The programme will include:

e all Pathway employees,

¢ training for all system users, tailored to their particular role, and
© appropriate training for contractors and third parties.

6. IMPLEMENTATION POLICIES

The following subsections provide an overview of the controls required for:

e asset classification and control,
e physical and environmental security, and
© system access control.

Pathway’s Security Standards will provide more detailed guidance based upon
the corresponding BS7799 sections. This will include the provision and
maintenance of an asset register.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 15 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
6.1 Information Classification

All information used by Pathway will be handled in accordance with its
classification, as specified by its owner. Information owners are required to
classify all information that they own, in accordance with a process that will be
jointly agreed.

The sensitivity of information will be measured by the consequences of a
potential security breach associated with that information.

Pathway will assume that aggregation cannot increase the classification of any
information (unless otherwise agreed with the Authority).

Pathway’s Security Standards will include guidance on protective marking and
handling of information.

6.2 Safeguarding DSS/BA and POCL Records

Pathway will establish appropriate controls to safeguard all manual and
electronic records supplied by DSS/BA and POCL. The records will be
safeguarded from unauthorised disclosure, modification, loss, destruction and
falsification. The security characteristics of the records and requirements for
processing and storage will be agreed, formally, with the DSS/BA or POCL
provider.

6.3 Physical and Environmental Security

Use of existing secure computing facilities for Pathway’s central services will
simplify the task of establishing secure areas for the protection of IT facilities.
The physical security measures will include:

specialist site security staff in attendance 24 hours per day,
surveillance and intruder detection systems,

multi-zone areas controlled by a card access system, and
regular security reviews and audit checks.

All equipment and cabling will be well maintained and protected against
environmental hazards, including fire and water damage. Alternative power
supplies will be provided in accordance with Pathway’s contingency plans.

6.4 System Access Control

Control of access to Pathway’s systems and data will be in accordance with
Pathway’s Access Control Policy which will be based upon analysis of
security and business requirements.

The Access Control Policy and its associated Security Standards will specify:

e aclear definition of responsibilities for all authorised users,
¢ specification of roles and responsibilities for all types of system usage,
¢ control of access to all Pathway system components,

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 16 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

e control of access to all data within the Pathway system,
© control of access to all stored information and documentation,
e control of access to database facilities and tools,

© control of access to applications running on servers and workstations,
¢ control of access to the network and network management systems,

¢ procedures for allocation of access rights to IT services,

management, assignment and revocation of privileges,

¢ mechanisms to be used for user identification and authentication,

© password management, including password generation and expiry, and
© monitoring system access and use of facilities.

Accountability of individuals is essential and segregation of duties will be
enforced where appropriate. For particularly critical operations “two person
controls” will be used.

Wherever authorisation is given orally, normally over a telephone link,
additional verification methods must be used. In particular:

¢ DSS/BA’s instruction to Pathway to enter a fall-back mode,

¢ DSS/BA’s calls to the PAS Help Desk to stop payments or place other
actions,

e calls from Post Offices to the PAS Help Desk for payment authorisation
when operating in fallback mode (notably for encashment at “foreign” Post
Offices),

¢ customer calls to the CMS Help Desk for card enquiries, and

e all calls to the CMS Help Desk requesting changes.

6.5 Cryptography
Pathway will seek the guidance of Communications-Electronics Security

Group (CESG) on all matters concerning cryptography. Typically, this would
include:

choice of encryption algorithms,

strength of mechanisms,

encryption of information stored on disks within Post Offices, and
encryption key management (including key generation, distribution and
change).

Pathway will comply with Government Policy with regard to the application of
cryptographic techniques to the protection of Government Data.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 17 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
7. ADMINISTRATION OF SECURITY

Pathway will implement effective controls to protect against the possibility of
attack from “users” who are granted privileges and access rights. Similarly,
individuals with access to source code and development facilities will be
monitored.

The following subsections provide an overview of the controls required within
Pathway’s organisation. Pathway’s Security Standards will provide more
detailed guidance based upon the BS7799 controls for:

© computer and network management, and
e system development and maintenance.

7.1 System and Network Management

Operational control of Pathway’s services will be managed by a central System
Support unit responsible for system and network management.

The system privileges and access permissions required to perform
management functions are considerably higher than those assigned to normal
users. Pathway will therefore ensure that:

staff assigned to management functions are carefully selected,
particular attention is paid to logical and physical access controls,
individuals are not granted unnecessary privileges,

separation of duties is achieved whenever appropriate,

individuals are held accountable for all system changes,

the ability to grant and modify access permission is controlled, and

all significant system changes are recorded with before and after states.

7.2 Audit Management
Pathway will ensure that:

all security critical events are time stamped and recorded,
auditable events are carefully selected to minimise overheads,
audit trail information is protected from modification,

audit trails include a record of all significant system changes,
effective audit analysis reduction and analysis tools are used,
all observed system irregularities are investigated, and

audit trails are archived and stored for an agreed duration.

7.3 Systems Development and Maintenance

Pathway will ensure that system security, considered at the requirements
analysis stage, fully reflects the business value of the information assets
involved. The analysis will consider:

e control of access to information and services,

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 18 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

segregation of duties,

secure operation in degraded mode,

incorporation and analysis of audit trails,

ensuring integrity of data using sealing and verification mechanisms,
use of encryption to prevent unauthorised disclosure of data, and
system resilience, including operation in fall-back mode and recovery.

All software developed by or for Pathway will be specified and implemented
using proven methodologies, taking care to ensure that:

© input data validation is comprehensive and reliable,
© processing protects against errors and attacks, and
¢ integrity checking is performed, using hash totals and balance controls.

Pathway will ensure that software development activities are fully supported
by standards and procedures which cover all aspects of the development
process. Audits and reviews will be conducted to ensure that the standards are
being applied effectively and that the supporting documentation meets
approved standards. Security testing will provide confirmation that the security
functionality of the system has been implemented to meet the agreed security
objectives.

Assurance during development will be supported by the definition of security
requirements, security architecture, detailed security design, design reviews
and security testing.

Design and specification changes will be reviewed to ensure they do not
compromise the security of the system.

All software will be subject to appropriate acceptance procedures prior to
integration with other components.

74 Virus Control Policy

Pathway will analyse threats associated with malicious software and, where
appropriate, will implement effective controls. These controls will provide
virus prevention, virus detection and appropriate user awareness procedures.

7.5 Information Exchange Control

Pathway will define, agree and enforce (with relevant parties) procedures for
the exchange of information handled electronically and by other means. The
procedures used will comply with legal and contractual requirements and will
depend upon the sensitivity of the information.

In particular, the exchange of information, with DSS/BA and POCL, will be
subject to formally agreed controls.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 19 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
7.6 Control of Proprietary Software

Proprietary software will only be used within the terms of the licence
conditions.

Unauthorised copying of software and documentation will be prohibited.

Pathway will not permit any modified or non-standard software components to
be incorporated unless the modifications have been applied and validated by
the normal supplier, and approved by Pathway’s Security Manager.

Pathway’s configuration management system will maintain an inventory of all
proprietary software used by their services.

7.7 External Contractors and Suppliers

Pathway will ensure that the use of external contractors and suppliers is
covered by appropriate safeguards. This will include agreements with
contractual terms and conditions and checks on the integrity of external
contractors before any work is assigned to them.

External personnel will not be allowed access to any classified information
without prior written authority from the information owner and completion of
a non-disclosure agreement.

Suppliers of goods and services (including Escher, Microsoft and Oracle) will
be subject to formal agreements in support of this security policy.

Evidence of the suppliers’ security procedures will be sought where externally
supplied goods or services are used to process critical information.

8. BUSINESS CONTINUITY

Pathway will ensure that an effective business continuity plan is agreed with
CASA and implemented to reduce the risks from deliberate or accidental
threats to deny access to vital services or information.

Plans will be developed to enable internal operations and business services to
be maintained following failure or damage to vital services, facilities or
information. All relevant security provisions will be maintained, even if
degraded conditions are in effect.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 20 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96
8.1 Contingency Planning

In order to minimise any disruption to the services managed by Pathway,
contingency plans will be developed to encompass:

e handling emergency situations,
© operating in fall-back mode, and
e recovery (or Business Resumption) to full operational status.

8.2 Testing Contingency Plans
All contingency plans will be tested on a regular basis under representative
operational conditions.

8.3 Subcontractor’s Contingency Plans

Contingency arrangements will be examined and managed to ensure that risks
are minimised, wherever Pathway is dependent upon subcontractors (or third
parties), for essential services or supplies.

9. COMPLIANCE

Pathway is required to comply with legislative requirements and commercial
standards.

The importance of compliance is illustrated by the fact that 4 out of 10 of the
key controls, defined in BS7799, are about compliance.

9.1 Compliance with Pathway’s Security Policy

Compliance with the requirements defined in this Security Policy is
mandatory. The policy is to be applied throughout Pathway for the secure
management and operation of the services.

Periodic reviews will be carried out, under the direction of Pathway’s line
managers, to verify that Pathway is operating in accordance with its security
policy and standards.

9.2 Compliance with Legislative Requirements

Pathway will ensure compliance with all legislative requirements, including
the:

e Data Protection Act (1984),
¢ Computer Misuse Act (1990), and
© Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (1988).

All applications handling personal data on individuals, will comply with data
protection legislation and principles.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 21 of 23
FUJ00098153

FUJ00098153
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0002
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY Version: 3.0
Date: 8/10/96

9.3

Under the Computer Misuse Act, it is an offence to access or modify material
without proper authority, or to access material with intent to commit further
offences.

Pathway will protect against unauthorised copying of documentation and
software.

In addition to the Acts identified above, Pathway will comply with appropriate
sections of PACE, the Social Security Administration Act, Post Office and
Telegraph Acts, Official Secrets Act 1989, Companies Act, EU Directives and
other obligations to be defined in Pathway’s standards.

Compliance with BS7799

The controls defined in BS7799 are designed to provide a sound baseline for
commercial organisations of many types.

Pathway will apply BS7799 to provide a baseline definition for information
security encompassing the ten categories of controls:

BS7799 Security Policy
Section I Category of Controls Section
1 Security Policy All
2 Security organisation 3 (and 4)
3 Asset classification and control 6.1 and 6.2
4 Personnel securit 5
5 Physical and environmental security 6.3
6 Computer and network management 7A
7 System access control 6.4
8 Systems development and maintenance 73
9 Business continuity planning 8
10 Compliance 9

Table 1 BS7799 Control Categories
This security policy document considers each of these categories, as indicated
in Table 1, and outlines the requirements in the Pathway context.

Pathway’s Security Standards will provide further guidance based upon the
BS7799 Code of Practice.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC Page 22 of 23
ICL Pathway
PATHWAY SECURITY POLICY

Ref:
Version:
Date:

FUJ00098153
FUJ00098153

RS/POL/0002
3.0
8/10/96

APPENDIX A

SECURITY POLICY REQUIREMENTS

This Security Policy document encompasses all of the requirements specified
in Pathway’s agreement with the Authority (as defined in Schedule B01).

By implementing the agreed Security Policy, Pathway will minimise and

control liabilities to itself and the Authorities.

The security infrastructure established by Pathway will cover all areas
specified by the Authority. Table Al (which is based upon Schedule BO1,
Requirement 698) indicates the section of BS7799 that describes the category

of control and the nature of the ten “key” controls.

Security Features Section I BS7799
The agreement of a Security Policy 1.2 1 I key
Allocation of Security Responsibilities 3 2_I key
Security Education and Training 5.3 4 I key
Reporting Security Incidents 3.8 4 I key
Physical Security Control 6.3 By

Virus Control 74 6_I key
Business Continuity 8 9 I key
Control of Proprietary Software 71.6 10 I key
Safeguarding DSS/BA and POCL Records 6.2 10 I key
Information Classification 6.1 3
Compliance with Data Protection and other legislation 9.2 10 I key
Information Exchange Control 75 6
External Contractors and Suppliers. VI 2
Compliance with Security Policy 91 10 I key
Management of fraud and risk during service operation 4 6

Table A1

Requirement 698 Cross Reference

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
C:\POLICY\POL-3P0.DOC

Page 23 of 23
