FUJ00086969

FUJ00086969

Observation from
E&Y audit

Proposed Management Response

Management Summary

The management report shows considerable improvement to the
report from the 2010/11 Ernst & Young annual audit report.

Management has made significant improvement across a number of
areas and have closed out a large number of actions and improved
in those that remain an observation this year.

There are no findings of a high rating but management recognise the

observations and will work to improve our controls and processes
in line with our response.

1. Privileged Access.

© Conduct a review of
privileged access for
in scope applications
(HNG and SAP)

¢ Revisit the need to
grant access at
SAP_ALL and
SAP_NEW levels

¢ Consider creating
system accounts to
run scheduled jobs
for POLSAP

¢ Periodic review of
the activities where
SAP_ALL and
SAP_NEW are
retained.

e Implement
monitoring controls
for 3" party
suppliers

HNG

Management have significantly improved the processes around
‘Privileged Access’ since the 2010/11 Ernst & Young audit. There
are a number of controls in place to monitor system privileges. The
levels of privileges required to maintain the infrastructure and
service are deemed appropriate.

A standardised approach to access control now exists including
reporting for Privileged Access Utilisation. Further mitigating
controls are in place through the use of iKeys and issuing
procedures.

The POL Information Security Management Forum reviews the
adequacy and controls in place regularly as part of its BAU function
and reviews appropriateness of access against best practice for
centre of excellence models.

Management considers these controls to be appropriate at this point
and considers this recommendation closed with no further action to
be taken. This will be signed off as an acceptable risk by the POL
Risk & Compliance committee.

POLSAP

Management accept the risk where SAP_ALL and SAP_NEW
accounts have been assigned. This accepted working practice
facilitates timely maintenance of our 24/7 service. This will be
signed off as an acceptable risk by the POL Risk & Compliance
committee.

Review and Management of privileged access through these
accounts is undertaken with all requests being approved via POL
Service Management and reviewed on a monthly basis with the
suppliers and POL Information Security. The use of privileged
accounts for scheduled jobs, the process for scrutiny of this use and
of dialogue use will be reviewed to assure ourselves that the
appropriate controls are in place.

FUJ00086969

FUJ00086969

Action 1. POL to review the existing process for monitoring the
accounts identified in this report. Owner Richard Barber. Target
completion date 31/07/2012.

2. User Admin Process.

¢ Strengthen the HNG
user admin process
to retain approval
documentation for
access to the HNG
estate

e Strengthen the
POLSAP user admin
process to retain
approval
documentation for
temporary set up for
cash centres.

© Consider a
monitoring process
for temporary set up
for cash centres.

¢ Re-communicate to
cash centre managers
that the standard
process should be
followed for
permanent access
modifications for
SAPADS.

¢ Implement a
monitoring process
for privileged users
within cash centres.

e Where user admin is
controlled by a 3
party ensure
adequate monitoring
controls.

¢ For HNG and
POLSAP strengthen
the process for
revocation of access
when employees
contracts are
terminated.

HNG

The process managing the User Admin process has been improved
since the last audit. However, we will monitor the process regarding
retention of that the documentation supporting request, set-up and
approval.

Action 2. Fujitsu will review the process regarding documentation
retention and conduct internal audit. Owner Bill Membery. Target
completion date 31/08/2012.

Action 3a. Fujitsu will review the Joiner/Leaver/Transfer process.
Owner Mark Arnold. Target completion date 31/08/2012.

Action 3b. Findings to be reviewed with POL/POA leadership and
course of action/next steps agreed 30/11/2012

POLSAP

The administration process within Cash Centres has been improved
following the last audit. However we will review the process for
retention of documentation supporting the request, approval and set-
up of temporary assignments to cash centre users. Additionally we
will re-communicate to cash centre managers that the standardised
process for user administration should be strictly followed and we
will consider a monitoring process as part of this review both within
POL and with 3" party suppliers.

Action 4. Review the process for documentation retention of
temporary assignments to cash centre users and consider and
determine if a monitoring process of cash centre approvals and 3"
party suppliers is required. Owner Sid Hadadi. Target Completion
date 30/05/2012

Action 5. Communication to cash centre managers of the
requirement to follow the standardised process for user
administration. Owner Sid Hadadi. Target Completion date
30/05/2012

3. Change Management
Process.

Management have improved the process regarding change
management since the last audit. However, both POL and Fujitsu

FUJ00086969

FUJ00086969

¢ To enhance the
change management
process by retained
evidence of
authorisation, testing
and approval to
promote
accountability.

¢ Define the
responsibilities of all
parties involved.

¢ Increase involvement
in the change
management process
specifically for fixes
and maintenance
changes.

© Describe the overall
change management
process within
documentation.

¢ Implement controls
to ensure that 3
party service
providers are in place
and in operation.

will amend their processes to ensure recording the name of the
individual authorising, testing or approving changes as identified by
the audit this year.

POL does not always engage in the authorisation, testing and
approval of maintenance changes or fixes as these are often BAU
maintenance of the system (e.g. anti virus updates etc.) However,
POL will produce a policy that states what POL must approve in
this regard to offer clarity on the matter.

POL have a document change process described in the Manage
Improvement & Change document. Our suppliers have there own
processes, but all suppliers follow a change process for introducing
change. Management considers this position to be acceptable. This
will be signed off as an acceptable risk by the POL Risk &
Compliance committee.

Action 6. POL to amend processes so that names are recorded in
the authorisation, testing and approval process of changes. . Owner
Sid Hadadi. Target Completion date 30/05/2012

Action 7a. Fujitsu will review process. Owner Mark Arnold.
Target Completion date 31/08/2012

Action 7b. Findings to be reviewed with POL/POA leadership and
course of action/next steps agreed 30/11/2012

4. Periodic user access
reviews and monitoring
controls.

¢ To consider the
implementation of a
periodic review of
appropriate access
for HNG and
POLSAP.

Although POL recognises Ernst & Young’s recommendation both
POL and Fujitsu agree that the existing process we have in place is
sufficient at this point for its purpose and consider this
recommendation closed. This will be signed off as an acceptable risk
by the POL Risk & Compliance committee.

5. Generic Privileged
Accounts.

¢ To consider a review
of generic privileged
accounts and
supporting
infrastructure to
determine if they can
be replaced by
individual accounts.

The process and use of generic privileged accounts known to a
number of users in the various teams will be reviewed by both POL
Head of Information Security and Fujitsu’s Chief Information
Security Officer. If it is deemed acceptable that these practices are
within our level of risk then we will state that and close this
recommendation. This will be signed off as an acceptable risk by the
POL Risk & Compliance committee.

Action 8. POL Head of Information Security and Fujitsu Chief
Information Security Officer to review the existing practice with

FUJ00086969

FUJ00086969

To consider
monitoring controls
to help ensure robust
security practices are
in place, particularly
3" party suppliers.

regard to generic password usage and deem if an acceptable risk or
not. Owner. Richard Barber and Howard Pritchard. Target
Completion Date 31/07/2012.

6. Password parameters.

Review and update
the “RMG Security
Policy’ to meet the
generally accepted
password settings as
described in the
management letter.
Consider one single
policy rather than
multiple policies and
guidelines.
Configure network,
application and
infrastructure
components in line
with the policy.

With regards to POL having multiple security policies, the POL
Information Security Management Forum will review all security
policies within the POL domain annually as part of its BAU role. As
a result of the 2010/11 audit performed POL accepts the risk of
these multiple security policies. This will be signed off as an
acceptable risk by the POL Risk & Compliance committee.

POL does not own the RMG Information Security policy. Under
the agreement between POL and RMG for Separation POL must
abide by RMG policies for shared infrastructure and systems until
Separation is completed, in March 2014 at which point POL will
review and implement appropriate policies on an annual basis. Until
that time, Management consider the confirmation of the network,
application and supplier infrastructure to be appropriate for the
policy requirements.

Action 9. POL to review annually the multiple information security
policies through the Information Management Security Forum.
Owner Richard Barber. Target Completion date 31/5/14.

7. Logical Security
Settings.

To consider specific
encrypted password
settings for all Oracle
databases and
disabling the default
administrator
account and creating
a new one with a
strong password.

To consider
monitoring controls
to help ensure robust
security practices are
in place, particularly
3" party suppliers.

POL and Fujitsu do not consider this observation with regard to
Logical Security Settings to be a risk. However, both POL Head of
Information Security and Fujitsu’s Chief Information Security
Officer will review the controls at the Information Security
Management Forum and confirm the currently accepted position.
This will be signed off as an acceptable risk by the POL Risk &
Compliance committee.

Action 10. POL and Fujitsu to review the controls around Logical
Security Settings and deem if this risk is acceptable. Owner Richard
Barber. Target Completion Date 31/07/2012.

