To:

From: Newsome Pete[/o=Exchange/ou=AdminGroup1/cn=Recipients/cn=Blagg-NewsomeP]

Sent: Mon 6/24/2013 11:23:12 AM (UTC)
Subject: FW: SRO05 Spot Review

Simon
Hope Gareth’s answer helps...
Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Post Office Account, Fujitsu UK&l

E-Mail: pete newsome@
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 24 June 2013 12:20

To: Newsome Pete

Cc: Davidson James

Subject: RE: SROO5 Spot Review

Pete,

FUJ00087066
FUJ00087066

The email from lan Henderson relates to how Cash Rems are processed and whether a Branch is configured to send surplus cash
back by Special Delivery or it is collected by a VAN. This configuration is controlled by REF Data and is changed as a standard Ref

Data update of non-core links by POL.

This is nothing to do with amending BRDB.

Hope that helps — and hopefully P&BA give a similar response!

I’m in Chesterfield at the moment, but will be heading back south soon.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

U

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity
Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
FUJ00087066
FUJ00087066

From: Newsome Pete

Sent: 24 June 2013 12:12

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Davidson James

Subject: FW: SRO05 Spot Review

Gareth

Simon may need answers to these questions. So far he is going to send to P&BA to ask for answers first.
Regards

Pete

Pete Newsome

Business Change Manager

Post Office Account, Fujitsu UK&l
Tel.
E-Mail: pete. newsome@e.
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
From: Simon Baker
Sent: 24 June 2013 11:53
To: Newsome Pete

Subject: Fw: SROO5 Spot Review

From: Ian Henderson
Sent: Monday, June 24, 2013
To: Steve Allchorn

Cc: Susan Crichton; Lesley J Sewell; Alwen Lyons; rosie.gaisford
Baker; 'Ron Warmington! {7
Subject: RE: SROO5 Spot Review

Simon

“I <rosie.gaisford¢

Steve
I've gone through all of these documents.
I note that the key message in your response is a s follows:
"The POL Bracknell Team had no access to the live system therefore could not conduct any of these transactions."

However, the previously supplied emails appear to suggest that the Bracknell team could process, possibly on an overnight basis,
transactions on the live system.

Please see the following extracted quotes from the emails previously supplied:

“Although it is rarely done it is possible to journal from branch cash accounts. There are possible P&BA concerns about
how this would be perceived and how disputes would be resolved.”

“Can you permanently disable the ACC for Forsinard PO 2528401 with immediate effect please?
I visited this branch yesterday and have sent money back for which the value of £5550 is still sitting in the suspense
account.

This branch does not have CViT transportation and despatch rem pouches via shared service only and this was the
cause of their previous TC's being issued which then resulted in a special audit being undertaken"

“Apologies all round. This was originally fastracked to the incorrect FAD code.
This will be done overnight and the Branch should be able to scan Special Delivery barcodes tomorrow."
FUJ00087066
FUJ00087066

"Howard - can you remove the non-core links for Parcelforce services from this branch asap please.)
Giro deposits/withdrawals are a little different - the Partner screen contains these because I believe a couple of the
Partner branches do offer these services to specific business customers so we were asked to put these on.
Unfortunately it can't be varied for individual branches - all Partners see the same screens."

At the moment your response is inconsistent with what is being said in emails sent between Bracknell team members.

Can you look into this urgently and address this apparent inconsistency in an updated response?

I will also look again at the email data and see if anything else clarifies the issue

Many thanks
With best wishes

Tan R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

inh GR _

Website: http://advancedforensics.com
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be privileged. If you
and delete the email and

are not the intended recipient, please notify me at irk
any attachments.

} Ian Henderson Ron Warmington

; Simon Baker

Cc: Susan Crichton; Lesley J Sewell; Alwen Lyons; rosie.gaisford:.
Subject: SROO5 Spot Review

Ron/lan

As discussed during our conference call this morning, attached is a re-worked response to Spot Review 5 and supporting Fujitsu
security and controls documentation.

Although probably of limited value, also attached is the Horizon test plan from 2008 - providing some relevance as what projects
were in the test space during 2008 - and an example test plan and report document (MoneyGram, 2006).

Regards

Steve Allchorn I IT & Change Lead CPMO Manager
saz anne ss OSSUANSORSHAUNSENALIRINNUELAR SRE

i) 2™ Fir, Central Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

&)
Y

6)
©
FUJ00087066
FUJ00087066

Post Office stories

& @postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact
the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely
those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V
9HQ.

JBI OSAKA IO II OI IO III IIIS I III IIIA II ADI A DIA ISSO I SOS IOS IASI OS OBO IIIA

peeeeeeenennceecereceeecereccreceretcccceccccccccecceeceecceccccrcrts
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact

the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely
those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V
9HQ.
