FUJ00079213

FUJ00079213
ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001
Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96
Document Title: EPOSS Logical Object Model
Document Type: Design
Abstract: This document is based on analysis of EPOSS functional
requirements and presents the logical object model of the
solution for input into the EPOSS physical design process.
Status: Draft
Distribution: Jan Morrison
Richard Sloggett
John Englezou
Steven Warwick
Roy Smethurst
Dennis Sandor
Library
Author: Chris Plunkett
Approval Authority: Alan Ward Technical Manager
Signature/Date:
Quality Authority: David Groom Quality Manager
Signature/Date:
Comments to: Chris Plunkett
Comments by: 16/8/96
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 9

© 1996 ICL Pathway Ltd
FUJ00079213

FUJ00079213
ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001
Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96

0 DOCUMENT CONTROL
0.1 DOCUMENT HISTORY

Version Date Reason
0.2 ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS

Reference Vers Date Title Source

BO1 ScheduleBOl] 4 14/5/96 Contract - Schedule BO1 - Requirements
FSS — CR/FSP/003 5 27/6/96 I DSS/POCL Functional Specification

0.3. ABBREVIATIONS

EPOSS EPOS Service
APS Automated Products Service

0.4 CHANGES IN THIS VERSION

Add Cash Account Day class + reference it in EPOSS Session.
Add transaction reversal cross reference attribute.

Add EPOSS Token classes.

Modify EPOSS Product Attributes.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 9
FUJ00079213
FUJ00079213

ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001
Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96

0.5 TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 SCOPE...
2 OBJECT MODEL OVERVIEW.

UAAnaA aR ERE

aa

28.1 TRANSACTION RECORDING m
DATA AGGREGATION FOR ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING

-3 TRANSACTION TYPES
3 CLASS DIAGRAMS ..

Cauds

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 9
FUJ00079213

FUJ00079213

ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001

Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96

2.1

2.2

2.3

SCOPE

This document describes the logical object model for EPOSS.
It will be extended to cover EPOSS support for APS.

It is under development and is as such incomplete, eg. token classes such as magnetic
card, OCR, and EFTPOS have yet to be added and the content of transactions of
different transactions types has not yet been addressed..

OBJECT MODEL OVERVIEW

The object model is maintained using the Select OMT tool. Class are to be found later
in the document. A separate document lists the class catalogue (classes, attributes and
operations).

At an overview level, the object model classes are:

Asset

Client
Customer
Ttem
Organisation
People
Transaction

This section is organised by these classes.

GENERAL

All classes of object inherit the All Objects Inherit class attributes: date/time, PO
outlet, employee and register. All updates to objects cause a new object instance to be
created thus generating an audit trail.

This inheritance has not been modelled explicitly as it would confuse the model.

ASSET

The only asset class for EPOSS is Register - the equipment where transactions are
recorded.

CLIENT

Client is shown in the model as an external agent, there is no EPOSS data for this
class.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 9
FUJ00079213

FUJ00079213

ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001

Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96

2.4

2.5

2.5.1

2.5.2

2.6

CUSTOMER

Customer is shown in the model as an external agent, there is no EPOSS data for this
class.

ITEM

PRODUCTS
The attributes of Product are those generally required to support EPOSS transactions.
Purely for reference currently, Product is associated with ARTS Item.

There may be a mandatory product relationship ensuring two Products are traded
together, eg. postal order + fee.

There may be Pre-Conditions within a Session governing use of a Product eg. you
can’t redeem TV License Stamps unless there is a preceeding TV License Sale in the
session.

There are many types of details that require to be captured for different products.
Where they cannot be classified as general EPOSS attributes, they are described by
Additional Information. This mechanism will also be used to support Automated
Payment Products.

Products are used to define to settlement products as well as traded products and
services. Method of Payment is not identified separately.

PRODUCT TOKENS

Product Tokens link Products to generic Tokens (magnetic cards or bar codes). The
required Check Digit Method is referenced by individual Product Tokens. The
encoding and validation rules of the data on the token are defined by Product Token
Elements associated with the Product Token. These may be linked to Additional
Information through the Name attribute of both classes. through this link,
electronically read data may be used to default product transaction data.

ORGANISATION

A PO Outlet will have a Fiscal Calendar associated with it which will include Cash
Account Week dates for reporting, however, these can be overridden thus an actual
Cash Account Week class is required to record instances.

Although strictly part of the Transaction (CO) class, it is useful to reference Stock
Units here. Each PO Outlet may operate several Stock Units which are the basic
unit of accountability and as such these require to be balanced on demand eg. when
handing operation over to another employee. This introduces the concept of the
Balance Period. There may be several Balance Periods for a Stock Unit within a
Cash Account Week.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 9
FUJ00079213

FUJ00079213

ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001

Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96

2.7

2.8

2.8.1

PEOPLE

There is considerable functionality around Employees relating to auditing system
activity.

Employees need to log on to the system to use it and to be attached to a Stock Unit
(they have physical responsibility for stock units). Password and stock unit attachment
maintenance is a function of the Employee class.

Access to system functions is limited by role and employee role relationships are
maintained by this class.

TRANSACTION

TRANSACTION RECORDING
Trading is organised using the following physical and logical hierarchies:

Physical Hierarchy

PO Outlet

EmployeeI Register I Stock Unit

Logical Hierarchy

Cash Account Week

Balance Period

Session

Transaction Line

I

Transaction Line Additional Information

Business is transacted in a PO Outlet by an Employee at a Register using a Stock
Unit.

The PO Outlet reporting period is by Cash Account Week. Each PO Outlet may
operate several Stock Units. Employees are responsible for the contents of Stock
Units so they need to be reconciled (balanced) on demand (eg. at end of shift) - the
Balance Period defines the periods between committed balances. There may be many
Balance Periods for a particular Stock Unit within a Cash Account Week.

During a Balance Period, business is transacted in Sessions. Only one Transaction
Type may be transacted within a Session eg. Sale, Refund/Reversal, Remittance,
Transfer.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 9
FUJ00079213

FUJ00079213

ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001

Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96

2.8.2

Transaction Lines are grouped into Sessions. Transaction Lines refer to Products.
Transaction Line Additional Information is added for Products which have
Additional Information.

DATA AGGREGATION FOR ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING

A hierarchy is provided to aggregate raw transaction information for accounting and
reporting purposes. This structure includes Accounting & Reporting Tables,
Groups and Sub-Groups. Any of these Accounting & Reporting Elements may
reference a Product and Transaction Type.

Report Elements accumulate values from the next level down in the hierarchy, ie.
subordinate Report Elements, and Transactions of the specified Transaction Type
and Product. Accumulation will be bounded by other criteria such as Cash Account
Week, Balance Period or Client Reporting Period for APs.

2.8.2.1 STOCK UNIT BALANCING

This section discusses only the data processing aspects of stock unit accounting and
reporting. The preparation of reports to individual formats eg. the Stock Unit Balance
Report is excluded.

Stock Unit Balances can be produced at any time during the stock unit balancing
period. This requires input data to be prepared such as opening balances and the
values and volumes of business transacted for the current balance period plus various
aggregates of this raw information. The base data is classified by transaction type and
product. The accounting and reporting hierarchy described above is used to drive the
aggregation process.

When a stock unit is rolled over to a new balance period, value stock item balances
are rolled over creating opening balance transactions. Non-value stock items and
suspense accounts do not have stock unit level balances.

For a trail balance (stock unit snapshot), the stock unit is not rolled over to a new
balancing period.

An employee can make corrections to stock levels by entering adjustment
transactions,

Adjustments to suspense accounts can also be input.

Stock declarations can be made at any time during a stock unit balancing period,
however, one must be made as part of the final balancing process. From a declaration,
any loss or gain in stock is calculated and compensating adjustment transactions are
input.

Cash declarations can be made at any time during a stock unit balancing period,
however, one must be made as part of the final balancing process and it must be after
the corresponding stock declaration. From a cash declaration, any loss or gain in cash
value is calculated and an adjustment transaction is input.

The final balance is produced (as for trial balance) and the stock unit is rolled over to
anew balancing period and optionally cash account week.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 9
FUJ00079213
FUJ00079213

ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001
Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96

2.8.2.2, OFFICE BALANCING

Office Balances can be produced at any time during the cash account week. This
requires input data to be prepared such as opening balances and the values and
volumes of business transacted for the current cash account week plus various
aggregates of this raw information. The base data is classified by transaction type and
product. The accounting and reporting hierarchy described above is used to drive the
aggregation process.

As part of end of cash account week process, once balanced, a office can be rolled
over into a new balance period (cash account week). All stock units must have been
rolled over before this can occur. Stock units designated as dormant are rolled over
automatically. Value stock item and suspense account outlet level balances are rolled
over creating opening balance transactions. Non-value stock items do not have outlet
level balances.

An office snapshot is an office balance that isn’t rolled over.
2.8.3. TRANSACTION TYPES

2.8.3.1 SALES

A sales transaction is started from a menu selection or input from another peripheral,
eg. a token swipe. Whatever the route, the required transaction is identified and the
Transaction Line is created. For token input, transaction details are defaulted using
token data.

If the Register is in a ready state, a Session is automatically started before the
Transaction Line is created..

The Employee may input transaction details either manually or through another
peripheral modifying the Transaction Line as appropriate. Some details may have
been already input from the initial peripheral activity. Some items may have a
mandatory links with another which may result in several Transaction Lines being
generated. Transaction Line details default to Product data and those input by the
user are validated against the same source.

Further Transactions Lines can be created in the same fashion.

[Drafting Note] Do any Transaction Lines need to be committed immediately?
Further transactions can be started within the session.

Transaction Lines can be voided if the Product allows.

A Session can be voided, in effect voiding each Transaction Line within it. The rules
governing voidable transactions apply.

Finally a Session is completed - it must balance before this can occur. Completion
commits all the Transaction Lines within it.
2.8.3.2, REFUNDS/RETURNS

Refund/Reversal Sessions are started from the menu. Products can be selected as for
Sales (above).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 9
FUJ00079213
FUJ00079213

ICL Pathway EPOSS Logical Object Model Ref: TD/DES/0001
Version: 0.2
Date: 24/11/96

Whilst refunds don’t refer to a previous transaction, some reversals do. An operation
to retrieve a previous Transaction Line is provided to support this.

[Drafting Note] What is the scope of transaction retrieval (stock unit v outlet, current
balance period v cash account week, current client reporting period)?

2.8.3.3, REMITTANCES

Remittance Sessions are started from the menu. The direction of the remittance
session (In or Out) is selected. Individual Value Stock Item Products are selected and
the amount and/or value being remitted is entered generating a Transaction Line
within the Session. This process may be repeated for further Products adding
Transaction Lines to the Session.

2.8.3.4 TRANSFERS

Transfer Sessions are started from the menu. The type of transfer session (Request, In
or Out) is selected. Individual Value Stock Item Products are selected and the amount
and/or value being transferred is entered generating a Transaction Line within the
Session. This process may be repeated for further Products adding Transaction
Lines to the Session.

Transfer Requests do not generate Transaction Lines as they do not effect the stock
unit contents and only generate printed output.
2.8.3.5 ADJUSTMENTS

Adjustments are used to input corrections and in the final analysis to account for
losses and gains. They affect the contents of a Stock Unit and can apply to any
Product.

Adjustment Sessions are started from the menu. Individual Products are selected and
the amount and/or value of the adjustment plus its effect (In or Out) is entered
generating a Transaction Line within the Session. This process may be repeated for
further Products adding Transaction Lines to the Session.

3 CLASS DIAGRAMS

Relevant Class Diagrams are appended.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 9
