FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137
ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97
Document Title: Fraud Risk Management Service Design
Document Type: Specification
Abstract: A description of the ICL Pathway Fraud Risk
Management Service including: Service functionality,
availability and Contracting Authorities requirements.
Status: First Issue.
Distribution: Pathway
J.C. C. Dicks
M. H. Bennett
A. E. Oppenheim
S. M. Muchow
Horizon
G Lewis
P Jenner
Author: Graham King, Risk Manager
Approval Authority: M.H.Bennett, Director, Quality and Risk
Signature/Date:
Quality Authority: D. Groom, Quality Manager
Signature/Date:
Programme Delivery
Authority: Gareth Lewis
Signature/Date:
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 20

© 1997 ICL Pathway Ltd
ICL Pathway

FUJ00152137
FUJ00152137

Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

0 DOCUMENT CONTROL

0.1

DOCUMENT HISTORY

Version
0.1
0.2
0.3

0.4
0.5.
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4
2.0
21
3.0

Date

04/07/96
15/07/96
24/07/96

31/07/96
22/08/96
27/08/96
09/09/96
20/09/96

10/10/96
17/10/96
14/11/96
10/3/97

23/04/97

Reason
Preliminary draft for discussion
Revised draft incorporating Customer comments

Revised draft incorporating Contracting Authorities
Requirements and enhanced service description.

Final Draft

Final Revisions Incorporated for sign-off
Final Draft

Revisions incorporated for sign-off.

Final review by Contracting Authorities comments
incorporated.

Internal review Comments incorporated

Draft for Customer Review

First Issue

Incorporates changes to reports for Release 1 CCN136
CCN136 agreed

0.2 ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS

Ref.

Versio Date Title Source

n

CRIFSP/004 =. 2.0

Schedule B01

RS/SPE/0003

PAS/STR/000

2

27/09/96 Service Architecture ICL Pathway
Design Document

Requirement 895 Contracting
Authorities

Extended Verification ICL Pathway
Process Requirement

ICL Pathway Release ICL Pathway
Contents Description

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 20
FUJ00152137
FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

0.3 ABBREVIATIONS

BA Benefits Agency

CMS Card Management System

DSS Department of Social Security

FRMS Fraud Risk Management Service

MIS Management Information System
PACE Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984
PAS Payment Authorisation System

PDA Programme Delivery Authority

POCL Post Office Counters Limited

PUN Pick Up Notice

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 20
FUJ00152137
FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0

Date: 23/04/97

0.4 Changes

Expected Changes

A further requirement to report uniquely for the SSA.
Reports to be capable of being by BA or POCL region.
These changes will be subject to change control.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

0.5 TABLE OF CONTENT

1 Introduction

2 Scope.
3 Service Functionality.
3.1 Database Service... ceeececece es eeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeeeeeeeeneeeeetieeeneseeeeeseneeees

3.2 Support of Suspect Fraud Incident Investigation..............0.0..eeeee
3.3 Data Capture.
3.4 System Availability.

3.5 Routine Monitoring and Reporting.............2...0.:cccceeeceeesceeceeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeee
3.5.1 MOnthly...... eee cece ce ceeceeceeeeceeeeeeseeeeeeseeeeeeeceeceeeeseeeeeseeeeceeeeeeeeeees
3.5.2 Quarterly... ec ecececeeccseeeeeeseeeseseeeesescaceeseeeeeececeneteesreseteceeseerentacee
3.5.3 Annually...

3.6 Exception Monitoring and Reportin:

3.7 Reporting Dependencies. .................ceccececeseeseeeeseeceeeeseeseeseceeeseeeeeeeees

4 Organisation, Infrastructure and Processes.

4.1 ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Organisation....................00+

4.2 Responsibilities of ICL Pathway FRMS.
4.2.1 Director, Quality and Risk: :
4.2.2 Risk Managel................c cece eee ec eecee cece eeeeeeeeceeceeceeeeeeeceeceeeeeeeaeeae
4.2.3 Fraud Analysis Team..........0..:cccccecceeeceeeeseeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees

5 Roles and Responsibilities.
5.1 ICL Pathway FRMS.
5.2 Contracting Authorities.

5.3 ProC@CUres............cccececececseceseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeessceseeeeseesseseseseeeeesseseseenetesesesasecees

5.3.1 Actual and Suspected Fraud...........eececcceeceeeeeeneeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeee
5.4 Staff Vetting
5.5 Training and Awareness.
5.6 Internal Controls.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 20
FUJ00152137
FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

1 Introduction

The ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service is intended to be an
integral part of a joint programme between the Contracting Authorities and
ICL Pathway working in partnership to minimise the potential and actual
occurrence of fraud in the overall service. A separate joint author paper is
required to define this partnership approach to Fraud Risk Management. The
document will cover working processes and organisational structure for
agreement by ICL Pathway and the Contracting Authorities. The Fraud Risk
Management Service will be introduced through a phased release of FRMS
functionality as defined in the ICL Pathway Release Contents Description
(PAS/STR/0002).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 20
FUJ00152137
FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0

Date: 23/04/97

2 Scope

The Fraud Risk Management Service (FRMS) will deal with the identification,
monitoring and management of all fraud associated with / relevant to the ICL
Pathway system and service via appropriate and effective controls (technical,
managerial, procedural and personnel). Additionally ICL Pathway FRMS will
provide information to support the investigation of individual fraudulent
Benefit encashment transactions upon being informed that an investigation is
in progress.

ICL Pathway’s policy is to identify and minimise the risk of residual fraud
relevant to the ICL Pathway system. It is recognised that the possibility of
fraud incidents exists, both within and outside the boundaries of ICL
Pathway’s responsibility.

The strategy underlying ICL Pathway’s approach is to identify high risk
situations and opportunities for change to the overall service environment
where necessary in order to:

e Minimise fraud exposure within the ICL Pathway solution.

e Provide an information service to the Contracting Authorities to aid in the
investigation and in the minimisation of fraud. This will include the
provision of information relating to individual fraudulent Benefit
encashment transactions.

The objectives of the FRMS are to contribute to the reduction of fraud by

providing:

e the Contracting Authorities with trend, pattern analysis which will aid the
identification of fraud risk and appropriate mitigation actions;

e information that will aid in the investigation of actual and / or potential fraud
incidents to the appropriate investigative body;

e certification relevant to operation of the system as required by PACE Act,
1984, Section 69;

e fraud awareness training to Post Office trainers, in conjunction with the
Contracting Authorities;

e information for the investigation of system boundary related incidents and
trends, e.g. counter staff related fraud, with the aim of developing improved
procedures;

e analysis of incidents and trends within ICL Pathway’s control, in order to
develop enhancements to the system;

e facilities to change the service operation and controls where appropriate to
reduce identified fraud risk;

e adequate resources to provide the FRMS.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

3.1

3.1.

3.1

3.1

3.1

3.1

3.1

3.1

3.1

3.1

Service Functionality

The FRMS will comprise three core elements:

« A management information system, to analyse trends, fraud losses and to

profile data patterns. This is part of ICL Pathway’s own MIS.

e A fraud monitoring system, to profile abnormal or irregular activity and

identify potential or actual fraud incidents.

e Organisation, infrastructure and procedures to operate the service

effectively and provide support for Contracting Authorities fraud control.

Database Service

The Fraud Risk Management Service will incorporate a database that will:

11

1.2

1.3

14

1.5

1.6

17

1.8

19

Allow transaction data identified as representing real or suspected fraud
to be copied from the Data Warehouse to the FRMS Database. This will
enable flags to be applied to monitor the progress of investigation.

Access and retrieve information relating to actual and suspected fraud,
identified by the Contracting Authorities through a flagging system for
agreement by ICL Pathway and the Contracting Authorities.

Allow flags to be altered that are attached to transactions which have
been investigated for actual or suspected fraud. This will allocate the
transaction and value to one of a number of loss categories, and will
allow full accounting, fraud analysis and assist in the determination of
liability.

Access and retrieve additional data required to support Fraud Risk
Management from other ICL Pathway systems if such details will not
routinely be available in the Data Warehouse.

Allow ad hoc trawls of the system for particular data types and reports to
enable FRMS to monitor emerging trends and patterns of criminal activity.

Ensure that flagged data relating to actual and suspected fraud is
retained within the FRM database for a period of time beyond that used
for normal transactions to enable a full and detailed ICL Pathway fraud
history to be compiled and used to determine future fraud prevention
measures and as evidence.

Analyse the database using rules to identify potential fraud incidents;
these rules require definition and agreement by ICL Pathway and the
Contracting Authorities.

Allow the production of a range of standard and exception reports
designed by ICL Pathway FRMS, in consultation with the Contracting
Authorities.

Be sufficiently flexible to automatically produce reports according to
parameters set, and allow ICL Pathway FRMS to amend these overnight.
This only applies to the FRMS Database, those reports being produced

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

3.1.1.10
3.1.1.11

from other parts of the system will require a longer notice period.
Be accessed by dedicated PC workstations.

Be fully auditable, password protected and able to produce activity logs
for each operator including terminal ID, log on/off times and files/records
accessed. This system will be automatic requiring no manual input by ICL
Pathway FRMS management.

3.2 Support of Suspect Fraud Incident Investigation

ICL Pathway FRMS will use all reasonable endeavours to assist with the
investigation of repudiated Benefit Encashment claims, including the timely
provision of relevant data and documents from ICL Pathway’s systems or
services in a format suitable for analysis by the Contracting Authorities
Investigative body.

3.3. Data Capture

3.3.1.1

3.3.1.2

3.3.1.3

3.3.1.4

3.3.1.5

In order to carry out effective Fraud Risk Management the system will be
able to access and retrieve all information associated with fraudulent or
suspect transactions. If all the information required in the data capture list
is not available within the data warehouse, the FRM system will be able to
retrieve it from other Pathway databases such as PAS and CMS.

The placing of fraud flags on particular transactions will instigate
automatic retrieval of associated items of information, which may or may
not be held within the data warehouse. ICL Pathway FRMS will only be
able to place these flags once the repudiated transaction becomes known
to the FRMS. Therefore a mechanism for passing this information from
the Contracting Authorities to ICL Pathway FRMS is required. ICL
Pathway FRMS will inform the Contracting Authorities of suspect events
through an exception reporting process as ICL Pathway becomes aware
of such occurrences.

Once a fraud has been confirmed and a final category flag relating to that
event has been posted, the event will be linked to any appropriate
previous reports. This will allow a full fraud and transaction history to be
built up within the FRMS Database and hard copy reports to be produced.

The ICL Pathway FRMS Database will also allow information to be
recalled by using any of the individual pieces of data as the search field.

The system will also have access control to indicate and prevent an ICL
Pathway FRMS operator of the FRMS Database accessing data relating
to an account deemed to be sensitive by the Contracting Authorities i.e. a
National Sensitivity Indicator is set, unless authorised to do so.

3.4 System Availability

The system will have been fully tested and ICL Pathway FRMS operator
training completed in the required timescales; these are for agreement by ICL
Pathway and the Contracting Authorities.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

3.5

The system will be available for on-line use by ICL Pathway FRMS staff from
Monday to Friday 0900 - 1700, and at other times by prior arrangement
although it will be possible to request and schedule reports outside these
times subject to an escalation route. The escalation route requires definition
and agreement by ICL Pathway and the Contracting Authorities. The method
of report requests requires agreement by ICL Pathway and the Contracting
Authorities and will be included in the joint authorship paper described in
Section 1 of this document.

ICL Pathway FRMS will have on-line access to all ICL Pathway systems to
retrieve data items in order to support urgent investigations and limit losses
from major incidents.

Reports will be limited to those described in this document and Requirement
895.

Routine Monitoring and Reporting

ICL Pathway MIS will be capable of providing both standard and ad hoc reports.

3.5.1
3.5.1.1

3.5.1.2

These reports will utilise the information captured by the MIS and will be able
to report both at individual transaction and aggregated levels. It is expected
that the key areas requiring analysis will change over time as the profile of
attempted and actual fraudulent transactions changes and is identified. Key
information fields used as categories for initial analysis of fraudulent
transactions will include:

e Transaction volumes, values

¢ Location

e Transaction details, including type (foreign or home), time etc.
e Cardholder Details, e.g. Name and address

e Customer Type, e.g. Alternate Payee, Permanent Agent.

User identification, e.g. Counter Clerk, Help Desk Operator,
Authorised representative of DSS or POCL.

Standard reports will initially be those outlined in Requirement 895. ICL
Pathway FRMS reporting will provide the flexibility for reports to change,
within reasonable timescales, as the system evolves. The reports will be
provided to a central Contracting Authorities location; further distribution and
the related costs will be borne by the Contracting Authorities.

ICL Pathway will also make available additional reports which will initially
include the following information:

Monthly

Total number and value of fraudulent Permanent and Casual agent
transactions by region and as a percentage of all fraudulent agent
transactions.

Total number and value of fraudulent transactions by loss category by
region.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 20
FUJ00152137
FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0

Date: 23/04/97

3.5.1.3 Total number and value of fraudulent transactions by region.
3.5.1.4. Monthly Trends Report

This report will be run for one or more regions and will contain the
following four sections.

The user will input the month number and the region name(s).
Impounded Cards

This section lists the number of cards that have been impounded by
reason code. The regional total is also displayed.

Total Transactions

This section displays the total number and value of transactions by
benefit code by post office and the totals for the region. A second
section of the report will show the total number and value of
transactions by benefit type nationally.

Foreign Transactions

This section displays the total number and value of foreign
transactions by customer type (payee role). The regional totals are
also shown.

Extended Verification Transactions

The section of the report relating to the Extended Verification Process
is described in the document, Extended Verification Process
Requirement, RS/SPE/0003.

These reports will be presented as a month on month trend to assist in
highlighting any significant changes.

3.5.2 Quarterly

3.5.2.1. Total number and value of all fraudulent transactions.

3.5.2.2 Average value of fraudulent transactions.

3.5.2.3. Total number and value of fraudulent transactions by benefit type.
3.5.2.4 Average value of fraudulent transactions by benefit type.

3.5.2.5 Total number and value of fraudulent transactions by customer type
(Beneficiary, Appointee, Casual Agent, Permanent Agent).

3.5.2.6 I Total number and value of fraud losses by type of loss category (not
defined at this stage, but expected to include Card: lost, stolen,
counterfeit).

3.5.2.7. Total number and value of foreign transactions by loss category.
3.5.2.8 List of PUNs reported not received but card collected.

3.5.2.9 At the end of each quarter a report incorporating the above in an
aggregated format will be provided. The report will also detail any
identified trends that fall outside of the above reports. These will be
compared against previous reports in order to monitor long term fraud
control.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

3.5.3
3.5.3.1

3.6

3.6.1.1

Annually

At the end of each ICL Pathway financial year a full report incorporating
the above quarterly reports in an aggregated format will be provided. ICL
Pathway FRMS will also report on the identified trends occurring during
the year. These will be compared against previous years in order to
monitor long term fraud control.

All reports will be subject to agreement and joint change control. They will be
forwarded to a central Contracting Authorities location; distribution, and the
related costs will be borne by the Contracting Authorities.

All reports will be delivered in an electronic format.
Exception Monitoring and Reporting

The ICL Pathway Service Architecture will be capable of monitoring and
reporting exception circumstances to the Contracting Authorities. Exact
circumstances will be agreed by ICL Pathway and the Contracting Authorities.
Information will be distributed internally by the Contracting Authorities.

Ad hoc analysis and reports will be provided, subject to agreement by the
Contracting Authorities and ICL Pathway. They will include specific fraud
analyses and encashment monitoring, in order to aid the Contracting
Authorities fraud investigations. Results of the routine monitoring and
reporting will be used as input to the format and content of the ad hoc reports.

These are:
Post Offices where the number of individual frauds are > than X.

3.6.1.2 Post Offices where levels of fraud loss is > X.

3.6.1.3 Post Offices where there is a higher than X incidence of fraudulent

foreign and / or agent encashments. This will most likely be expressed as
a percentage of total office transactions.

3.6.1.4 Post Offices where fraud losses > than X occur involving a particular type

of Identification Document (where recorded) or extended verification
procedures.

3.6.1.5. Manual Input Report - Weekly

This report lists Post Offices where the proportion of manual input
transactions exceeded a limit on any one day during the week input. The
report only displays the daily figures that exceed the limit and the
percentage for the whole week. The user will input the week number.

The report is sorted by weekly average descending.

The report actually retrieves data for all days for the post offices. The
user will use the BusinessObjects Alerter function to hide those days that
are below the limit.

The use of Alerters is a basic user technique which is covered in the
BusinessObjects User Training Course.

3.6.1.6 Post Offices where more than X fraudulent transactions are made by

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

Casual Agents.

3.6.1.7 Post Offices where more than X percentage of all transactions are

fraudulent

3.6.1.8 Lost and Stolen Payment Card Report - Monthly

This report will be run monthly with the pre-determined rolling period set
at six (6) months. It will report those Customers who have lost or had
stolen two (2) or more Payment Cards in the rolling period.

It will contain Cardholder name, NINO, first line of address and Post
Code. The report will be ordered by Post Code

3.6.1.9 I Customers who have been issued with a second reminder PUN.

3.6.1.10 Customers who have infringed Change of Nominated Post Office rules (re

3.7

CR/FSP/004, Service Architecture Design Document, Version 2.0,
27/09/96).

ICL Pathway will distribute one copy of these reports to a central Contracting
Authorities location. Further replication and distribution will be at the
expense of the Contracting Authorities.

All reports will be subject to agreement and joint change control and delivered
in an electronic format.

Reporting Dependencies

ICL Pathway will only be able to provide a full FRM reporting and
investigation support capability for those cases investigated by the
Contracting Authorities if the Contracting Authorities notifies ICL Pathway of
the instigation of an investigation into a suspected fraud.

The reports used will change over time and will therefore be subject to
agreement between the Contracting Authorities and ICL Pathway.

For the purpose of this document region is defined as being POCL Region
unless otherwise stated.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

4.2

Organisation, Infrastructure and Processes

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Organisation

The ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management service will have the following
structure:

External Pathway
Director
Pathway yp I Quality and Risk
Security Board Management

Security Advisors

t
\
. I Security
-—_—_—————————_>
Risk Manager I \ Manager
ke —
\
\
Girobank Fraud Analysis} I Security
FRM Services Team Administration
L i —
\

As illustrated specialist fraud and risk management services (notably those
offered by Girobank) will be used to supplement Pathway’s internal
resources.

Use of external services enables:
e specialist skills to be invoked whenever needed,

e additional resources to be made available at short notice for special
investigations,

¢ independent review of ICL Pathway’s own procedures, and

e ICL Pathway to keep abreast of new methods for reducing risk.
Responsibilities of ICL Pathway FRMS

This section outlines the responsibilities of the key individuals. All members
of ICL Pathway FRMS will liaise, at the appropriate level, with the designated
Contracting Authorities team(s) in order to facilitate the cross fertilisation of
ideas and communication of information.

ICL Pathway will report all identified actual or suspected internal fraud
incidents that occur within ICL Pathway’s domain to the Contracting

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0

Date: 23/04/97

Authorities as they become known.
4.2.1 Director, Quality and Risk
The responsibilities of the Director, Quality and Risk Management, include:
© overall control of security throughout ICL Pathway,
e provision of adequate resources for security,

e being Chairman of the ICL Pathway Security Board (see section
3.2),

© approval authority for ICL Pathway’s Security Policy,

e approval authority for ICL Pathway’s Security Standards,

¢ overall control of fraud and risk management functions,

e establishing the security interface with the BA and POCL, and

e establishing the security interface with all subcontractors.
4.2.2 Risk Manager

ICL Pathway’s Risk Manager’s responsibilities include:
e identifying and categorising risks associated with fraud,
e analysis of trend incidents and fraud losses,

e fraud monitoring, to profile abnormal or irregular encashment
patterns and identify potential fraud incidents,

e establishing internal controls to reduce the potential for fraud,

e in consultation with the Contracting Authorities establish external
controls for the use of the ICL Pathway FRMS,

¢ operate in accordance with agreed Change Control Process,

e reducing the potential for fraud perpetrated through collusion,

e reviewing security policy and standards from a fraud perspective,
e providing the point of contact for reporting all fraud incidents,

e recording and investigating fraud incidents,

¢ management of the provision of information for the investigation of
fraud incidents,

managing the supporting FRM services, and
liaison with external authorities in the event of fraud.
4.2.3. Fraud Analysis Team

The fraud analysis team carry out investigations relating to the cause of
reconciliation failures and analysis of other fraud events as directed by the
Risk Manager. The team’s activities include:

e collecting and examining system evidence in support of
investigations,

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 20

ICL Pathway

FUJ00152137
FUJ00152137

Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001
Version: 3.0

Date: 23/04/97

reporting on the findings of all investigations,

quantifying the amounts involved in fraud incidents,
identifying persons implicated in fraud perpetration,
recommending measures which could reduce fraud risks, and

working with specialist external bodies developing new techniques.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

5

5.2

5.3

Roles and Responsibilities
ICL Pathway FRMS

ICL Pathway’s policy is to identify and minimise the risk of residual fraud
relevant to the ICL Pathway system. It is recognised that the possibility of
fraud incidents exists, both within and outside the boundaries of ICL
Pathway’s responsibility.

The FRMS will concentrate on the identification, monitoring and management
of encashment fraud within the Benefit Payment Service and the POCL
Strategic Infrastructure. ICL Pathway is responsible for the investigation of
reconciliation failures, in order to identify where liability may exist and identify
whether fraud was involved. Should fraud be suspected ICL Pathway will
inform the Contracting Authorities and provide the relevant system
information. ICL Pathway will use all reasonable endeavours to assist with
the investigation of repudiated Benefit Encashment claims, including the
timely provision of relevant data and documents from ICL Pathway’s systems
or services in a format suitable for analysis by the Contracting Authorities’
Investigative body.

Contracting Authorities

The Contracting Authorities will be required to carry out investigation of
Repudiation incidents and provide all reasonable support to assist ICL
Pathway in the investigation of card issue failures. The Contracting
Authorities will report events to ICL Pathway FRMS through the ICL Pathway
Risk Manager. The Contracting Authorities will inform ICL Pathway,
electronically, of any fraudulent or potentially fraudulent transaction they are
investigating or have been informed of. This information will include flags
relating to the type of fraud, suspected or actual.

The above information is required in order that ICL Pathway are able to
provide the Contracting Authorities with the information to support the
investigation of individual fraudulent Benefit encashment claims.

Procedures

The following procedures will be developed to ensure that communication
channels between the Contracting Authorities designated security
representatives and ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management are developed
with a partnership approach and information required to minimise fraud
opportunities is easily utilised by all parties:-

a) Joint monthly meetings to discuss performance, fraud incidents and trends.
b) Quarterly Review processes to assess the effectiveness of :
e Report formats and content applicability.

e Mechanism for the investigation of fraudulent incidents.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

5.3.1

e Other financial cards systems and any potential or impending changes
in the industry.

e A process which will identify and evaluate potential changes to
procedures and operations, for input to the joint change control process.
This will ensure all information sources are used when determining fraud
control measures.

c) An ongoing process of joint working and co-operation to ensure the best
utilisation of joint assets.

d) A process for the exchange of information to support fraud investigations.
Actual and Suspected Fraud

On receipt of reports of suspected fraudulent incidents the officer to whom the
report has been made, usually a BA local office staff member, will need to
flag the transaction concerned to indicate a suspected fraud and, once the
case has been investigated, to amend the flag to confirm the outcome of the
investigation and, where appropriate, allocate the amount to one of a number
of pre-determined loss categories.

It is envisaged that the flagging of fraud will require three separate actions by
BA staff:

A. Notification - Why has the flag been raised - By whom - when.
(Suspected)

B. Outcome - What was proved to have happened.
(Actual)

C. Allocation of Liability

A. Notification :

As soon as an incident is reported the person to whom the report has been
made must raise a flag through the procedure to be defined by the
Contracting Authorities. This report is required to be passed to the ICL
Pathway FRMS Database to identify the event under investigation and allow
the retrieval and exchange of information to support the investigative process.
Notification of actual and suspected fraud will be through an electronic
interface.

The following are examples of key data requirements:

e Date
¢ Time
Transaction Identifier
— To Whom the report was made
e Reason e.g.:
— Transaction repudiated
— Extended Verification Procedure failure

These will need agreement based upon the experience gained during the live
operation of the service.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 20
FUJ00152137

FUJ00152137

ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management Service Design Ref: RS/SPE/0001

Version: 3.0
Date: 23/04/97

5.4

5.5

5.6
5.6.1.1

B. Outcome :

Should it be established that fraud has not taken place the suspected fraud
indicator will be removed and the transaction left as normal. The various
categories require agreement with the Contracting Authorities.

When all action is complete a final closure category will replace the original
notification flag and enable the system to record the established outcome.
This will determine which category the amount fraudulently lost is posted to,
which statistics will be affected and ultimately liability.

C. Allocation of Liability:

When finally allocated to a particular loss category the system will be able to
produce reports totalling each category.

ICL Pathway require the Contracting Authorities to identify the party
responsible for agreeing liability in order that a process may be defined and
implemented. ICL Pathway’s responsibility for agreeing fraud liability rests
with the Risk Manager.

Staff Vetting

All ICL Pathway FRMS staff will be vetted in accordance with the ICL
Pathway vetting procedures.

Training and Awareness

ICL Pathway FRMS will provide reasonable support to the Contracting
Authorities training and awareness fraud control programmes.

Internal Controls
All PCs will be subject to access controls and located in a physically

controlled environment with a full audit trail enabling ICL Pathway FRMS
management to trace what information was accessed and by whom.

5.6.1.2 A separate Data Protection entry in the FRMS Database may also be

required and the production of full operator activity sheets will allow
management to investigate any alleged breaches of the Act. It will be
possible to show who requested a report, when the request was made,
when the information was made available and when it was finally
accessed and, where appropriate, printed.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 20
