FUJ00079142

FUJ00079142

Acceptance Incident Analysis Acceptance Incident Number:
Form Pts

Analysis Sequence Number: 1

Acceptance Test Name (from Acceptance Test Specification): Implementation A — User Training &
Procedures

Analysed Acceptance Incident Severity IHigh/ Medium / Low-+-None Circle as

(may be different from original Pathway assessment) jappropriate)

Single or Double Key? Single (Authorities involved DSS-/ POCL

Analysis of Acceptance Incident (cause of the Incident and likelihood of recurrence and consequences):

The content and delivery of the Managers’ Training course is generally satisfactory for
he system as provided and the system is generally conformant with the requirements.
There is, however, the valuable opportunity to further improve both the systems and
he associated training in the light of Live Trial experience.

The fundamental issue from early exposure is that the balancing process is too
complicated for a high proportion of sub post offices. It needs to be simplified, in terms
lof the necessary POCL business rules to be followed, and made easier to operate, in
lerms of quantity of work to be performed and the HCI of some display screens
commensurate with this group’s knowledge of POCL business rules and initial IT skills.

hen essential changes have been defined and successfully implemented then the
associated training and documentation will be brought into line and the Criterion 534/1,
he subject of this Acceptance Incident, will be re-evaluated and cleared by
lassessment of the revised training.

INote that ICL Pathway categorises this Acceptance Incident at Medium. It is highly
desirable that POCL business rules implemented by the sub postmaster balancing
process are simplified, rather than relying on the sub postmaster population learning to
luse the system as provided from experience.

ln order to deliver changes into the Live Trial period itself and have the opportunity to
confirm that the changes are effective before National Roll Out, time is of the essence.
[To this end POCL and Pathway have developed eight Change Requests (formally
received today, 2 June) CRs P91 through P98. Pathway wishes to place on record its
hanks for the co-operation and speed shown by POCL in the joint development of
hese CRs.

Pathway will implement these Change Requests in two groups:

FUJ00079142

FUJ00079142

lk CR91, 92, 93, 95, 97, 98

The CRs in this group are planned to implemented prior to the manufactured build
of the NRO system (known as the End Of Live Trial (EOLT aka LT2) Build. That is
they will be tested as part of the scheduled LT2 Business Integration Test.

Note that for CR P92 the changes referenced as 1 and 2b will be implemented.
The changes relate to MiMAN operation and equivalent changes will not be
implemented for MiECCO.

Je CR94, 96
It is intended these CRs will be implemented and tested within Pathway during the

Live Trial period separately from the LT2 BIT sequence. They will down-loaded for
use as soon after the start of NRO as possible.

Receipts.

[The charges to be made for implementing these CRs will be specified on the CCN.

Number of continuation pages: 0

In parallel ICL Pathway will develop changes to the PPD, the Reports & Receipts}
document, the amendments to the Automated Counter Procedure elements of theI
Horizon System User Guide, the Managers’ Training course and course material and
he Quick Reference Guides. These changes will be approved through the clearance}
lof this Acceptance Incident and will not delay the approvals of the PPD and Reports &I

(Clearance Action (action needed to clear the Acceptance Incident which arose as a result of a fault in the Deliverables or
IServices. If the Acceptance Incident was not due to a fault in the Deliverables or Services, then the status recorded as “resolved"):

The eight CRs will be implemented in two groups as described above and associated
changes made to documentation and training. The changes to training will be
lassessed.

Number of continuation pages: 0

Acceptance Incident (Analysed / Retest /Resolved (circle as appropriate)
Status

ll propose the Clearance Action and IICL Pathway Test Manager(Date: 2/6/99
Incident Status described above

Pam Barlow
I accept / reject the Clearance Horizon Acceptance Date:
Action and Incident Status Test Manager

described above

Horizon Acceptance Incident Manager __ : (Date:

