FUJ00226297
FUJ00226297

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: Thur 01/10/2009 1:35:45 PM (UTC)

To: Chambers Anne O: ~ 3
Subject: RE: Draft paper on Horizon Data Integrity
Anne,

Thanks for that. I'd like to keep the doc at the level it is currently at rather than go into the detail of your note. However,
I am certainly looking for feedback to correct anywhere where I’ve got it wrong.

From a quick skim through your note, I don’t think it contradicts what I’ve said - just adds in a lot more detail as to how
AP recovery can work. If you disagree, then please let me know!

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged, Fujitsu Services
does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Chambers Anne O

Sent: 01 October 2009 14:05

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: RE: Draft paper on Horizon Data Integrity

Have just remembered that there may have been a change, since I wrote the note, regarding the point that the
Commit is done - I think it may now be earlier than it was before (because of Gift Vouchers / Postal orders). Let
me know if you want this checking.

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 01 October 2009 12:39

To: Hodgkinson Allan AJ; Worrell Jeremy; Chambers Anne O; Sweeting Jim; Bailey Chris
Ce: Smith Latoya; Burton John

Subject: Draft paper on Horizon Data Integrity

All,
FUJ00226297
FUJ00226297

Jeremy has asked me to produce a paper on Horizon Data Integrity to support POL in refuting claims by
Postmasters that Horizon is causing money to be lost.

I’ve put together an initial draft. I’ve ignored the “front bits” for now and am currently looking for comments
on the technical aspects and in particular the comments in yellow.

<< File: xxxSECxxxyyyy.HorizonDatalntegrity.doc >>
Also if anyone is aware of other material to feed in on this I would be grateful. I had a quick look through
PVCS and a search through the TED and found nothing useful there.

Note that this is NOT yet in a state to go to POL and once I’ve had feedback from all of you (and anyone else
you think is relevant), Jeremy needs to pass this through Commercial.

We have a conf call with POL 4pm on Friday, so I'd appreciate any feedback by lunch time Friday (which is
when I committed to providing this to Jeremy).

Jeremy: Do you have any thoughts as to where this should be lodged in Dimensions. I assume we need to
make this a formal document, but if not, I'm happy to remove the “front bits”.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITS

http Tuk fujitsu

ss Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

F

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged.
Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
