FUJ00156646
FUJ00156646

From: Phillips Edward[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PHILLIPSE2]
Sent: Mon 01/10/2012 12:26:51 PM (UTC)
To: JonesDavidMf=ssSCGRO.™™—~S
Subject: FW: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
Attachment: Horizon spreadsheet HR.xIs
Attachment: Horizon Integrity DRAFT v2.doc
David
Just to let you know I have had this. I will speak to James.
Ed

From: Davidson James

Sent: 01 October 2012 13:00

To: Phillips Edward

Subject: FW: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
Importance: High

Ed — the documents attached.

James Davidson
Delivery Executive
Post Office Account

Fujitsu

Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN
Mobile:
Email james davidson’

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

wv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 01 October 2012 12:13

To: Thompson Peter; Pritchard Howard

Cc: Newsome Pete; Jenkins Gareth GI; Davidson James
Subject: FW: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT
Importance: High

Please be aware of this urgent request from POL legal team; guidance will be required.

From: Jarnail A Singh E
Sent: 01 October 2012 12:05
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Thomas Penny; Hugh Flemington; martin smith
Subject: HORIZON FUJITSU REPORT VERY URGENT

Dear Mr Jenkins

Welcome from your annual leave and your assistance advice in the past prosecution cases and I

understand you are assisting my colleagues at present. I need your urgent assist judge has this
morning ordered the prosecution to have the following report ready to be served within Seven

days.
FUJ00156646
FUJ00156646

On advise Post Office Limited have appointed one of their investigators, Helen Rose as disclosure
officer dealing with Horizon challenges. She has prepared a document/ spread sheet detailing all
such cases, past and present, approximately 20 in total, although none thus far successfully argued
in court. Post Office limited have been advised to obtain, an experts report from Fujitsu UK, the
Horizon system developers, confirming the system is robust. Post Office Limited maintain the
system is robust, but in light of adverse publicity, from legal viewpoint is that defence should be
given opportunity to test the system, should they still wish to do so, on consideration of our report.

You will need to consider the Disclosure officers document/spread sheet(see attachments) and
need to address in your report the following issues:

1) A description of the horizon system (In laymen’s' terms so that a jury can understand what it is
and what it does)

2) A declaration that it has yet to be attacked successfully.

3) Asummary of the basic attacks made on the system concentrating on any expert reports served
in past cases. If there are none then state that no expert has yet been found by any defence team
civil or criminal to attack the system. (at the moment there seems to be little more than griping by
defendants that the system must be at fault without saying how)

4) Plainly, like all accounting systems, there is room for human error (Keying in wrong amounts
etc) are you able to state that innocent human error is unlikely to produce the types of
discrepancies of many thousands of pounds over many months.

If you require any further information or wish to discuss please do not hesitate to contact me.
Regards

Jarnail Singh
prosecution Lawyer
-

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
HQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the
registered company number 02154540

