FUJ00122701

FUJ00122701
Message
From: Thomas Penny [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=THOMASP]
Sent: 01/02/2010 13:45:15
To: Lillywhite Tom [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LILLYWHITET]; Jenkins Gareth GI
[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=GARETH JENKINS]
Subject: PORTERS AVENUE ISSUES

Attachments: Report 19 10 09.pdf

Tom/Gareth
Questions:

* Should we be putting maximum energy into these cases bearing in mind the current
questions relating to the integrity of the Horizon system?
¢ If so, how do we man and fund it?

* Both the attachments to this note and that provided in the West Byfleet e-mail are
pretty worrying, to say the least.

Penny

Penny,

I've now read through this report. I agree that there probably needs to be some further
investigation here. However I'm also aware that this is potentially highly

political. Therefore I'm not sure how best to address this. We don't really want to be
seen to be undermining a POL prosecution!

I think the report does raise a number of questions and without a detailed analysis of
the various transactions over the period described (it's about 6 to 9 months) it is
difficult to progress. The cost of such an analysis is likely to be high. We did some
similar analysis over a two month period for a Defence Accountant about a year ago and
were paid for it (Pete Sewell set it up - Anne did most of the hard work and I presented
it to the accountant). I think we need some management guidance on this.

Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

Report 19 10 09 - DEFENCE EXPERT ACCOUNTANT’S REPORT ATTACHED (SAME EXPERT AS WEST
BYFLEET CASE)

REQUEST FROM DEFENCE - ACCOUNTANT’S EXPERT REQUESTS
Dear Juliet McFarlane,
Thank you for your time on the phone this morning.

I appreciate your agreement to assist me as the IT expert instructed in this case to
obtain from the Post Office or their Horizon system service providers Fujitsu:

1. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss how to
FUJ00122701
FUJ00122701

access an unencrypted version of the transaction files held on the
sub-post office terminals related to the Hosi case.
2. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss the
structure of the transaction files, the mechanisms by which they are
synchronized with the central system and the records h centrally.
3. An unencrypted copy of full transaction log of the sub-post office
terminals related to the Hosi case.
4. An unencrypted copy of the corresponding records held by the central
system
I am happy for the relevant person to contact me direct using my e-mail or mobile phone
number in the first instance.
As I am sure you will appreciate, Jeffrey Davidson, in his accountant’s expert report,
has identified some unusual features in the pattern of accounting discrepancies, and in
the limited window available before 2nd February, time is of the essence in
investigating whether these unusual features relate to the actual pattern of underlying
transactions and possible system problems.
Yours,
Charles McLachlan
Director
Amsphere Consulting Ltd
90 Fenchurch Street
London EC3M 4BY
United Kingdom
Switchbog

Direct:
Mobile
E-mail
Web : www.amsphere.co
Amsphere Limited is a Carbon Offset Partner of Pure: The Clean Planet Trust. We have
offset all of the carbon emissions associated with our business activities P Please
consider the environment before printing this email

The information in this e-mail and any attachment(s) is confidential and may be legally
privileged. This e-mail is intended solely for the addressee. If you are not the
addressee, dissemination, copying or other use of this e-mail or any of its content is
strictly prohibited and may be unlawful. you are not the intended recipient please
inform the sender immediately and destroy the e-mail and any copies. All liability for
viruses is excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law. Any views expressed in this
message are those of the individual sender. No contract may be construed by this e-mail

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
