FUJ00172085

FUJ00172085
From: Holmes Alan[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HOLMESA]
Sent: Thur 22/05/2014 10:24:15 AM (UTC)
To: Kay Alastair.
Ce: Barnes Gerald.
Subject: RE: ARQ - Duplicate Data
Alastair

Nothing to add other than an bit more detail on the reason for the duplicates which you can pass on to POL or keep in
reserve as you see fit.

Under old Horizon, Riposte Audit data was extracted from the correspondence servers (central transaction data
repositories) by an agent harvester process. These were then written as flat files which were picked up and secured
by the audit server. The design of this harvester was such that duplicate records were allowed to be included in the
files. This would only happen in exception conditions and basically operated as a fail safe i.e. err on the side of
including duplicates rather than potentially losing data.

The design of this harvester, and the fact that duplicates may appear is described in a very old Horizon document :
“High Level Design of Common Agents” AD/DES/042 §2

Alan

From: Kay Alastair

Sent: 22 May 2014 10:36

To: Holmes Alan

Subject: ARQ - Duplicate Data

Hi Alan
Do you have anything to add to Gerald’s statement please ?

Please bear in mind this is going out to the customer ...... and clarity would be much appreciated

Regards
ALASTAIR

From: Barnes Gerald

Sent: 21 May 2014 12:30

To: CSPOA Security

Cc: Muir Jason; Kay Alastair; Dunks Andy; Amaratunga Kumudu; Holmes Alan; Spurgeon Adam; Lea Brian
Subject: RE: ARQ - Duplicate Data

Hi,

There is some problem with riposte where occasionally transactions are collected twice in different files. Alan
can probably add some more details on this.

Yesterday I identified the two files containing the duplicate transactions and confirmed that the first 4
duplicates and the last duplicate were all identical transactions.

It is almost certain that all the other duplicates are identical too but to be thorough you sho!
each and every one. I have still got the files out on one of the workstations (one o
cannot remember which) in a folder named duplicates so this can easily be done if desired.

FUJ00172085
FUJ00172085

The key point is duplicate identical transactions are a known issue which
does not matter. However you need to confirm that you have not got duplicate
transactions which are not identical because that would be a new issue of
concern.

Regards,
Gerald Barnes

From: CSPOA Security

Sent: 21 May 2014 12:20

To: Barnes Gerald

Cc: Muir Jason; Kay Alastair; Dunks Andy; Amaratunga Kumudu
Subject: ARQ - Duplicate Data

Hi Gerald,

Hope your well.

We recently sent some ARQ data to POL and in the events files there is duplicate data (similar to the one we looked at
yesterday). This latest occurrence was for ARQ 051-056 Caereithin FAD 166642, returned to them on 9" May 14.

POL have queried the duplicate data and we need to go back to them with an explanation.

Please could you put together a statement/explanation for us that we can send back to them that would explain the reason for
the duplicate data and alleviate any fears that may have arisen over the data?

I have the data available should you wish to review it prior to issuing a statement to POL.
If you need anything else from us then please don’t hesitate to shout.

Many Thanks,

Jason Muir

Security Operations - Security Analyst (POA)

Fujitsu

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

wv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
