FUJ00081214
FUJ00081214

Simpkins

Stewart Snel

Woolgar Mike[/O=I ZEXCHANGEIOUS AISMINGROUP‘/CN= RECIPIENTS/CN=WOOLGARM]
Fri 11/12/2010 9:06:06 AM (UTC)

RE: Receipts and Payments issue

Many thanks...rgds...mike w

From: Wright Mark

Sent: 12 November 2010 08:59

To: Jenkins Gareth GI; Woolgar Mike; Simpkins John
Cc: Stewart Mike

Subject: RE: Receipts and Payments issue

I've been sending a report every week to Pol Duty Manager, Gareth and Mike S. Maybe Duty manager is not sending the
information out inside POL?

Don't think there are any more integrity issues out there that afect the branches, although of course we still have the recovery issues
and duplicate JSNs in the Audit trail.

Regards,
Mark.

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 12 November 2010 08:25

To: Woolgar Mike; Simpkins John; Wright Mark

Subject: RE: Receipts and Payments issue

Mike,

I think it is Mark from SSC that has been running with this rather than John.

Attached is an email he sent to POL with an update yesterday. I think that addresses points 1 and 2 below.

As for point 4, then that is probably down to me. In simple terms I don’t think we can make such a statement. What we can do is
check through what known integrity issues we have and also make the more general statement that when integrity issues arrive,
then they do leave a trail enabling them to be identified and their scope to be ascertained.

John / Mark: Are you aware of any other integrity issues we have not yet fixed? I can’t think of any off the top of my head.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITS

ARBOR TOST CO

ws Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
FUJ00081214
FUJ00081214

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Woolgar Mike

Sent: 12 November 2010 08:15

To: Jenkins Gareth GI; Simpkins John
Subject: FW: Receipts and Payments issue
Importance: High

Guys....are you able to provide answers to the questions from POL (Tony Jamasz ) yesterday

The 3” one I will get hold of

Rgds... mike w

From: Salawu Saheed

Sent: 11 November 2010 20:46

To: Woolgar Mike; Lowther Neneh
Subject: FW: Receipts and Payments issue
Importance: High

Mike
Can you please help with the request below? I am only just seeing it now.

I know Mike was running with this but there should be information about that can answer the queries. It is a good test of how
effective our update process works.

The last email I had on it is attached and I think Mike attends a weekly call with POL. Gareth Jenkins and John Simpkins should be
able to help.

I should be in early tomorrow but have meetings from 09:00.

Regards
Saheed

Saheed Salawu phd, citP, macs
Lead SDM, Service Operations
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

vA Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email? Thanks

From: Antonio Jamasb [mailto:
Sent: 11 November 2010 15:23
To: Salawu Saheed

Subject: Receipts and Payments issue
Importance: High

Saheed I have a conference call on Monday with senior stakeholders within POL
FUJ00081214
FUJ00081214

I need a full update for Receipts and Payments
I need:

Up to date spreadsheet of branches affected and what the discrepancy is.

Up to date list of branches/counters yet to have fix

Any calls logged with HSD re issue

A summary from Fujitsu stating why we have no other integrity issues with Horizon and why we couldn't see
this issue

Sorry to drop this on you.

Tay

Antonio Jamasb
Branch IT Service Manager
Service Delivery

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is
prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

Sirians Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered
number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This email and any attachments are

confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email
from your system.

