FUJ00164802
FUJ00164802

From: "pete.newsome'__ ast

Sent: Thur 04/04/2019 6 AM (UTC)

To: Jonathan Gribben

Ce:

Subject: RE: Court tomorrow [WBDUK-AC.FID123822914]
Jonny

Picked this up yesterday and attended court. Can discuss reasons later if desired.

Pete

Pete Newsome
Account Manager

Account, Fujitsu UK&l

Web: uk.fujitsu.com

My normal working week is Monday to Thursday

I £I¥linIe\c-

I-ClO: Global Intelligence for the ClO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
hv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

To meet with the new GDPR regulations we are reviewing our opt-in preferences. If you are happy to give opt-in consent to continue receiving relevant
marketing communications please visit this link and simply enter your email

From: Jonathan Gribben ¢_
Sent: Tuesday, April 2, 2019 8:50 PM
To: Newsome, Pete ¢

Cc: Defence Legal (Chris Jay,)
Subject: Court tomorrow [WBDUK-AC.FID123822914]

Pete,

Post Office want to keep attendance to a minimum tomorrow, so don't take it the wrong way but please don't attend
Court.

Please let me know that you've picked this up.
Kind regards
Jonny

Jonathan Gribben
Managing Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

FUJ00164802
FUJ00164802

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

son.com

N
DICKINSON J) (in)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is. confidgntial anda, Ly legally privileged and protected by law, petg.news some” “} only is authorised to access
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not pete.newsome.s. please notify jonathan.gribber, Jas soon as pi delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying <a ‘communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use

personal data is in our Privacy Poliey on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP ac
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

pts no liability for any

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB 123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing,
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.comlegal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
