FUJ00232974

FUJ00232974
. Colin Lenton- Smith Ca. Nea
Commercial and Finance Director Q KS ANS

Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd

Forest Road

FELTHAM

MIDDLESEX TW13 7EJ -

ov Inna)

Dear Colin,
Re: BIMS Incidents

“an essential part of everyday life” www.postoffice.co.uk
I

In response to your letter of 25" October 2002, following consultation
with our Business Service Management and Transaction Processing
colleagues, our position regarding your proposals is as follows:

H.R.

Case Law 2:

Given that ultimately there was no transaction error or inaccurate cash
account we accept your proposal that no payment by Fujitsu Services
is due in this instance,

Case Law 3:

As this incident was caused by an error in ECCO prior to migration, we
accept your proposal that no payment by Fujitsu services is appropriate
in this case.

Case Law 4 & 5:

We believe that Fujitsu Services have not been strictly following the
agreed process for TIP interface, and therefore if this had been
adopted there errors would not have occurred, in these instances we
consider Fujitsu Services should bear the whole of the costs.

Case Law 6:

Page 1 of 2 Post Office Ltd
Registered in England Number: 2154540.
Registered Office: Gavrelle House, 2—14 Bunhill Row
London ECIY 8HQ

The Post Office and the Post Office symbol are
registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd in the
UK and other countries.
FUJ00232974
FUJ00232974

Page 2 of 2
Re: BIMS Incidents

There appears to be a contravention of the agreed Contractual

position, which says in Schsdule Go1 para 3.6.5.3 "if the contractor

discovers any Cash Account Error resulting from a Data Error prior to

the relevant record being trnamitted by the Contractor to POLover the

TIP interface, then the Contractor shall not transmit the relevant record ®
but shall retain it and----" in this case we believe the entire liability is

with Fujitsu Services.

Case Law 7:

We accept the propsal to pay £5,160, ( the transaction face value of the
incidents), however the 2™ bullet condition is not agreed, this is
because we believe Fujitsu Services responsibilities include the
reconciliation of errors, the failure to do so has caused additional
administrative problems for POL, therefore if any amounts were
recovered from clients these would be retained by POL to defray these
additional costs.

Case Law 8:

We agree with your proposal and look forward to repayment in the near
future.

I hope that we can now resolve any outstanding issues and bring this

Mike J Hannon

Post Office Ltd

Change and IS

1S Service Management
2nd Floor

Calthorpe House

15-20 Phoenix Place
LONDON WC1X ODG

