FUJ00078882
FUJ00078882

Cc DCOoKe
H. Forvest

Keith Baines
Head of Horizon Commercial
Post Office Counters Ltd
20-23 Greville Street
London Al WI AT
ECIN ISS ; I I I
'
POH-916D

12 November 1999

Dear Keith

I am writing in. response to the rejection of CCN556 that was issued recently in

connection with Change Request R0070 - “To introduce Inland Revenue Order Books Z,
into OBCS." You will be aware that this CCN identifies the man power ‘required for

this change as :-

* OBCS development and unit test - 3-man days

© — System testing - 3 man days (which includes. Barcode conformance tests of 1 man
day)

* CSR+ regression tests - 7 man days

ICL Pathway have been advised of four reasons for rejection and I have addressed
each of them as follows :-

1. "Hard Coding of CPP numbers, and associated development costs"
Although initially raised as a concern over the design approach to OBCS
and EPOSS integration, I understand that POCL have now withdrawn this

comment. The remaining issue is the development cost for this change.

You may be aware that a previous CR B0012 / CCN297 has been accepted
which introduced the bar-coded War Pension.Agency order books.

This was.accepted with a development, testing and introduction cost into
Release 1c of 6.5-man-days. You will see that the resources required for
this identical set of activities are now quoted at:5 man-days, which I believe
is a correct and fair figure.

2. Barcode conformance tests

This additional test activity was introduced into the CCN as an opportunity
for POCL to verify the Inland Revenue barcodes as part of the current
barcode conformance analysis being jointly undertaken. I understand that
POCL do not wish this exercise to be undertaken and the I man-day cost
will’be removed from the CCN.

3. CSR+ Regression Testing

Regression Testing is a key part of the agreed test strategy and is
documented in "Testing-and Integration Strategy” - VI/STR/OO1, and
subsequently in the Release 2 revision VI/STR/006. A further revision is

due for issue covering CSR+. ICL Pathway

Forest Road

Feltham

Middlesex TW13 7E]
Tel +44 (0)181 730 4101
Fax +44 (0}181 730 4124

ICL Pathway Lid
Registered in England no 3011561
Registered Office
KP99novS61 26 Finsbury Square
London EC2A 1SL

These documents describe the role of regression testing as verifying that the
system has not regressed to a worse state following the inuoduction of a
change. In this context, the activity comprises an iterative process of
verifying that the emerging CSR+ baseline is consistent with the live CSR
baseline. Regression testing takes place between major system increments
and comprises a’series,of test cycles

ICL Pathway. has responsibility for the scope of Regression testing between
the contracted baselines of CSR and CSR+. When changes are introduced
into either baseline.there may be an impact on both the CSR + specific
testing and the CSR + Regression testing.

This change request is such an example requiring changes to CSR + test
scripts and Test plans and the subsequent iterative test execution of these
additional scripts during the Regression test cycles against increments CI3
and Cl4

Although individually modest the cumulative effect results in the quoted 7
man-days of effort.

4, Documentation updates

This term describes the internal documentation changes associated with the
system testing of this change. This will cover the production of CSR test
scripts, test results and the release note:

I trust that the'above explanation addresses the concems raised 'in the CCN rejection.
If you are in agreement I will arrange for a revised CCN to be issued with the
amendment as described in 2 above.

I amvalso advised that POCL wish this change to be introduced by the end of
November. You.should note that-the earliest that this change can be effected will still
be quoted at three weeks from CCN acceptance.

Please let me know if there remain any concerns that will delay acceptance of this
change:

Yours sincerely

TONY OPPENHEIM

KP99nov561

FUJ00078882
FUJ00078882
