Pathway

FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

Document Title:

Document Type:

Abstract:

Distribution:

Document Status:

Document Predecessor:

Associated Documents:

Author:

Approval Authority:
Signature/Date:

Comments To:

Comments By:

Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation and
Administration

Developers require an explanation of the local P.O.
reconciliation and administration functions with regard to
the balancing of stock and the production of the Cash
Account and summaries

Pathway Operations / Development and Implementation

Version 1.0

EPOSS Functional Specification Version 3

Richard Brunskill

Rob Petrons, Ian Honnor
RP/11/04 1H/ 11/04

Author

11/04/96

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
Page I of 17
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation — Version: 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96
0. CONTENT
0.1 DOCUMENT HISTORY
Version I Date Reason
1 19/12/95 _I Externally published
0.2 ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS
Version I Date Title Source
3.0 11/03/96 _I EPOSS Functional Specification
0.3 ABBREVIATIONS
ATM Automated Teller Machine
BO Branch Office
CAPTURE Automated system used in some Sub Post Offices
CAW Cash Account Week
COMMCA Community Cash Account Office
COMMCSO __I Community Credit Stock Office
CRU Counters Remittance Unit
DNS Department of National Savings
DSS Department of Social Securit:
DVLA Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authorit
ECCO+ Automated system used in some Post Offices
EPOSS Electronic Point of Sale System
FPO Franchise Post Office
MoP Method of Payment
MSPO Modified Sub Post Office
N/A Not Applicable
NHTO Notes Held To Order
ONCH Overnight Cash holdings
P.O. Post Office
POCL Post Office Counters Ltd
RESHRCA Restricted Hours Cash Account
SPSOCA Sub Post Services Office
SPSOCSO Sub Post Services Office (Credit Stock Office)
TMS Transaction Management Service
VAT Value Added Tax

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC

Page 2 of 17

FUJ00079193
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation — Version: 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96
0.4 CONTENTS
0. CONTENT ......cccesccsseseseseseeeeesseneeseeseseesansesneuseseesseneesansenees 2

1. OVERVIEW...

2. THE STOCK UNIT.

3. THE CASH ACCOUNT

4. SUMMARIES

0.1 DOCUMENT HISTORY........
0.2 ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS.
0.3 ABBREVIATIONS
0.4 CONTENTS

2.1 DESCRIPTION ..

Wubuanunne eh PRR

2.1.10 CASH MANAGEMENT..........

3.1 DESCRIPTION........
3.1.1 OPENING / CLOSING BALANCES.
3.1.2 CASH ACCOUNT TABLES ....

3.1.3 TRIAL BALANCING
3.1.4 ERROR NOTICES
3.1.5 NON COUNTER TRA

4.1 CLIENT SUMMARIES...
4.2 INTERNAL P.O. FORMS

5. GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONG...........ccssssssseeees 13

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 3 of 17
Pathway

FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

1.1

2.1

OVERVIEW

This document gives an explanation of the scope of the local P.O.
reconciliation and administration functions. This is not intended to be a
functional specification, however it aims to give an understanding of the
current business requirement with regard to the balancing processes and
documentation completed on a regular basis at the local P.O.

All the processes described require replication within an automated system.
There is obvious scope to re-engineer some of the internal P.O. forms, which
have been around for a number of years, but in doing this it is important to
remember that the original business functionality must be preserved.

STRUCTURE

Section 2 explains the ‘Stock Unit’

Section 3 explains the “Cash Account’

Section 4 explains the range of documentation currently completed by the
local P.O.

Section 5 contains a glossary of terms and abbreviations.

THE STOCK UNIT

DESCRIPTION

A stock unit is a single, self contained holding supply of value and non-value
stock, including cash. In most PO’s it is held within a drawer which is locked
away, often in a location away from the desk, at the close of business.

Stock units may remain unused for a number of days - where the number of
stock units in a P.O. exceeds the number of staff available for work on a given
day.

Some Sub-postmaster’s ‘create’ stock units for different types of stock which
may be used at specific times of the year, for example, definitive postage
stamps in use throughout the year may be held in a different stock unit to
commemorative issues, which are sold only at certain times.

CONTENTS

A stock unit will generally contain:
¢ cash

value stock

non-value stock

cheques accepted

.
.
.
¢ client documentation accepted - not controlled by the system

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 4 of 17
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation — Version: 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96
2.1.2 ALLOCATION
Staff employed at the counter are allocated a stock unit for which they are
personally responsible. All transactions completed throughout the day must be
recorded and the cash and stock levels reconciled at the end of the day to the
daily cash book and/or any automated system (ECCO+).
The clerk is also responsible for replenishment of stock and cash. Staff cannot
be responsible for more than one stock unit at a given time.
2.1.3 SHARING
In smaller offices or where there is a change of staff at a counter position
during the day (part time working), stock units may be shared.
The smaller office scenario will result in two counter clerks sharing one stock
unit, with both clerks being held responsible for the reconciliation at the end of
the day. With part time working, where a stock unit is handed over to another
clerk during the course of the day, it should be reconciled before it is handed
over, to preserve accountability.
2.1.4 VALUE STOCK
Value stock refers to any stock items which have an intrinsic value in
themselves, for example:
e Cash
e Postage stamps
© Postal orders
e Savings stamps
e TV licence stamps
¢ DVLA licence disks
Value stock is recorded by either value, where a value is present, e.g., postage
stamps, or by serial or reference number where no value is present, e.g.,
DVLA licence disks. Cash is recorded within the P.O. Cash Account in total
only, although for cash management purposes there is a need for note and coin
breakdown by denomination. All value stock is priced to include VAT where
payable.
2.1.5 REMITTANCES IN AND OUT
Stock units are replenished in a number of ways:
¢ Transfers

- stock is transferred between stock units within the same P.O.
¢ Remittances
- stock is remitted in or out of neighbouring PO’s
- stock is ordered by a P.O. from the local CRU or returned to the
local CRU
NB. Cash is treated in exactly the same way as standard value stock.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 5 of 17
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation — Version: 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

Transfers and remittances are accountable transactions and have to be recorded
on the P.O. Cash Account in the appropriate tables to effect an overall P.O.
balance, see 3.1.2

2.16 THE STOCK UNIT BALANCE FORM

Currently, the stock unit balance is represented by the paper balance form.
This balance form consists of four single A4 size pages of tables which
provide a summary of the clerk’s activities during the stock unit balance
period. A copy of this form is also used as the office balance form and this is
the amalgamation of all counter balance forms in a Cash Account week. The
current balance form is represented by the following diagram:

Page 1 Page 2

Recaps
Toute ome per oy)

atte a) Tbe 23)

ranasrsn (ones o) rocore
ope ay)

Peymensa

Page 3 Page 4

Reco

Ea
pune

AReconcaiion

oreo ay (=r dayby senorita)

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 6 of 17
Pathway

FUJ00079193
FUJ00079193

Ref:

Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0

and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

2.1.10

STOCK MANAGEMENT AT LOCAL P.O. LEVEL

Being self contained and reconciled units of cash and stock, local stock
management is a relatively straight forward function. Each office is required to
break down the contents of its stock units on the Cash Account in some detail.
The levels of stock are therefore declared to the Postmaster and to the central
POCL systems. The current manual procedures require the clerks at stock unit
level, or the Postmaster looking at the entire P.O., to keep a close watch on
the levels of stock in hand. This is to ensure that any estimated peaks and
troughs in work are accounted for and levels neither fall below, or exceed the
agreed limits.

Any automated system provided should alert the clerks when excesses or
shortfalls occur and provide an automatic re-ordering of stock, linked directly
to the CRU when required.

MIS-BALANCES

Any mis-balance within the stock unit must be declared, at close of business
by the clerk. Mis-balances are recorded as excesses or shortfalls on the Cash
Account following a stock reconciliation. They are posted to either clerical
records, in a completely manual P.O., or ECCO+ / CAPTURE produced
balances in automated PO.’s.

CASH RECONCILIATION

As cash is considered to be a stock item in itself, where other stock items are
purchased for cash, the overall stock unit balance needs to reflect this type of
transaction, for example:-

Postage stamps purchased with cash would have the effect of increasing the
cash, and reducing the postage stamp elements of the stock unit. The overall
stock balance however, would remain the same.

CASH MANAGEMENT

In order to provide overnight cash holding (ONCH) information to allow
POCL to obtain the maximum investment opportunity, all PO’s must advise
their daily cash in hand position to their respective CRU’s.

Individual PO’s are set limits for their ONCH, as cash held in the

local P.O. environment is not considered for investment by the Bank of
England. Therefore the accuracy of the stock unit balance in relation to the
cash element cannot be understated.

Cash is ordered from, or returned to, the CRU in the same way as any other
stock item. See 2.1.5

CRU’s hold ONCH information for all their affiliated PO’s. This information
is then gathered regionally and nationally to give an overall ONCH picture.
Only notes, (coin is not eligible for investment) held in the CRU, or in transit
to the CRU, is invested with the Bank of

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 7 of 17
Pathway

Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

3.1

England. POCL have been granted “Notes Held To Order’ status which
enables them to invest a ‘declared’ cash figure, without the need to transport
the actual note and coin to the Bank. Any automated system will therefore
need to provide comprehensive and accurate cash management information, to
enable POCL to maximise their investment opportunity.

THE CASH ACCOUNT

DESCRIPTION

The P.O. Cash Account is the definitive summary of all of the business
transacted in the post office during the Cash Account week (CAW) which runs
from start of business on a Thursday to close of business the following
Wednesday. The production of the office Cash Account can only take place
after all activities in that Cash Account week have been completed. This
means that all stock units must have been balanced and rolled over to the next
Cash Account week. The Cash Account production process is therefore carried
out on the data collected for one Cash Account week, whilst the stock units
can be used to serve customers in the next Cash Account week.

An office Cash Account is required for each week, although the facility exists
to leave the account open under certain circumstances, e.g., when a
Subpostmaster goes on holiday, and subsequently completes a Cash Account
for more than one weeks work.

Some offices are non Cash Account offices, where the Cash Account is
completed by a neighbouring office or the CRU.

There are three types of Cash Account, London, Provincial and CRU. Each
gives an overall balance at the office level, however certain products and
schemes do not always overlap.

OPENING / CLOSING BALANCES

The Cash Account week is opened by bringing forward the ‘Balance due to
P.O.’ from the previous week - this figure equates to the contents of all the
office stock units, + or - any discrepancies which will have been previously
declared. Business transacted will be reflected on the receipts and payments
tables, with the stock unit(s) being adjusted as stock is sold or replaced and
cash values increase or decrease. Following close of business on the last day of
the Cash Account week, the value of the office stock units should equate to the
difference between the total of the receipts and payments tables - the ‘Balance
due to P.O.’.

CASH ACCOUNT TABLES

The following table explains the content of the various Cash Account tables
and their interaction with each other. This table is based upon a Provincial

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 8 of 17

FUJ00079193
FUJ00079193
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation — Version: 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96
Cash Account. The London and CRU Cash Accounts have only minor
variations, however the main product allocation is the same.
Table Contents Transferred to
5(b) Value stock in hand breakdown - stamps, Table 5
‘phone cards and postal order fees
10(g) Number of transactions for products where N/A
charging is based upon volume
2 Unclaimed Payments : Table 5
- unpaid cheques returned and not yet
forwarded to clients
- cash shortages not adjusted
- payments accepted after cut-off
3 Uncharged Receipts: Table 5
- cash surpluses not adjusted
- receipts accepted after cut-off
5 Cash and stock vouchers in hand N/A but to
agree with
“Balance due to
P.O.” on
Payments table
Receipts I Receipts for the day, including the opening N/A
balance, brought forward from the previous
weeks Cash Account
Payments I Payments for the day, including the balance NA
due to post office, carried forward to the next
weeks Cash Account
12 Parcel traffic for Inland and International N/A
6 Remittances in from other offices Receipts
9 Remittances out to other offices Payments
10 (f) Girobank transaction breakdown for charging I N/A
& fee purposes

Each product or service within the Cash Account has a unique line entry. Lines
are available for both quantity and value information, although not all products
require both sets of information to be included. Spare lines are available to
allow for the introduction of new products and the inclusion of ‘local schemes’
which are not available in all post offices.

3.1.3 TRIAL BALANCING

Following the initial office Cash Account balance, there is scope for the
postmaster to amend any figures based upon the physical stock and

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 9 of 17
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation — Version: 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

transaction reconciliation in the office. Certain transactions can be reversed
and declared totals on the Cash Account can be amended. However this does
not apply to all transactions. Automated payments which have been collected
by POCL and passed to the clients prior to the production of the weeks Cash
Account cannot be reversed, as the information has already been processed.
Any resulting discrepancy for this type of transaction will have to be carried
forward and resolved in the final POCL / Client settlement process.

It should be noted that the facility to reverse automated BA transaction in the
future will not exist and any other reversals will have to follow a precise audit
trail as the information regarding the transaction will already have been passed
to TMS.

3.1.4 ERROR NOTICES

Error notices are used to bring to account any discrepancies between the P.O.
and the client. For example, a Girobank inpayment may have been input for
the incorrect value on the client summary and passed to Girobank for
processing with a subsequent error in settlement. When this error is
discovered, (in this case by Girobank’s internal reconciliation processes), an
accountable adjustment, an ‘error notice’, is passed between the bank and
POCL. This error notice is then brought to account on the Cash Account at the
office where the error occurred, on either the receipts or payments table,
depending upon the error type. The reconciliation picture is completed when
the error notice is offset against an excess or shortfall declared by the
postmaster, from the week of the original error, in the unclaimed payments or
uncharged receipts tables.

3.1.5 NON COUNTER TRANSACTIONS

Transactions completed away from the counter, e.g., metered mail receipts,
National Lottery sales, ATM withdrawals are entered on the Cash Account.
Therefore any automated system provided must allow the entry of non-counter
transactions to enable the production of the Cash Account.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 10 of 17
Pathway

FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

4. SUMMARIES

41 CLIENT SUMMARIES

Client transaction documentation is listed on client summaries which are
despatched to the individual clients and used for reconciliation and
administration purposes. Clients require a variety of information to be quoted
dependent upon the type of transaction, e.g., some require only value and
volume information whist others require a significant amount of personal
detail. Each stock unit produces its own set of client summaries at a frequency
agreed with the client. The following set of summaries is representative of the
output currently produced.

Daily Summaries

e DNS Deposits

¢ DNS Withdrawals

e DNS Daily
Summary (DNS
56)

e Girobank Deposits

© Girobank
Withdrawals

e Telephone
Accounts Paid

¢ Pensions and
Allowances Add
List

e Local Schemes

Weekly Summaries Other Summaries

e DNS Weekly e Milk Tokens
Summary (DNS 54) Reconciliation
¢ MVLs-V10 e MVLs Reconciliation
e MVLs-VI11
¢ MVLs - V570
Summary
¢ Pensions and
Allowances
¢ DSS Girocheques
Paid

All summaries, with the exception of those for Girobank and DNS in ECCO+ /
CAPTURE offices, are completed clerically.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC

Page 11 of 17
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

4.2 INTERNAL P.O. FORMS

Transaction documentation requiring processing by POCL is listed on various
summary forms.

¢ Cheque Summary

Cheques accepted for payment on a range of client services are despatched to
POCL Data Central for processing and clearing through the banking system.

¢ Paid Postal Order Summary

Postal Orders either redeemed in their own right or accepted against products
or services .

e Cheque Encashment Summary

Cheques drawn on bank accounts other than the Alliance & Leicester group
(Girobank etc.).

¢ Redeemed Stamp Summary

Savings stamps redeemed and accepted in part payment for client products and
services.

¢ Girobank Transfer Summary
Girobank transfers accepted as payment for client products and services.
In addition to the above, there is a range of batch control vouchers and internal

receipts and dockets produced to control documentation either locally within
the P.O. or to control documentation as it travels around the POCL system.

5. GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS

Agency Post Office —_ Post office run by an agent. Many (possibly

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 12 of 17
Pathway

and Administration

Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
Date: 05/04/96

Agent

Attach
(User to stock unit)

Balance
(stock unit or office)

Branch Manager or
Sub-Postmaster
(agent)

Branch Office
(BO)

Cash Account

Cash Account
Calendar

more than 1500) use Capture or similar
technology, and a few larger branches use
ECCO+. Agency offices are generally free to
use whichever working procedures suit. Some
postmasters use more than one stock unit at a
time for accounting convenience and ease of
use. A rigorous stock unit balancing procedure
is enforced at their discretion.

The sub-postmaster. Not a POCL employee.

The action of associating a user with a stock
unit. It can be used in the context of attaching a
user to a stock unit or a stock unit to a user.
Although more than one user can be attached to
a stock unit at a time, the converse is not
allowed. A user can only be attached to a single
stock unit at a time.

The accounting and reporting procedure which
provides a reconciliation of all transactions and
stock movements against the actual stock and
cash held.

Member of staff in the post office branch
responsible for the overall running of the
branch.

Also known as a Crown Office. A post office
actually owned and operated by POCL. Most
use the ECCO+ technology although some non-
automated branches implement “team
balancing”.

The definitive weekly summary of all
transaction activities within a post office
branch. One is produced each week by every
post office branch. The layout and content is
similar for all offices. The main differences are
between London and Provincial localities and
between Crown and Agency offices.

The Cash Account year begins sometime in
March and ends on approximately the same
date the following year. It normally consists of
52 Cash Account weeks, but it is not unusual to

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

CAOFFICE\0001.DOC

Page 13 of 17

FUJ00079193
FUJ00079193
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

have 53.

Cash Account Week — Usually a period running from Thursday to

(CAW) Wednesday. It normally excludes Sunday and
consists of six working days. At certain times
of the year, like Christmas and other bank
holidays, it is likely that the Cash Account
week will not be six working days long.

Client Organisation which “owns” a service provided
at the post office counter. Clients include BA,
BT, British Gas etc.

Community Cash Town & Rural Community Cash Account

Office Office - same as SPSOCA but run more as a

(COMMCA) community service than a business.

Community Credit Town and Rural Community Credit Stock

Stock Office Office - same as SPSOCSO but run more as a
(COMMCSO) community service than a business.
Counter Clerk Member of staff in the post office branch

responsible for serving customers at the
counter. In Crown offices the clerk has some
personal accountability for the stock and cash

used.
Customer Member of the public
Detach (a stock The mechanism which removes the association
unit) between the clerk and the stock unit to which

he is attached.

Duty (a clerk) A clerk’s duty is the period which begins when
he attaches to a stock unit and ends when he
detaches.

EPOSS Previously referred to as EPOS and OSS. It is

the branch automation infrastructure which
supports serving customers, counter and office
administration and accounting.

Franchise post Operate under a Franchise contract with a large
office retailer, usually within retailer’s premises.
(FPO)

Individual In many Crown offices, MSPOs and Franchises
Accountability the method of working imposes complete

accountability on each member of staff for all

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 14 of 17
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

value stock and cash that they use. In practice
this means that a clerk has sole use and
responsibility for a stock unit.

In order to relieve himself from the
responsibility for a stock unit the clerk must
first balance it.

Method of Payment A product which is defined as an allowable way
(MoP) of settling (or being used in part settlement) of

a transaction session.

Modified Sub Post A converted ex-Crown office operated by an

Office Agent usually offering longer opening hours
(MSPO) with retail goods.
Outlet The post office branch or other location where

EPOSS is in use.

Post Office Types There are two main classes of post offices:-
Branch (or Crown) and Agency. The number
of Branch Offices has been reduced greatly in
recent years as they have been converted to
Agency status.

Product Is an item that can be transacted or a service
that is provided. It includes stock and cash
items, other methods of payment and open
value services.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 15 of 17
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

Regional Variations — The range of services offered at post offices
differs between London and Provincial (i.e.
non-London) branches.

Remittances Remittances are movements of stock and cash
between a stock unit and an external remittance
centre.

Restricted Hours Town & Rural restricted hours offices, open

Cash Account between 4 and 20 hours per week (provide a

(RESHRCA) service where it is hard to recruit full-time sub-
postmasters).

Reversal A transaction which is used to compensate for

and correct errors.

Revisions Revisions is the process used to determine the

(remuneration) remuneration due to the post office agent. In
simple terms, the agent is paid for the
volume/value of transactions (derived
algorithmically from Cash Account
information) that are carried out over the period
of one year. To further complicate matters, the
revisions year is not the same as the Cash
Account year.

Satellite office Office opened for restricted hours at a
(SATELITE) temporary location whose Cash Account is
dealt with by another site.

Shared Stock Unit A shared stock unit is one that is attached to
more than one user at the same time.

Stock and Cash Refers to the collection of stock items and
methods of payments that comprise the stock
unit.

Stock Unit A stock unit is the physical till tray containing

the cash and valuable stock items like stamps.
There are an arbitrary number of physical stock
units.

Stock Unit Balance The stock unit balance period represents the

Period Time period in which a counter clerk has
responsibility for a stock unit. For each stock
unit there is at least one balance period in a
Cash Account week. The balance period ends

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 16 of 17
FUJ00079193

FUJ00079193
Pathway Ref:
Explanation of Local P.O. Reconciliation —_ Version 1.0
and Administration
Date: 05/04/96

when the stock unit is balanced.

Sub Post Services Town & Rural Cash Account offices - operated
Office by an agent usually in conjunction with other
(SPSOCA) retail business.

Sub Post Services Town & Rural Credit Stock Office - as
Office (Credit Stock SPSOCA but all voucher processing &

Office) administration is dealt with by nearest BO.
(SPSOCSO)
System The term used to refer to the collective

hardware, system software and application
software components of the counter terminal.

Team Balancing Stock unit balancing is a time-consuming task.
Team working allows many clerks to share a
single stock unit. This removes the need for
each clerk to balance their own stock unit. The
benefits in time savings have to be set against a
potential increase in losses.

Transaction The journal entry that results from “selling” a
product across the post office counter. A
service like giving advice or handing out a form
can also be considered a transaction.

Transfers Transfers are movements of stock and cash
between a pair of stock units within the same
post office.

Value Stock Value stock generally refers to the tangible
products which have an associated unit price
but may be open value in some cases. Open
value products are not normally considered to
be value stock items.

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE
CAOFFICE\0001.DOC Page 17 of 17
