Fujitsu Services

FUJ00079886

FUJ00079886

Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Author & Dept:

Contributors:

Reviewed By:

Comments By:

Comments To:

Distribution:

Fujitsu Services / Post Office Limited Interface Agreement for the
Problem Management Interface

Interface Agreement

N/A

This document sets out the working relationship between Fujitsu
Services and Post Office Limited for the Problem Management
interface between POL Network Support and Fujitsu Customer
Service. It defines the interaction required between POL and Fujitsu
Services when cross-domain problems are raised and reviewed.

APPROVED

Teresa Walsh, Network Support, POL
Dave Law, Fujitsu Services

Stephen Potter (POL), Mary Love (POL), Julie Welsh (Fujitsu
Services)

Dave Law (Fujitsu Services), Ruth Strickland (POL), Richard
Brunskill (Fujitsu Services), Stephen Potter (POL), Paul I Smith
(POL), Julian White (POL)

Fujitsu Services Library, Stephen Muchow, Martin Riddell, Peter
Burden, Richard Brunskill.

POL Library, Don Grey, Julian White, Eszter Meszaros, Ruth
Strickland

This document, and anything contained within, has no contractual significance nor constitutes
an agreement or amendment to any of the Related Agreements between Fujitsu Services or

Post Office Ltd.

© 2000 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 14
Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref:

Management Interface
Version:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:

CS/IFS/008

1.0
23/12/02

FUJ00079886
FUJ00079886

0.0 Document Control

0.1 Document History

0.1 07/06/00 Working draft
0.2 07/07/00 Draft containing input from Dave Fletcher
and Kevin Lenihan to address diary notes
in VO.1
0.3 04/09/00 Updated to include ‘Problem Outlets’
report, and prepared for formal before
approval
0.4 Updated Updated jointly by POL and Fujitsu
November I Services to reflect current working
2002 relationships but not issued through
Fujitsu Services Document library
0.5 20/11/02 Above version issued through Fujitsu
Services Document Library.
1.0 23/12/02 Updated to include Universal Banking
problems and the TSD

0.2 Approval Authorities

Richard Brunskill

Infrastructure
Services Manager
(Fujitsu Services)

Julian White Service Operations
Manager (POL)

0.3. Associated Documents

HOR/BSM/FMK/ I 1.6
003

01/07/99 I The Service Management
Framework ~ Problem
Management

JOINT

© 2000 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE.

Page 2 of 14
FUJ00079886
FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

ATP Authorised Temporary Procedure
POL PM Post Office Limited Problem Manager
FS PM Fujitsu Services Problem Manager
SMF Service Management Forum

MBCI Major Business Continuity Incident
PIR Post Implementation Review

POL Post Office Limited

SPMR Sub-Postmaster

ToR Terms of Reference

TSD Technical Service Desk

TP Temporary Procedure

MBS Message Broadcast Service

TIP Transaction Information Process
XDPMF Cross Domain Problem Management Forum

0.5 Changes in this Version

1.0 Interim changes for Network Banking

1.0 Updated to include Universal Banking

0.6 Changes Expected

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 14
FUJ00079886

FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008

Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

0.7

61

6.2

10

I

11.2

12

13

Table of Contents

INTRODUCTION

SCOPE

Definition.

Joint

POL specific responsibiliti

Fujitsu Services specific responsibilities...

POL to Fujitsu Services

Fujitsu Services to POL...

PROBLEMS IN UNIVERSAL BANKING EXTERNAL DOMAINS

REVIEW MEETINGS.

Problem Management Operational Review Forum.

Post Implementation Review Meeting (PIR)

MAJOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY INCIDEN

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 14
FUJ00079886

FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

4.1

INTRODUCTION

This document is intended to be a working level document that establishes the
working practices that exist between POL and Fujitsu Services. The document sets out
the guidelines that govern the working relationship at the interface between Fujitsu
Services and POL Network Support in relation to problem management. This
agreement is owned on behalf of Fujitsu Services by Infrastructure Services. It defines
the customer and supplier responsibilities that both POL and Fujitsu Services must
undertake in order to support the delivery of problem management to POL.

SCOPE

This document defines how POL and Fujitsu Services will report and manage
problems that have an impact on the service provided to POL. The document covers
problem notification, acceptance, control and resolution. Also contained within this
document are the escalation and reviews surrounding problem management.

CHANGE CONTROL

This interface agreement is a working level operations document and therefore will
not become a contract controlled document. It will however be subject to controlled
change once it has become definitive at version 1.0. After which, changes will be
managed through formal document review meetings and be subject to agreement by
both parties. The signatories to this document will arbitrate upon any disputes
concerning subsequent changes to the document required by either party.

This document, nor anything contained within, has any contractual significance nor

constitutes an agreement or amendment to any of the Related Agreements between
Fujitsu Services and POL.

The document will be reviewed at three monthly intervals as part of the XDPMF.

INTENT OF THIS AGREEMENT

The intent of the agreement is to define responsibilities and detail the interactions that
must take place, between Fujitsu Services and POL to ensure the successful delivery
of a seamless problem management service to the Post Office retail network.

Definition

Problem - A Problem is an underlying cause of one or more incidents that may result
in further incidents.

A Problem potentially exists when a defect in the specification, design, production,
implementation, or use of any of the service components results in any aspect of the
service not meeting expectations.

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 14
FUJ00079886

FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

PADAMAWNE

A Problem will be raised when the impact of the defect (e.g. the level and severity of
the related incidents) is substantial enough to warrant action to eradicate it.

A Problem will be closed when it has been mutually agreed that the underlying cause
has been fixed or removed. Root cause analysis will identify the underlying defect and
full details will be recorded on the Problem Management database.

A problem may be closed if POL is satisfied that everything has been done to
minimise the effect of the problem therefore the impact is negligible.

A problem may be closed if only one solution is available but POL decides not to
implement it and agree to live with the problem.

Many problems will have knock-on impacts or effects beyond the
organisation/domain in which they occur. These are known as Cross Domain
Problems.

Example of a Cross Domain Problem:
Problem - 50% of all Horizon Terminals fail once a month:

Potential problem reported, and analysed within the local business unit.
Problem reported to POL Problem Management team.

Problem logged, allocated unique number and prioritised.

Problem referred to Fujitsu Services for analysis and resolution.

POL Problem Management team monitor and review progress.

Fujitsu Services propose solution, e.g.; hardware upgrade for replacement Terminals.
POL Change Management team carry out change control process.
Proposed solution formally approved by POL.

Solution Implemented by Fujitsu Services.

POL Problem Management team monitor ongoing Terminal failure rate.
Problem closed if failure rate returns to normal.

Records maintained for future reference.

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 14
FUJ00079886

FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02
RESPONSIBILITIES
Joint

5.1

5.2

5.3

6.1

Each party is responsible for maintaining and updating their own problem databases.
Each party will nominate a problem manager for all cross-domain problems.

Each party will ensure their counterpart problem manager is appraised as appropriate
of the current situation/status of the problem.

Both parties will authorise ATPs & TPs impacting on the Post Office operating
process for Cross Domain problems.

Both parties will provide incident matching from their respective helpdesk calls to the
associated Cross-Domain problems.

Each party will ensure their counterpart problem manager is notified if problem
ownership changes (i.e. if ownership changes from one POL problem manager to
another the original problem manager must notify their counterpart problem manager
and vice versa).

POL specific responsibilities

POL Problem Management will provide Fujitsu Services with weekly problem reports
detailing all ‘open’ problem that have had some activity during the previous week.
The report should show the number of problems having some activity against the total
number of Cross Domain Problems.

POL will manage aspects of any problem relating to the operating process within the
Post Office front line e.g., office process & back end systems e.g. TIP, etc.

POL own management of any planned communication with the branches, e.g.,
Operational Focus, MBS.

Fujitsu Services specific responsibilities

Fujitsu Services will update the Problem Management Database daily (as problems
are updated).

Fujitsu Services will provide POL with remote access (via dial up) to the Fujitsu
Services problem management database.

Fujitsu Services will manage any problems technical and physical originating in the
Fujitsu Services domain.

PROBLEM NOTIFICATION

POL to Fujitsu Services

Any problem arising from within the POL domain will be registered with POL
Problem Management and a POL Problem Manager will be assigned to manage the
problem.

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 14
FUJ00079886

FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

6.2

All problems that are passed from POL into Fujitsu Services are channelled via the
Fujitsu Services Duty Manager pager system. This service is available between 0900
to 1700 hours Monday to Friday.

Fujitsu Services Duty Manager pager number: I

The POL Problem Manager will send a text message to the pager containing the
following information.

e Business name e.g. POL Problem Management
© Contact name and telephone number

The Fujitsu Services Duty Manager will respond to the pager message by ringing the
POL Duty Manager within 1 working hour.

The POL Duty Manager will brief the Fujitsu Services Duty Manager on the problem
title, problem description, service(s) affected (initial impact), initial priority (see
priority matrix) and if the problem is a potential MBCI (early warning).

The POL Duty Manager will confirm the name and problem and telephone number of
the POL Problem Manager (POL PM) who is assigned the problem.

The Fujitsu Services Duty Manager will allocate the problem to a suitable Fujitsu
Services Problem Manager (FSPM). The FSPM will then register the problem onto
the Fujitsu Services problem database and contact the POL Duty Manager to agree
that the problem is valid, the problem title, assess the business impact and begin
progression of the problem towards resolution. The FSPM should contact the POL
PM to agree an update schedule.

Fujitsu Services to POL

Any problem arising from within the Fujitsu domain will be registered with Fujitsu
Services Problem Management and a Fujitsu Services Problem Manager will be
assigned to the problem.

All problems that are passed from Fujitsu into POL are channelled via the POL Duty
Manager pager system. This service is available between 0900 to 1700 hours Monday
to Friday.

POL Duty Manager pager numbe i

The Fujitsu Services Duty Manager will send a text message to the pager containing

the following information.

e Business name e.g. Fujitsu Services

¢ Contact name and telephone number

The POL Duty Manager will respond to the pager message by ringing the Fujitsu

Services Duty Manager within I working hour.

The Fujitsu Services Duty Manager will brief the POL Duty Manager on the problem
title, problem description, service(s) affected (initial impact) and will confirm the

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 14
FUJ00079886
FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

name and telephone number of the Fujitsu Services Problem Manager who is assigned
the problem.

Note: Priority/Severity ratings are applied to incidents and not to problems.

The POL Duty Manager will allocate the problem to a suitable POL Problem
Manager. The POL PM will register the problem onto the POL problem database,
agree that the problem is valid, as well as the problem title and begin to progress the
problem towards resolution. The POL PM should contact the FSPM to agree and
update schedule.

7 PROBLEM ACCEPTANCE

Once the problem has been registered and allocated to a Problem Manager in Fujitsu
or POL, the Problem Manager in the notified domain will make contact with the
Problem Manager in the originating domain and agree acceptance.

Both Problem Managers will ensure that the problem title is the same on both
databases, that the reference numbers of both problems are registered on each
database and that they both agree that a problem exists.

The originating party should provide evidence to support the case such as incident
numbers, impact and extent of the problem and provide information on any
Temporary Procedures that are in place.

If a technical problem, Fujitsu Services will document the actual description and
impact of the problem to POL PM in ‘layman’ terms to enable POL to facilitate
appropriate impact assessment.

Ownership of the problem (responsibility for resolution) will then be agreed. Both
parties must agree for the problem to be accepted. As part of the acceptance the
Problem Managers will broker and agree the problem priority, closure criteria, update
schedule and a provisional target date. These of course may change as the problem
investigation develops.

If the problem is rejected at this stage the originating party may escalate the problem
to the 1“ level manager who can discuss the issue with his opposite number and
provide arbitration.

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 14
FUJ00079886
FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

8 PROBLEM CONTROL

Management of any cross-domain problem will include the following stages:
e Analysis (to determine root cause)
© Control (TP or ATP implementation, escalation)

¢ Resolution (review and closure)

Analysis —

The relevant domain will carry out the analysis to determine the extent and impact of
any specific problem. It may also mean the implementation of “traps” to pick up any
further occurrences before the root cause can be established. Once the root cause has
been established, a description and date identified will be disseminated to the other
business as an effective measure of the Problem Management process. As the analysis
progresses initial perceived root causes may change.

Incident Matching - Both domains will exchange volumes of incidents to associated
problems to an agreed timescale. This would usually be on a weekly basis (dependant
on the problem), bearing in mind that in the event of a potential MBCI timescales will
be more frequent than usual

Control — This covers escalation of problems as necessary and the introduction of
Temporary Procedures (TP - exclusive to each domain but does not impact the other
domain in conducting it’s business as usual) or Authorised Temporary Procedures
(ATP - Agreed between each party). Audit trails will also be maintained within each
domain that enable tracking of actions or interaction between the two domains.

Resolution — Cross domain problem can only be closed when both domains agree that
the closure criterion has been met without compromising any other services

Both domains will provide a review of all problems to determine if the solution
provided has actually removed the problem. Closure may be after a monitoring period
and will be in writing by either party.

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 14
FUJ00079886

FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

PROBLEM STATUS

The status of any problem will be maintained in one of the following conditions:

Open - A problem has been raised and an assessment of the problem is still underway
or evidence is being collected. An update schedule has been agreed & developed. A
plan has been developed, agreed and is in progress, this may include the development
of diagnostic traps to provide further evidence as required for investigation.

Monitor — The solution has been implemented and the problem is believed to be
resolved, it has been placed under monitor to see if the solution is effective.

Closed — All actions have been completed and the both parties agree that the closure
criteria have been satisfied. A problem will only be closed when it has been agreed
that the underlying root cause has been fixed or removed. This should be agreed
between all impacted parties and the originator.

PROBLEMS IN UNIVERSAL BANKING EXTERNAL DOMAINS

This section has been added to explain how POL and Fujitsu Services deal with
problems that are raised as a result of Universal Banking incidents that are detected or
originate in external banking domains.

All Universal Banking technical problems that are reported to the TSD will be
recorded in the Fujitsu problem database and given a unique reference number. The
TSD will agree and assign problem ownership to the most appropriate domain. If
there is a dispute between the TSD and an external banking domain regarding problem
acceptance and ownership, the TSD will refer the matter to POL for arbitration.

Following acceptance, the TSD will inform the Fujitsu Services Duty Manager who
will brief the POL Duty Manager on the problem. The Fujitsu Services Duty Manager
will not allocate the problem to a Fujitsu Services Problem Manager unless the
problem is shared between Fujitsu and one or more banking domains. The Fujitsu
Services Duty Manger will play no further part beyond the initial communication of
the problem to the POL Duty Manager and the allocation of a Fujitsu Services
Problem Manager if required.

POL will assign a POL Problem Manager to liaise directly with the problem owner to
agree the problem closure criteria, provisional target dates and manage the problem
through to resolution.

The TSD will seek problem updates at agreed periods (at least weekly) from the
domain owning the problem, and progress will be tracked to resolution and closure in
the Fujitsu Services problem database. The TSD will also keep other external banking
domains informed of progress should their service be directly impacted upon by the
problem.

All external Universal Banking domain business problems will be managed by PO
Ltd. PO Ltd will manage these problems directly with the appropriate domain(s), and

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 14
FUJ00079886

FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

il

12

neither Fujitsu Services nor the TSD will be involved, unless it is found during
investigation, that the fault lies within the technical infrastructure of the banking
service.

REVIEW MEETINGS

Problem Management Operational Review Forum

The Cross Domain Problem Management Forum (XDPMF) is held monthly prior to
the Service Management Forum (SMF) and is intended to highlight and discuss all
problems if time allows. If there are more than 15 cross domain problems open at the
time, including those owned by external banking domains and recorded by the TSD,
only those causing concern that may potentially be escalated at the SMF should be
discussed.

The XDPMF chair alternates each month and the chair determines the location. The
chair is also responsible for constructing the agenda and producing minutes.

Either party can identify specific items to be included in the agenda, which should
include discussion of specific problems, process issues and progression of outstanding
actions.

Refer to appropriate ToR for this meeting.
Post Implementation Review Meeting (PIR)
A PIR is carried out if the Problem Manager from either domain or any impacted party

was the unhappy with the way the problem was resolved or managed.

The PIR reviews the way the problem was handled and looks to highlight the areas
that did not operate well and require improvement, either within the operation of the
process or the process itself.

The output of the PIR is to initiate improvement actions to ensure that the process is
operated as it should be or ultimately improved.

A PIR should be held at an appropriate time after the fault has either been placed on
monitor or as near to the problem solution as possible.

The requesting Problem Manager chairs the PIR. The attendees should include the
major players within the resolution of the problem being reviewed.

Details of the PIR will be documented in the ‘closed’ problem record. Any action
points arising from a PIR will become agenda items of the XDPMF.

ESCALATION

Any problem requiring escalation will be as per the table below initially to the 1“ level
manager. Each manager escalated to will then be responsible for escalating to the
next manager listed, it is also expected that escalation to the next level on either side

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 14
Fujitsu Services

Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref:

Management Interface

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00079886
FUJ00079886

CS/IFS/008
Version: 1.0
Date: 23/12/02

will be agreed with the opposite manager so that Managers of similar levels in either

domain are made aware of any issues.

The Problem Manager should notify the

Problem Manager in the other domain before the escalation process is initiated.

The escalation process is also used if there is debate over the validity of a problem.

1“ Level Service Quality Senior Problem Immediate dependent
Manager Manager on business impact
24 Level Service Operations _I Infrastructure The lower level
Manager Services Manager manager will judge
timing based on
business impact
3" Level Head of Network Customer Services I The lower level
Support Director manager will judge
timing based on
business impact
4" Level POL Operations Fujitsu Services The lower level
Director Managing Director I manager will judge
timing based on
business impact

13 MAJOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY INCIDENTS

An MBCTis an incident that seriously affects the delivery of normal service to most or
all of the live estate. An MBCI is categorised as a Priority A or Severity 1 incident.
The Business Continuity Manager in Fujitsu Services and/or Post Office Ltd and/or
other supplier/client domains to manage the relevant domain(s) has the responsibility
of managing the MBCI until normal service is restored.

In many cases an MBCI will trigger the problem management process to investigate
the root cause of the incident so that action can be taken to eliminate further

occurrences.

A potential MBCI is an incident that significantly reduces operational contingency, or

a fault that could potentially affect a si;

ficant proportion of the live estate. A

potential MBCI will be identified within the incident and problem management teams
in Fujitsu services and/or Post Office Ltd and/or other supplier/client domains, and
managed as a normal incident until normal service is restored. A potential MBCI is

catagorised as Priority A or Severity 2.

In many cases a potential MBCI offers the opportunity for preventative action by
raising a problem to investigate the root cause. At this stage the problem will be

© 2000 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 13 of 14
FUJ00079886
FUJ00079886

Fujitsu Services Pathway / POL Interface Agreement for the Problem __ Ref: CS/IFS/008
Management Interface
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 23/12/02

managed within the Problem Management process, but the respective Business
Continuity Manager(s) will be kept informed. If the incident becomes an MBCI, the
process for managing MBCIs will be followed.

© 2000 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 14
