FUJITSU DATABASES

APPENDIX D

FUJ00158115

FUJ00158115

Databases of Electronic Documents

Fujitsu provides a range of IT services to Post Office in relation to the Horizon system throughout the relevant period. As a result, there are a significant
number of documents within Fujitsu's control which may be relevant. Whilst many of these documents are not within Post Office's control and therefore do
not fall to be disclosed by it, in the interests of assisting the Court, Post Office sets out below a high level overview of:

. the locations of documents held by Fujitsu that are potentially relevant to the Claim;
. the types of document held by Fujitsu that are potentially relevant to the Claim; and
. comments regarding the ease and proportionality of disclosure and the likely relevance and limitations of the documents.

This information has been provided by Fujitsu to Post Office.

Document type / Database

Nature of data held

Comments

Known Error Log (KEL)

The KEL is a proprietary database with approximately
4,000 entries containing information which is used by
Fujitsu to explain how to deal with or work around minor
issues that can sometimes arise in Horizon for which
(often because of their triviality) system-wide fixes have
not been developed and implemented.

The KEL only contains the current database entries and is
constantly updated and so the current version will not necessarily
reflect the version that was in place at the relevant time. The
previous entries / versions of the current entries are no longer
available.

The KEL cannot be easily downloaded as it is stored on a
database. Even then, unless one has the necessary database
software, reading the data in the KEL is difficult. The alternative is
to manually copy or print each entry, but this would produce poorly
formatted material and would take significant effort.

In light of this, the Claimant's IT expert has inspected the KEL at
Fujitsu's offices.

Dimensions

Dimensions is a content management system in which
Fujitsu keeps a library of the key technical documents.
relating to Horizon and Horizon Online. The documents
range from high level designs to detailed designs of the

The documents are formatted in a PDF or Word format fany other
format confirm With! FY] and can be extracted from Dimensions

4A_37614265_1
FUJ00158115

FUJ00158115

system and its code, along with documents that describe
hardware that is used in the system. A full index of
these documents has been provided to the Claimant's
solicitors.

Peak System

If Fujitsu identifies an issue in Horizon that requires a
programmatic fix then it is logged in its database, the
Peak System, and labelled as a 'Peak'.

If Fujitsu identifies an issue in Horizon that requires a
programmatic fix then it is logged in its database, the Peak
System, and labelled as a 'Peak'.

TFS and Powerhelp

Post Office and its agents have access to a help desk
called Horizon Service Desk (HSD) to manage technical
issues with Horizon — HSD was provided by Fujitsu prior to}
June 2014 (and has been provided by ATOS since that
date).

Between 2001 and September 2009, Fujitsu used
Powerhelp to log calls. From September 2009 onwards,
Fujitsu used Team Foundation Server (TFS), a
proprietary database, to log calls made to HSD.

TFS call logs date back to September 2009. These call logs could
be extracted from TFS into an Excel document [66nfirm With Fu].
Powerhelp may contain call logs for the period between 2001 and
September 2009, however, Fujitsu has advised that the Powerhelp
servers are still stored but they do not currently have the means to
access them; they would have to recreate a ring fenced network
running Windows 2003 (the redundant software on which
Powerhelp was run).

SharePoint and shared drives
Projectweb

SharePoint has been used by Fujitsu since c.2008 to store
and share documents it produces relating to Post Office .

Shared drives are also used for a similar purpose.

Prior to 2008, Fujitsu used a self-built system, Project
Web, for this purpose. This system is still available in a
read-only format, although access to the system is
technically more difficult because it is a legacy system.

As explained in relation to the extraction of documents from Post
Office's SharePoint, similar issues may be encountered when
extracting documents from Fujitsu's SharePoint.

Emails

The vast majority of Fujitsu's internal communications
take place via email.

Fujitsu does not operate a formal email archiving policy or system.
Therefore, to the extent that any emails are not stored in other
accessible locations, availability will be limited to those held in
individual users' email accounts. As users have a storage limit on
their accounts, emails are routinely deleted upon reaching that
limit.

On average, between 250 to 350 people at Fujitsu work on Post
Office's account at one time. Consequently, there have been
thousands of people at Fujitsu who have worked on Horizon over
the 17 years since the system was developed.

4A_37614265_1
FUJ00158115
FUJ00158115

Local computers

It is likely that Fujitsu staff will have also stored relevant
documents locally on their laptops and computers.

4A_37614265_1
