IN CONFIDENCE
Report No: 68/01
Issued: January 2001
REVIEW OF HORIZON DATA CENTRES
ICL LTD
NOVEMBER 2001
REPORT DISTRIBUTION
For Information: I Mike Hannon Horizon Contract and Commercial Manager
Dave Miller Managing Director Post office Network
Paul Rich Group Managing Director Post Office Ltd
Peter Corbett Finance Director Post Office Ltd
Vince Mulholland Head of Corporate and Strategic Finance
Post Office Limited
David Lewington Head of Group Internal Audit
Ernst & Young External Auditors
From: Rashpal Dhesi Principal Auditor

6 Consignia

Group Internal Audit
Consignia, AT21
Rowland Hill House
Chesterfield

S49 1HQ

Telephone:
Postline:
Fax No:

REPORT REF: AR6801 PAGE 0 OF 5

FUJ00171979
FUJ00171979
FUJ00171979
FUJ00171979

IN CONFIDENCE
INTRODUCTION

Ll This report has been provided for information and summarises the detailed report produced
by the International Computers Limited (ICL) Pathway Quality and Audit Manager
covering the Horizon operations carried out at the ICL Data Centres based at Bootle and
Wigan. The Horizon system records transactions carried out over the counter at Post
Offices. The provision and management of the Horizon system for Consignia is carried out
by ICL Pathway, who in turn have the Data Centres managed by ICL’s Infrastructure
Services Division (ISD). Under the contractual relationship, the recommendations made are

the responsibility of ICL ISD to deploy.

1.2 As a result of a problem in retrieving archived data from the Data Centres, Consignia Group
Internal Audit (GIA) asked to be involved with this review to provide assurance that
problems relating to retrieval of archived data had been resolved. Although, the same data
was archived at both sites, on one occasion, a tape holding the data was found to be corrupt,
whilst the other tape was lost in transit by an external carrier. The data was eventually re-

created using another source and no further issues have emerged.

12 The review also covered computer operations carried out from Belfast, but this was
excluded from the GIA’s remit as Horizon was only a small part of the total Belfast
operations. The areas covered by the review were designed to assess the controls in

operation over:
¢ firewall management;

© cryptographic key handling;

«physical security and logical security;

© management of backup procedures and media; and

¢ network management.

14 The main findings have been reported to the management of ICL ISD for action. The ICL
Pathway Quality and Audit Manager will monitor progress of the deployment of these
recommendations on a monthly basis. GIA will discuss progress made with the ICL

Pathway Quality and Audit Manager at their quarterly meetings.
FINDINGS
Firewall Management

2.1 A firewall was used to regulate the flow of network traffic into and out of the Horizon

network, using rules which were defined by the Data Centre. The product being used by ICL

REPORT REF: AR6801 PAGE 0 OF 5
21

FUJ00171979

FUJ00171979

IN CONFIDENCE
ISD was called Firewall 1 which is a commercial package that has been developed by
Checkpoint. The rules used by the firewalls have developed over time, but there is no
complete audit log of the changes made to it. Recently, references relating to the firewall
changes had been included in the change control process. No central review had been carried
out of the firewall since its installation. Although security violations should be escalated to
the Pathway Security Manager, firewall exceptions had not been defined leaving Data

Centre staff unsure as to what would constitute a violation.

The following actions had been recommended by ICL Pathway to their management, that

¢ a design specification is developed for the firewall rule base that establishes the

optimum approach for defining and maintaining the rule base;

© the date and identity of the operator updating the firewall rule is ineluded on the

change log;

© — the current firewall rule base is reviewed for completeness and accuracy by the ICL

Pathway Security Manager;

¢ — the ICL Pathway Security Manager provides clear guidance on what constitutes a

security violation.

It was also noted that it was possible to monitor traffic passing through the firewall, but this
was being used to assist in bug fixing or monitoring traffic across a specific link. There was
no active monitoring of attempted firewall breaches or other inappropriate activity across the
firewall. Although active intrusion detection was available in the current product it was not
part of the existing agreement between ICL Pathway and ICL ISD. It has been
recommended by ICL Audit that the ICL Pathway Security Manager reviews the position
with regard to proactive intruder detection on the firewall and if considered necessary

initiate changes to the relevant agreements between ICL ISD and ICL Pathway.

Cryptograhic Key Handling

2.4

Data transmitted on the network was encrypted by the use of two keys (the Key Encryption
Key (KEK) and the Data Encryption Key (DEK) ) which were used to program the routers.
There were a number of areas where local practices had evolved to meet local requirements

and these were not consistent with the centrally produced procedures. These included:

. providing the duty manager access to the encryption keys as a matter of course (only

the key custodian or deputy key custodian should have access);

REPORT REF: AR6801 PAGE I OF 5
21

FU.

IN CONFIDENCE
. new local forms had been introduced in June 2001 to simplify the tracking

of keys which were different to the current procedures;

. the new forms had been completed inconsistently and on some occasions in

pencil.

Recommendations by ICL Audit have been made for the ICL Pathway Security
Manager to review the above arrangements and either where the new processes
are found to be adequate amend the procedures to reflect this or if inadequate

enforce existing procedures.

The ICL procedures require that all cryptographic key material is segregated from other
materials either through a separate safe or by some other form of separation in the same
safe. The non Zergo crypto keys were not segregated within the main safe, and there was no
separate safe for Zergo keys resulting in both sets of keys being stored together. Jt has been
recommended by ICL Audit that the ICL Pathway Security Manager review the adequacy
of storing keys in this way and either change procedures to reflect current practice or to

mandate the existing procedures.

Physical and Logical Security

2.6

2.5

Both Data Centres are located inside existing Alliance and Leicester premises and to an
extent the general security requirements of those organisations apply to the ICL ISD staff
working there. The physical barriers, perimeter fence, road barriers, secured door, security
guard, visitor log and passes, airlocks and proximity passes to access ICL areas, were all

found to be working as expected. Visitors were escorted whilst on the premises.

A log of ICL visitor passes was maintained as well as copies of the passes issued. It was
noted that passes can be made out in advance and if not used left in the log. It has been
recommended by ICL Audit that this practice stops and any unused passes marked ‘NOT

USED’ and destroyed - a record being retained on the second copy of the pass.

Management of Backup Procedures and Media

2.8

Off-site storage of back-up tapes was provided by Iron Mountain (IM), but managed by
Belfast through the production of a daily schedule of back-up tapes to be collected and
returned. IM provided strong boxes for the transport of these back-up tapes, and on
collection, a local form was signed by the driver. There was no record of receipt from IM.
On occasion there had been a discrepancy between tapes returned and what was due to be
returned. Hence, it has been recommended by ICL Audit that IM provide a receipt for

tapes/packages taken into their custody. This could be delivered back to the Data Centres

REPORT REF: AR6801 PAGE 2 OF 5

FUJ00171979
}J00171979
FUJ00171979

FUJ00171979

IN CONFIDENCE

with the next set of tapes being returned.

2.6 Special emphasis was placed on the handling and management of Data Tapes at the Data
Centres following recent problems with the broken audit trail and difficulties at Wigan. A
placement audit of the Data Tapes at the Bootle tape drives showed that they were
positioned in accordance with the layout plan.

Network Management

2.10 I The Data Centres continually monitor the state and status of the Horizon network using the

Hewlett Packard (HP) Openview product. This system provides an audible warning if a link
is lost and a visible notification as a new item appears on the network. There was no
verification of the new item before an Internet Protocol (IP) address was allocated to it by
the network team. Hence, there is a risk that rogue items could be connected and accepted
into the Horizon network without check. /¢ has been recommended by ICL Audit that the
network team introduce checks to verify new items before accepting them into the Horizon

network.

Agreed Action

2.11

GIA have agreed to monitor progress with deployment of the recommendations at the

quarterly meetings held with the ICL Pathway Quality and Audit Manager.

REPORT REF: AR6801 PAGE 3 OF 5
