FUJ00168456

FUJ00168456
From: Keegan Michael[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KEEGANM]
Sent: Wed 17/08/2011 5:
To: i Deaton Mike...
Ce: i
Subject: Re: Oracle £500K "Gesture" Opportunity
Nigel

Dave and Rob are right on top on this....our conversations with Oracle to date have been many including with Roger Gilbert and
they have consistently blocked us at every turn. Rolf Schwirz is now escalating and Japan is in the picture. Don't delay getting this
issue into the debate as potential give from them that we would value. We are supposed to be jv partners on SPARC and we
have additional Distribution rights but in the UK market Oracle has sought to frustrate us at every turn and keep business for
themselves only for the simple reason that they don't think we have any leverage on them. If we could achieve a breakthrough
here it would be extremely helpful to our enterprise level products business and be very popular with the resellers who
unsurprisingly hate dealing with Oracle.

Onwards...

Michael

Michael Keegan

Managing Director
Technology Solutions Division
Fujitsu UK and Ireland

Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Device

From: Wood Nigel

To: Deaton Mike

Ce: Bounds Gavin; Patterson Paul; Keegan Michael; Walton Rob; Pritchard Dave; Iqbal Zaf
Sent: Wed Aug 17 16:55:14 2011

Subject: RE: Oracle £500K "Gesture" Opportunity

Hi Mike

I have had a conversation with Rob, who is going to produce a list of opportunities where he feels there may be an
option to ask Oracle to support us rather than compete.

When Michael comes back from leave we can discuss what if any conversations he has already had with Oracle and
agree a way forward.
On the meeting date I am still trying to confirm the time and will get back to you tomorrow.

Thanks
Nigel

Nigel Wood
UK&I Partner & Alliance Director

From: Deaton Mike
FUJ00168456
FUJ00168456

Sent: 17 August 2011 10:23

To: Wood Nigel

Subject: FW: Oracle £500K "Gesture" Opportunity
Nigel,

Let’s discuss the opportunity below on our 12:00 call.

Regards,

Mike Deaton
Business Change & Development Director, Royal Mail Group

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Keegan Michael

Sent: 17 August 2011 09:21

To: Bounds Gavin; Stevenson Andrew; Jeram Peter; Pipe Anthony; Tuttle Ron; Phillips Matthew (ITG); Patterson Paul
Cc: Deaton Mike; Pritchard Dave; Walton Rob

Subject: Re: Oracle £500K "Gesture" Opportunity

Gavin

TSD could almost certainly use some of this by getting Oracle to facilitate their SPARC business with us in the UK.
Currently we are unable to progress many live SPARC deals in the UK as Oracle are holding us up claiming we don't
have active trading relationships with the resellers involved. In reality despite our global jv and the fact we
manufacture M series Oracle are merely looking to keep these deals for themselves.

We have a pipeline of 75 live SPARC opportunities of which we have only been able to win 4 to date. Therefore I'm
sure TSD could provide you a list of named deals that we would like to transact that could total £500k in lost margin to
Oracle.

We have been struggling to find leverage ....this could be it.
I'm away til Monday next week but Dave Pritchard and Rob Walton are your contacts here if you want to pursue.

Michael

Michael Keegan

Managing Director
Technology Solutions Division
Fujitsu UK and Ireland

Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Device

From: Bounds Gavin

To: Stevenson Andrew; Jeram Peter; Pipe Anthony; Tuttle Ron; Keegan Michael; Phillips Matthew (ITG); Patterson
Paul

Cc: Deaton Mike
FUJ00168456
FUJ00168456

Sent: Wed Aug 17 08:55:43 2011
Subject: Oracle £500K "Gesture" Opportunity

Please treat as confidential
Dear team,

As mentioned on a recent Friday RLT call, may I ask you to review the request below and look within your orgs to see
what you might have that we could leverage. The POL team has been struggling to find anything.

I plan to meet Oracle to keep the pressure on but as time moves on the risk grows that characters will change and this
issue/opp will fade. BTW — legal counsel is that whilst Oracles performance clearly led to significant operational and
financial pain for us and POL we have a very weak contractual position, this is all about leveraging current/future
relationship.

I have asked Zaf to liaise with his regional counterparts to trap any other opp’s out there.
Kind regards,

Gavin

From: Deaton Mike

Sent: 08 August 2011 15:42

To: Bounds Gavin

Cc: Long Stephen; Wood Nigel; Iqbal Zaf
Subject: Oracle £500K "Gesture" Opportunity

Gavin,
Here’s a summary on the Oracle “Gesture” for the RLT. Let me know if you need any more.

Thanks for your support on this.

I would like to brief you of an opportunity to realize up to £500K of upside from Oracle and am seeking your support
should you engage in any contact with Oracle or in the coming weeks.

The Post Office HNG-X rollout was delayed by up to three months last year due to a known fault in one of the Oracle
programs. Oracle’s handling of the problem was poor and protracted. As direct a result of the delay, Fujitsu incurred
a significant compensation charge with Post Office amount.

A meeting was held between Fujitsu & Oracle meeting on 12" November 2010 raising the dissatisfaction with Andy
Boulton, Oracle Account Manager. Whilst we accept that we have no legal right for a claim, Oracle acknowledged
that they could have handled the situation better and responded with a faster solution hence would raise the
potential of a “gesture” with senior management. Alan D’Alvarez and Zaf Iqbal indicated that a gesture from Oracle
to the value of £500K would be considered appropriate.

John Hanley and, more recently, Nigel Wood have been engaged with, David Callaghan, Senior Vice President for
Oracle UK, Ireland and Israel region, on this matter, but we are making little progress. David has verbally
acknowledged, but will not commit in writing, that Oracle would be prepared to consider a discount on a single or
multiple new business deals of >£1M each, but will not provide a one off payment nor discount on any renewal
activity. Neither has he confirmed the £500K level of gesture discount that we have requested.

Zaf Iqbal and his team continue to track potential Oracle opportunities, in both public and private sectors, to establish
where we could call off additional discount, yet at present there are few significant, mature deals to draw on.
FUJ00168456
FUJ00168456

I am conscious that we are at risk of losing traction given the lapse in time. Consequently, should you become aware
of any suitable business opportunity or engage in discussion with Oracle, please consider if there is an opportunity to
leverage and or raise the profile of this matter. Please keep me in the loop, since we will need to direct any one-off
upsides through to the Post Office account.

Mike Deaton
Business Change & Development Director, Royal Mail Group

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Bounds Gavin

Sent: 29 July 2011 09:41

To: Deaton Mike

Cc: Long Stephen

Subject: Oracle

Mike,

Please draft a mail for me to send to the RLT to secure their help to get the £500k refund into UKI.
Kind regards,

Gavin
