FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
ined Mana i vice: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FULITSU SERVICES. Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Originator & Dept:

Internal Distribution:

External Distribution:

Approval Authorities:

Management Information Service: Service Description

Service Description

S80

Service Description of the Management Information Service
provided under contract to Post Office Ltd

APPROVED

John Moran : Fujitsu Services Customer Service

Dave Baldwin - CS Director
Carl Marx - Infrastructure/Availability Manager

Les Henderson - Post Office Ltd
Liz Tuddenham - Post Office Ltd

(See PA/PRO/010 for Approval roles)

Name Role Signature Date
Bernadette O’Donnell I Post Office Ltd Network
Support - Supplier & Service
Performance Manager
Carl Marx Fujitsu Services Post Office
CS Infrastructure and
Availability Manager
©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 1 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
oO
FUJITSU

FUJITSU SERVICES

Management Information Service: Service Description

Commercial in Confidence

FUJ00001965
FUJ00001965

Ref: CS/SER/015
Version: 3.0

Date: 08/07/2005

0.0 Document Control

0.1 Document History

Version No. Date Reason for Issue Associated
CP/PEAK/PPRR
Reference
1.0 20/12/02 First authorised version introduced under
contract negotiations and agreed between
Fujitsu Services and Post Office
1.1 28/9/04 Second draft version revised to reflect the
removal of the ‘Multiple Transactions report’
from this service description to reflect changes
made to the Post Office Ltd requirements
addressed by the completion to PSO-
FSL_CRO00187.
2.0 18/11/04 For approval since no review comments were
received.
21 16/6/05 Periodic review. Amendments relating to S80
release
3.0 08/07/05 For approval. No comments received.
0.2 Review Details
Review Comments by :
Review Comments to: I John Moran — MSU Manager
Mandatory Review
Post Office: Network Support — Supplier & I Liz Tuddenham
Service Performance Manager
Fujitsu. Services: Pathway -— Infrastructure I Carl Marx
Services Manager
Fujitsu Services: POA — Customer Service I Dave Baldwin
Director
Optional Review
Post Office Ltd Les Henderson
Fujitsu POA Jez Murray
©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 2 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)

oO
FUJITSU

FUJITSU SERVICES

Management Information Service: Service Description

FUJ00001965
FUJ00001965

Ref: CS/SER/015

Version: 3,0

Commercial in Confidence

Date: 08/07/2005

Issued for Information ~ Please restrict this

distribution list to a minimum

Position Name

(*) = Reviewers that returned comments

0.3. Associated Documents

Reference Version I Date Title Source

CS/PER/013 Service Review Performance PVCS
(Service Review Book)

CS/PRD/104 0.3 22/11/2002 System Service: Reporting I PVCS
& Remedial Settlement
Process

CS/PRO/133 04 18/04/2002 Data File Delivery SLA PVCS
Exclusion Conditions

NB/SDS/008 2.2 16/11/04 Network Banking MIS PVCS
Reports Design

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current
approved versions of the documents.

N.B. Printed versions of this document are not under change control.

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

Abbreviation Definition

MIS Management Information Service

Miscellaneous Data I A request for data from the Post Office as described in paragraph 3.3

Query Request of this CCD

MSU Fujitsu Services Management Support Unit — the team which collectively
supplies the Management Information Service

OLA Operational Level Agreement

PAN Personal Account Number

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005

Commercial in Confidence

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)

Page: 3 of 12
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
rod Mana ion Service: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
I gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FUJITSU SERVICES ; .
Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

Post Office Ltd Post Office
Service Management I Forum comprised of nominated representatives from both the Fujitsu
Forum Services and the Post Office which meet at regular intervals to review

the service supplied by Fujitsu Services

Service Review Book I A document published on a monthly basis by Fujitsu Services detailing
the previous months achievement to target against SLA(s) and
containing managerial comment when appropriate, as further described

in paragraph 3.1
CS POA Fujitsu Services Post Office Account.
SLA Service level Agreement(s)
SLT Service Level Target

0.5 Changes in this Version

Version Changes

3.0 For approval. No comments received.

0.6 Changes Expected

Changes

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 4 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
roo) Management Information Service: Service Description Ref: CS/SER/015
FUJITSU Version: 3,0
FUJITSU SERVICES. wae .
Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005
0.7 Table of Contents
1.0 SERVICE SUMMARY. 6

1 GENERAL
2 MAIN ELE!

2.0 SERVICE PRINCIPLES.
3.0 I SERVICE DEFINITION

3.1 THE SERVICE REVIEW BOOK
3.2. MANAGEMENT INFORMATIO!
3.3. MISCELLANEOUS DATA QUERIES.......

3.4. CALCULATION OF LIQUIDATED DAMAG!

4.0 SERVICE AVAILABILITY.

5.0 SERVICE TARGETS & LIMITS..

5.1 TARGETS
5.1.1 Service Review Books .
5.1.2. Network Banking MIS Reports Delivery
5.2 LiMItTs.

6.0 SERVICE DEPENDENCIES & POST OFFICE RESPONSIBILITIES...
6.1 POST OFFICE RESPONSIBILITIES. ..........024+

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 5 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
ined Mana i vice: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FULITSU SERVICES. Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

1.0 Service Summary
11 General

e The primary aim of the Management Information Service (MIS) is to provide to the
Post Office performance reporting and management information relating to the
Horizon Services.

1.2 Main elements of the MIS

e The delivery to Post Office of the monthly Service Review Book (SRB) as detailed in
para. 3.1 below.

e The delivery to Post Office of supporting information leading to the settlement with
Post Office of Liquidated Damages where applicable, as detailed in para. 3.4 below.

e The delivery to Post Office of management information in accordance with the
requirements set out in paragraph 3.2.1 in relation to Network Banking transaction
data.

e The delivery to Post Office Ltd. management information in relation to the Automated
Payments Service (APS) transaction delivery to individual clients as detailed in
paragraph 3.2.2.

© The delivery to Post Office Ltd management information in relation to the Capacity
Management Service as detailed in paragraph 3.2.3.

e = The delivery to Post Office Ltd management information in response to a
Miscellaneous Data Query Request which may be received by Fujitsu Services, as
detailed in para. 3.3.

2.0 Service Principles
21 General

e Staff utilised for the MIS will have the necessary skills to provide statistical and data

analysis appropriate to the MIS.
3.0 Service Definition
3.1. The Service Review Book

e The Service Review Book is the primary input into the Service Management Forum
reporting on performance against SLT’s.

e Fujitsu Services will deliver version 1 of the monthly SRB to Post Office by close of
business on the fifth working day following the end of the month being reported. This
version will contain SLT data only.

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 6 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
ined Mana i vice: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FULITSU SERVICES. Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

Fujitsu Services will deliver a second iteration of the monthly SRB to Post Office by
close of business on the tenth working day following the end of the month being
reported. This version will contain SLT data (which may have been updated from
version I due to the late delivery of information) and a service summary broken down
into the following categories:

a) Management Summary — highlights of the last months service delivery;
b) A high level review of each of the supplied services;
c) Service volumetric data which is available to the MSU, for example:
e¢ The Number of calls received from live Post Office branches by the Horizon Systems
Helpdesk (HSH).
e The number of OBCS transactions.
© The number of APS transactions.
¢ Technical Service Desk volumetrics as defined in section 4.3.3 of the CCD Technical
Service Desk — Service Description (CS/PRO/148).
e Number of live Post Office branches and counter positions.
d) High level review of problem management and cross domain problem status;
e) High level review of release management including releases delivered and future
scheduling;
f) Annexes identifying Engineer Services failures attracting remedies and failures against

SLTs. These annexes will detail the following in respect of each failure:

¢ Incident reference

© Degree of failure

© Brief description of incident

e Explanation of cause of failure

e Action planned/taken to mitigate further failures

The SRB will contain SLA information as described in paragraphs 3.1.5 to 3.1.8
below.

Monthly SLA achievement shall be reported over the previous 13 calendar months.

SLA achievement, with the exception of all Data Services SLA’s (Data file delivery
and Logistical feeder service, as detailed in Annex 2 Schedule 15), shall be reported to
one decimal place.

SLA achievement for all Data Services SLA’s shall be reported to two decimal places.
SLA achievement shall be colour coded as follows:

a) Green: SLA target met — no issues to report;

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 7 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
ined Mana i vice: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FULITSU SERVICES. Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

b) Amber: SLA target missed — one off incident with action plan in place or not
required;

c) Red: SLA target missed — root cause unknown at this point or no action
planned to resolve the issue and could re-occur.

3.2. Management Information

Fujitsu Services will deliver the following Network Banking management information to Post
Office, in the form and manner as further detailed in the CCD entitled: Network Banking MIS
Reports Design (NB/SDS/008):

a) MIS money laundering report: Fujitsu Services shall produce on a monthly basis a
report listing, by Branch, the cash deposit Banking Transactions that exceeded the
configurable threshold specified in the above CCD, together with a Post Office Branch
summary giving the number and value of such Banking Transactions.

b) MIS multiple transactions report: Fujitsu Services shall produce on a monthly basis a
report giving the number of Banking Transactions conducted for the same PAN on a
calendar day in excess of the configurable threshold specified in the above CCD, with
details of all such Banking Transactions sorted by Post Office Branch, PAN and the date
on which those Banking Transactions occurred.

c) MIS transaction outcome analysis by branch report: Fujitsu Services shall produce on
a weekly basis a report giving, by Post Office product and Banking Transaction outcome,
the number and value of Banking Transactions for the previous accounting week

d) MIS bank analysis report: Fujitsu Services shall produce on a weekly basis a report in
respect of each accounting week for each Bank, issuer scheme, posting date (the date from
which the relevant Transmission Day Number (as defined in the TIP application interface
specification) is derived), Network Banking Settlement Date, product type and value band,
the outcome, daily number and value (determined from the applicable Network Banking
Confirmation) of Banking Transactions harvested in that Accounting Week. There shall be
value bands as specified in the CCD entitled “Network Banking MIS Reports Design”
(NB/SDS/008)

e) MIS Card Account Transactions by Method of Entry

The report will show details for a month and be run for a selectable month. The report
will have details of Card Account (CAPO) transactions as follows. The report will contain
two sections:

Section 1 will show the total number of outlets which undertook at least one CAPO
transaction using chip entry — ie. Method of Entry 4 - ICC PIN Pad Read. - for each
week in the period.

Section 2 will show for all outlets which performed CAPO transactions but did not do
any by chip entry, for each FAD the Post Office Name, the total number of transactions
and the number of transactions for each method of entry.

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 8 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
ined Mana i vice: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FULITSU SERVICES. Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

f) Outlet Opening report. A report normally run monthly showing for each trading date in
a selectable time period the count of outlets expected to be open, the count of outlets
trading, the count of outlets expected to be open but not trading and the count of outlets
expected to be closed but trading.

Measures

© Count of Outlets Expected to be Open

© Count of Outlets Trading

e Count of Outlets Expected to be open but NOT Trading
© Count of Outlets Expected to be closed but Trading

g) PO Opening Exceptions report:

A report run for a selectable period, normally a month, showing for given days the outlets
which were expected to be open but did not trade.

The sort sequence will be by trading date and then by FAD Code
Data

e Trading date

« FAD Code

© Outlet Name

h) Changes to the value bands and / or introduction of additional bands will be effected
through the Hard Change Control Procedure. Both parties agree, (but for the avoidance
of doubt without any commitment) that, in the normal course of business, four weeks
would be a reasonable period to allow for the introduction of a change to the value band.
Fujitsu Services shall provide Post Office with one copy of cach MIS report electronically
using “Business Objects” software (or such other software as may be agreed by the parties
in writing from time to time)

© Fujitsu Services will deliver APS client transaction management information to Post Office
Ltd by close of business on the tenth working day after the end of the month being
reported. The information to be provided is as follows:

a) The number of transactions completed, (in respect of APS at APS client level),
each day throughout the Post Office Branch network; and

b) The delivery profile of those transactions, (in respect of APS at APS client level),
based upon the % delivery to Day B, Day C, Day D and Day J (where Day A is the

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 9 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
ined Mana i vice: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FULITSU SERVICES. Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

transaction completion date).

e Fujitsu Services will deliver Capacity Management information to the Post Office by close
of business on the tenth working day after the end of the month being reported, in
accordance with the CCD entitled: Capacity Management Business Volumes
(PA/PER/033), section 4H.

3.3 Miscellaneous Data Queries

e Post Office Ltd may request Fujitsu Services to supply data not normally reported by the
MIS within section 3.1 & 3.2, subject to the limits detailed in section 5.2.

e Post Office will submit a Miscellaneous Data Query Request via the Fujitsu Services ‘Ad-
hoc query’ mailbox. Urgent requests for data may be communicated via the telephone,
however all such requests must be followed up as soon as reasonably practical by a written
Miscellaneous Data Query Request.

e Fujitsu Services will log all Miscellaneous Data Query Requests in a database for future
reference and audit requirements.

¢ Fujitsu Services will deliver data to Post Office Ltd in any of the following formats as
requested by Post Office:

a) Business Objects Report; or
b) MS Office: Word / Excel.

The data shall be delivered in paper or electronic (CD / E mail / Diskette) form, as
requested by the Post Office.

© Fujitsu Services shall use reasonable endeavours to return the completed Miscellaneous
Data Query Request to Post Office within 5 working days from receipt.

¢ Fujitsu Services will advise Post Office if they are unable to deliver the completed
Miscellaneous Data Query Request within 5 working days and will advise Post Office of
the estimated delivery date

e In carrying out the MIS service, Fujitsu Services shall comply with its data protection
obligations as identified in paragraph 2.3.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

34 Calculation of Liquidated Damages

¢ Some but not all SLT’s are subject to Liquidated Damages when the applicable Liquidated
Damage Threshold (LDT) has not been achieved. Those Service levels that do attract
liquidated damages are identified within Schedule 15.

e Fujitsu Services will provide Post Office Ltd. with the backing data that has been used to
calculate the financial payments associated with any liquidated damages on a monthly
basis

¢ Post Office will review this backing data to verify this financial payment is correct

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 10 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
ined Mana i vice: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FULITSU SERVICES. Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

¢ Post Office will advise Fujitsu Services if it considers any payment to be incorrect and both
parties will attempt to resolve any dispute at the operational level.

e Ifa dispute cannot be resolved at the operational level, the issue will be escalated to the
Service Management Forum for discussion and resolution.

e Ifa dispute cannot be resolved at the Service Management Forum, the issue will be
referred to the Commercial Forum where it will be resolved using the established ‘Case
Law’ procedure.

© Once both parties have agreed on the value of the financial payment, Fujitsu Services will
issue a credit note to Post Office Ltd. based upon the amount payable over the relevant
Post Office quarter in accordance with Schedule 9.

4.0 Service Availability
The MIS will be available from 9:00 to 17:30 Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays.

5.0 Service Targets & Limits

5.1 Targets

5.1.1 Service Review Books

a) Fujitsu Services will deliver to Post Office the Ist iteration of the SRB — 5 working
days after month end;

b) Fujitsu Services will deliver to Post Office the 2nd iteration of the SRB — 10 working
days after month end; and

c) Fujitsu Services will use reasonable endeavours to deliver a completed Miscellaneous
Data Query Request to Post Office within 5 working days of receipt.

5.1.2 Network Banking MIS Reports Delivery

a) Fujitsu Services will, in the normal course of business, provide Post Office with one
copy of each MIS report within the time limits specified below:

e in the case of the Reports specified in paragraphs 3.2.1 a) to c) above no later than
5 working days after the end of the period covered by the Report; and

. in the case of the Report referred to in paragraph 3.2.1 d) no later than 1 working
day after the end of the period covered by the Report.

b) I Where circumstances outside the normal course of business impact on the timing of
provision of a MIS report to Post Office Ltd. then such report shall be provided to Post
Office as soon as reasonably practical after the end of the period covered by the Report.
Fujitsu Services shall notify Post Office Ltd as soon as reasonably practicable after

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 11 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001965

FUJ00001965
ined Mana i vice: Servi ipti Ref: CS/SER/015
gement Information Service: Service Description
FUJITSU Version: 3.0
FULITSU SERVICES. Commercial in Confidence Date: 08/07/2005

c)

5.2

becoming aware of circumstances that will delay preparation or provision of a MIS
report.

In the case of the MIS reports referred to in paragraphs 3.2.1 a) to c) above information
from any Branch which is non-polling between the end of the period covered by the MIS
report and the time when that MIS report is prepared will not be included in the MIS
report for that period but will be included in a subsequent reprint of the MIS report
showing that information, once all the Branches have been polled.

Limits

Post Office may submit no more than 5 Miscellaneous Data Query Requests each week.

6.0 Service Dependencies & Post Office Responsibilities.

6.1

Post Office Responsibilities

Fujitsu Services will only accept an Miscellaneous Data Query Request if it has been
received via the agreed route as described in paragraph 3.3.2.

Post Office Ltd. will make Miscellaneous Data Query Requests using the standard
Miscellaneous Data Query Request form.

Post Office Ltd. will use reasonable endeavours to refuse any requests for data from
within their organisation which they do not consider are cost justified. Where necessary,
Post Office Ltd. will consult Fujitsu Services prior to any such request being made.

Post Office Ltd shall not submit any Miscellaneous Data Query Request, which would
normally be submitted via the established audit and security route. Any such request will
be refused by Fujitsu Services MIS.

©Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2005 Commercial in Confidence Page: 12 of 12

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
