FUJ00087185

FUJ00087185
To: Parker, Stev
Ce: i I; Holmes,
Alanf,
From: Norman, Russell[/O=FUJITSU EXCHANGE ORGANIZATION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP

(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=944C28B3631A4FBABCADC30106B]
Sent: Mon 8/15/2016 12:09:01 PM (UTC)

Subject: FW: Deloitte info as I am in London tomorrow

OldTxnCorrections.docx

Copy of Additional Sparrow questions Progress V4 (15-08-16).xlsx

Hi Steve,

Please see below and attached relating to control E4 of the attached for your review and opinion. Please respond to all in the mail
list as I am out of office this afternoon and Jason will be forwarding the communication on this if necessary.

Thanks,

Regards,

Russell

From: Holmes, Alan

Sent: 15 August 2016 10:08
To: Norman, Russell <

>; Muir, Jason < ; Houston, Cameron
; Thompson, Peter

>; Haywood, Dave

; Dunford, Carol
Newsome, Pete <.

Deloitte info as I am in London tomorrow

E4 Where Balancing Transactions in place in the old
version of Horizon (Pre HNG-X)? if so were they

logged?

I discussed the way the equivalent of transaction corrections were managed with Gareth Jenkins last Friday afternoon. The
attached note contains a brief intro and a summary of that conversation.

Alan
From: Norman, Russell

Sent: 11 August 2016 18:36
To: Muir, Jason

“> Houston, Cameron
Thompson, Peter
>; Haywood, Dave

Subject: FW: Deloitte into as Tam in London tomorrow
Updated control sheet for reference.

Thanks,

Regards,

Russell

From: Norman, Russell
Sent: 11 August 2016 18:33
FUJ00087185
FUJ00087185

; Holmes, Alan < ; Houston, Cameron

junford, Carol <i

To: Muir, Jason <

lewsome, Pete <i >; Haywood, Dave

Subject: Deloitte info as I am in London tomorrow
Hi Jason, Alan,

Carol E6 & E8 = if you deem these to be ok please could you send the answer direct to Deloitte (email addresses below) and BCC
the people on this list.

Jason 9e = Please send you're the filled in answer from Dave’s template straight to Deloitte in my absence if it is easy to complete
as the answer and evidence has been agreed. Please find attached the MSCs These still have the names in them which I have not
had time to remove so please remove the names before sending - this is critical. If it does not fit together please push back on
Dave H.

Please send info if possible to the following and BCC the people on this list:
To: Hallworth, Keely (UK - Manchester)
Gahadzikwa, Patience (UK - Manchester)
Keating, Lewis (UK - Leeds) <
Ollerton, Jamie (UK - Manchester)' <i

Alan = Please provide the information extracted at your 3pm call back to the names on this list (control E4). Please also provide
back internally the ‘tidied up’ paragraph that Gerald asked for help on (control E5). Pete(s) please could you progress these
appropriately? If they can be sent back to Deloitte then please do so (and BCC the people on this list).

Cameron = I asked Deloitte to confirm some info and they might come back to you — if so please send the mails to this group of
people who can progress them accordingly.

I believe this should give the structure of the day and provide guidance of the tasks to focus on plus Cameron is busy in the
morning. I have therefore set up a call mid-afternoon which may allow you to communicate/progress some actions/send some

answers before COP.

tam not allowed to take my laptop to London tomorrow but I will try and remember to take my phone so as not to hold anything
up that is significantly urgent. So please feel free to call me if necessary.

Thanks,

Regards,

Russell Norman

Project Manager — Post Office Account
Business & Application Services

Fujitsu Services
Lovelace Road, Brackn

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com
Fujitsu named as

Responsible Business
of the Year

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children

I-ClO: Global Intelligence for the ClO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup

és Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

FUJ00087185
FUJ00087185
