FUJ00154722
FUJ00154722

From: Pinder Brian{/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FELO1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PINDERB]
27 PM (UTC)

Sent: Fri 09/06/2006 1:
To: Jenkins Gareth Gl

Ce: Thomas Pennyf_
Subject: I FW: Post Office Limited v Mr L Castleton
Attachment: eCopy scanned document.pdf

Gareth ci Penny

I would like to run this by you first as I hope you might be able to either answer the query (hopefully) or point me in the right
direction?
See below request for information

Regds Brian

From: Stephen Dilley [7
Sent: 08 June 2006 15:59
To: Pinder Brian

Ce: graham.c.wart
Subject: Post Office Limited v Mr L Castleton

Dear Brian

Firstly, I would like to thank you and your team for finding the time to meet us on Tuesday. We found the
meeting to be really worthwhile, helpful and productive. We will circulate a note of the meeting shortly, just
for everybody's record.

In the meantime, I attach a letter received on 7 June from Mr Castleton's solicitors. I have highlighted the
two paragraphs that I would like you to have a quick look at. Basically they state the Horizon system is
equipped with a facility via which its operating software can be updated remotely via the connection to the
PO's head office and that the system sometimes went off line when there are software updates. They have
therefore asked for documents relating to the updating of the software of the system. My view is that they
are making a stab in the dark, but please could you ask your team whether they would have or could obtain
any records of software updates?

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.
Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

Pearce LLP

Please note our new contact details from 8 May 2006 as set out above.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.
FUJ00154722
FUJ00154722

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no
liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number OC311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce
LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.
