Strategic Account Review

FUJ00243271
FUJ00243271

foe)
FUJITSU

Terms of Reference

4.

A Strategic Account does not have an exact definition and countries are permitted to use their judgement in
nominating Strategic Accounts.

The guiding criteria for selection for the UK are:

2.1. Established customer with annual revenue typically more than £5-10m

2.2. Senior business relationships at Executive or CxO level within the customer
2.3. Significant growth opportunities across the breadth of our portfolio
Strategic Accounts are subject to:

3.1. Focused investment in account management resources, account specific marketing, bid budget and other
resources as needed

3.2. Development of an account plan that is reviewed at the Europe region level to ensure the account has the
resources and backing needed to achieve its plan

3.3. Participation in NPS survey
3.4. Strategic Account performance against plan is reviewed quarterly in the Management Business Reviews
Purpose of the Strategic Account Review

The Strategic Account Review is established to:

4.1. Enable the United Kingdom and consequently Europe region to achieve its business objectives by
a. Reviewing and interrogating Strategic Account performance to ensure achievement of short-term and
long-term business objectives
Review and agree on the management of opportunities
Monitor ongoing programmes and SLA status
Prioritising resource allocation
Status update on any milestones, risks or issues.
4.2. The key outcome from the Strategic Account Review is to confirm the strategy is agreed for execution.

gpaoo

Membership, Quorum and Attendees*
5.1. The following roles are the members of the Strategic Account Review:
a. Head of UK (Chairperson)
b. Head of Finance UK (reviewer)
c. Other UK / Europe executives
5.2. The following roles shall attend the meeting to present the Strategic Account Review
Head of Sector (presenter)
Sector Finance Director (presenter)
Account Delivery Executive (presenter)
Account Programme Director ( presenter)
Other Business Unit executives

gpa2°009

For the Strategic Account Review to carry out its duties there must be at least two members present. One of which
must be the Head of UK or the Head Finance UK.
*Note: Delegates may be provided

6.

Strategic Account Review Agenda and Documentation
6.1. The NWE Head of Shared Services will agree with the Head of Sales Operations UK and UK Head of
Finance the agenda and standardised data and reporting requirements for Strategic Account Review.
These will be issued in a standard template Strategic Account Review Presentation for Accounts to use.
6.2. The standard template has 12 slides which shall be addressed in any review (the Minimal Viable Product -
MVP). Other material shall be made available as appendices for reference and presentation as required.
6.3. The MVP for presentation shall consist of:
a. Account plan overview
i. Customer profile on a page
ii. Account overview on a page

Fujitsu Restricted Uncontrolled if printed 10f4 © Fujitsu 2023
FUJ00243271
FUJ00243271

iii. Key asks to enable
iv. Key investment asks

b. Customer Insight
I. Customer stated strategy
Il. Key customer business challenges
Ill. Key and Growth stakeholder map
IV. Key account and opportunity stakeholder mappings against in-focus business challenges

c. Our plan to deliver against the challenges
I. The 3 year vision
ll. TCV from the next three years across key lines of business and key opportunities
Ill. Current FY and MTP year TCV outlook by service line
IV. Responsible business and sustainability commitment and plans — Our Purpose

6.4. Accounts will post their completed presentations to their confidential Microsoft Teams Channel

6.5. Actions will be captured locally by the Account rep and addressed off-line

6.6. Where there are security clearance requirements due to the nature of the customer, Europe Governance
shall ensure that all attendees are suitably cleared and that documentation is sanitized, or stored in a
manner consistent with those security requirements

Fujitsu Restricted Uncontrolled if printed 2o0f7 © Fujitsu 2023
FUJ00243271

FUJ00243271
7. The Account Plan has 3 focus lenses, with key themes to be considered shown below:
Focus Lens Key Themes
Our Customer Do we understand our customers business, the market they operate in and their
challenges?

e Thinking about our customer...
o What do they want/need?
o What are their challenges & expectations?
o Whoare the key decision makers? How are we building relationships &
advocacy?
o What is their perception of Fujitsu? What are we doing to improve,
change or build it?
Are we deploying challenger selling and provocations to drive transformation?
What are your creative ideas/approaches for growth by extending our reach?
Are you thinking short, medium and long term?
How do the actions within the account plan lead to the outcomes that our customer
is looking to achieve?
« Howcan we align to make our customer succeed?
Our Team Are all in Fujitsu, our teams, our capabilities, our service lines and business
development — engaged and aligned?

e How does your account support the sub-sector and country strategies?

« What is the plan to exploit successes across other accounts/areas?

e Have you aligned with our capability and delivery teams, and ecosystem
partners on what we will sell, how we will deliver it and how we will
service/maintain it?

e Is there a solid commitment from our teams and partners to provide capabilities
& capacity?

e Is there a mutual understanding of risks and dependencies, and agreement on
the mitigation plan(s)?

* Do you have alignment with the finance team on investments, goals, and
leading/trailing indicators?

e Is there alignment with marketing and other needed support services?

e Are we showing the full value of our team, of the full Fujitsu?

Our Targets Are we showing a Clear, achievable and predictable route to deliver the agreed
vision and support Fujitsu’s growth?

e« What are the numbers for the account, historically and over the MTP period, and
do you have a clear and achievable line of sight as to how to succeed?

« What are the actions that we — as the UK Leadership team - need to take as a
result of this session? Are there clear owners and due dates?

« What do the executive team need to do to support you and your customer?

« What support needs to be requested from Japan Ltd to support (funding,
customer visit)

Looking forwards:

« Do you have a dynamic and clear feedback loop into the offerings community, to
assure that we are building the right things?

e Same for partners?

.and if we need:

« What might be escalated to me or to Japan Ltd.? How can we prevent or
mitigate that?

Alternatively, if you want or need an intervention, how should we align to escalate and
resolve?

8. Strategic Account Review Frequency and Format
8.1. The timetable for Strategic Account Review shall be agreed with the Head of Shared Services
8.2. Strategic Account Reviews for each account will usually be scheduled quarterly
8.3. The duration for each review will typically be 60 minutes unless a longer duration is requested.

The meetings may be conducted face-to-face or via the latest company approved meeting technology.

Fujitsu Restricted Uncontrolled if printed 30f7 © Fujitsu 2023
FUJ00243271
FUJ00243271

Europe Governance Operations will send out the invitations to Strategic Account Reviews on behalf of, and in
consultation with the Head of UK.

Effective Dates/Revision Number

Effective Date: 1° April 2023
Last Review Date: 6" February 2023
Next Review Due: 6" February 2023
Version: 01
Change History
Version I Date Comments
1.0 06/02/23 First definitive version.
44 08/02/23 Revised to include strategic account definitions and Presentation MVP description

Fujitsu Restricted Uncontrolled if printed 4o0f7 © Fujitsu 2023
