FUJ00171178
FUJ00171178

From: Alisdair Cameron r veces GRO
Sent: Fri 15/03/2019

To: "Duncan.Taiti_.

Ce: Rob Houghton

Subject: RE: Post Office ‘update - Group Litigation

Sorry Duncan, this was too standard a message given that we were discussing it last week. But give mea
ring anytime if you want to talk it through, number below. Thanks Al

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Finance & Operating Officer

POST
OFFICE

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Avene Regan
Sent: 15 March 2019 13:23
To: 'Duncan.Tai
Cc: Rob Houghton
Subject: Post Office update - Group Litigation

IOn Behalf Of Alisdair Cameron

Dear Duncan,

As you may be aware, there is continuing Group Litigation involving Post Office as part of a long-running dispute with
a small minority of mainly former postmasters. The case is very complex and the Judge has ordered that it will be
heard as a series of trials.

I wanted to let you know that we have today received the judgment from the first trial,
the legal construction of the contract between Post Office Limited and our Postmasters.

I know that colleagues from Post Office will be talking to yours about the judgment but wanted to flag it to you
personally.

The judgment is long and detailed and makes strong criticisms of Post Office, including of behaviours. We are taking
these criticisms very seriously and taking action as necessary.

It is important to underline that the judgment does not affect the products and services we provide for our millions of
customers through our network of 11,500 Post Office branches. It is about how we work with our postmasters and the
contracts that underpin the relationships.

We will be taking a number of immediate steps in relation to the judgment, including accelerating action to
investigate problems brought to us by postmasters and stepping up our ongoing drive to improve training and
FUJ00171178
FUJ00171178

support.

I hope this is helpful: I know your teams will be updated in more detail but I did want to flag this to you, particularly as
it is likely to receive media coverage. If you would like a call or meeting please let me know.

With best wishes,

Al Cameron
Chief finance & Operating Officer

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Finance & Operating Officer

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

FE GSS SI CCI SI SIGISISIOCI ISIC I CICICICII RICE ICICI GI ICICI ICR ICCA IC 3 a CFI RA CSCS RR oR CAI RR I ACS RR oR CAC

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

SEAR A RCC RR A CCR RR ACR A CCR RI CCR RGR CACO RR CCR GR RCRA GR COC RRR CGR GR A ACO RGR OR CA

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”
