FUJ00174701
FUJ00174701

From: Keegan Michael[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KEEGANM]
Sent: Wed 03/07/2013 9:
To: Tanner Adami
Ce:

Subject: FW: Second Sight Integrity Audit - Briefing for Awareness

Team
For awareness....expect the media to try and make a story here.

Michael

From: Lamb Helen

Sent: 03 July 2013 10:19

To: Tait Duncan; Bounds Gavin; Bull Richard; Stevenson Andy; Keegan Michael; Bennett Ella; Hirata Hideyo; Kirby-Green
Nigel; Clayton Steve; Moran Regina; Pearce Lynsey; Roberts David (LON22); O'driscoll Ian

Cc: Davidson James; Bell Gavin; Jones Haydn; Patterson Paul

Subject: Second Sight Integrity Audit - Briefing for Awareness

Second Sight are due to release a report this Friday on the integrity of the POA Horizon system and end to end business
processes.

We believe the report will confirm that no specific issues of a systemic nature have been identified with Horizon / HNGx
but some noise is possible on a couple of system bugs (identified in 2010 shortly after the new system went live &
subsequently resolved). Our team have looked at these and there is nothing that links these to any specific cases so,
nothing to corroborate any allegations made. Despite this, it’s possible the Press or Post Masters will pick up on and
speculate that there were bugs.

We believe the report will also identify some issues on the level of support provided to Sub-Postmasters when business
issues occur, training and, end user issues. These are within Post Office’s responsibility to manage rather than Fujitsu’s.

All of the above is incredibly political & topical, is taking top priority within Post Office (from Paula downwards) and we
believe the BBC have slots reserved for this Friday to potentially publish content from the report.

We are working closely with Post Office to manage this in terms of;

Making yourselves aware of what is happening so you don’t get caught out unexpectedly. If anyone asks you
about it then any questions & queries should be referred to the Press Office (our Press Office and the Post
Offices are in regular contact)

We are establishing daily checkpoint calls with Post Office, starting from tomorrow, and including the weekend,
to make sure we have all bases covered and be in a position to respond to any additional issues that get raised

POA are uncertain of the exact timing they will receive the Second Sight report on Friday. As soon as they do
receive it, they will need to quickly validate that every statement within the Report is 100% correct. We will have
acore team from FJ available on Friday in London to go through the report with them (giving us early sight of
content and maximising the time we have to also validate it)
FUJ00174701
FUJ00174701

POA are producing some Q&A’s and Statements that may be useful should the media pick up on the report on
Friday, these will have a couple of references to Fujitsu within them. I have asked Lesley to share these with us
so we can validate the content (from a Media and Commercial perspective)

So - nothing for you to do other than be aware. (James & team - pls add on anything I’ve missed)

Kind regards
Helen

Helen Lamb
Executive Director - Business & Application Services, UK & Ireland

Fujitsu
22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW.

Twitter: www.Twitter.com/HelenLambFJ
i!
Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity
Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
