ICL PATHWAY INTERNAL AUDIT i \
BRIEFING NOTE 1 I I
To : Miles Blewett, Masons { tM ~899D I
From : Jan Holmes, Pathway Audit Manager - 7 . °
Copy : Tony Oppenheim, Pathway Finance Director
Martyn Bennett, Pathway Quality & Risk Director
Date: 28th January 2000
Subject: ACCESS TO HORIZON AUDIT DATA BY POCL SECURITY
INVESTIGATIONS

Miles, I’ve attempted to provide as much information as I think you will need in
advance of Thursday’s meeting with Martyn and I.

There are a number of attachments with this note :

lL. Audit Trail Functional Specification V3.0 dated 1St July 1999

Minutes from Audit Panel meeting dated 14th January 1998

Minutes from Audit Panel’ meeting dated 12th February 1998

Minutes from Audit Panel meeting dated 14th May 1998

Letters from POCL and BA regarding data extractions dated 15th and 16th July 1998

se Fen

Keith Baines letter dated 11H january 2000.

Please note that any handwriting on any of these document was done at the time.

Definitions
The following are key-definitions from Schedule AQ.

Transaction
A recorded and.auditable instance of business activity, involving service provision or
Stock movement across organisational or.service boundaries.

Event:
A recorded and auditable instance of business administration activity, such as the
registration of a new- User, or.the production of a Report.

Records:
Full and accurate records relating to the performance of the POCL Services.

Agent:
Any person authorised to operate a franchise post office or sub-post office, including
without limitation sub-post masters on a non-franchise contract, and franchisees of post
offices or sub post offices.

POCL Data:
Means all data, information, text, drawings, diagrams, images or sounds which are
embodied in any electronic or tangible medium, and which are’supplied or in respect of
which access is granted to the Contractor by POCL pursuant this Codified Agreement,
or which the Contractor is required to generate for POCL under this Codified

FUJ00058509
FUJ00058509
FUJ00058509
FUJ00058509

Agreement, but excludes the Service Architecture Design Document and
Documentation.

Access to Audit Data

During Acceptance, Audit was dealt with as two separate areas, Operational Audit and the
related Audit Trail and Commercial Audit and the related Records.

Each was linked to a specific Requirement, Operational being R699 and Commercial being
R697. These terms were coined in the Audit Trail Functional Specification (ATFS Section
1.1.1), a document that all parties were conversant with and which is now a CCD — latest
version is 3.0 dated 01/07/99.

The ATFS identifies the roles that have access to audit data and rules surrounding that access
(Sections 1.2.2 and 1.2.3). There is no mention in this document of ‘POCL Security
Investigations’, either a role-or an organisation.

It acknowledges access at two levels, at the Counter and at the Centre. It states that “all
access at the centre is via the Pathway audit function.”

Each was ‘Accepted’ through independent Acceptance Reviews; Operational via Audit Data
extractions against pre-prepared Requests For Information, the agreed process; Commercial
via an audit of the commercial arrangements by a mixed BA/POCL team resulting in an Audit
Report. This was conducted under the‘auspices of the Joint Working Framework (JWF), itself
an accepted interpretation of. Schedule A03. The JWF is described in the Horizon System
Audit Manual (HSAM).

The Audit data is further demarcated through its retention, Operational Audit Data is‘retained
for 18 months and Commercial Audit:Data for 7 years.

The Horizon System Audit Manual (HSAM) and its associated low level procedure provides
detailed and explicit arrangements for access to the Operational Audit Data at the Outlet and
at the ‘Centre’ — this is access to data not available at the Outlet. This is a practical
implementation of the rules established in the ATFS. HSAM was developed with
considerable input from BA/POCL and it was accepted during Acceptance as a definitive
document, albeit not a CCD.

The requirements for (Operational) Audit Data Retrieval are defined in a document that was
directly contributed to by BA and POCL through written statements of the type, frequency
and turnaround time that they expected. Throughout this activity POCL maintained the
position that Network Auditors would not require-access to data held at the ‘Centre’. Access
by POCL Investigations was not discussed nor allowed for by either party.

It is understood that during this time POCL Investigations were pursuing their own data
retrieval requirements through the Fraud Risk Management System (FRMS), a BA service.

The Quoted Bits of the Contract in Keith Baines’ Letter
Clause 801.

801.1 & 2: This refers to Records but what does Records mean in this context. It talks about
6 years which would exclude-the Operational Audit Trail.

801.3 : It talks about “ investigations into suspected fraudulent activity or other impropriety
by the Contractor or any third party...” but the exclusion of the Operational Data implies that
this is financial impropriety in the execution of the contract and not the service. Thus it is
targeted at Pathway and not a POCL Agent as defined in Schedule AO.
FUJ00058509
FUJ00058509

Schedule A03
This is a bit more tricky!

2.1: Here they have re-defined POCL’s Agents as specifically themselves, their
external/regulatory auditors (what's the difference?) other agents or successor to any of them.
Presumably they could identify POCL Security Investigation Branch as ‘POCL’ to support
their claim.

3.1 : We are required to maintain an ‘audit trail’ of Transactions (see above) and Events (see
above) in strict conformance to Schedule A2 para 4.1.4 (see below) by their definition this
equates to the Operational Audit Trail (R699)

4.1: Talks about access to the Records (see above) and additional stuff. This is a crib from
R697 - or the other way round) - and equates to the Commercial Audit Trail as defined in the
ATFS accepted by POCL.

The combination of 3.1 and 4.1 implies the full set of audit data, records, call it what you
want, has to be available to them!

4.2 : Limits access by POCL Agents to data held by the Contractor in Outlets.

4.3 ; Requires us to provide ‘reasonable assistance’, therefore no set turnaround and
frequency requirements established. This to support their-needs to supply information for,
among other things, judicial purposes. Does this mean prosecutions in which case this is dealt
with in R829.

4.5 : Says that upon notification Pathway has to provide access to the audit trail in para 3.1 —
taken to be the Operational Audit Trail and the facility to interrogate that trail using
reasonable selected criteria.

The rest of it revolves around the carrying out ofaudits and a fairly general audit process with
which we must comply. This is enshrined in the JWF, tested under acceptance of R697, the
Commercial Audit Trail.

Statements

1. In his initial analysis of the problem Warren introduced R894 as, potentially, the
basis for their claim. I am unhappy with that as R894 did not form any part of
the contractual acceptance that the audit solution went through. Are we not
shooting ourselves in the foot by introducing something that has played no
previous part in our thinking or actions.

2. Arguably we already provide ~95% of what they want via the TIP link on‘a daily
basis. Some work would have to be undertaken by us to ensure that we provided the
Event information but this may be a ‘less cost’ option than providing the info via the
TMS journal (which is the nub of their current argument).

3. This could service their ‘fishing trips’ which I believe account for the ‘few hundred’
queries anticipated by Bob Martin. We would then extract from the audit archive to
form the prime evidence for prosecution or dismissal. This approach was discussed
with Hilary Stewart (POCL) during the development period and Acceptance.

4. In this scenario we could still meet R829 since they. could advise us of the
characteristics of data they wanted retained beyond the-normal I8month retention
period.
POCL have always maintained a organisational distinction between the Network
Auditors, who access the system at the OUTLETS and the Central Auditors who have
access to historical audit data at the CENTRE, via-Pathway Internal Audit.

POCL have always been involved in the development of the Audit Trail Functional
Specification, the Audit Data Retrieval Requirements and the Horizon System Audit
Manual where this separation has been reflected in the solution currently
implemented.

The audit solution in its current form has been:formally accepted. by POCL.

Clause 801 is a red herring as it is about financial impropriety by us oF our agents,
despite their attempted catch-all of ‘any third party’. How can we be held responsible
for a dodgy PostMaster, operating our system perfectly correctly but defrauding the
Post Office as a result!

Regardless of the scope of Schedule A03 it appears to limit itself to POCL data held
in'the OUTLETS. (Actually, if that holds does it not render the remainder of A03
worthless).

Throughout 1997, 1998 and 1999 a three way liaison group, known as the Audit
Panel, met regularly under the chairmanship of the PDA, to discuss the practical, day
to day issues surrounding audit. Minutes were taken after each meeting and circulated
to attendees. Copies of the minutes from 14/01/98, 12/02/98 and 14/05/98 are
attached. Summary - and I’ve marked the paper copies — of relevant areas :

Meeting 14th January 1998

i. Dave King (POCL Fraud & Security Group) to discuss with Lee Harris
(POCL Internal. Audit) appropriate links for security queries and general
investigations.

ii. Lee Harris to discuss agreement to use Data Warehouseas basis for
investigations and prosecutions with Dave King. (Note that I’m.not sure what
‘agreement’ this is referring to.

iii. Graham King (Pathway Fraud Risk Manager) and Jari Holmes (Pathway
Audit Manager) led general discussion on investigations. POCL Regional
Security Investigation Managers mentioned. Thrust was information to
Pathway from POCL in support of the then Pathway liability for fraud
perpetrated through our system

Meeting 12th February 1998

i Dave King agreed that Pathway FRM links to POCL should be via FSG —
now non-existent. (Point iii. above)

ii. The Lee Harris/Dave King discussions re Data Warehouse as basis for
investigations no longer relevant and dropped from meeting. (Point ii. above).

iii. Jan Holmes seeking specific details of audit data retrievals. Note the
handwritten comment re ‘No! Refer to ATFS’. This:is because the ATFS
does not allow-access of this type for POCL Regional Audit.

iv. Dave. King agreed to provide figures to support his comments surrounding
Security Event Investigations

Meeting 14th May 1998

i. Figures to be supplied for Point iv. above deemed to belong elsewhere and
dropped from the Panel agenda.

FUJ00058509
FUJ00058509
Essentially there are no other mentions of audit data requirements for anybody other
than POCL Internal Audit.

There are two letters which establish POCL’s and BA’s position with regard to Audit
Data retrieval Scenarios. You will note Hilary’s comments regarding historical
extractions for her regional audit colleagues. I cannot find any evidence that I replied
to her request. I do recall conversations with her over a period of time where we
discussed the potential for POCL using TIP data for their ‘fishing trips’ and then
coming to me for the true data once they had progressed their investigations to a point
of prosecution or dismissal. We never formally agreed that this would be the way to
go but the potential was aired. Again though, note that it was her ‘regional audit
colleagues’ and not POCL Security Investigations.

In February 1999 Bob Martin (POCL Investigations) provided GPK with Terms of
Reference for a paid study vis “To ensure that the work undertaken by Pathway to
determine the costs of providing an enquiry service within the Horizon system for
POCL investigation staff accords with the requirements laid down by POCL Security
& Investigation Executive”. The ToRs identified 8 separate requirements, some of
which equate to the level of detail currently being requested. This was referred to
SDoyle for some initial feedback which he provided in a memo to MHB dated 2/3/99
He also declined to provide an estimate until clearer requirements were presented by
POCL. In a letter dated 11/3/99 from Bob Martin to MHB Bob explained his funding
problems and agreed to come back to MHB once the position was known, There has
been no further correspondence until Bob attempted to meet his information retrieval
requirements through Service Management and the rest is history.

This tells me that POCL knew they were exposed as early as February 1999. The
earlier discussions during Audit Pane! meetings were held with Fraud Risk
Management, a separate part of Pathway to Audit. Bob Martin’s paid study was
sponsored into Pathway by Fraud Risk Management.

Security Standards

The Contractor shall adhere to the relevant parts of POCL’s security
standards and requirements listed below, and co-operate with POCL to
assist POCL in complying with those standards and requirements:

‘Social Security IT Security Standards’ (reference
DITSG\ITSS\0001.04, version 6.3 dated September 1996) to the
extent applicable to OBCS and to the POCL Infrastructure Services
necessary to deliver OBCS;

‘Post Office Counters Information Systems Security Policy’ (as
provided in Appendix 4-1 of the BA/POCL SSR issued in April 1995);
and

‘A Code of Practice for Post Office Information Systems Security’
(Version 1.5 dated 28/10/94, as provided in Appendix 4-2 of the
BA/POCL SSR issued in April 1995).

FUJ00058509
FUJ00058509
