JAI

From: ARBUTHNOT, James
Sent: 15 July 2014 11:59

To: sarah.paddison{ _
Cc: WALKER, Janet

Subject: Draft email from James Arbuthnot to MPs

Dear Sarah

Thank you for the brief chat just now. I can confirm that James would like to talk to
Paula this afternoon, and will call her mobile at 3.45pm.

One of the matters he wants to touch on is the email he is sending out to MPs, a
draft of which is below. Paula saw an earlier draft and commented upon it. The
email will go with the Annex Paula sent last week. C

Could you please pass this on to her for her thoughts?

Many thanks
Janet

[Draft email to MPs]
Dear Colleague

I had hoped that we might schedule a meeting before summer during which the
Post Office might offer us an update on how the mediation scheme is progressing.
To this end I have been in correspondence with Paula Vennells, the Chief Executive,
to see what might be arranged.

It appears that not a great deal can be added to what was said in our last meeting.
The mediation scheme is progressing, but at a slower pace than any of us would
have liked. Rather than hold a meeting just before Recess that will not reveal more
than we already know, I would rather wait until autumn, but I do want to get a date
in the diary for a meeting then.

T attach a note that Paula has sent which sets out the progress made since our last
meeting. She has reiterated to me that the integrity of the mediation scheme
requires that confidentiality of cases be respected. In her letter to me she has also
said that individual case details may not be shared with us at any point, including at
the end of the Scheme.

T would like to believe that at the end of the Scheme we will be presented with a
report which shows why and how we got to the stage where hundreds of individuals
were (and still are) coming forward with their concerns and their often harrowing
stories. I do believe that the mediation scheme has a good chance of righting things,
but we shall all need clarity as to what happened and why, and how it is being put
right.

JARBO000085
RB0000085
