JARBOO000119
JARBO000119

From: Alan Bates:

Sent: Wed 16/09/2015 5:32:36 PM (UTC)

To: James Arbuthnot!

Subject: Assorted information

Attachment: 20150817 Anonymous letter.pdf
Hello James,

I have just been speaking with Janet to try and ascertain if she knew of Tim Parker, the new POL Chairman who starts
work on 1st October, and she suggested that I ask you. From what I can see he is either going to dig in and support
Paula and her crew — regardless, or he will fire the lot and bring everything out into the open and clean up the whole
mess. A link to a Telegraph article about his appointment is below.

She also mentioned, although I don’t think she meant to, that you have a meeting tomorrow, which I obviously will
not repeat. Whilst we are still trying to get the ball rolling through legal channels there are a few other points which
you may or may not be aware of.

e The Panorama programme, while very good, was quite soft, probably due to POL’s legal team threatening
from the side-lines. Yet the whistle-blower, who had contacted JFSA over 2 years ago and who we managed
to talk into agreeing to speak with the BBC, had an awful lot more to say, which at some point I want him to
make in a statement to our lawyers.

o Also he is not the only whistle-blowing source that we have, and Kay has had a conversation with albeit
a somewhat different type of source, but possibly one with a lot more hard data.

o There is also the attached letter which you may or may not have received from elsewhere and which I
have been asked to treat as confidential. I honestly do not know of the validity of the content, but it
does make a lot sense.

¢ From what I can gather the CCRC is having enormous problems obtaining any data or documentation out of
POL

© Quite a few of JFSA also submitted Subject Access Requests under the FOI Act just over three months ago.
Post Office are failing miserably to respond in the time it is meant to, and it is constantly writing to people
about the delay which it says is due to “seemingly co-ordinated requests” (I don’t know what they mean).
Some people have started to receive their bundles from Post Office, but there are major blocks of blacked out
pages, of which Jo is in the lead with 146 totally black pages, but I am aware of 2 others who have had over
100 black pages. Post Office is also failing to supply anyone with anything before January 2012 due, they say,
to that was when a new archiving system was commissioned. Needless to say we are advising everyone to go
back to the Information Commissioners Office about this.

There are lots of smaller points but we keep going forward with this and we won’t let it drop. I do feel we don’t quite
have the Westminster communications working particularly well at present, it seems everyone is off doing their own
thing, but after the Conference Recess is out of the way, we’ll try and improve that. But do be aware that the
problems with Post Office and Horizon are still continuing today and we regularly hear from new and old cases every
week. This matter is not going to go away.

Sorry, it was only meant to be a quick query about the new Post Office Chairman
Regards
Alan

http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/11735702/Prince-of-Darkness-Tim-Parker-
named-Post-Office-chair.html
