JARBO000081
JARB0000081

Meeting with Alice Perkins, Paula Vennells, and David Oliver
9.30am, Tuesday 28 January 2014

JNA notes

Mediation Scheme

1. Howis this going?
a. 147 cases have applied
b. How many have reached mediation?
c. Only half a day or one day allocated for mediation — is this enough?
d. Understand that results are not binding — on either SubPM or Post Office. Is this
true? What are consequences of this?
e. Chairman — how long is he contracted for?

2. Reporting progress to MPs — when and how and in what detail?
a. Do confidentiality terms mean that constituents will not be able to talk to their MPs?

3. Reporting results to MPs — individual cases, cases in total, when and how
a. Second Sight producing a Thematic Report (previously called Mediators Briefing
Document) — sounds ideal for circulation

4. Are there any exclusions on what can be made public?
a. Reporting problems with Horizon — should they be found

5. Compensation
a. Is there contingency for this?
b. Is there someone of sufficient authority on the working group that will be
empowered to make offers from POL without having to revert to senior
management?

6. External review of past and current litigation — what were the results?

7. Any future plans for second tranche of mediation for new cases that come to light?
JARBO000081
JARB0000081

Second Sight

8.

Letter of agreement — problems.

a. Must be independent in order to investigate and report
b. Letter from the Minister supports this

Letter of Agreement - “At the moment the proposed contract between Second Sight and the Post
Office (which we have refused to sign) prevents Second Sight from investigating or dealing with any
of the following:

JFSA

Matters that have not been directly raised by a Subpostmaster;

The efficacy or safety of any criminal investigation, prosecution or conviction of a
Subpostmaster;

Post Offices prosecution policies or strategies;

The terms of any Subpostmaster's contract with Post Office or Post Office's contract
management processes;

The merit or quantum of any consequential losses suffered by a Subpostmaster;
Any settlement that has been or could be reached between Post Office and a
Subpostmaster;

Any legal liability that Post Office may have to a Subpostmaster or vice versa.
Attending, or assisting in the preparation for, any mediation;

Rendering a report or opinion on the general suitability or integrity of the Horizon
system.”

All OK?

a. Keen for individuals to be able to talk to MPs about their cases
