Contact Information:

Areas of Expertise:

+ Managing large and high profile fraud
investigations

+ Interviewing both witnesses and
suspects

* Liaising with legal teams and law
enforcement

+ Preparing affidavits, witness
statements and expert witness reports

+ Advising on how to improve Fraud
Awareness

+ Assessing systems in order to identify

control weaknesses, and devising cost-

effective ways to repair them

+ Advising and implementing anti-fraud
programmes and policies

« Reducing Credit and Fraud Losses in
Financial Institutions

* Getting to the underlying truth in highly
complex fraud situations, for example
where employees have been falsely
accused and evidence planted to draw
attention away from the true
perpetrator

Resources -

Director, London, United Kingdom

JARB0000024
JARBO0000024

Ron Warmington

Ron is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountant and a Member of
the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners.

In his 44-year career, Ron spent 35 years in two of the world’s largest
banks: Citibank and GE Capital. Prior to moving into the field of fraud
investigation, Ron held a number of senior positions, in Systems and
Process Design, Technology Audit; Internal Audit and Investment
Management, including serving as Regional Head of Internal Audit and as
CFO of Citigroup’s Global Investment Management Business. He also
served as a member of Citigroup's European Audit Committee. Since
then, he has spent over twenty years specialising in bank fraud
investigations and fraud management, including heading up Global
Banking Investigations (and European Director of Security) at Citigroup .
In 2001, Ron joined GE Capital as European Director of Fraud
Management, leaving in 2009 to undertake contract investigations and
fraud management business through his company: 2nd Sight.

Ron has led hundreds of investigations in every aspect of banking and
finance, including: Retail and Card businesses; Commercial Lending and
Investment Banking; Trading and Derivatives (including ‘Rogue Trader’
cases); Investment Management; Mortgages (including sub-prime); Asset-
based Finance; Internal fraud and corruption at all levels; and Commercial
& Trade Finance

2nd
Mobile

cot GRO

Areas of Expertise:

* The acquisition and examination of
evidence derived from computers and
other digital devices

+ Expert witness testimony on
technology matters at various Courts
and Tribunals including as an expert
instructed by the Crown Prosecution
Service

+ The investigation of complex or high
profile fraud involving technology
issues

+ Managing large or high profile fraud
investigations

+ Interviewing both witnesses and
suspects

+ Liaising with IT specialists, legal
teams and law enforcement

+ Preparing affidavits, witness
statements and expert witness reports

+ Assessing systems in order to identify

control weaknesses, and devising cost-

effective ways to repair them
+ Advising and implementing anti-fraud
programmes and policies

Resources — lan Henderson

Contractor, London, United Kingdom

JARB0000024
JARBO0000024

lan is uniquely qualified as an investigator, a Chartered Accountant, an
IT Auditor and a Forensic Computer Examiner. Professional
qualifications include FCA, CISA and CCE.

lan was previously Head of Investigations at the Personal Investment
Authority. Immediately prior to this, lan held a number of senior
regulatory roles at Lloyd’s of London. As Manager of the Lloyd’s Loss
Review Department, lan was responsible for the independent
investigation of financial losses exceeding £800 million. He was also
Manager of the Action Group Support Unit who worked closely with
members of Lloyd’s who were disputing liability for Lloyd’s losses. In this
role lan dealt directly with Members of Parliament who were raising a
various issues concerning Lloyd’s losses.

lan has examined over 300 personal computers, network servers and
personal digital devices in the last 5 years. He has also been responsible
for over 20 major fraud investigations and has directly facilitated
substantial financial recoveries as a result of examining the digital
evidence. He has been appointed as the Court’s computer expert in civil
cases in both England and Scotland and has given evidence as a
forensic computer expert in numerous civil and criminal cases, including
a major terrorism trial at the Old Bailey. Between January 2001 and July
2005, lan acted (part time) as Special Advisor to the Criminal'Cases
Review Commission. lan was also a selected as a con ing author:to
the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners’ “Fraud Ook”.
