JAI

Dear XXXX

I promised to write regarding the events at Odiham Post Office before Christmas, sending on copies
of answers I have received from the Minister and the Post Office about this situation. I enclose these
here.

I must begin by letting you know that the entire situation sounds extremely puzzling. I gather that
the Post Office was closed at very short notice twice in the run-up to Christmas, and that no-one was
warned of this. Having dealt with Post Office closures before, I know only too well how people
depend on them for more than simply posting a letter, and their closure disrupts daily life to an
extremely large degree. It seems as though the Post Office has re-opened the branch, and that they
are looking for permanent staff. This is good news as I know Odiham serves a much wider
community than the village alone.

With regard to the reason for Mr Kemp’s dismissal, I am afraid that I simply do not, and cannot, take
a view on this. Mr Kemp himself has not approached me, and it must be left entirely to him as to
whether he wishes to do so or not. Without his doing so I cannot comment on his specific case and
the justice or otherwise of the situation in which he now finds himself. I assure you, though, that
should he decide to contact me, I will be happy to listen to him and to help if I can.

lam wary of commenting further, other than to say that as a similar situation occurred at South
Warnborough in recent years, I am suspicious of what the Post Office says about the software
system it uses: Horizon. As I mentioned in my initial message to you, a company of solicitors in
Basingstoke has gathered over 30 individuals from around the country all of whom allege that using
the Horizon system has resulted in accusations of fraud by the Post Office, something they all deny. I
am meeting with solicitors in late February, to discuss their findings and how they propose to take
these cases on.

1am happy to let you know how I get on, so please let me know if you would like to be kept informed
although I must stress that unless Mr Kemp decides to get in touch with me, developments will focus
on other individuals and their cases. I trust you will understand.

Finally, please be assured that I am keeping an eye on post office closures throughout the
constituency. I would be pleased if you kept in touch and let me know of developments as you see
them.

JARBOO000011
RB0000011
