JARB0000073

JARB0000073

From: WALKER, Janet

Sent: 30 September 2013 10:38

To: ‘James Arbuthnot’

Cc: CHARLETT, Susanne

Subject: BBC Wales interview, Tuesday 1 October, 3pm at conf

James,

Contact name is Siwan Richards (producer) — mobile:
They want to film outside, and will meet you at the main entrance of the conference
centre (inside the compound), on the left-hand side of the main steps leading into
the centre. This is very close to the Total Politics coffee lounge where your other
meetings are taking place. I have checked on the map.

Tam going to call her tomorrow to double-check this, and will confirm with you final
details, whether they have changed or not.

She has my number.

Janet

Mobile numbers for staff who will be in Manchester
Elliw Gwawr (reporter)

Siwan Richards (producer)

From: Anna Marie Robinson
Sent: 25 September 2013 11:49

To: WALKER, Janet

Subject: RE: Interview with James Arbuthnot MP, 3pm, 1 Oct, at Tory Party Conf, re Post office

Hi Janet

Yes the interview is still scheduled for October 1** at 3pm. Our team will be in the conference
building, so it won't be far for him to walk. (Well, I suppose it depends where his previous
meeting is).

Can you please ask James to answer my original email with his responses - brief one lined

ones are fine — I just need to know before next week loosely what he has to say about this
issue so I can write it in to the programme edit (I begin editing this Saturday). Or maybe he
can ring me on my mobile...

I also understand he received an email the day before yesterday from the JFSA about an
attempted suicide by one of the posymasters — the second one to try to kill themselves over
discrepancies between them and the PO. Is he happy to respond to that email from the JFSA
in our programme?

Thanks
JARB0000073

JARB0000073

Anna

From: WALKER, Janet

Sent: 25 September 2013 10:
To: 'anna.marie.robins:
Subject: Interview with James Arbuthnot MP, 3pm, 1 Oct, at Tory Party Conf, re Post office

Hi Anna Marie,
Tam just nudging us both to get next week's details in order.

1 October at 3pm — we have reserved this time for you, so can you confirm this still
works?

Location — we are still waiting for you to confirm where the interview takes place,
and I will need to know as soon as you do because I need to get James from his
previous meeting to wherever you are. When will you know this, please?

T shall wait to hear from you,

Kind regards

Janet

From: ARBUTHNOT, James

Sent: 18 September 2013 18:51

To: ‘Anna Marie Robinson’

Subject: RE: Post Office - HORIZON

Hi Anna Marie,

How does 1 October at 3pm at Conference sound?

Can you confirm this is OK?

Kind regards,
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP
House of Commons
London SW1A OAA

Website: www.jamesarbuthnot.com
This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the

sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted.
This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail

From: Anna Marie Robinson [.__ GRO.
Sent: 18 September 2013 14:04
To: ARBUTHNOT, James

Subject: RE: Post Office - HORIZON

JARB0000073
JARB0000073

Hi Janet

Yes I will let you know at once when Elliw tells me — but she won’t know until after the
conference has started so that she can describe to me where they will be. But I am sure that
will be straightforward once they are there.

Thanks

Anna

From: ARBUTHNOT, James
Sent: 18 September 2013 1.
To: Anna Marie Robinson

Subject: RE: Post Office - HORIZON

Thanks Anna Marie,

I'll have to confirm later, but you will need to tell me exactly where the BBC compound is, in
due course.

Janet

From: Anna Marie Robinson I “GRO.
Sent: 18 September 2013 13:57
To: ARBUTHNOT, James

Subject: RE: Post Office - HORIZON

Janet

I have just picked up your voicemail message.. our crew are ok to do the interview on the 1*
of October — they will meet him by the BBC compound but I will confirm exactly where once
they have arrived in conference so that you can pass the message on to James.

Mobile numbers for staff who will be in Manchester
Elliw Gwawr } (reporter)
Siwan Richards y

So all we need is to confirm a time that’s suitable.
Thanks very much

Anna

From: CHARLETT, Susanne

Sent: 18 September 2013 18:28

To: WALKER, Janet

Subject: Interview slot for BBC Wales - reserved in the diary on Tuesday 1 October at 15.00 (open
ended)
JARBO000073
JARB0000073

Hi

I’ve reserved 3pm onwards in the conference diary on Tue 1 October for you to arrange the
BBC Wales interview for James. I’ve not put anything else in after that slot for the moment
until they confirm how long it will take. Can I leave that to you to organise?

Many thanks!!

18 Sept
JNA cfms the slot at 3pm (end time open) should be reserved for BBC Wales - JKW will get in touch

with them
