JAI

18 July 2012

Mr Alan Bates.

Thank you for coming all the way to Westminster last week for the meeting. I thought it
went well, and am really very pleased that you came.

Thank you also for your letter. I thought your agreement was explicitly asked for at the end
of the meeting, so am sorry you felt it was not. I know Miss Linnell was happy with how
things might proceed, but perhaps we did not put as direct a question to you as you would
have wished. I am sorry that you feel this was so. I suppose the potential for confusion was
there partly as I imagined Miss Linnell was, in a way, acting for you. Would you be good
enough to perhaps let me know whether this is, or is not the case?

Ido not think we went into as much detail as your letter recollects. My understanding is that
2" Sight will proceed with initial investigations, and that the result of these will dictate the
direction of further investigations. Whether or not this includes a systems investigation of
Horizon is yet to be determined, but if it does, we will ask the Post Office to consider
increasing the scope of the investigation to include the system itself. We are all of us,
including the Post office, fully aware that if this does become the case, it is in everyone's —
including the Post Office's — interest to look into the system.

Your point about obtaining cases where current errors are occurring was and is a very good
one. I shall write to the Post Office and suggest this, asking firstly that individuals might be
prompted to come forward via the Post Office’s Subspace magazine, and secondly, for some
assurances with regard to immunity. I take your point that this immunity ought to be
extended to all personnel involved. Thank you for making it.

With regard to your outline, I have written to the Post office asking them to set aside £5000
for a review of the 2" Sight initial investigations. I am yet to hear from them, but as soon
as I do, I shall let you know.

JARBO000028
RB0000028
JARBO000028
JARB0000028

I will pass a copy of your letter on to 2" Sight, as they ought to see your detailed remarks
about the historic cases. How they investigate is, I think, a matter that is up to them. They
are, after all, as expert in the field as you are in yours, and I do not want to dictate terms to
them. I hope that by meeting Ron and Ian, you were somewhat reassured that they are not
biased towards any given end result. Kay seemed content, and I was greatly encouraged by
this.

Iam glad we met, and I hope you believe that I am very concerned about this entire matter
and want it cleared up as effectively — not as quickly — as possible.

I shall write again once I have heard from the Post Office.
