JARBOO000065
JARBO000065

James,

In case I don’t see you this afternoon, I'll meet you at Old Street for the meeting
tomorrow morning, which starts at 9.15am. I have loaded to the diary giving plenty
of time for you to get to and from.

Alwen said they were trying to get Alan Bates to participate via conference call.
To raise / discuss

Second Sight continuing involvement

It is worth your raising, if not fully resolving, the fact that Second Sight really
ought to continue to be involved. Whilst the terms of their involvement are not our
concern, the fact that they continue to be involved and in what capacity, is. Ian
Henderson has called to express some anxiety that neither he nor Ron have heard
from the PO since just before the meeting on 8 July. Not entirely surprising. But he
did say that given the Ministerial agreement with MP’s comments in the statement
that Second Sight’s continued involvement is necessary, it is a bit unnerving. Second
Sight appears to be on some kind of rolling ‘agreement’ based on an hourly rate
rather than having a contract. Not our problem, but worth knowing the agreement
seems tenuous rather than formal.

Ian also mentioned that he rather expects PO full cooperation to drop off, given
the hammering it has taken. I pointed out that this would not be in the interests of
PO, and that they would probably see this. However, he did ask what escalation
point might he be able to use over summer if his requests for data / documents /
cooperation were not met. I said, come to me. I did not say, James is available if
absolutely necessary — they should be able to sort this out themselves. But it’s worth
you just bearing in mind. Ian, Ron, and Alan know recess dates, my holiday dates,
and I have said that you are pretty much unavailable during summer.

Said has never heard from Ministerial office, should he expect to? I said probably
not now, but would check your view on this.

October meeting

Shall we mull over what might comprise an October meeting (14? 21? 28?), and get
that in the diary now, with forewarning to Second Sight and PO? You've said that at
this meeting, the PO ought to be in a position to respond to investigation findings
and speak directly to the MPs. I’d suggest a date for the meeting, then let PO and
Second Sight work out between themselves what needs to be done to get them
there. Good pressure to keep things moving.

New cases

What would PO like me to do with these?

They need to be acknowledged and held, pending decision on how to proceed.
Should they be acknowledged by and held at this office or PO?

Janet
JARBOOO006S

JARBO000065

From: Alwen Lyons [mailto:I "GRO
Sent: 09 July 2013 16:04

To: WALKER, Janet

Subject: Re: Wash-up meeting

Not a problem if you come too.

The address is 148 Old street, London , EC1V 9HQ
Thanks
Alwen

rom: WALKER, Janet

Sent: 09 July 2013 15:59

To: ‘Alwen Lyons'

Subject: RE: Wash-up meeting

Thanks Alwen,
Let’s put this in the diary, and I will confirm as soon as I have spoken to James.

In the meantime, can you confirm exact address please, and would it be a problem
if I came along with James?

Many thanks
Janet

From: Alwen Lyons [mailto:.
Sent: 09 July 2013 15:49
To: WALKER, Janet

Cc: CHARLETT, Susanne; Theresa Iles
Subject: Re: Wash-up meeting

Janet

Paula and I are available at 9.15 on Thursday it would be very helpful if James would come to
Old Street to meet us. I also think it would be good to invite Alan Bates to join albeit by
conference call if that is more convenient for him, so I will drop him an email.

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons

Sent from Blackberry

From: WALKER, Janet [mailto’
Sent: Tuesday, July 09, 2013 01:51 PM
To: Alwen Lyons eeeeeneney

Cc: CHARLETT, Susanne <_w GRO; Theresa Iles

JARBOO000065
JARBO000065

Subject: Wash-up meeting
Dear Alwen,

James wonders whether you and Paula might like a meeting to wash-up what has
happened over the last day or so? He is holding any time on Thursday 11 July for
you, and is happy to come to you if that helps.

He hopes you might consider it.

Kind regards,

PO Old Street
map.pdf
Janet
