JARBO000039

JARB0000039

----- Original Message-----

From: WALKER, Janet

Sent: @3 July 2013 14:37

To: ‘Ron Warmington’

Cc: ‘Ian Henderson’

Subject: RE: Scope of Interim Report

Just spoken to Ian and explained that what you have written is not
quite what the meeting discussed or concluded this morning.

No difference in scope for the interim report. No conclusion on
exactly what the entire investigation process does or where it goes
from now on - this will be something that, at least in part, comes
out of Monday's meeting.

1. Post Office and James very keen to ensure that because of the
scope of the investigations, the definition of ‘Horizon’ that is used
in the report is made explicit and very very clear that it is not
just the software program, but includes interface with other
programs, and the processes and systems (help desk, training, etc.)
around it. There is understandable anxiety that when existing
SubPostMasters and media hear the word ‘Horizon’ (and assume it
refers solely and strictly to the computer software program only),
they will immediately leap to the conclusion that there if faults
have been found and can be proved, this is tantamount to admitting
that there is a ‘ghost in the machine’ which will cause enormous
panic.

2. Post Office and James very keen that what is presented in the
report is totally accurate and evidence-based.

James will call Ian at 3.45pm on his mobile for a brief chat. I'm
around. Phone off divert - I've been in meetings but free now.

Best,
Janet

ooe-- Original Message--
From: Ron Warmington {I
Sent: @3 July 2013 14:17

To: WALKER, Janet

Subject: Scope of Interim Report

Janet: Ian and I have been "summoned" to a 16:00 hrs meeting with
Paula Vennells. We are hearing that Paula and James have agreed to a
substantial change to the scope either of the (virtually finalised)
JARBO000039
JARB0000039

Interim Report or even of the entire Investigation (I'm pre-advised
that we are to cut the report back to only “bottomed-out SOFTWARE-
related issues"). Either way, managing the non-POL stakeholders
and the media's disappointment (even anger) would be a huge
challenge. Maybe James didn't agree to that?

I'll find out from Paula in 2 hrs time I suppose. It might be a
resignation matter.

Best regards. Ron.

Sent from my iPhone
