JARB0000135

JARB0000135
From: James Arbuthnot[/O=MSE2010/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=44DAA68A7B0B4BA6B657203C8E9F012C-
JAMES ARBUTHNOT]
Sent:
To:
Subject: RE: The House coverage
Attachment: House Magazine July 2021.docx
Dear Rosa,

I attach what is very much a first draft of an article about the Post Office. Please would you let me know your thoughts
as I hone it? I hope it roughly meets your needs.

Best wishes,

James

From: The Rt Hon the Lord Arbuthnot of Edrom

Sent: 22 June 2021 19:40

To: James Arbuthnot

Subject: RE: The House coverage

Dear Lord Arbuthnot,

Please don’t worry —I quite understand your frustration. And I’m so pleased you’re available to write for us.

Our opinion pieces run to 600 words. We actually only have one print edition of The House left before recess. If you
were able to write by then, we would need the article by July 16" or 17". Failing that, we could run a piece in the first
edition after recess in September, or in the online magazine at any time.

As for a topic, I was thinking you might want to focus on the seeming delays in the compensation scheme, which has
apparently only repaid 400 sub postmasters to date, with 2,000 having applied: https://www.bbc.com/news/business-
57523644

But you may well be more up-to-date than me in terms of where we are, particularly with regard to any legislative
redress or movement in committees or inquiries, so more than happy if you’d like to suggest an alternative angle.
With very best wishes,

Rosa

Rosa Prince

Editor, The House magazine

From: James Arbuthnot!
Sent: 22 June 2021 15:29
To: Rosa Prince
Subject: RE: The House coverage

Dear Mss Prince,

My apologies for my last email. I withdrew it shortly after sending it, because it was gratuitously rude and offensive —
I don’t know what came over me. It was very kind of you to reply so graciously.

Still, having said that, yes, I’d be delighted to write something for you. How many words, any particular angle, and
when by?

Yours sincerely, with renewed apologies,
James Arbuthnot
From: The Rt Hon the Lord Arbuthnot of Edrom

Sent: 17 June 2021 14:48
JARB0000135
JARB0000135

To: James Arbuthnot Q
Subject: FW: The House coverage

Dear Lord Arbuthnot,

Daniel Bond has passed your message on to me as he has moved to working in another part of the company and I am
now the Editor of The House.

I agree with you that the Horizon scandal is absolutely appalling and that we should have covered this issue before
now, and as such I am keen to rectify the oversight.

Might it be something you would have time for — we would gladly take an op ed from you on the subject for a
forthcoming edition of The House. If you are too busy, perhaps you could suggest a fellow parliamentarian would
might be interested in taking it on.

With kind regards,

Rosa Prince

(ffm

ip , _ Rosa Prince
y

@rosafprince

From: James Arbuthno' .
Sent: Wednesday, June 16, 2021
To: Daniel Bond

Cc: JONES, Kevan; FELLOWS, Marion; ALLAN, Lucy

Subject: The House coverage

Dear Mr Bond,

Many thanks for sending me the most recent copy of The House. It reminds me to ask you when you last gave full
coverage to the Post Office Horizon scandal. I cannot remember such coverage, which seems odd given that it is the
largest number of miscarriages of justice ever to be considered by the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the cost of
compensation will probably run to hundreds of millions of pounds, the lives of hundreds of postmasters have been
ruined and some people have committed suicide. And all of this perpetrated by an organisation owned by the
Government and abetted by one of the largest suppliers to the Government, Fujitsu. In any normal publication I
would have expected it to feature rather prominently.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Yours sincerely,

James Arbuthnot

From: The Rt Hon the Lord Arbuthnot of Edrom

DISCLAIMER

[This email (including attachments) contains confidential information belonging to the sender which is legally privileged. If you have received this email in
lerror please notify the sender immediately and delete this email from your system without copying or disseminating it or placing any reliance upon its
contents. We cannot accept liability for any breaches of confidence arising through use of email. It is believed to be free of viruses which may affect any IT

ystem. It is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that any emails or attachments are virus-free, as the sender accepts no responsibility. Any opinions
lexpressed in this email (including attachments) are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the company's opinions. We will not accept
esponsibility for any commitments made by our employees outside the scope of our business. We do not warrant the accuracy or completeness of such
Information. Dods Group Limited Registered in England under Company number 1262354 Registered Office: 11th Floor, The Shard, 32 London Bridge St,
London SE1 9G.

IDods Group Limited.

