JARBO000111
JARBOO00111

Press Statement

10 March 2015

Post Office Mediation Scheme Update

The Post Office today announced that it has completed its investigations into
complaints from 136 postmasters concerning the operation of the Post
Office's Horizon computer system.

Horizon has around 78,000 users across 11,500 Post Office branches and
processes more than six million transactions every day. Nothing has been
found in any of the cases to suggest Horizon has not worked as it should.

56 of the 136 cases have already been closed through mediation or other
means. The remaining cases will now be put forward for mediation, except
those which have been the subject of previous Court rulings.

Post Office will continue to consider cases with a Court ruling on an individual
basis and is continuing to offer applicants the opportunity for a confidential
discussion of their case, involving their Member of Parliament if they wish.

Angela van den Bogerd, Post Office Head of Partnerships, said: “This has
been an exhaustive and informative process which has confirmed that there
are no system-wide problems with our computer system and associated
processes. We will now look to resolve the final outstanding cases as quickly
as possible."

The announcement means that the Working Group set up to assess whether
cases move forward for mediation will be closed.

Angela van den Bogerd added: “We would like to thank everyone who played
a part in the Working Group for their valuable and important input.”

Ends
JARBO000111
JARBOO00111

Notes to Editors:

About Post Office:

The Post Office has an unrivalled national network of over 11,500 branches
across the UK, more than all the high street banks combined, and sits at the
heart of communities across the country. Over 17 million customers and a
third of SMEs visit its branches each week. It provides around 170 different
services and products spanning financial services including savings, insurance,
loans, mortgages and credit cards. Post Office also offers Government
services; telephony; foreign currency; travel insurance and mail services.
