JARB0000012
JARBO0000012

Thank you Tadge, for our phone conversation just now.

I would like to pencil in a pre-meeting meeting with James, here at Westminster, on 20
February at 11am. This will be to go over what Shoosmiths are doing with regard to the post
office cases. James will be interested to learn what it is you think MPs can do to help. You
will know that once solicitors are involved, unless they expressly give permission to MPs to
become involved in their constituent’s case, and have a role to play in helping, MPs must
stand aside, This is one reason both meetings are important.

The larger meeting on 27 February at 2pm is for Shoosmiths, interested individuals affected
by this matter, and constituency MPs, to discuss what is happening. In order to entice MPs
along, it is important for the individuals you have listed on your spreadsheet to write to their
MPs, giving details about the meeting, stating that they (the individual) will attend and
asking their MP to do so as well. Could you possibly let me have a draft of this proposed
letter, as I would like to use some of your wording in an email invitation we will send to MPs,
which will come from James.

So, here are details which will help:

Meeting on 20 February at 11am
Will take place in James’ office. This is in Portcullis House — the building directly opposite Big
Ben, entrance faces the Thames. Come through security and ask staff to call me on
!GROiand I will come and collect you.
February at 2pm
Will take place in the Wilson Room, which is in Portcullis House - the building directly
opposite Big Ben, entrance faces the Thames. People attending should allow 20 minutes to
clear security, and staff will direct them to the Wilson Room.

Whenever I make arrangements, I must also mention the proviso that if by any chance,
Parliamentary business intervenes, this must take priority, I am afraid. If this does happen, I
will be in touch as soon as I can to rearrange these meetings.

Do let me know if you need anything else at this stage, and thanks once again for being so
easy to deal with, Tadge.

Kind regards
Janet
