JARB0000137

JARB0000137
Nick Wallis{_ ca
Urgent re Postmasters under CCRC review }
21 November 2018 at 06:40 o
Hawkins. +

Hi Justin

Hope all is well. I am just writing to let you know I have been detailing the ongoing group litigation civil trial Bates and others v
Post Office at the High Court here: www, cetrial.com

I believe that evidence disclosed to the trial and particularly yesterday's evidence produced under cross-examination could have
a massive bearing on the decsion by the CCRC of whether or not to refer the cases former Postmasters it is dealing with to the
Court of Appeal.

Please could you ensure that the relevant person(s) at the CCRC does not make any decision about referral until they have seen
the transcripts of this trial, which I have been told will be released to me before the end of the month and should be available to
you on demand,

The claimtants QC has drive a coach and horses through the integrity of Horizon, the training and support given to
Subpostmasters by the Post Office, the near impossibility of Subpostmasters being able to identify the source of problems with
the system, the likelihood that some Subposmasters were charged for losses caused by Post Office mistakes and the pressure
they were put under to repay supposed debts before any investigation into their likely source had been conducted.

This all has significant implications for the Subpostmasters who made the wrong decision (without any whiff of criminal intent),
which then eventually led to their prosecution and ruin.

I really really don't see how the CCRC can make an announcement on whether it is minded to refer these Postmaster cases to
the Court of Appeal without waiting to see the transcripts in this trial and the forthcoming Horizon trial (part of the same group
litigation Bates v Post Office) in March next year.

Happy to talk this through with you if you like - I am in court today and tomorrow, but will be free on Friday -{

From what I have heard - and I have been in court every day - several dozen appalling miscarriages of justice may have taken
place.

Thanks

Nick

On 3 Jun 2016, at 16:28, HawkinsJ ‘b wrote:

OK thanks Nick. Have a good weekend.

Justin Hawkins
Head of Communication
Criminal Cases Review Commission

Sent: 02 June 2016 21:13
To: Hawkins)

Subject: Re: CCRC Qs

Hi Justin

Let's have a chat about this next week if that's okay. I've managed to overbook myself this week and don't have a moment to
think. Much quieter next week.

Hope all is well with you
Cheers
Nick

On 2 Jun 2016, at 16:

, HawkinsJ

Hi Nick, I hope all is well.

I hope you don't mind my asking you a couple of questions about your work on Horizon. We are trying to
identify a couple of particular documents that were mentioned in your Panorama about the system. We
have access to a great deal of material from the post office and quite possibly already have these, but we
are trying to identify them more accurately.

John Sweeney refers to a minute of a meeting between Post Office Limited and Fujitsu before Seema
Misra’s trial. The minute described a computer bug which “made money disappear and could cause a loss
of confidence in the Horizon system”. Although John acknowledged that the bug did not affect Mrs Misra’s
JARB0000137
JARBO000137

branch, he suggested that it still undermined the integrity of the Horizon system more generally. Can you
tell us anything that will help us identify the specific minute in question? Do you recall whether Panorama
saw it and, if so how they came by it, and if not, how they learned of its existence?

Also, 26 minutes into the programme John Sweeney refers to an (internal?) Post Office Ltd document which
suggests they were only charging with theft in order to help recover money (i.e. ‘overcharging’). Can you tell
us anything that will help us find this document?

Any thoughts most welcome.

Regards

Justin.

Justin Hawkins
Head of Communication
Criminal Cases Review Commission

The Criminal Cases Review Commission

The information contained in this e-mail and any files transmitted with it is
confidential and is intended for the use of the person(s) or entity named above.
Ifyou are not the intended recipient of this communication, any disclosure,
copying, distribution, or any action taken in reliance on it is prohibited and
may be unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please
return it immediately to the sender by replying to it and then delete the
message from your computer.

We may monitor the content of e-mails sent and received via our network for the
purposes of ensuring compliance with policies and procedures

Viruses: Although we have taken steps to ensure that this e-mail and attachments

are free from any virus we advise that in keeping with good computing practice
the recipient should ensure they are actually virus free.

Nick Walii

@nickwallis
www.nickwallis.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit htip:/www.symanteccloud.com

The information contained in this e-mail and any files transmitted with itis
confidential and is intended for the use of the person(s) or entity named above.
If you are not the intended recipient of this communication, any disclosure,
copying, distribution, or any action taken in reliance on it is prohibited and

may be unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please
retum it immediately to the sender by replying to it and then delete the
message from your computer.

We may monitor the content of e-mails sent and received via our network for the
purposes of ensuring compliance with policies and procedures.

Viruses: Although we have taken steps to ensure that this e-mail and attachments
are free from any virus we advise that in keeping with good computing practice
the recipient should ensure they are actually virus free.
JARB0000137
JARBO000137

@nickwallis
www.nickwallis.com
