NFSP00000027
NFSP00000027
(80/08 '99 WED 13:16 FAX ICL PATHWAY oor

/

f ts

rah cg,

Pe Mus dy cy

FAXMessage

T Colm Bovey Pom I cw foley CL

Location: - Phone;
Phone: Mobile Phone:
Fax Phone: I

Date: GOW hue 99 No. of pages

Gnclading cover sheet)

Restricted Commercial - This fax trausinission and any accompanying documents may contain
information belonging to the sender which is confidential and legally privileged, ‘This information is
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to whom this facsimile is addressed. If you are
not the intended recipient, any disclosure, copying, distribution or action taken in reliance on the
information contained herein is strictly prohibited. If you have received this transmission in error,
please call the sender to arrange for the return of the documents,

Message: .
URSENIT I

Ke
_—_—

W teanamisston is

hb ICL Pathway Ltd
orrupted or Forest Road

please notify Feltham

sender as soon as Middx

Possible TW53 7Ey

NFSP00000027
NFSP00000027

30/06 '99 WED 13:16 FAX!

ICL PATHWAY 002

STRICTLY PERSONAL & CONFIDENTIAL

Personal briefing note to Colin Baker

Re: Live Trial offices

My purpose in wriling is to bring you up to date with progress on issue resolution
in the Live Trial offices. I wanted to do this as a matter of course but also to
ensure that the Executive Council members are aware of progress, I have now
picked up a number of instances where Executive Council members are alleged to
have reported that the trial was not going well, that the sofiware didn’t work and
that the trial should be suspended unti} the software does work. This is naturally
disturbing and J wanted to get the record straight.

There are now 299 offices sunning the full Horizon system. These range from
single position offices to 14 position offices and these offices are now processing
all transactions through the automated system, General feedback on the day-to-
day EPOSS, APS & OBCS system has been very positive. In fact, we have
received some very useful suggestions for improvements which are under
consideration,

Offices have experienced problems with the balancing process, both in stock unit
balancing and the cash account. There have also been printing problems. We have
taken these problems very seriously and are making significant effort to improve
the situation for the sub-postmaster. As you are aware, I have been asked to lead, j
on Pathway’s behalf, the overali resolution of these issues. The following actions I
are now in place: i

© Bight system changes are being implemented in the existing offices
during the week of 12" July. These include making the stock
declaration process optional, reducing the amount of printing and
stamp declaration by volume only. It is envisaged that these changes
will have a significant impact.

Major change has been implemented in the Manager’s training course.
More time will be spent on balancing, on error correction and on
suspense account.

* Major work is being undertaken to ensure that all documentation is at
the same level as the system

° We have a task force in place to identify the specific nature of the
printing problems

In addition, it has now been agreed that up to 25 new offices will be installed
during the week of 19" July. These offices will be spread across all four
implementation areas and will undergo the new training course and have the latest
software installed. I expect an improved picture to come from those offices.

NFSP00000027
NFSP00000027

ousyo yy WED LST 17 KAT ICL PATHWAY

Boos

You may be interested in some specific feedback from one of the offices visited
last week:

“Postmistress commented that this was the second week in succession that they
had balanced more quickly than they would have done using the old manual
method, even allowing for the minor glitches.

Whilst they were commenting openly on how difficult they had found balancing
and that they had raised many objections; they freely admitted that it might be
easier for them if they followed the Quick Guides and manuals. They now have
little fear of the system and are starting to better appreciate its benefits. “

I must also point out that there is an onus on the subpostmasters themselves to
follow due process in the operation of the system and to follow the procedures in
the User Guides and Quick Reference Guides. This is an area where I believe the
Federation can help and I would be interested in hearing of any actions that you
are taking or believe you could take in this regard.

I am very concerned that the clear message is that this is a Live Trial and the
purpose of any trial is to leam and implement change where necessary. The
offices that I visited in SWSW region last week were positive, recognised some
issues and were clearly concemed that these issues were being handled. John
Bennett & 1 will visit the NE region on 9" July to visit offices and to get first
hand feedback from those offices.

I believe it is very important that a positive, constructive perspective is
maintained by us all. 1 know I can count on your support to achieve that. I will,
as ever, be happy to listen to any specific feedback from any of the Executive
Council.

Yours sincerely

Liam Foley
Business Development Director

