NFSP00001387
NFSP00001387

From: Calum Greenhow I

Sent: Wed 11/10/2023 11:03:26 AM (UTC)

To: Calum Greenhow{ GRO}
Subject: FW: Revised column

From: Calum Greenhow!
Sent: Thursday, April 4, 2019 2:21 PM
To: Peter Hall
Subject: RE: Revised column

Just a couple of amends in italics
Dear All,

Supporting you in your business is the goal of the NFSP. As a member-focused organisation, the viability and success
of your sub post office is at the heart of what we do. Every subpostmaster should be able to pay their mortgage, earn
a living and provide for their family.

Running a post office means you are a central pillar for your community. For over 24 years, this is something my wife
and I have tried to be for our community where we run our post office. This is also something I see, time and time
again, when I meet colleagues around the country. So many of you act as a hub, building a community spirit in the
places where you operate.

At the NFSP, we are also a community, and our mantra is “be just and fear not”. A sentence I hold dear as the NFSP
has been big part of my working life for many years. Like all communities, we may not always see eye to eye on every
issue. In fact, this can be a positive - as a difference of opinion is healthy in any democratic organisation. It is,
however, important to treat one another with respect so we can debate our differences constructively.

I have no doubt you will be aware of the Bates vs Post Office Ltd group litigation. These cases relate to losses incurred
following the introduction of the Horizon system nearly 20 years ago. In his 315-page judgement on the first of four
trials the judge, Mr Justice Fraser, made comments about the NFSP. These comments came as a surprise to us, as we
did not play any part in the proceedings.

The judge’s criticisms of the NFSP were inappropriate — not only because he didn’t seek any input or clarification from
the NFSP, but because he made no reference to the recent history of the post office network. For example - the
withdrawal of benefit payments, which changed the landscape of the network since the turn of the millennium.
Government decisions led to the network losing millions of customers; as a result, the lines had to be re-drawn and
successive change programmes were implemented by Post Office Ltd — first with closures in the mid-2000s and later
with the development of new operating models under Network Transformation.

What the NFSP did in response to these changes to the landscape was to make it a priority to protect the interests of
our members who had invested time and money in their businesses. Faced with the game-changing prospect that was
Network Transformation, we made sure that subpostmasters had the option of leaving the network with a substantial
compensation package. Some 3,500 subpostmasters took advantage of this and we stand by what we achieved for
them. The judge’s comments do not reflect this and neither do the criticisms of those who chose to actively re-write
history.

Let’s also not forget that NFSP members voted overwhelmingly at Branch, Regional and National levels to accept
Network Transformation in 2013 and, in 2015, voted overwhelmingly in favour of the Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) which changed the way the NFSP is funded. At the time, other options were available — including mergers with
NFSP00001387
NFSP00001387

the NFRN or the CWU — but our members recognised that the NFSP was best equipped to represent and support
subpostmasters. This hasn’t changed one bit. The NFSP works every day for the benefit of subpostmasters — on day-to-
day, practical concerns at individual offices; and on big ticket issues affecting the whole network.

Going back to the recent judgement, Mr Justice Fraser also criticised the NFSP’s independence from Post Office Ltd. I
staunchly defend the NFSP’s independence, having been a subpostmaster for so many years. I, and the NFSP, will
always act in your best interests.

I am passionate about the network because I have invested so much in it myself: not just money, but time, energy,
plans and ambitions. I’ve had successes, I’ve had failures; I’ve had good days and I’ve had bad days. I’m sure you'll
understand because, like me, you are a subpostmaster too.

And like many subpostmasters I speak to, I have been saddened by the direction of travel in terms of declining footfall
and income across the network. My working life is spent trying to make things better for all subpostmasters and
sincerely believe that the NFSP provides the best hope of achieving constructive changes on your behalf.

I’ve outlined how the landscape changed. The NFSP had to change too and we are now building on the changes made
and we are getting stronger all the time. New members are joining all the time, we are working with more multiple
organisations to help amplify our voice, our reach and influence in government has increased and Post Office Ltd
listen to us more.

It takes time for substantive change to come about. I’ve been Chief Executive for less than a year but I assure you we
are making significant progress to improve pay and conditions for subpostmasters.

So I appeal to all subpostmasters reading this. If you aren’t already doing so, get involved with the NFSP: attend your
local Branch meetings and meet your colleagues; contact your Regional Director if you have any issues or call NFSP
HQ; arrange for the Retail Team to visit you; speak to our Mails Segregation Team; take advantage of the offers and
deals available to you; make use of the many benefits and services available to you, for free, as a member of the
NFSP.

This is a time for the NFSP and its members — old and new — to come together. We are working towards a positive
future for the network and I urge you to work with us to make this a reality.

Thank you,

Calum

Calum Greenhow

Chief Executive Officer

The National Federation of SubPostmasters
NFSP00001387
NFSP00001387

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

GRO

W: www.nfsp.org.uk

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the addressee only. If
you have received it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the sender and then delete this
message. Please do not copy it, disclose its contents to any other person or use it for any purpose. Thank you for your
cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been scanned for software
viruses. We cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses and would advise you to
carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company number
9771284)

From: Peter Hall

Sent: 04 April 2019 11:22
To: Calum Greenhow
Subject: Revised column

Hi Calum,
I’ve revised the letter you wrote the other week to act as a column for the April magazine.
It needs another proof-read (which George will do) but can you take a look to make sure you are happy with it?

Thanks,
Peter
NFSP00001387
NFSP00001387

Peter Hall
Head of Policy and Research

The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

W: www.nfsp.org.uk

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the addressee only. If you have
received it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the sender and then delete this message. Please do not
copy it, disclose its contents to any other person or use it for any purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been scanned for software viruses. We
cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus
checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company number 9771284)
