NFSP00001014
NFSP00001014

Branch Secretaries’ Circular

February 2010
Volume 9

Welcome to your February news round up

Topics covered this month:

Post Office banking consultation
Horizon Online

Future editions of The Subpostmaster
Your questions on mailwork
Membership statistics

ARON

1. Post Office banking consultation

The government's consultation on extending banking at post offices has now closed. Thank
you to all NFSP members who contributed to the consultation themselves, and encouraged
their customers to do so.

The NFSP’s response to the consultation is available to view at www.nfsp.org.uk, or in hard
copy from NFSP Headquarters by request.

The government has pledged to set out its response to the consultation before the
forthcoming General Election. The NFSP will keep members fully informed of all
developments.

2. Horizon Online

As a result of monitoring by the NFSP of the Horizon Online roll-out and feeding back to
Post Office Ltd issues which require further investigation and resolution, an early review of
the roll-out has been announced. See the ‘News to Branches’ page in the members-only
area of the NFSP website for more information.

3. Future editions of The Subpostmaster
Work is now underway on the April 2010 edition of The Subpostmaster. As always, we

welcome your input for stories or features for future editions. Please see below the
submissions deadlines for forthcoming editions:

April edition: Friday 19 March
May edition: Friday 16 April
June edition: Friday 14 May

Email your suggestions and contributions to thesubpostmaster(

NFSP00001014
NFSP00001014

Thank you to everyone who has been sending in their letters; please continue to send in your
letters to the above email or to NFSP Headquarters. Whilst many members post their views
on the forum, not all members yet have access to the forum or have signed up and are
therefore unable to share their opinions, whereas all members receive a copy of The
Subpostmaster.

4. Your questions on mailwork

In a future edition of The Subpostmaster, we will be interviewing Steve Utting, National
Mailwork Manager for Post Office Ltd.

Do you have any questions relating to mailwork that you would like put to Steve? If so, email
them to thesubpostmaster!

5. Membership statistics

Please find attached the membership statistics for January 2010.
