BSC 15/1998

Circulation:

Copy to:

CB/EJA/FM PB 03

INDEX

SUBJECT

HORIZON PROJECT

Branch Secretaries

National Executive Council
Regional Council Secretaries

NFSP00000280
NFSP00000280

13 July 1998

ACTION/
INFORMATION

INFORMATION
NFSP00000280
NFSP00000280

1. HORIZON PROJECT

There is a likelihood that you will be asked by members or, indeed, people who are
interested in acquiring a post office, to comment on the article in The Sunday Times
of 12th July 1998 regarding the future of the Horizon Project. To enable you to
comment we attach hereto a copy of the article and a press release which has gone
out today, 13th July 1998.

Basically the line we are adopting is one where we must accept it is unlikely that
there is no smoke without fire and that the Treasury, in particular, is considering the
future of the Horizon Project. However, we have had the letter from Frank Field, MP
and Kate Hoey, MP came to Conference, both of whom were positive about the post
office network and the Horizon Project.

Clearly, if Government decides to scrap the Project, much of the content of The
Sunday Times article will come to fruition. We are, therefore, seeking to influence
the decision-makers into the direction we want them to take.

Should you be approached by non-members, or people who want to be members,
now is the time to inform them that the power of the Federation is in its numbers and
that we are fighting for non-members also, who should appreciate the work that is
being done for them.

Sub-Postmasters can support our work by being members and if anyone feels
strong enough about the adverse publicity they may want to write to their Member of
Parliament; by all means let them do so but as we do not yet know the decision
Government will make it is important that we do not orchestrate a campaign at this

stage.

I trust this information is of value to you. Should there be any further information on
this front we will keep you advised.
NFSP00000280
NFSP00000280

THE SUNDAY TIMES

12th July 1998
NFSP00000280
NFSP00000280

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SUB-POSTMASTERS

PRESS RELEASE

13th July 1998

The National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, which represents 85% of the UK’s
army of Sub-Postmasters, has criticised the media obsession of denigrating the
Horizon/automation project, the system which will automate all post offices to
provide benefits payments and banking services in the future.

General Secretary, Colin Baker, acknowledged that press speculation was
inevitable, particularly with the Treasury Review now reaching a critical stage.
Nevertheless, this most recent speculation was causing concern amongst Sub-
Postmasters. Mr. Baker reminded everyone that the Minister for Welfare Reform,
Mr. Frank Field MP, had not only sent his PPS, Kate Hoey MP, to our Annual
Conference to report good news for the network, but had followed it up with a letter
confirming key points.

“His letter took for granted the fact that payment cards were to be used for collecting
Benefits and continued:

I know that you and your members - particularly in light of recent misleading press
coverage - are anxious for confirmation that the Payment Card will be used only at
post offices. I can confirm that is what ICL Pathway, POCL and DSS - and many of
your members - are working towards and there are no plans to extend the use of the
Payment Cards to other outlets.

However, Mr. Baker said that if there was a hidden agenda to scrap the Horizon
project, the Federation would take its fight to the highest levels of Government and
enlist the support of the 28 million customers who use a post office each week.

Mr. Baker assured members and partner organisations that the Federation was
talking to Government and would continue to protect and defend the interests of
Sub-Postmasters. If Horizon was scrapped this would cause widespread closures
and restrict access to post offices. It would also remove the choice for people to
pick up their benefits in cash from the post office. A large section of the population
do not have a bank account and are unlikely to be welcomed by the banks. This
group rely on the post office and if this option is removed, it will only worsen the
problems of financial and social exclusion.

“The Federation would not look on idly as the Government played with the future of
the network. We would invite our loyal customers to help us persuade the
Government that Horizon was essential for a vibrant network,” he warned. “People
power is stronger than spin-doctor power. We proved that back in 1992.”

ends

For further information contact:
Tim Cobb

Federatio!
Direct Lin:

