NFSP00000301
NFSP00000301

CIRCULATION: NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL A3 PC NW 06 01

Post Office Counters Led

Mr C Baker
General Secretary
National Federation of Sub Postmasters

Evelyn House

22 Windlesham Gardens

SHOREHAM BY SEA

Sussex ref: dg680

BN4 5AZ 3 August 2000

Dear Colin

Following our recent conversations I thought it would be helpful to formally record
where we are on a couple of issues:-

1 CSR+ Software Release

The roll out of Horizon continues to progress well, and is currently ahead of schedule.
The development of our next software release, CSR+, has also been progressing well
against a very stretching plan. This release extends Horizon to include Smartcard
capability, a link to distribution systems to enable improved provisioning of cash and
stock and significant upgrades to the infrastructure to improve system manageability
and security.

A process of reviewing the outputs of testing and the readiness of both Post Office
Network and ICL Pathway to begin a trial of CSR+ in 300 outlets has just been
concluded. The objective of the process was to ensure that the software release could be
introduced into the business without compromising our day to day operations. Now
that Horizon is live in more than half the network, that process is particularly critical.

ICL Pathway have identified a number of outstanding faults related to infrastructure
enhancements that could create si icant problems in the live environment if CSR+
was introduced without them being fixed. They have advised that the start of the pilot
should be postponed. We are fully in agreement with this recommendation.

Such an outcome had been allowed for within the plan and so the roll out of the upgrade
can still be completed within the existing timescales. ICL Pathway have proposed a
postponement of three weeks, well within the contingency of five weeks built into the
plan, to allow for the full resolution, including testing, of the technical incidents
identified.

Post Office Counters Led

NFSP00000301
NFSP00000301

3
3 August 2000
Mr C Baker

Tam sorry if this sounds less than sympathetic to those who may encounter their
learning curve in the busy weeks just before Christmas but if we are to automate our
network as planned, with all the attendant benefits this will bring, then we cannot
contemplate suspending all migration activity in any week for which it is currently
scheduled. We will do all we can to enhance the support we provide to these offices.
Installations will resume again after Christmas on 8 January 2001.

Yours sincerely

Don Grey
National Horizon Roll out Project Manager

Telephone number: I

