NFSP00001480
NFSP00001480

SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY

1. About this policy

1.1 The purpose of this policy is to minimise the risks to our business through use of social
media, as well as minimising any adverse impact on the wellbeing of members and
protecting our reputation. The policy seeks to ensure that members can enjoy the
benefits of social media, and social networking, whilst also understanding the standards
of conduct expected by the NFSP.

2. Who does this policy apply to?

2.1 This policy applies to our members and also sets out steps which may take in relation to
third party social media usage which affects our business. It does not apply in relation
to our employees and workers, who are subject to separate HR policies and procedures
relating to IT and social media usage.

2.2 In this policy, “social media” refers to all forms of social media, including all social
networking sites, internet postings and blogs that may affect our business in any way.
This includes social media groups, such as members’ Whatsapp groups, Facebook
groups or other social media groups, as well as the NFSP’s public social media
platforms, such as “X”, Facebook and Instagram.

3. Who is responsible for this policy?

3.1 Our board of directors (Board) has overall responsibility for the effective operation of
this policy. The Board will review the policy annually to ensure good practice in its
implementation and to identify where any updates are required.

4. Compliance with related policies and agreements

4.1 You should never use social media in a way that breaches any of our member policies.
If an internet post would breach any of our policies in another forum, it would also
breach them in an online forum. For example, you are prohibited from using social
media to:

(a) breach any obligations we may have with respect to the rules of relevant
regulatory bodies;

(b) breach any obligations contained in our policies relating to confidentiality;
(c) breach our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion policy;
(d) breach data protection legislation; or

(e) breach any other laws or regulatory requirements.
5.1

5.2

5.3

5.4

6.1

6.2

6.3

6.4

6.5

NFSP00001480
NFSP00001480

Prohibited use

You must avoid making any social media communications that could damage our
business interests or reputation, even indirectly.

You must not use social media to:
(a) defame or disparage us, our staff or any other member;
(b) harass, bully or unlawfully discriminate against NFSP staff or other members;

(c) make false, misleading, derogatory, intimidating, harassing or offensive
statements or comments concerning the NFSP., its staff or members; or

(d) impersonate staff or other members.

You must not express opinions on our behalf via social media, unless we have
expressly authorised you to do so.

You must not post comments about sensitive business-related topics or do anything to
jeopardise our trade secrets, confidential information and intellectual property. You
must not include our logos or other trademarks in any social media posting or in your
profile on any social media.

Guidelines for responsible use of social media

You should make it clear in social media postings, or in your personal profile, that you
are speaking on your own behalf. Write in the first person and use a personal email
address.

Be respectful to others when making any statement on social media and be aware that
you are personally responsible for all communications which are published on the
internet for anyone to see.

If you disclose your affiliation with us on your personal profile or in any social media
postings, you must state that your views do not represent those of the NFSP (unless
you are authorised to speak on our behalf as set out in paragraph 5.3).

If you are uncertain or concerned about the appropriateness of any statement or post
which concerns the NFSP (even indirectly), refrain from posting it until you have
discussed it with our HR team.

If you see social media content that disparages or reflects poorly on us, you should
contact our HR Department or raise the matter through our members’ Complaints
Procedure.
7A

7.2

7.3

NFSP00001480
NFSP00001480

Breach of this policy

If you breach this policy, you may be subject to investigation under our Complaints
Procedure and we may ultimately make the decision to suspend or terminate your
membership.

If we suspect you have committed a breach of this policy, you are required to co-
operate with our investigation. You may be required to remove any social media
content that we consider to constitute a breach of this policy. Failure to comply with that
request may in itself result in suspension or termination of your membership.

Where a third party makes use of social media platforms in any manner which would, if
that individual were a member of NFSP, constitute a breach of this policy, we may block
that individual from posting on our social media platforms and/or take any other action
which we consider appropriate in the circumstances.
