NFSP00000774
NFSP00000774

Message

From: Calum Greenhow;

Sent: 11/10/2023 11:02:27

To:

Subject: FW: Press and other enquiries RE Post Office trial

From: Peter Hall
Sent: Thursday, March 21, 2019 4:22 PM
To: Andrew Watts

Cl ristine Donnelly

c: Calum Greenhow
Subject: RE: Press and other enquiries RE Post Office trial

Dear all,

Further to my previous email, please find below some key information covering the NFSP’s position in relation to the
judge’s decision on the “Common Issues” trial.

The NFSP was not involved in the trial and was neither asked to provide a statement nor called as a witness.

The NFSP is disappointed to have been criticised in the manner we have in Justice Fraser’s judgement. Should Justice
Fraser have sought our input we have no doubt these criticisms would not have been made. Unfortunately, a balanced
view was not taken and the comments made about the NFSP are distorted, one-sided and based on supposition.

It is worth stating that — where the judgement has found issues with Post Office Ltd’s approach to dealing with
subpostmasters where a shortage has been identified — the NFSP has challenged PO on many of these same issues in the
past. Broadly speaking, we wouldn’t necessarily disagree with many of the criticisms levelled at PO.

The NFSP is a member-focused organisation with a long history of supporting and representing subpostmasters. Through
our Head Office team, our national Mails Segregation and Retail teams, and our Board of Directors and Branch Network,
we are out there supporting subpostmasters every single day — and we will continue to do so in future.

All colleagues can be assured that we are working to emerge from this situation stronger than before, and we will update
you as and when there are any further developments.

One such development, which I been made aware of within the last few minutes, is that PO are seeking for Justice Fraser
to be recused from the ongoing and future trials on the basis that his judgement on the “Common Issues” trial indicates
hostility towards PO and that he appears to have already formed an opinion of future matters. As a result, the current trial
NFSP00000774
NFSP00000774

has been suspended and PO’s recusal application will be heard on 2 April 2019. This is a highly significant development
which we will follow closely. Please note that this is not the same as an appeal against the “common issues” trial verdict —
no such appeal has (yet) been launched.

Please feel free to use any of this information in conversation with members. If you receive any press/media enquiries,
please refer them to me directly.

And please feel free to get in touch if you have any questions.

Thank you
Peter

From: Peter Hall
Sent: 15 March 2019 13:28

ndrew Watt: Julia Goatcher

_} Lynda
Troy Gardner
?

Helen Richardson

alum Greenhow
Subject: Press and other enq
Importance: High

Dear all,

As you may be aware, the judgement for the first stage of the Bates vs Post Office Ltd trial has been delivered.

If you are contacted by a member of the press or any individual who is not an employee of the NFSP or a non-executive
Director of the NFSP regarding the trial verdict, please direct them to me. Under no circumstances should you offer any
comment on the verdict or the ongoing second stage of the wider court case.

More information on the NFSP’s position will follow in due course.

Many thanks,
Peter

Peter Hall

Head of Policy and Research
The National Federation of SubPostmasters
NFSP00000774
NFSP00000774

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

W: www.nfsp.org.uk

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the addressee only. If you have received it in error
please inform us immediately by email responding to the sender and then delete this message. Please do not copy it, disclose its contents to any other
person or use it for any purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been scanned for software viruses. We cannot accept
liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus checks before opening any
attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company number 9771284)
