NFSP00000318
NFSP00000318

Aug. 25 2880 19:21AM Pa
FO NY OG 2

Colm areas

Fram ? RYALCO PHONE No. ?/

Post Offica Network
Dear Colleague,
NEW IIORIZON REMITTANCE PROCEDURES
As you may be aware we are shortly to undertake the next Horizon software release, known as
CSR+. An inherent change in thie release is to make improvements in cash remittances for the

;  Yenefit of the business and users, The enclosed training package ls ESSENTIAL READING lo
prepare you for these changes and explain the links with the Logistic Feeder Service,

As a subpostmaster or office manager you must complete the whole workbook in advance of
the upgrade being released. You will be advised of your upgrade date during the 3 weeks prior I
to the event. Please allow 2 hours for the workbook activity. Once your office has been
upgraded the workbook contains activities which can be undertaken in Training Mode to
consolidate your learning and you will need to allow yourself time to practice these.

The processes described in the workbook are classed as ‘ manager roles’ though some may
have been delegated to members of your staff dependent on the roles undertaken within your
office, for example, daily cash declaration and weekly stock declaration. Larger offices with
single stock units may also use ‘rem in’ for stock, Please ensure that all relevant staff are given
tine and access lo the training they need to undertake the new procedures, including time to
consolidate thcir learning by practising on Training Mode, The workbooks can be used many
times over by writing answers lo the questions on paper rather than in the workbook itself.

_ When training and consolidalion has taken place please complete and return the enclosed t
\ Freepost addressed response card to confirm thal ALL Uaininy, including Training Briefs 27 &
28 which you will receive separately, have been undertaken by ALL concerned in your office.
,,. This isa MANDATORY REQUIREMEN' to confirm that all post offices are prepared for this
change. The completed card must be returned within 5 working days of your upgrade.

The changes being introduced are less intrusive than others that have gone before and with
proper advance preparation they should present few, if any, problems for you. Oue importa.
point to remember is to ensure you have your PMMC! card on hand and thal you allow
sufficient time before opening on the day of your upgrade to undertake the essential POLO log,
on procedure al all terminals.

Good luck with your preparations,

DON GRUY

Morizon National Roll Out Project Manager
20-23 Greville Sireot
London
GIN 889

