NFSP00000707
NFSP00000707

Message

From: Calum Greenhow:

Sent: 24/04/2018 21:13:56

To: Keith Richards { ; Lynda
Willoughby

Subject:

Hi All,

Just for info .

One question that wasn't answered is the single point of contact for good will payments.

Will keep pushing for this as colleagues have lost income and incurred costs, which should be recognised.
Calum

Sent from my Xperia™ by Sony smartphone

---- Original Message ----
Subject: RE: Branch Refresh
Sent: 24 Apr 2018 21:46
From: Rob Houghton ¢
To: Calum Greenhow <
Ce: Mick Mitchell <

of mar snainununsinanianincen mn

sCatherine Hamilton

Thanks for the comprehensive note and thoughts. Our complete aim is to restore confidence - its natural for the first major transition in
€20 years of service that you will see some disruption; especially when moving to 4 new suppliers from 1! However - we set high
standards and we have customers to serve and aim for minimal disruption to service so we will continue our efforts - its our number 1
priority! We will be reaching out to you to see if you can attend our suppliers day - I think its key that our suppliers hear from the front
line and a discussion with you for them would be very valuable. I'll share this note confidentially with them as a context but Catherine
will be checking whether you can attend.

Thanks again - lets keep talking.

Rob

aed Original Message-~
From: Calum Greenhow [ GRO
Sent: 24 April 2018 14:1
To: Rob Houghton
Subject: Branch Refresh

Hi Rob,

It was literally good to bump in to you on Thursday as contacting you about the ongoing issues being faced by the network has been
very much on my mind.

There are a number of aspects that I feel that I need to highlight with you but most pressing is the growing loss of confidence by
colleagues in the system due to both a mixture of hardware and software issues during and after installation of the new system and/or
router. Add to this that there have now been 4 system faults over the last month, which have caused nationwide access problems thus I
am concerned that we are handing Freeths a stronger case to bring to court in November as “the present is a guide to the past” is a
strong argument.
NFSP00000707
NFSP00000707

Given the length of time that the new system has been being installed into office’s, we should now have ironed out any bugs or issues
and be in a plug and play type place where everything is working like clockwork. That both the scanner and barcode reader issues are
still happening raises doubts and concerns. Add in that engincers from Computacentre continue to fail to turn up with colleagues not
being kept informed shows a lack of appreciation for the negative impact this type of failure has not only on our colleagues but most
importantly our customer base.

Tam encouraged that there is now a task force in place at Chesterfield with Keith Richards from the NFSP feeding in to this team to
enable solutions to be implemented. I would however, expect now to see an increase in the number of remedial calls being carried out
to office’s where they have a mix of new and old systems in place.

As Lam sure you will appreciate this is affecting mostly these office’s that have converted under Network Transformation and are
therefore on fully variable pay. As such, if they are unable to trade, they are unable to carn, yet continue to have all the costs
associated with providing Post Office service’s from their premises.

Thaven’t mentioned Hull yet as I appreciate that it was a unique issue affecting those on the Kingston Communication network.
However, I would like to understand more about what caused the issue and why it took so long to identify the problem before it was
rectified.

Worryingly, Post Office Ltd does not seemed inclined to make goodwill payments to these affected offices in line with the loss of
business and costs incurred through no fault of the Sub-Postmaster. In several cases, despite being unable to trade for a significant
period of time, many office’s still await any form of financial recognition for their loss of business or incurred costs. It is important
that Post Office Ltd sympathises with its agents affected and offers a goodwill payment on a case by case basis that reflects truly the
impact that the Branch Refresh is having on these affected office’s. Evidence of this would be a single point of contact that we can
approach on behalf of affected members with the authority to process goodwill payments. This would be coordinated from Shoreham.

I believe also that it is important for both the Post Office and NFSP to work together to restore confidence in the computer system
agents use as matter of course. The retail world is a difficult place at present with competition rife and therefore it is important for the
business to keep its agents very much on side for it to maintain its network size as well as grow and thrive within a challenging market
place.

Yours,

Calum

CEO Designate
NFSP

Mobile

Sent from my iPad

ESS ISSO EIS S IOI SS SSE ISS ISS ISSO ISS ISIS I ISI IORI SE ISIE I

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not
use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those
of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street,
London EC2Y 9AQ.

Je dbddoebndobidibidbviiikiniabigabidinciicdainiioicgiiiciineiiciaioiainkiciicaici a:
