NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SUBPOSTMASTERS - RULES

1- TITLE

This organisation shall be called the “National Federation of Subpostmasters”
(NFSP). Its Head Office shall be at Evelyn House, Windlesham Gardens,
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex, BN43 5AZ, or at such other place as may from
time to time be determined by the National Executive Council, hereinafter defined.

Registered Office: Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens, Shoreham-by-Sea,
West Sussex, BN43 5AZ.

Il - DEFINITIONS

For the purpose of these Rules the term Subpostmaster is defined as any individual,
partnership, corporate entity or company, offering services and products as an agent
of and under contract to Post Office Limited or any associated subsidiary or parent
company (POL). This includes all contract holders known as ‘Operators’, operating
any Post Office model, and/or any other term/s that may be used to describe those
providing Post Office services under contract to Post Office Limited or any
associated, subsidiary or parent company.

Ill - OBJECTS
The Objects of the NFSP shall be:-

(a) To regulate the relations between Subpostmasters (which expression
throughout the Rules will be gender neutral) and POL, and to this end:

(i) To negotiate on behalf of Subpostmasters rates of pay, and general
conditions of service to include any variations to contracts.

(ii) To participate in any form of negotiation set up to regulate conditions of
service.

(iii) To settle disputes (whether collective or individual) between its members
and POL and to promote the peaceful settlement of such disputes by
advocating joint participation in conciliation or arbitration where such
mechanisms are available.

(b) Generally to promote and defend the interests of Subpostmasters and to co-
operate with other organisations having similar objects and interests.

(c) To promote methods of improving the service to customers at post office
outlets and to assist and advise POL on ways of promoting new business.

(d) To generally inform and advise members in matters in relation to their post
office business.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

IV - FUNDS AND PROPERTY OF THE NFSP

The Funds shall be used to further the objects of the NFSP, to include (but not
limited to) the following together with any associated costs and expenses, and for no
other purpose unless specifically authorised by a National Conference.

(a) For the publication of an NFSP journal and other forms of communication, the
title and distribution frequency of which will be determined by the Executive
Council.

(b) In exceptional circumstances and at the final and absolute discretion of the
Executive Council to provide legal aid and advice for members of the NFSP in
relation to their role as a Subpostmaster. This may be to instigate, support or
defend any legal action. The Executive Council may impose any such
conditions as it may think fit, including (without limitation) conditions relating to
the engagement of specified solicitors or counsel in connection with any
actual or potential legal proceedings.

(c) In the administration and organisation of any scheme or campaign intended to
benefit Subpostmasters and approved by the Executive Council.

(d) To provide centralised schemes of administration and organisation of any
agency or trading business carried on by Subpostmasters, intended to benefit
them and approved by the Executive Council.

(e) To provide and pay for an insurance company scheme for payments by that
company to members of the NFSP and their employees in the event of bodily
injury by assault resulting in disablement or death provided that such scheme
shall have been approved by the Executive Council.

(f) If the Executive Council shall at any time consider it necessary or desirable
(whether for commercial reasons, good industrial relations or for any other
reason whatsoever) to apply the funds in any manner not otherwise expressly
authorised by the Rules then such a proposal must be put to a National
Conference of the NFSP by way of a resolution, containing full details of all
material terms of such proposals, including details of:

(i) the funds concerned;
(ii) the proposed application of funds and
(iii) the reasons for such proposals

(g) I A two-thirds majority vote shall be required to carry the aforesaid proposals at
a National Conference.

V - MEMBERSHIP

(a) _ All Subpostmasters in Great Britain and Northern Ireland as defined in Rule II
shall be eligible for full membership, with the exception that any appointee of
a temporary nature during a period of suspension of an_ existing
Subpostmaster whose case has not yet been determined, shall not be eligible
while that suspension continues.
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(9)

(h)

NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

Throughout these Rules the term member, members or membership shall be
deemed to relate to full membership except if expressly stated otherwise.

Applications for membership shall be submitted to NFSP headquarters for
approval and entry on the membership database. Thereafter the appropriate
Region/Branch will be notified of membership allocation.

Full members shall pay an annual subscription for each office except where
the office is a Satellite/Outreach office where the Host/Core office will be the
subscribing office. Annual subscription rates for various models will be
determined at a National Conference following recommendations from the
Executive Council.

The appropriate subscription bandings will be determined by the Executive
Council.

The Executive Council shall be authorised to agree a corporate rate of
membership subscription where appropriate for firms, companies or
individuals holding multiple post office appointments.

The annual subscription shall be paid normally by monthly instalments under
the recognised procedures agreed with POL for the deduction of subscriptions
from salary.

The annual subscription for members not having their subscription deducted
from salary shall be due for renewal on the anniversary of their membership
and shall be payable to NFSP Headquarters.

Any member paying their subscription by annual payment or direct debit
taking up a new appointment as Subpostmaster in a different Region and
having resigned all appointments in his former Region shall be deemed to
have joined the relevant new Region but no additional subscription in respect
of the current year shall be required.

A further category of membership, known as Associate Membership, shall be
offered to those eligible under the following criteria:

(i) A partner (business or life) who is employed as a registered post office
clerk within a full member Subpostmaster’s office.

Such category of associate membership runs in tandem with the partner
Subpostmaster’s membership, and will cease upon the membership
termination or resignation of the full member. A working partner
Associate Member shall have access to the NFSP Helpline but will not
receive an independent copy of the NFSP journal. They may hold office
solely at branch level of the NFSP with the exception of Branch
Secretary. Voting rights will be limited to one vote per office with the full
member's view always taking priority. A National Conference delegate,
subject to their Region’s approval, may be substituted by their partner
Associate Member, who is duly authorised to deliver the full member’s
proxy vote at a National Conference. They shall pay a subscription fee of
25% of the rate applicable to the full member's office.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(ii) Former members who have retired from their position as Subpostmaster
(whether they continue to work within the Post Office network or not).

Such category of Associate Member would not have access to the NFSP
Helpline, but would be entitled to receive a copy of the NFSP journal. A
retired Subpostmaster Associate Member may hold office solely at
branch level, with the exception of Branch Secretary, but will have no
voting rights whatsoever nor can they be a National Conference delegate.
They shall pay a subscription rate of 15% of the higher full subscription
rate.

(k) Any member (full or associate) may be expelled from the NFSP who, in the
opinion of the Executive Council, is not a fit and proper person for
membership. Provided that:-

(i) Conduct which in the opinion of the Executive Council is actively or
potentially in conflict with the interests and objects of the NFSP National
Rules may be considered incompatible with membership of the NFSP, or
any elective position within the NFSP, and may lead to the automatic
expulsion of that member and debarment from an elective position. No
person will be permitted to be a member, whether full, associate or
honorary, whose conduct is considered by the Executive Council to be
contrary to the interests and objects of the NFSP.

(ii) The Executive Council shall have the power to take disciplinary action
including expulsion, against any member (full, associate or honorary) of
the NFSP who following investigation by the Executive Council is
considered by it to have:

. committed a breach of any of these rules;

. committed any action detrimental to the interests of the union, or
otherwise brought or attempted to bring the union its members or
officers into disrepute;

. stolen or otherwise misused or misappropriated the funds or
property of the union including any records or other data;

. obtained or attempted to obtain any of the benefits or services of the
union by means of fraud or misrepresentation;

. obtained possession of or retained, in a manner contrary to these
rules, any funds or property of the union including any records or
other data;

e tampered with, falsified or wilfully misused, with intent to deceive,
any document, insignia or other property of the union;

. refused to sign or otherwise execute a document to which his/her
signature or execution is required by these rules;

. attempted to actively persuade other NFSP members to support the
ideas and policies of other organisations that are in direct opposition
and conflict with Federation policies.

or is otherwise considered in the opinion of the Executive Council not to be a
fit and proper person to remain a member of the NFSP.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(iii) I Written notice of the proposal to impose disciplinary sanction including
expulsion together with reasons for the proposed sanction of the
member (whether full, associate or honorary) shall be given to them at
least 7 days before the meeting of the Executive Council at which it is to
be considered. The member shall be given an opportunity to be heard
before a decision is made thereon.

(iv) There shall be a right of appeal against sanction and in the case of
expulsion, for reinstatement of membership, any such appeal shall be
made to members of the Executive Council not previously concerned
with the decision to impose the sanction.

(I) National Honorary Members, who need not have been Subpostmasters, may
be elected by the Executive Council, subject to confirmation by Annual
Conference. Such members may attend the Annual Conference but shall
have no voting rights. They shall be entitled to a copy of the NFSP journal.

VI - REGIONAL COUNCILS

The NFSP shall be divided into Regions which will be the principal administrative
units, each Region to organise and administer their area as they deem appropriate
subject to Executive Council approval.

(a) Regional Councils shall be established for the following areas:

(i) North East Region
(ii) North West Region
(iii) Midland Region
(iv) North Thames & East Anglia Region
(v) South West Region
(vi) South East Region
(vii) Scotland Region

(viii) Northern Ireland Region
(ix) London Region

(x) Wales/Cymru Region

Members shall be attached to the Region appropriate to the location of each
post office. Any corporate member may nominate a member of its staff who
may attend and vote at Regional Council meetings.

(b) I A Regional Council shall consist of members within the Region. Each Region
shall be entitled to one Regional Council delegate per 50 members of each
branch or part thereof plus any ex-officio posts as determined by the Region.

(c) I Each Region should establish its own internal structure. Regions should
submit their proposed structure and any amendments to that structure to the
Executive Council for approval.

(d) Each Region shall adopt Region Rules and may amend them as provided by
those Rules provided that such Rules and amendments shall be submitted to
the next Executive Council meeting for their approval and provided that the
Executive Council shall have the power to set aside any such Rules and
amendments as may be in conflict with National Rules.
(e)

(f)

(9)

(h)

(i)

(m)

(n)

(0)

(p)

NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

Each Regional Council must hold at least 2 meetings a year. At each meeting
the Secretary shall give a report on the work done and the Executive Council
members shall report on the Executive Council’s work and policy.

Honorary members of a Regional Council may be elected by the Regional
Council and may attend and speak at any meeting of the Regional Council,
but shall not be entitled to vote.

In consultation with their Executive Officers, Regional Councils should
establish the most effective contacts and channels of communication with
POL for dealing with day to day issues within the area. This must be subject
to any national arrangements taking precedence.

Each Region shall appoint a Membership Secretary who will monitor
membership throughout the Region, providing support and advice in
maintaining and increasing their membership. At each Regional Council
meeting, the Membership Secretary will be required to give a full report of all
activities undertaken.

Regional Councils shall be subject to the control of the Executive Council,
whose decision on all matters of policy (including disputes as to interpretation
of policy) shall be final.

A Regional Council shall have power to obtain all NFSP records and
accumulated branch funds from the branch officials and to dismiss any or all
of the branch officials and make new appointments.

A Region may send resolutions to Conference. All resolutions approved shall
be forwarded to the General Secretary in accordance with standing orders for
Conference.

Each Region shall be entitled to send delegates to Conference on the basis of
1 per 40 members or part thereof.

A Regional Council shall elect a Standing Orders Committee representative at
its Annual General Meeting to hold office for one year. The expenses of
attending meetings of Standing Orders Committee and Conferences will be
met from central funds. At Conference, members of the Standing Orders
Committee will be entitled to speak and vote.

Members of the Executive Council shall be ex officio members of their
Regional Council with no voting power. Their expenses in attending Regional
Council will be met from central funds.

Each year at its annual meeting a Regional Council shall appoint one
Executive Officer to the Board of Benevolence and notify the NFSP.

Regions shall be funded annually by the General Secretary with an amount
equal to the total of region full members multiplied by 20% of the average per
capita subscription for full members collected throughout the NFSP.
Membership figures and annual capitation rate to be calculated as at 30
September of the year of account. For the purposes of this rule corporate,
satellite/outreach and associate members are excluded.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(q) Regions will be funded with a payment on account from the General Secretary
upon receipt of the certified return of regional associate and honorary
members. The balancing payment will be made based on the September
audited membership.

(r) The Regional Secretary shall ensure that not later than 28 February the
Region's complete books of account are forwarded to NFSP Headquarters to
enable the preparation and audit of the Financial Statements to the preceding
31 December.

(s) All regional funds shall be paid into a deposit or current bank account in the
name of the Region and cheques and orders, applications or transfers for
payment drawn thereon in excess of £250 shall be signed, physically or
digitally, by two persons; one signatory will suffice under £250. All regional
funds shall be applied to the objects and purposes of the Region as long as
such objects and purposes of the Region are not extraneous from or
inconsistent with the objects and purposes of the NFSP.

Vil - BRANCHES
Regions may sub divide into Branches.

Expenditure incurred by Branches in meeting the objects of the NFSP and in
compliance with Region and Branch Rules will be settled from funds held and
managed by the Region.

(a) I Should Branches be established by Regions, members shall be attached to
the Branch appropriate to the location of each post office. Any corporate
member may nominate to its Branch Secretary a member of its staff who may
attend and vote at branch meetings.

(b) Each Branch shall adopt Branch Rules and may amend the same in the
manner provided by such Rules provided that such Rules and amendments
shall within 14 days of such adoption or amendment be submitted to the
Regional Council for their approval and provided that the Regional Council
shall have full power thereafter to set aside any such Rules or amendments
which are in conflict with either Regional or National Rules.

(c) Each Branch shall hold at least 2 meetings per annum and will be part of the
appropriate Regional Council.

(d) Any records, fees and/or funds required to be transferred to the Regional
Council shall be transferred as requested.

(e) All resolutions from branches must, in the first instance, be submitted to the
appropriate Regional Council Secretary in time for inclusion in the agenda for
the Regional Council meeting.

(f) A Branch may be dissolved either by a two-thirds majority vote of branch
members present and voting passed at any Annual or Special General
Meeting of the Branch or by the Regional Council where the Branch has
ceased to function.
(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

Vill - EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The management of the NFSP shall be vested in an Executive Council which
shall have full power to conduct its affairs.

The Executive Council shall be elected triennially. Elections will be held in
accordance with the procedure set out in Rule VIII (d) below. Executive
Officers elected between triennials to fill vacancies falling between a triennial
period will be required to seek re-election when the next triennial election
occurs.

The number of representatives to which each Region is entitled shall be
determined by the total number of full members in the Region on the basis of
one representative for each 800 full members or part thereof. The number of
members for this purpose shall be the audited full membership as at the 30
September preceding the election.

Nominations to serve on the Executive Council may be made by full members
within the Region, providing that all nominations are in writing and proposed
and seconded by full members of the NFSP. A full member shall only be
nominated for a vacancy in one Region, which shall be the Region in which
that member holds a post office appointment. All nominations must be
received in writing by the General Secretary not later than 5pm on the 10th
January. In the event of there being more members nominated than are
required to fill the allotted seats on the Executive Council an election must
take place. Ballot papers bearing the names of each member nominated will
be prepared and distributed by post by the nominated scrutineers to all
members within the Region not later than 10th February of the same year.
Completed ballot papers must be returned by post to the nominated
scrutineers allowing sufficient time to ensure that these will be received not
later than the last day in February of the same year. The cost of postage will
be borne by the NFSP. A list of nominees will be sent to the Regional Council
Secretary within one week of the closing date for nominations. If a ballot is
held the result certified by the nominated scrutineers will be notified to the
General Secretary who in turn will notify the Regional Council Secretary.
Nominees will be afforded equal opportunity of providing personal information
which will be distributed with the ballot papers.

If there shall be at any time a vacancy among the members of the Executive
Council, the vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the procedure set out
in Rule VIII (d) amended as follows:

Notification of the vacancy will be published in the NFSP journal.
Nominations of full members supported by a proposer and seconder who are
full members of the NFSP will be invited. All nominations in writing must be
received by the General Secretary not later than 5pm on the last day of the
month in which the edition of the NFSP journal was published. Should a
ballot be necessary the ballot papers will be prepared and distributed by post
from the nominated scrutineers to all members within the Regional Council
area not later than the last day of the following month. Completed ballot
papers must be returned by post to the nominated scrutineers allowing
sufficient time for these to be received no later than the 15th day of the month
following that in which the distribution of papers took place.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(f) The Executive Council shall meet not less than four times each year and an
abridged report of the proceedings shall be published in the NFSP journal.

(g) I The out-of-pocket expenses of Executive Council members on official NFSP.
business shall be paid by the National Treasurer.

(h) Expenses may be paid for any member carrying out official NFSP business at
the request of the Executive Council.

(i) The Executive Council shall have power to grant payment for clerical or other
special work properly undertaken on behalf of the NFSP by the officers, or
any member, outside the ordinary duties.

(j) If any matter arises calling for urgent attention the President, Vice-President
and General Secretary may deal with it and report to the next meeting of the
Executive Council, or a statement and resolution may be sent to every
member of the Executive Council and a vote obtained on any specific
resolution, such vote being reported at the next meeting.

(k) No Executive Officer shall be allowed to serve as a Regional or Branch
Official in any capacity.

(I) The Executive Council shall have the right to send resolutions to Annual
Conference.

(m) The Executive Council may be removed at any time during their term of office
at a Special Conference called for that purpose. On such removal a new
Executive Council shall be elected in accordance with the provisions of this
Rule and the current regulations governing the election of the Executive
Council.

(n) I Trade Disputes. If in any such dispute as is referred to in Rule III (a) (iii) the
Executive Council considers that a stage has been reached when notice of
termination of the contracts of members should be given to POL, the
Executive Council is empowered to take the following action:

(i) Take a ballot of all members in accordance with procedures required by
the Trade Union Act 1984, or succeeding legislation.

IX - OFFICERS
(a) National President and_ National Vice-President

(i) The National President and National Vice-President shall be appointed
by delegates at Annual Conference from the Executive Council.

(ii) The National President and National Vice-President may be removed
from their respective offices at any time during their term of office at a
Special Conference called for the purpose. Any vacancy so created shall
be filled by the members assembled at the Special Conference from the
members of the Executive Council unless the Executive Council shall
themselves have been removed.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(b) National Treasurer
(i) The National Treasurer shall be appointed by the Executive Council.

(ii) The National Treasurer may be removed from office at a meeting of the
Executive Council called for that purpose and such meeting may fill the
vacancy.

(iii) He shall pay all expenses authorised by the Executive Council.

(iv) He shall prepare a quarterly account showing the balance in hand for
presentation to the Executive Council and prepare the annual Balance
Sheet and Accounts of the NFSP for the auditors as soon as possible
after the 31st December each year.

(v) The salary shall be fixed by the Executive Council. The NFSP shall
arrange fidelity insurance to cover the office of National Treasurer.

(c) Auditors

(i) The members at each Annual Conference shall appoint qualified
accountants to conduct an audit of the books of the NFSP for the current
year.

(ii) Such accountants shall examine and certify the Balance Sheet and
Accounts of the NFSP made up to 31st December in that year for
presentation to the following Annual Conference.

(iii) At any Annual Conference the retiring auditors, however appointed, shall
be re-appointed without any resolution being passed, unless:

(a) they are not qualified for re-appointment; or

(b) a resolution has been passed at that Conference appointing other
auditors instead of them or providing expressly that they shall not
be re-appointed; or

(c) they have given the NFSP notice in writing of their unwillingness to
be re-appointed

(d) General Secretary

(i) The General Secretary shall be elected in accordance with the
requirements of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation)
Act 1992 and succeeding legislation. The Executive Council shall have
the power to enter into an agreement with him as to the terms of his
appointment.

(ii) The Executive Council shall have the power to remove the General
Secretary in accordance with their terms of employment.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(iii) He shall deal with all general matters on behalf of the NFSP including the
appointment and management of all the staff.

(iv) He shall make arrangements for any National Conference of members,
Executive Council meetings and shall arrange minutes of the matters
dealt with.

(v) He shall advise the Executive Council on pertinent matters, correspond
as necessary on their behalf and act generally under the direction of the
Executive Council.

(vi) He shall be responsible for the issue and layout of the NFSP journal and
he shall report the outcome and progress of motions and other
Conference matters as appropriate.

Be empowered to act in all negotiations and contracts for property goods
and services on behalf of the NFSP save where the Trustees are
required by law to execute any agreement, deed or document on behalf
of the NFSP.

vii

(e) Assistant General Secretary

(i) The Executive Council shall have the power to appoint an Assistant
General Secretary and to enter into an agreement on the terms of
appointment. The duties of the Assistant General Secretary shall be
determined by the General Secretary.

(ii) The Executive Council shall have the power to remove the Assistant
General Secretary in accordance with their terms of employment.

X - TRUSTEES

(a) There shall be 3 Trustees, who shall be members of the Executive Council
and appointed by them. A Trustee shall hold office until they resign, cease to
be a member of the Executive Council or are removed from office after a
resolution by the Executive Council.

(b) All property belonging to the NFSP shall be vested in the Trustees. The
Trustees shall be responsible for all deeds and documents, and securities for
money and shall produce the same for inspection by the auditors as and when
required by them.

(c) The Trustees shall as required and upon the authority of the Executive
Council.

(i) Invest, re-invest and vary the investments of the funds of the NFSP as
may be resolved upon by the Executive Council in such securities
(including the purchase of real or leasehold properties) as may be
deemed desirable, and may raise money by loan or otherwise on the
security of any such securities or properties in such terms as the
Executive Council may consider suitable.
(d)

(b)

(c)

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(ii) Pay to the Executive Council or to such persons as they may appoint
such sums of money as may be required for the claims and expenses of
the NFSP from the funds applicable thereto.

The Trustees shall be completely discharged and indemnified from all liability
on compliance with authority under Rule X(c).

XI - MEMBERS’ EDITOR

The Members’ Editor shall be elected annually by members assembled at
Annual Conference. Nominations for Members’ Editor may be made by full
members providing that all nominations are in writing and proposed and
seconded by full members of the NFSP. All nominations must be received in
writing by the General Secretary not less than 8 weeks before the Annual
Conference. In the event of there being more than one nomination an
election must take place at Annual Conference. The voting shall be by card
vote in accordance with the Standing Orders for Conference.

The Members’ Editor and the General Secretary shall be jointly responsible
for the layout and content of the letters page of the NFSP journal.

The expenses shall be fixed by the Executive Council.
XII - FORUM MODERATOR

There shall be a Forum Moderator, who shall be a member of the NFSP and
appointed by the Executive Council, but not a member of the Executive
Council.

The moderator shall be jointly responsible with the administrator, for the
control and running of the forum within the terms and conditions of its use as
stated on the NFSP website.

XIll - ANNUAL CONFERENCE

An Annual Conference of delegates shall be held each year the timing and
location of which will be decided by the Executive Council. Delegates from
each Region will be on the basis of 1 delegate per 40 members or part thereof,
and additionally one Standing Orders representative. Only Subpostmasters
who are members within Regions of the NFSP shall be appointed as delegates
[subject to the provisions of Rule V(j)(i)]. The members of the Executive
Council and the General Secretary and Assistant General Secretary shall be
ex officio delegates to Conference and may speak on behalf of the Executive
Council, but they shall have no voting rights.

Any proposals and notices of motion (including rule changes) must be sent to
the General Secretary not less than 8 weeks before the Annual Conference.
After due consideration an agenda will be produced which must be sent to all
members with a copy of the balance sheet and accounts 3 weeks before
Annual Conference.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(c) At Annual Conference:-

(i) The Executive Council shall present a report with recommendations as to
future policy.

(ii) The National Treasurer shall submit a fully audited balance sheet and
accounts showing the financial position of the NFSP.

(iii) The General Secretary shall report on matters as appropriate.

(d) General arrangements for representation and Conference business, including
Reports and Resolutions, shall be subject to the Standing Orders for
Conference as approved by the Executive Council and published in the
delegates’ Conference Agenda booklet.

(e) I Conference decisions shall be binding on all members of the NFSP providing
that, if it shall appear to the Executive Council on further consideration, that
any decision shall not be practicable, or in the best interests of the Federation
as a whole, the Executive Council shall retain full discretion to vary policy
provided such variance is reported as soon as is practical in ‘the
Subpostmaster’.

XIV - SPECIAL CONFERENCES.

(a) A Special Conference of delegates shall be convened by signature on a
simple petition and/or signed letter of not less than 700 members of the
NFSP, or by a resolution of the Executive Council, not less than 14 days clear
notice being given, with a statement of the business to be considered. Such
Conference shall be held as soon as may be reasonably practicable.

(b) Delegates shall be on the same basis as that for the Annual Conference. The
Standing Orders for Conference other than those relating to annual reports
and balance sheets shall apply to a Special Conference in like manner as to
Annual Conference except where and so far as the same would conflict with
the provisions of this Rule.

XV - ALTERATION TO RULES

The Rules of the NFSP may be only added to, rescinded, or amended by a two-
thirds majority vote passed at any National Conference in accordance with the
foregoing Rules and the Standing Orders for Conference.

XVI - DISSOLUTION

(a) I The Federation may be dissolved at any time by a two-thirds majority vote
passed at any National Conference provided that at least 3 months’ notice of
the proposal is given in the NFSP journal.

(b) I On such dissolution the assets of the NFSP shall be realised by the Trustees,
who shall distribute any net balance available after payment of all claims,
liabilities and settlements.
NFSP00001072
NFSP00001072

(c) Distribution of any net balance shall be decided upon by a two-thirds majority
vote at that same National Conference convened to dissolve the NFSP.

XVII - MISCELLANEOUS

(a) I The books of account of the NFSP shall be made available by the National
Treasurer and the General Secretary in accordance with Section 30 Trade
Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 and any subsequent
legislation.

(b) I The Federation’s preferred suppliers are wholly independent organisations not
controlled or connected to the Federation, its officers or members or to NFSP
Trading Ltd. Preferred supplier status is achieved by offering some financial or
other incentive to members or the Federation for the benefit of members.

Preferred supplier status does not mean in any respect whatsoever that the
Federation or NFSP Trading Ltd approves of the services to be supplied by
the preferred supplier or the terms and conditions of such supply to any
member. The Federation and NFSP Trading Ltd are not a party to any
contract entered into by a member with a preferred supplier. Members must
satisfy themselves as to the term and effect of any contract entered into by
them with a preferred supplier and take all independent advice as may be
necessary. The Federation and NFSP Trading Ltd do not accept any liability
or responsibility for any acts or omissions of any kind of the preferred supplier
nor for any loss, damage, delay, cost, loss of profit or other direct or indirect
losses of whatever kind whether claimed in contract, tort or in any other legal
or equitable cause of action in any jurisdiction suffered by any member or
other third party arising there from.

(c) These Rules shall be binding upon every member of the NFSP, and shall be
made available to members after each Annual Conference.

May 2014
