NFSP00000681
NFSP00000681

Message

From: Paul Hook [/O=NFSP/OU=FIRST ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAUL.HOOK]
Sent: 08/07/2013 15:42:58
To:
cc:

Marilyn Stoddart
FW: Statement

Subject:

fyi

From: Mark R Davies;__
Sent: Monday, July 08,
To: Paul Hook
Subject: Statement

Hi Paul

Here is the statement

Will forward report shortly.
Mark

The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to the publication of an interim report into alleged
problems with the Horizon computer system, which is used to record transactions in its branch network.

The report is being published by an external firm, Second Sight, who were commissioned by the Post Office last year. It
confirms that no system wide problems have been found in relation to the Horizon software, but suggests that the Post
Office should examine its support and training processes for sub-postmasters.

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

"We commissioned this independent review to address concerns that have been raised about the Horizon system and
we welcome the broad thrust of the interim findings.

"The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do so. The interim review makes clear
that the Horizon computer system and its supporting processes function effectively across our network. As the review
notes, it is used by around 68,000 people in more than 11,500 branches, successfully processing more than six million
transactions every day. The review underlines our cause for confidence in the overall system.

"It does however raise questions about the training and support we have offered to some sub-postmasters and we are
determined to address these issues.

"The people who work in the post office network in communities across the country are the lifeblood of our business
and we take our responsibilities to them very seriously.

"We therefore regret very much if any sub-postmaster feels that our standards of support or training have not met their
needs, and we are grateful to James Arbuthnot MP and the Justice for Sub-postmasters Alliance (JFSA) for raising these
issues with us.
NFSP00000681
NFSP00000681

"In many of these cases I am confident that steps have already been taken which have improved support and training
but we are always open to feedback and insights from sub-postmasters. So we will make further improvements in this
area and take better account of individual requirements and circumstances going forward."

The Post Office is proposing to respond to the Second Sight report with three new initiatives aimed at addressing the
issues raised, improving future processes and examining potential structural changes to support sub-postmasters:

1. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the review of cases started by Second Sight last
year. This would examine the themes identified by Second Sight and consider all cases brought forward by the JFSA and
MPs, together with any new themes which emerge from these cases. The JFSA have been invited to join this working

party.

2. Areview chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety net might be introduced to
adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. Again the JFSA and other stakeholders will be invited to take part in this
process.

3. Anew Branch User Forum to provide a way for sub-postmasters and others to raise issues and insights around
business processes, training and support, directly feeding into the organisation’s thinking at the highest level. A key task
for this forum will be to review support processes and training to ensure they meet the standards expected of the Post
Office.

Ms Vennells added: "We have an obligation to protect public money, including investigating suspected wrongdoing.
However, we hope the action we are already taking and these additional proposals to work collaboratively with the JFSA
and sub-postmasters demonstrate our commitment to improving the way we support all those who work in our
unrivalled branch network."

Mark Davies I Communications Director

1* Floor, Banner Wing,.148 Old Street, London, ECLV 9HQ

4

Jens an iano Io IERIE INIA AIH IAEA IIIA AIA IIA IAAI AIA II ANIA III

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
