NFSP00000372
NFSP00000372

CIRCULATION: NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL A/3 "PC NW 06°01

Your Ref:

Sunt CB/EJAIPC NW 06 01 National Federation of
PO PZ SubPostmasters

ath. VURAL ¢ © Lo .

(43th August 1998 GAvuna aq Eveijn Housd
22.Windlesham Gaidens.*

Shoreham by Séa-
The Rt. Hon. Alan Milburn MP
Chief Secretary to the Treasury,
HM Treasury
Parliament Street,

London SW1P 3AG

General Secretary
COUN Bake

Assistant General Secretaries
Kew Davis
PAUL HEASHAN

Ty Deas (Ww (Ui (bun

I write to congratulate you on becoming the Chief Secretary to the Treasury.

One of the first matters you will undoubtedly need to consider is the PFI to automate Post
Offices which is called the Horizon Project. This is a very important project for Sub-
Postmasters everywhere as it will transform the Post Office network and enable it to play its
vital part in the delivery of Government's products and services in the future.

Without this automation platform we consider that the future for Sub Post Offices is bleak
indeed and the speculation surrounding the Government's intention for the project is
causing great concern amongst Sub-Postmasters who are pressing me to “raise the profile”
of what is at risk. As I am sure you are aware, if the Horizon project or the payment card
were to be cancelled, the effect would be dire on Sub-Postmasters and their £1 billion
investment in the network. They would reasonably conclude that despite all the promises of
the past, the Government had given up on them. They would see their livelihoods as being
on the line, and could not be expected to take this lying down. Given Sub-Postmasters
current: mood and until they see Horizon rolling out in the Post Offices we should not be
surprised at occasions of outpourings of concern.

We have, of course, contributed to the Review of The Post Office and made our views clear
to the Department of Social Security but wanted you to. know how Sub-Postmasters are
looking forward to playing their full part in delivering social banking, welfare reform and
other key Government products and services through the automation platform, but that they
do have understandable concerns.

Any reassurances you can provide at this stage would, I know, be warmly welcomed.

If you feel that a meeting between us would be beneficial, we would be delighted to meet
you.

I look forward to hearing from you.

GRO

 SOLIN BARERE Te
General Secretary

