NFSP00001314
NFSP00001314

From: Marilyn Stoddart{//O=NFSP/OU=FIRST ADMINISTRATIVE
GROUP/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MARILYN.STODDARD]

Sent: Thur 05/07/2012 2:19:13 PM (UTC)

To: michele.graves(_
ECT.

Ce: George Thomson, RO a

Subject: RE: Fw: Ref; Thorney Post Office, 5 Abbey Place PE6 , Computer Systems failure.

Thanks for this Michele, I thought it would be useful for you to see the ‘chain’. When Dave Hulbert and I spoke about this case
yesterday we wondered whether it might be helpful if the subpostmistress Mrs Taylor were able to arrange for her son to be in
attandance if POL intend to make a further on-site visit to assist in identifying the problem. I look forward to your further update in
due course and sight of the next reply to Paul Taylor.

Regards

Marilyn

Marilyn Stoddart
Assistant General Secretary
Evelyn House
22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea
West Sussex
BN3 SAZ

'] On Behalf Of ECT¢_

Hi Marilyn

I've had a similar email & will make sure I cc you in on the reply.

Rgds, Michele

marilyn.stoddart@.
Sent by: marilyn.sto

ce:
Subject: Fw: Ref; Thomey Post Office, 5 Abbey Place PES , Computer Systems failure.
04/07/2012 10:04

Please respond to marilyn.stoddart

FYI. Marilyn

From: "Amanda Cox"
Date: Wed, 4 Jul 2012 08:39
To: George Thomson<'

ae
1 +0100

NFSP00001314
NFSP00001314

Ce: Marilyn Stoddarts .
Subject: FW: Ref; Thorney Post Office,

5 Abbey Place PE6 , Computer Systems failure.

Amanda Cox

NFSP, Evelyn House

22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex
BN43 5AZ

web: www nfsp.ora.uk

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender and then delete this email from your system

From: paul taylor
Sent: 03 July 2012 19:24
To: Amanda Cox

Cc: George Thomson
Subject: RE: Ref; Thorney Post Office, 5 Abbey Place PE6 , Computer Systems failure.

Thank you for your email,

Ref: Thorney Post Office

You can keep repeating you are confident that your Horizons system is robust but that doesn’t make it true. There is a reoccurring
error which is resulting in the Horizons system not balancing transactions to sum of money taken, be it by cash, card or cheque.

This maybe a Horizons error, this maybe human error but there is an error. This should be a very simple problem to pin point as
all transactions can be printed centrally to find an anomaly. I personally do not understand why this is taking such a long time to
resolve?

My concern is a sub post office is experiencing a problem balancing the system which the Post Office Own and manage and
there seems to be no area manager, no systems manager, no one to support the sub post office. If such people do exist then why
hasn't this resolved by now?

The monitor screens at Thorney Post Office are 10 inches when modern day working standards clearly state it should be 14
inches. So why have they not been updated in twelve years? Again, who is managing the hardware?

Yours sincerely

Paul Taylor

Subject: RE: Ref; Thorney Post Office, 5 Abbey Place PE6 , Computer Systems failure.
Date: Tue, 3 Jul 2012 13:26:30 +0100

CC: George. Thomsor
SENT ON BEHALF OF GEORGE THOMSON
NFSP00001314
NFSP00001314

Dear Paul
Thank you for your recent email regarding the Horizon computer system.

Over 70 million transactions are carried out each and every week at Post Offices all over the UK and
I can assure you that we have only a handful of people who claim that the system is systemically
faulty. If the Horizon system was systemically faulty we would have tens of thousands of complaints
each and every year. The NFSP continues to believe that the Horizon Computer system is accurate,
robust and fit for purpose and we believe that the external review of Horizon will come to the same
conclusion.

Yours sincerely

George Thomson

Amanda Cox

NFSP, Evelyn House

22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex

web: www.nfsp.org.uk

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender and then delete this email from your system

From: paul taylor [mailto{,
Sent: 21 June 2012 23:18
To: Amanda Cox

Subject: Ref; Thorney Post Office, 5 Abbey Place PE6 , Computer Systems failure.

Paul Taylor

Dear Sir/Madam

Ref; Thorney Post Office, 5 Abbey Place PE6 , Computer Systems failure.

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-18535354

NFSP00001314
NFSP00001314

T have previously written to you regarding a computer errors not balancing correctly at the end of each day and my 63 year
old mother having to use her own money to balance the system. After constant checking, as my mother use to work in a bank
and has been a sub post mistress for twelve years she is more than able to do this basic task, however, the system still did not
balance even when on paper it should. Because of this she has had to use her own funds to balance the system or be accused
of being incompetent or fraudulent.

After weeks of telephone conversations by my Mother with unhelpful staff from nameless Post Office personal I contacted your
organisation in order for your support and advice.

Your advice was close to useless your support was non existent and my Mother was just insulted by a man stating the obvious
over the telephone.

So please explain to me the link I attach below and why after several letters you did not bring this to my attention?

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-18535354

I would like you to contact Mrs G Taylor at Thorney Post Office, 5 Abbey Place, Thorney PE6 and apologise for your lack lustre
performance and how you are going to support her further as I thought is the whole point being a paid member of National
Federation of Sub Postmasters.

Yours sincerely

Paul Taylor
