NFSP00001470
NFSP00001470

From: Catriona Watt[Catriona.Watt__

Sent: Fri 04/10/2024 1:44:35 PM (UTC)

To: Ruth Buckley-Salmon[Ruth.Buckley-Salmon, GRO _I
Subject: FW: Unauthorised Stock Adjustments [IMAN-MATTERS. FiD3857692]

Catriona Watt

Partner

Anderson Strathern

Ww andersonstrathern. co.uk

in

S

From: Calum Greenhow <Calum.Greenhow!
Date: 21 June 2023 at 17:25:48 BST /
To: Tim Boothman <Tim.Boothmant Howard Greenman
<Howard.Greenmary, >, Sue Fags <Sue.Edgai
<Christine.Donnelly, GRO. >, Sue Jude <sue.jude!

4, Christine Donnelly
“} David Sanghera

<David.Sangheral "david.agnew" <david.agne’ _., "Sinclair, Craig"
<Craig. Sinclair! Bharat Visani <Bharat.Visanii Mohammad Sajid

<Mohammad Sajid >, Jim McCafferty <jim.mccafferty:

<Rajat.Patelf aj Hussain <Saj. Hussain}
Cc: Keith Richards <keith.Richard

Subject: Unauthorised Stock Adjustments

Colleagues,

The NFSP became aware that an Auditor and an Area Manager had visited separate offices and
whilst in the office had added stock on to the Horizon system without the agreement of the
Postmaster. In one of the cases, the Postmaster was not present. This caused us great concern
as it had so many hallmarks of the PO of old when without the knowledge and agreement of the
Postmaster their branch accounts were changed remotely. As such we raised a formal concern
with the PO.

PO have now conducted an investigation and today Keith and I met with Tracy Marshall, David
Southall and Shaun Kerrison to listen to the outcomes of their investigation.

The background to this case is that in September of 2022, PO began an investigation to
determine whether the stock sent from stock centres matched that which was being added
onto Postmasters Horizon system and where it was not correct the mismatch. Whilst the
principle may have merit, they acknowledge that the way they went about was not correct. To
be clear the process has now stopped and in future any such corrections will be carried out via a
transaction correction with a phone call in advance to make the Postmaster aware of the issue.
NFSP00001470
NFSP00001470

We have asked that clear guidance is given to Postmasters and that they can request an
investigation by Tier 2 to be conducted if they are concerned about the accuracy of the T/C. This
they have agreed to do. We have also asked if we can be involved in an investigation on behalf
of colleagues and they will consider this. We have also asked that they look at ways in which a
T/C can be disputed rather than having to be accepted as part of the branch accounts so that a
TP can be done and then challenged via the dispute and resolution button. Again, they will
consider this.

Post Office have indicated that they are looking at refresher training for colleagues in relation to
T/C's so that they are dealt with correctly and on time. This is currently being worked on so
more details to follow in due course.

Included in the discussion was a change of policy PO are looking to introduce in relation to
Branch Assurance visits (Audits). Currently the Postmaster is notified in advance that a visit will
take place and included in that email will be details about the NFSP and our Shoreham contact
details. However, where they are struggling to arrange an announced visit or there may be
issues that hinder an investigation or there are serious concerns about PO assets, they are
looking to introduce unannounced visits once again.

An area where Keith and I are concerned with these visits is the amount of information that is
provided to the Postmaster at a very difficult time and do they take it all in or say something
which may incriminate themselves. With this in mind, Keith devised a script for the auditor to
provide to the Postmaster which explains their rights at that point, highlighted the support they
could immediately receive from the NFSP and guidance on what to do during the visit. This
would then be signed by the Postmaster and the Auditor with one copy being kept by the
Postmaster and the other by PO as evidence. Unfortunately, PO are still reluctant to go with this
but they are now sending out an initial email prior to an announced visit with the NFSP details.
They will then send a survey after the visit which will also contain our details if they need any
support.

Whilst this situation looks to have been resolved, it does suggest that within PO is still the
capacity to get their optics totally wrong and slip back to their old ways. As such, I asked if new
senior members of the PO management teams who don't have a history of the GLO and
therefore may not view it in the same way as someone who has been in the business for a while
need training so that decisions that commercially look reasonable but in light of the GLO
optically are wrong, are not made. Tracy indicated that all management in the Retail side of PO
have had training on the GLO so that leaves the question how they got it wrong once again
here.

Anyway, thought you should all know.
Yours,

Calum
NFSP00001470
NFSP00001470

Calum Greenhow
Chief Executive Officer

The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

E:

W: www.nfsp.org.uk

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the
addressee only. If you have received it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the
sender and then delete this message. Please do not copy it, disclose its contents to any other person or
use it for any purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been
scanned for software viruses. We cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software
viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England,
company number 9771284)
