SECTION

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

PAGE

Federation Matters

Membership Benefits

Pay

The Sub-Postmasters Contract

Sickness

Tax and National Insurance

Security

Staff and Premises

Non-Post Office Business

In Case of Emergency...

—_ I =
ZS OO Nola Ajo (I=

Alphabetical Index

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Absence from the Office
Alterations to Premises
Anchoring of Safes ...
Annual Conference: Dates and Places...
Annual Leave (see Absence from the Office)
Annual Revisio
Anti-Bandit Screen:
Anti-Intruder Alarms
Appeals Procedure ....
Attendance at Law Courts on Post Office Cases & Court Prosecution.

Benevolent Fund....
Benevolent Fund Constitution & Rules
British United Provident Association (BUPA).
Burglar Alarms....

Calculation of Pa
Canvassing
Cash Accounts - Submission on holiday
Cash Allowances...
Civil Service Motoring Association.
Commercial Advertisements in Sub Post Offices.
Community Offices: Pay.
Community Offices: Contractual Matters
Companies Act 1981...
Compensation for Loss of Offic
Counselling Interview on Resignation.
Counter Losses: Tax Position
Counter Losses: Relief.
Criminal Injuries Compensation Board

Deceased Sub-Postmaster’s Pay ...
Deferment of National Insurance Liabilit
Disciplinary Procedures
Disclosure of Business ownership
Divulgence of Official Informatio

Eagle Star Insurances....
Elections (see Federation Rules)
Electors Lists
Emergencies.
Employment Liability (Compulsory Insurance Act) 1969
Employment Legislation
Employment Protection (Consolidation) Act 197:
Error Notices

Federation “Insurance Against Attack” Scheme.........s:sssecsssseessssessesstessesssesssssessessseesnsenneeness
Federation Matters .....
Federation: Early History.

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Federation: Today ..
Federation: Organisation & Structur
Federation: Rules

Gifts for Long Servic
Guard Dog:

Health & Leisure...
Health & Safety at Work Act 1974
Holiday Substitution Allowance
Honorary Members of the Federatiot
Ours OF BUSIMESS .....:1.ssorconssevcansesioe susstsonesinssonsemvssnsonnosivsensaiisssnssinsSeeseansnvososinesnsuiiegnsvensensoeissovess

In Case of Emergency
Income Tax.....
Income Tax & National Insurance
Industrial Injuries... =
Injuries from Attack: Insurance Policies.
Injuries from Attack: Assistance from the Post Office
Insurance & Other Facilities
Insurance Policies
Introductory Payment.
Investigation Branch Officers’ Enquiries
Items available to Members from Federation Headquarters.

Jury Service.

Mailwork: Pay.
Mailwork: Contractual Matter:
Membership Benefits
Model Set of Rules for Branches

National Federation of Post Office & British Telecom Pensioners
National Insurance ....
National Insurance Contribution Liability in respect of Relief
New Appointments: Pay
New Business
Non Post Office Business ........c.csccccsssesseessessessseessesseessesssesnesssesssesseesessecssesseesnesseenessseasecsneeseess

Sub-Postmasters

Offices, Shops & Railway Premises Act 1963 ........ccscssssessesseseeseeesseeeeseeeesesneesesnseeeseeneeseaeeeenes

Past Presidents
Pay.
Pay: Sundry Item:
Payment on Withdrawal of Mailworl
P&T Leisure.
3% Pool
Post Office & Civil Service Sanatorium Society
Post Office Group Personal Injury Policy
Premises .... sis

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

(Quality: of Performance sc. sxcvwss x ssarssecxeesve cesveansensenses assawutesonnse soswonersstuersemn tora ssenemesnsreveresmenesnees

Redundancy Payments Act 1965
Resignation .....
Responsibility for Post Office Stock & Cash
Restricted Hours Office (See Community Offices)
Restrictions ..
Retiral Gratuities...
Retiring Sub-Postmaste:
Retiring Sub-Postmasters: Contract
Retiring Sub-Postmasters: Pre-retirement SeminarS............cccscescesees cesses esses eeeeseseeseeseeeeseneenes

Safes
Scale Payment System
Security
Security of Tenure.
Sickness.
Sickness Substitution Allowance
Special Cash Allowance
Staff & Premises .....
Standing Orders for Conference
Statutory Maternity Pay
Statutory Sick Pay
Sub-Postmasters Contract
Sub-Postmasters Pay.....
Sub-Postmasters Residence
Sub-Postmasters Wife
Sub Office Assistants: Holidays
Sub Office Assistants: Training

Sub Office Assistants: Contracts of Employment

Taxability of Discretionary Payments .
Telephone Allowance:
Territorial Army Training
Three Percent Pool....
Training
Transfer of Office
Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 1981

Unit Credits

Wal AGED, TAR ...2.:0nrcnrsenssrrensorsneesssansenosensonssonneoseotesenoutneensssnbenssnntoonsexeodssenvetvosansnnsecnenedvensonteen

Withdrawal of Mailwork

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

EARLY HISTORY

The Federation was founded on Easter Monday 1897 with a Wakefield Sub-Postmaster called
John Ranns as its first President.

The letter inviting Sub-Postmasters to the first meeting which led to the creation of the
Federation informed delegates of the need to form a National Association in the following way:-

“The importance of forming a National Association is evident from the fact that,
whilst our conditions of labour have so little improved, the Headpostmasters, the
Clerks and the Postmen have each obtained important concessions through their
respective Associations”.

The first Annual Conference was held in Nottingham on Easter Monday in 1898. At this
Conference, delegates decided that an official journal should be published, and on
4 September 1899 the first edition of The Sub-Postmaster was published at a price of 2d per

copy.

The Federation obtained official recognition in 1906 and in the next two years the foundations of
the current system of payment were laid with the establishment of the Scale Payment System in
1907 and the “bend in the scale” in 1908. The method by which Sub-Postmasters are
remunerated is explained fully elsewhere in this handbook.

THE FEDERATION TODAY

The Federation, founded in 1897, is the longest established body representing staff in the Post
Office. It is the only organisation recognised by the Post Office to negotiate on behalf of
Sub-Postmasters.

The objects of the Federation are laid down in its Rules as follows:-

“(a) To regulate the relations between Sub-Postmasters (which expression throughout the
rules includes Sub-Postmistresses) and the Post Office; and to this end

i) to negotiate on behalf of Sub-Postmasters rates of pay, hours and general
conditions of service.

ii) to participate in any negotiating machinery set up for regulating the said
conditions of service.

iii) to settle disputes (whether collective or individual) between its members and the
Post Office with the Post Office and to promote the peaceful settlement of such
disputes by participating in any joint machinery of conciliation or arbitration.

(b) Generally to promote and defend the interests of Sub- Postmasters and to co-operate with
other organisations having similar objects and interests.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

(c) To promote methods of improving the service to customers at Sub Offices and to assist
and advise the Post Office on ways of promoting new business over all Post Office
counters.”

The Federation is an independent Trade Union. As well as being financially independent, the
Federation is free from the domination of the Post Office. It does not belong to the Trades Union
Congress nor does it subscribe to any political party. This means that the Federation is always
able to represent the best interests of its members.

MEMBERSHIP

The Federation offers:-

Q A national voice to promote the role of Sub-Postmasters, both in maintaining the current
network of Post Offices and in its future development.

Q Regular contact with Government, Members of Parliament from the major political
parties and other organisations such as the Post Office Users’ National Council - all of
whom seek our views on issues affecting the Sub Post Office network.

Q Liaison with consumer organisations at local and national level.

Q An organisation of Sub-Postmasters which understands and is deeply committed to the
continuing success of the Sub Post Office network.

Q The support of fellow Sub-Postmasters who meet regularly to exchange views, advice
and problems in a professional and friendly environment.

Q Over 100 local branches throughout the United Kingdom.

Federation members benefit from a wide range of services and activities, including:-

Q A professional team of full time negotiators who work for you individually and
collectively on all aspects of your pay and conditions of service.

Q Immediate access to a network of local, regional and national representatives, all of
whom are serving Sub-Postmasters who have access to all levels of Post Office
management, and who are no more than a “phone call away”.

Advice and assistance on the issues which affect you as a Sub-Postmaster.

Expert representation, specialist help and guidance in the event of disciplinary action or
dismissal.

Q Insurance specially tailored by Eagle Star to meet the needs of Sub-Postmasters at a
preferential rate and discounts on other types of insurance. Special terms are available
for commercial and private car insurance, home insurance, pensions, mortgages, life
assurances, lump sum investments and regular savings plans.

Q Personal Injury Scheme providing for Sub-Postmasters and their registered Sub Office
assistants in the event of assault and armed attack.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Q Special rates for membership of BUPA and eligibility for membership of the Post Office
and Civil Service Sanatorium Society (POCSSS), Civil Service Motoring Association
including Britannia Recovery and the Post Office Fellowship of Remembrance.

Q Access to national account arrangements with trade suppliers, including The Paper House
Group, Galleon Publications and Nestle Ice Cream.

Q A group policy providing free public liability insurance for Community Offices providing
they have no business other than a Post Office.

Q A Benevolent Fund which can grant assistance in cases of financial need to both serving
and retired Sub-Postmasters, their widows, widowers and children.

A free monthly journal to keep you up to date on the work of your Federation.

A free handbook providing essential information on pay, conditions of service,
employment of staff, taxation, National Insurance.

Q A year planner and a full selection of posters which promote the range of transactions
available in a Sub Post Office.

Q The Sub Post Office Exhibition, sponsored by the Federation, is the only trade show
dedicated to this unique retail market.

THE FEDERATION’S ORGANISATION

The affairs of the Federation are managed by the Executive Council under the Chairmanship of
the National President. The Executive Council is serviced by the General Secretary, based at the
Federation’s Headquarters at Shoreham.

Branches

The Federation has over 100 Branches covering the whole of the United Kingdom, Channel
Islands and the Isle of Man. Individual Sub-Postmasters who join the Federation become a
member of the appropriate local Branch. Each Branch consists of a President, Vice President,
Treasurer, Secretary and Branch Committee elected from the Branch members, all of whom are
serving Sub-Postmasters, and give their time freely, and who are responsible for organising its
affairs. The Branch organises meetings of members at which they can be updated on
developments affecting them, and these meetings provide a forum for members to discuss their
views with other members. The Branch has the opportunity to formulate motions to be discussed
by delegates at Annual Conference, thus being able to influence the policy of the Federation.

The main point of contact for members at local level is with the Branch Secretary. It is the role
of the Branch Secretary to liaise with the appropriate Post Office Counters Retail Network
Manager(s) to deal with any problems which may arise. The Branch Secretary may also make
representations on behalf of a member.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

The consultative structure agreed between the Federation and Post Office Counters Ltd provides
for regular meetings between Branch officials and Retail Network Managers in order to discuss
issues of mutual concern.

Regions

Regional Councils are coterminous with Post Office Counters’ Regions. This is a tier within the
Federation which does not have formal rights of representation and consultation with Post Office
Counters Ltd.

The role of the Regional Council is to oversee the operation of District Committees and
Branches and provide a forum for discussion of the issues affecting Sub-Postmasters. It
supervises the submission of Motions to Annual Conference. The Regional Council may also
formulate Motions for Annual Conference.

The Regional Council is made up of representatives of the Districts and Branches and

provides a link between the District Committees and the Region’s Executive Officers to
ensure a free flow of information through the Federation’s structure.

Executive Council

The Executive Council is the body entrusted with the general management of the Federation.
There are 19 members of the Executive Council. This is based upon one Executive Officer per
1,000 members with each Region being classified as an elective area under Trade Union
legislation. The Executive Council is made up as follows:-

North East
North Wales & North West.
Midlands
North Thames & East Anglia
South Wales & South West.
South East
Scotland...
Northern Ireland

ENNWWN WW

The Editor, who is an ex officio member of the Executive Council, is elected by Annual
Conference.

The Executive Council has overall control of negotiations with the Post Office on all matters
relating to the pay and conditions of Sub-Postmasters. Specific areas of responsibility are
delegated to two sub committees - the Negotiating Committee and the Publicity & Development
Committee - who report back to the full Executive Council. The National President, Vice
President, the Federation Trustees, the General Purposes Committee and the members of the
Board of Benevolence are drawn from the Executive Council.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Executive Officers meet with the Regional General Manager on an “as and when” basis, with the
aim of building a relationship to the mutual benefit of all in the Region. Executive Officers also
act as national representatives for national consultation and negotiating purposes.

Annual Conference

All Branches, District Committees and Regional Councils are entitled to send delegates to
Annual Conference. The Executive Council presents its Annual Report for approval by the
delegates, and Motions put forward by Branches, District Committees and Regional Councils
are discussed. The Resolutions of Annual Conference become part of the Federation Policy.

Federation Headquarters

The General Secretary and Assistant General Secretaries, together with the support staff,
comprise Federation Headquarters based at Evelyn House, Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex.
These Headquarters provide all the Federation’s administration services. Officers from
Federation Headquarters liaise with Post Office Counters Ltd at national level, dealing primarily,
but not exclusively, through the Retail Development Centre. Federation officers also deal direct
with Regional General Managers as required.

GENERAL ITEMS AVAILABLE FROM FEDERATI

UARTERS

Sub-Postmasters’ Record of Transactions and Units

This record book provides a space for recording all transactions required for revision purposes
and is invaluable for checking annual revisions. It can be obtained from Branch Secretaries or
direct from Federation Headquarters at a price of 85p to individual members.

Check your Change Window Stickers

These stickers are made in a plastic material and can be affixed to the bandit screen, acting as a
useful reminder to customers. The price to members is 30p each.

ITEMS WITH FEDERATION INSIGNIA

The following items bearing the Federation insignia are available to members:
Federation Badges

(Enamel badge in blue, gold and red)

a) with Grip Pin fastening
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

b) with Brooch Pin fastening

Either type of badge costs £1 to individual members.

Federation Tie

The Federation has three designs of tie available, all priced at £6.00. Branch Secretaries have
samples.

Federation Headscarf

In navy trevira, 27” square with the Federation badge at two of the opposing corners, printed in
gold, red and white. The price to individual members is £2.75.

Plaques

Membership plaques are now available. Measuring 94” x 9%” on acrylic, the plaques feature
the Federation emblem and the words “Member of the National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters” in red and blue on a white background. They are individually priced at £7.99.

All these items qualify for reduced terms on bulk orders from Branch Secretaries.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SUBPOSTMASTERS - RULES
1 - TITLE

This organisation shall be called “The National Federation of Sub-Postmasters”. Its Head Office
shall be at Evelyn House, Windlesham Gardens, Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex, BN43 SAZ, or
at such other place as may from time to time be determined by the National Executive Council,
hereinafter defined.

Registered Office, Northern Ireland: Carnmoney Post Office, Newtownabbey, Co Antrim,
BT36 6JT

Il - OBJECTS
The objects of the Federation shall be:-

(a) To regulate the relations between Sub-Postmasters (which expression throughout the
Rules includes Sub-Postmistresses) and the Post Office: and to this end

(i) to negotiate on behalf of Sub-Postmasters rates of pay, hours and general conditions
of service.

(ii) to participate in any negotiating machinery set up for regulating the said conditions
of service.

(iii) to settle disputes (whether collective or individual) between its members and the
Post Office with the PO and to promote the peaceful settlement of such disputes by
participating in any joint machinery of conciliation or arbitration.

(b) Generally to promote and defend the interests of Sub-Postmasters and to co-operate with
other organisations having similar objects and interests.

(c) To promote methods of improving the service to customers at Sub Offices and to assist
and advise the Post Office on ways of promoting new business over all Post Office
counters.

III (a) - FUNDS AND PROPERTY OF THE FEDERATION
The Funds of the Federation shall be applied in furtherance of the objects herein-before set out
and the following additional objects and for any matters (such as the provisions of office

premises and payments to staff) which may be reasonably ancillary or incidental thereto:-

@ for the publication of the monthly journal of the Federation known as The
Sub-Postmaster.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

(ii) in exceptional circumstances and at the final and absolute discretion of the Executive
Council to provide legal aid and advice for members of the Federation which legal aid
and advice may (in particular and without prejudice to the generality of this rule) include
the reimbursement or payment of the whole or any part of any legal costs incurred by a
member or members in conducting any legal proceedings brought by the Post Office.
The Executive Council may impose any such conditions as it may in its final and absolute
discretion think fit upon the provision of any such legal aid or advice, including (without
limitation) conditions relating to the engagement of specified solicitors or counsel in
connection with any actual or potential legal proceedings.

(iii) in exceptional circumstances and at the final and absolute discretion of the Executive
Council in the reimbursement of the whole or any part of any financial loss or damage
actually suffered by, or in the payment of compensation for any financial loss or damage
which may be suffered by, the Sub Post Office business of a member or members of the
Federation as a result of or in connection with (a) the conduct of any legal proceedings
against or the defence of any legal proceedings brought by the Post Office or (b) any act
or omission of a member or members of the Federation which has been previously
authorised in writing by the Executive Council.

(iv) in the administration and organisation of any scheme for advertising in Sub Post Offices
which will be of benefit to Sub-Postmasters and shall have been approved at an Annual
Conference.

(v) in centralised schemes of administration and organisation of any agency or trading
business carried on by Sub-Postmasters provided such schemes will be of benefit to
Sub-Postmasters and shall have been approved at an Annual Conference.

(vi) in payment of premiums under a scheme with an Insurance Company for payments by
that company to members of the Federation and their employees in the event of bodily
injury by assault resulting in death or disablement provided that such scheme shall have
been approved at an Annual Conference

III (b)

@ If the Executive Council shall at any time consider it necessary or desirable (whether for
commercial reasons, good industrial relations or for any other reason whatsoever) to
make any disposal of property (whether real or personal) of the Federation or to apply the
Funds in any manner (including by disposal or payment) not otherwise expressly
authorised by the Rules to any member of or employee of the Federation, other than any
of the Trustees or Members of the Executive Council, the Executive Council shall set
forth any proposals concerning the same in a memorandum (“the Memorandum”)
containing full details of all material terms of such proposals, including (in any event)
details of:

(1) the property or Funds concerned;

(2) the persons to whom such disposal is proposed to be made, or the proposed
application of such Funds; and
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

(3) the reasons for such proposals

(ii) I The Memorandum shall be published in an issue of The Sub-Postmaster. Such issue shall
contain a statement that any member of the Federation may submit written comments to
the Executive Council provided that such comments are received within the period
specified, which shall be of not less than 30 days commencing on the date of such issue.
Following the expiry of such period, the Executive Council shall, after giving
consideration to any written comments received from members of the Federation, decide
whether or not to implement the proposals set out in the Memorandum or whether to refer
any decision concerning the same to the next Annual Conference and shall cause a record
of its decisions to be published in The Sub-Postmaster.

(iii) If the Executive Council decides to implement the said proposals it shall have the
authority to do all such acts and things as shall be necessary or desirable to implement the
same.

(iv) The Executive Council may refer any decision concerning the said proposals to the
Annual Conference if in its final and absolute discretion it considers that there is
significant opposition to the said proposals or that it is desirable for any reason
whatsoever so to refer the matter and in any such event the provisions of Rule X
applicable to Resolutions to be considered at the Annual Conference shall apply to the
said proposals. For the avoidance of doubt the said proposals shall be deemed to have
been sufficiently described if reference is made to the relevant Notice of Motion to the
publication of the Memorandum in a specified issue of The Sub-Postmaster.

(v) Where the said proposals are considered by the Annual Conference a two-thirds majority
vote shall be required.

IV - MEMBERSHIP

(a) All Sub-Postmasters in Great Britain and Northern Ireland and all firms or companies
carrying on the business of a Sub Post Office in Great Britain or Northern Ireland shall be
eligible for membership.

(b) Subject to paragraph (c) of this Rule each application for membership shall be submitted
to the relevant Branch for approval and when the application is approved the Branch
Secretary shall notify the General Secretary, who shall enter the applicant’s name on the
Register of Members.

(c) The Executive Council shall have the power to register a member without his having to
be a member of a Branch. Such a member shall be known as and is hereinafter called “an
individual member”.

(d) I Members shall pay an annual subscription for each office as follows:

Offices where the Scale Payment Units do not exceed 50,000 Units
Offices where the Scale Payment Units exceed 50,000 Units

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

(c) The Annual Subscription shall be paid normally by monthly instalments under the
recognised procedures agreed with the Post Office for the deduction of subscriptions
from salary.

(f) The Annual Subscription for members not having their subscription deducted from salary
shall be due for renewal on the anniversary of their membership and shall be payable to
Federation Headquarters.

(g) Any member taking up a new appointment as Sub-Postmaster in a different Branch area
and having resigned all appointments in his former Branch area shall be deemed to have
resigned from his former Branch and joined the relevant new Branch but no additional
subscription in respect of the current year shall be required of him providing that, in the
case of deduction of subscriptions from salary, arrangements are made for immediate
deduction in respect of new offices.

(h) Any member may be expelled from the Federation who, in the opinion of the Executive
Council, is not a fit and proper person for membership. Provided that:-

(i) written notice of the proposal to expel the member shall be given to him at least
7 days before the meeting of the Executive Council at which it is to be considered,
and he shall be given an opportunity to be heard before a decision is made thereon;

(ii) he shall have a right to appeal to the Annual Conference whose decision shall be
final.

@ Honorary Members who need not be Sub-Postmasters may be elected by the Executive
Council, subject to confirmation by the Annual Conference. Such members may attend
the Annual Conference but shall have no power to vote thereat. They shall be entitled to
a copy of The Sub-Postmaster each month.

Gg) A member of the Federation who retires from his position as Sub-Postmaster may
continue membership of the Federation on payment of an annual subscription of £5.00,
which may be paid either to his Branch or to the General Secretary and which shall entitle
him to a copy of The Sub-Postmaster as issued. Such member may attend any meeting of
his Branch and join in the discussion, but shall not be entitled to vote thereat. Such
members shall be known as “Associate Members”.

Vv - BRANCHES

(a) The Federation shall be divided into Branches. A member other than an individual
member shall be attached to the Branch appropriate to his office. No Branch shall have
members in more than 1 Region. Branches shall where possible be within the
geographical area covered by the appropriate Head of Retail Network.

(b) Branches shall be funded annually by the General Secretary with an amount equal to the
total of Branch (Full) Members multiplied by 30% of the average per capita subscription
for (Full) Members collected throughout the Federation, after allowing for subscriptions
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

paid direct to the Branch. Membership figures and annual capitation rate to be calculated
as at 30 September of the year of account.

(c) Branches will be funded with a payment on account from the General Secretary by not
later than 31st January each year with a general settlement in October following the
receipt of certified returns in respect of subscriptions collected locally.

(d) In September each year the Branch Secretary shall furnish to the General Secretary a list
of members who have paid subscriptions direct to the Branch indicating the appropriate
subscription paid in respect of each individual office. The General Secretary will advise
Branches of the sum due in general settlement either to the Branch or to Central Funds.
The Branch Secretary shall also submit to the General Secretary not later than the
31st March a duly audited Balance Sheet certified by a qualified accountant, as at the
preceding 31st December. Should any Branch fail to submit these returns and Balance
Sheet the General Secretary shall inform the appropriate Regional Council Secretary.

(e) Each Branch Secretary who shall have complied with the requirements of the preceding
Sub-Rule shall receive the sum of 20p for each paid up member included in the
Federation annual return.

(f) All Branch funds shall be paid into a deposit or current account at National Girobank, a
Bank or at the National Savings Bank in the name of the Branch, and cheques and orders
or applications for payment drawn thereon shall be signed by 2 persons. All Branch
funds after settlement of affiliation fees to the Federation shall be applicable to the
objects and purposes of the Branch so long as such objects and purposes are not
extraneous from or inconsistent with the objects and purposes of the Federation.

(g) Each Branch shall hold at least 2 meetings per annum and must at all times be affiliated
to the appropriate Regional Council controlling the Branch area.

(h) Any records, fees and/or funds required to be transferred to the Regional Council in
pursuance of Rule VI (f) shall be transferred forthwith according.

(i) Any member being a firm or company may nominate to its Branch Secretary a member
of its staff who may attend and vote at Branch meetings. Such nomination shall be
effective until such notice of withdrawal of the nomination is given by such firm or
company or until it ceases to be a member.

(j) Each Branch shall adopt Branch Rules and may amend the same in manner provided by
such Rules provided that such Rules and amendments shall within 14 days of such
adoption or amendment be submitted to the Executive Council of the Federation for their
approval and provided that the Executive Council shall have full power within 6 months
thereafter to set aside any such Rules or amendments which conflict with the Rules for
the time being of the Federation, whereupon any such Rules or amendments so set aside
shall immediately cease and be void.

(k) Each Branch shall be entitled to send delegates to Conference on the basis of 1 per
50 members or part thereof.
()

(m)

(n)

(0)

(a)

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

A Branch may send resolutions to Conference. All resolutions from Branches must, in
the first instance, be submitted to the appropriate Regional Council Secretary in time for
inclusion in the Agenda for the Council meeting. If, after consideration, the resolution
does not receive the support of the Council, it may, nevertheless, be submitted to the
General Secretary for consideration of Conference. Resolutions submitted to a Regional
Council and approved shall be transmitted to the General Secretary by the Regional
Council Secretary in accordance with Standing Orders for Conference.

A Branch may make nominations for the Executive Council and the Editor. Nominations
of members to serve on the Executive Council may also be made by individual members,
providing that these are proposed and seconded by members of the Federation. All
nominations must be received in writing by the General Secretary not later than Spm on
the 10th January. In the event of there being more members nominated than are required
to fill the allotted seats on the Executive Council an election must take place. Ballot
papers bearing the names of each member nominated will be prepared and distributed by
post by the nominated scrutineers to all members within the Regional Council area not
later than 10th February of the same year. Completed ballot papers must be returned by
post to the nominated scrutineers allowing sufficient time to ensure that these will be
received not later than the last day in February of the same year. The cost of postage will
be borne by the Federation. A list of nominees will be sent to the Regional Council
Secretary within 1 week of the closing date for nominations together with any
nominations received for the Editor. If a ballot is held the result certified by the
nominated scrutineers will be notified to the General Secretary who in turn will notify the
Regional Council Secretary. Nominees will be afforded the opportunity of providing
personal information which will be distributed with the ballot papers.

A Branch may only be dissolved by a two-thirds majority vote of Branch members
present and voting passed at any Annual or Special General Meeting of the Branch and
provided that at least 2 months’ previous notice of such resolution shall be given to each
Branch member and provided further that the approval of the Executive Council shall
first have been obtained. On such dissolution the net assets of the Branch after payment
of all debts and liabilities shall be transferred to the Federation and form part of the
Federation’s general funds.

Branch rules shall include provisions for appointment and removal of Branch
Committees and Officers.

VI - REGIONAL COUNCILS
Regional Councils shall be established for the following areas:

(i) North East Region

(ii) North Wales & North West Region
(iii) Midland Region

(iv) North Thames & East Anglia Region
(v) South Wales & South West Region
(vi) South East Region

(vii) Scotland Region

(vii) Northern Ireland Region
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

A Regional Council shall be elected by Branches within that Region in accordance with
regulations (if any) governing such voting and election as the Executive Council shall
from time to time frame. Provided that the members of each Branch shall be entitled to
elect 1 Regional Council delegate only per 50 members or part thereof of the Branch.
Honorary members of a Regional Council may be elected by the Regional Council and
may attend and speak at any meeting of the Regional Council, but shall not be entitled to
vote thereat. Subject thereto, they may exercise such of the powers of a Regional
Council member as the Regional Council may resolve.

(b) Each Region should establish its own internal structure based on Branches and, should
they so wish, Area Committees. However, any such Committees shall only have status
within their Region. Each Region should submit its proposed structure and any
amendments to that structure to the Executive Council for approval.

(c) Regional Councils shall have the power to make a levy on its Branches, based on Branch
membership within its geographical area, to provide funds for the working of the
Region’s internal structure. Such a levy shall not exceed £3 per head per annum except
with the approval of the Executive Council.

(d) Regional Councils should in consultation with their Executive Officers, arrange the most
effective pattern of representation for their Region with Post Office Counters Limited,
establishing contacts at the levels they regard as the most effective. This must be subject
to any national arrangements taking precedence and all such proposed arrangements
being approved by the Executive Council.

(e) Regional Councils shall be subject to the control of the Executive Council, whose
decision on all matters of policy (including disputes as to interpretation of policy) shall be
final.

(f) A Regional Council shall have power to obtain all Federation records, affiliation fees and
accumulated Branch funds from the Branch officials and to dismiss any or all of the
Branch officials and make new appointments.

(g) I A Regional Council shall have the right to send resolutions to Annual Conference.

(h) A Regional Council shall elect a Standing Orders Committee representative, except that
Scotland and Northern Ireland will be classified as two separate Regions for this purpose,
at its Annual General Meeting to hold office for one year. The expenses of the Standing
Orders Committee representative attending the Regional Conference Motions Meetings
will be met from Regional funds. The expenses of attending meetings of Standing Orders
Committee and Conferences will be met from central funds. At Conference, members of
the Standing Orders Committee will be entitled to speak and vote.

(i) A Regional Council shall elect each year at its Annual General Meeting 2 Conference
delegates to act as Tellers. The names of such representatives shall be notified to the
General Secretary immediately after election.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Gj) Annual grants shall be made to the Regional Councils by the Executive Council in April
each year on the following basis:

Councils covering Branches with total membership of 1500 or less.............s00+0++ £55.00
Councils covering Branches with total membership of over 1500 ........s:s:ssssese0+++ £62.50

These grants are made primarily to provide funds for propaganda work within the
Regional Council area on behalf of the work and objects of the Federation.

(k) Prior to the Autumn Meeting of the Executive Council each Regional Council shall
furnish to the General Secretary a report giving particulars of propaganda work carried
out in the Council’s area to the preceding 31st August and a duly audited Statement of
Accounts to the preceding 31st December. The propaganda grant for the succeeding year
shall be withheld at the Executive Council’s discretion unless a satisfactory report be
received.

0) Any member of a Regional Council who may be elected as a member of the Executive
Council shall cease to be a full member of the Regional Council but shall become an
ex officio member thereof without voting power. Any other member of the Executive
Council elected or co-opted thereto as a representative of the Regional Council shall also
become ex officio members of the Regional Council without voting powers. The
expenses of the Regional Council Secretary/Treasurer and Chairman shall be charged to
the Regional Council funds. The expenses of the Executive Council representative
members in attending Regional Council meetings shall be charged to the general funds of
the Federation. The expenses of all Regional Council members (including Honorary
Members) in attending meetings of the Regional Council may be charged to the Regional
Council funds.

(m) Meetings of the Regional Council shall be held as frequently as required but at least
2 times a year (5 to form a quorum). At each meeting the Secretary shall give a report on
the work done and the Executive Council representative members shall report on the
Executive Council’s work and policy. A copy of the minutes of each meeting shall be
sent to the General Secretary.

(n) A Regional Council shall appoint each year at its Annual Meeting 1 of its Executive
Council representative members to the Board of Benevolence, whose name will be
notified to the General Secretary immediately after the appointment is made, except that
Scotland and Northern Ireland will be classified as two separate Regions for this purpose.

VII - EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

(a) The management of the Federation shall be vested in an Executive Council which shall
have full power to conduct the affairs of the Federation.

(b) The Executive Council shall be elected triennially. Each Region will comprise an
Elective Area, except that Scotland and Northern Ireland will be classified as 2 separate
elective areas. Elections will be held in accordance with the procedure set out in Rule V
[Clause (n)]. Executive Officers elected between triennials to fill vacancies falling in
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

between a triennial period will be required to seek re-election when the next triennial
elections occur.

(c) The number of representatives to which Elective Areas are entitled shall be determined
upon the basis of one representative for each 1,000 members or part thereof. The number
of members for this purpose shall be taken as the number of affiliation fees paid by the
Branches in respect of paid-up Branch members within such areas. If the entitlement of
an elective area to representation decreases due to a decline in membership within that
area, the alteration in representation shall not come into effect at the Annual Conference
following the reduction in membership but shall become effective at the Annual
Conference next following unless the membership shall have increased during the
intervening year so as to warrant (on the basis of the proportion of 1 per 1,000 aforesaid)
the existing representation continuing unaltered.

(d) The Executive Council shall meet not less than 4 times each year (7 to form a quorum)
for the transaction of business; and an abridged report of the proceedings shall be inserted
in The Sub-Postmaster.

(ce) If there shall be at any time a vacancy among the members of the Executive Council, the
vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the procedure set out in Rule V [Clause (m]
amended as follows:

Notification of the vacancy will be published in The Sub-Postmaster. Nominations of
members supported by a proposer and seconder who are members of the Federation will
be invited. All nominations in writing must be received by the General Secretary not
later than Spm on the last day of the month in which the edition of The Sub-Postmaster
was published. In the event of a ballot being necessary the ballot papers will be prepared
and distributed by post from the nominated scrutineers to all members within the
Regional Council area not later than the last day of the following month. Completed
ballot papers must be returned by post to the nominated scrutineers allowing sufficient
time for these to be received no later than the 15th day of the month following that in
which the distribution of papers took place.

(f) The out-of-pocket expenses of Executive Council members on official Federation
business shall be paid by the Treasurer.

(g) Such expenses may be paid for any private members carrying out any official Federation
business at the request of the Executive Council.

(h) The Executive Council shall have power to grant payment for clerical or other special
work properly undertaken on behalf of the Federation by the officers, or any member,
outside the ordinary duties.

(i) If any matter arises calling for urgent attention the President, Vice-President and General
Secretary may deal with it and report to the next meeting of the Executive Council, or a
statement and resolution may be sent round by post to every member of the Executive
Council and a postal vote obtained on any specific resolution, such vote being reported at
the next meeting.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Gj) No Executive Officer shall hold more than 1 office in the management of the Federation.
(kK) The Executive Council shall have the right to send Resolutions to Annual Conference.

(1) The Executive Council may be removed at any time during their term of office at a
Special Conference called for that purpose. On such removal a new Executive Council
shall be elected in accordance with the provisions of this Rule and the current regulations
governing the election of the Executive Council.

(m) Trade Disputes. If in any such dispute as is referred to in Rule Ila (iii) the Executive
Council considers that a stage has been reached when notice of termination of the
contracts of members should be given to the Post Office, the Executive Council is
empowered to take the following action:

(i) Take a ballot of all members in accordance with procedures required by the Trade
Union Act 1984, or succeeding legislation.

VIII - OFFICERS

President and Vice-President

The offices of President and Vice-President shall be filled at the Annual Conference by the
members assembled from members already elected to the Executive Council.

Editor

The Editor shall be elected by members assembled at the Annual Conference, the voting shall be
by card vote in accordance with the Standing Orders for Conference. He shall, by virtue of his
office, become a member of the Executive Council, but without voting powers. Candidates must

be members of the Federation.

In co-operation with the General Secretary he shall be responsible for the issue and lay-out of
The Sub-Postmaster.

He shall contribute articles to The Sub-Postmaster and shall have control of all literary matter,
including Branch Reports and Branch Announcements, and shall deal with correspondence to the
Editor.

He shall report to each meeting of the Executive Council.

The salary shall be fixed by the Executive Council, who shall report particulars of any change in
terms of appointment to the members assembled at the Annual Conference.

Removal of the Above Officers

The President, Vice-President and Editor may be removed from their respective offices at any
time during their term of office at a Special Conference called for the purpose. Any vacancy so
created shall be filled by the members assembled at the Special Conference and (in the case of
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

the President and Vice-President) from the members of the Executive Council unless the
Executive Council shall themselves have been removed.

Treasurer

(a) The office of Treasurer shall be filled by the Executive Council at a meeting immediately
following its election from amongst those elected to the Council. The Treasurer may be
removed from office at a meeting of the Executive council called for that purpose and
such meeting may fill the vacancy.

(b) The Treasurer shall receive from the General Secretary and the Editor of
The Sub-Postmaster their balance of cash, with statements of receipts and disbursements,
which shall be clearly shown in his cash book.

(c) He shall regularly pay the General Secretary and the Editor their salaries.

(d) He shall pay all authorised expenses of the Annual Conference of members and of the
Executive Council, and other expenses sanctioned by the Council. He shall pay all
expenses of publishing The Sub-Postmaster.

(e) He shall prepare a quarterly account showing the balance in hand, for presentation to the
Executive Council and prepare the annual Balance Sheet and Accounts of the Federation
for the Auditors as soon as possible after the 31st December each year.

(f) The salary shall be fixed by the Executive Council, who shall report particulars of any
change in the terms of the appointment to the members assembled at the Annual
Conference. The Treasurer shall give a fidelity bond for such amount as the Executive
Council shall determine the premium being charged to the Federation.

Auditors

The members at each Annual Conference shall appoint qualified Accountants to conduct an audit
of the books of the Federation for the current year.

Such Accountants shall examine and certify the Balance Sheet and Accounts of the Federation
made up to 31st December in that year for presentation to the following Annual Conference.

At any Annual Conference the retiring Auditors, however appointed, shall be re-appointed
without any resolution being passed, unless:

(a) they are not qualified for re-appointment; or

(b) a resolution has been passed at that Conference appointing other Auditors instead of them
or providing expressly that they shall not be re-appointed; or

(c) they have given the Federation notice in writing of their unwillingness to be re-appointed.

General Secretary
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

(a) The General Secretary shall be appointed by the Executive Council, who shall have the
power to enter into an agreement with him as to the terms of his appointment, and shall
report particulars of any change in the terms of his appointment to the members
assembled at the Annual Conference. Any such appointment shall be subject to the
prevailing legislation which may from time to time be subject to change.

(b) He shall deal with all general matters on behalf of the Federation and shall have control
of all the staff of the Federation at the Headquarters of the Federation.

(c) He shall receive subscriptions from individual members and affiliation fees from
Branches and forthwith return receipts for the same. He shall provide lists for the
despatch each month of The Sub-Postmaster to all members and Branches. He shall
transmit to the Treasurer monthly the balance of all monies in hand (less such float as he
may consider necessary for the payment of proper day-to-day expenses of Head Office),
with a statement showing his receipts and disbursements since the last remittance.

(d) He shall make arrangements for the Annual Conference of members, for any Special
Conferences, and for the meetings of the Executive Council, notifying all the members of
the Executive Council of the place and time of meeting, and shall arrange for the taking
and recording of minutes of the matters dealt with.

(e) He shall watch and keep in touch with all matters affecting Sub-Postmasters, and keep
the Executive Council informed of them; he shall be the Federation correspondent, and
act generally under the direction of the Executive Council.

(f) He shall jointly with the Editor be responsible for the issue and layout of
The Sub-Postmaster. He shall report in the Journal in the fourth and eighth issues after
Conference:-

(i) the number of any Resolutions which have not been laid before the Post Office;

(ii) the number of any Resolutions rejected by the Post Office and reason for their
rejection.

(g) Unless otherwise determined by the Executive Council:-

(i) any negotiations for the purchase, acquisition, or the taking on lease or licence of
any property (real or personal) or advertisements or correspondence inviting tenders
for work to be performed for or goods to be supplied to the Federation may be
carried out by, placed or conducted through the General Secretary; and

(ii) the General Secretary shall (subject to and after receiving any appropriate approval)
be authorised to accept on behalf of the Federation any offer concerning the matters
referred to in paragraph (i) above and, save where the Trustees or some other officer
or person shall be required by law or these Rules to execute any agreement deed or
document on behalf of the Federation, the General Secretary may do so;

(iii) all contracts shall (if reasonably possible) be in writing.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Deputy General Secretary

The Executive Council shall have the power to appoint a Deputy General Secretary and to enter
into an agreement with him as to the terms of his appointment, and shall report particulars of any
change in the terms of his appointment to the members assembled at the Annual Conference.

The duties of the Deputy General Secretary shall be determined by the General Secretary.
Assistant Secretary

The Executive Council shall have power to appoint an Assistant Secretary and to enter into an
agreement with him as to the terms of his appointment, and shall report particulars of any change
in the terms of his appointment to the members assembled at the Annual Conference.

The duties of the Assistant Secretary shall be determined by the General Secretary.

Removal of General Secretary, Deputy General Secretary and Assistant Secretary

The Executive Council shall have the power to remove the General Secretary, Deputy General
Secretary and Assistant Secretary by not more than 12 months’ notice, or without notice in the
case of fraud, bankruptcy or breach of any of the employee’s stipulations contained in the service
agreement.

Clerical Assistance

Clerical assistance shall be provided as the Executive Council shall from time to time determine.

Terms and Conditions of the Secretariat
In this sub-Rule, “The Secretariat” means the person from time to time holding the following
offices in the Federation, and each of them:

the General Secretary;
the Deputy General Secretary;
all Assistant General Secretaries.

The terms and conditions of all contracts and employment between the Federation and any
members of the Secretariat and of all other contracts, agreements or arrangements between the
Federation and any members of the Secretariat shall be negotiated on behalf of the Federation by
the Executive Council. All decisions concerning the same and all professional advice which the
Federation considers it necessary or desirable to obtain on its behalf shall be made or obtained
(as the case may be) by the Executive Council.

Each member of the Secretariat shall inform the Executive Council in writing as soon as
reasonably practicable:

@ of any actual or proposed contract of employment, or other contract, agreement or
arrangement to which this sub-Rule applies or will or is likely to apply; and
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

(ii) of any other matter in which the duties of such member to the Federation and such
member’s personal interest conflict or may reasonably be thought to conflict. Such
Member shall take no action in relation to such matter pending instructions from the
Executive Council.

IX - TRUSTEES

(a) There shall be 3 Trustees, who shall be members of the Executive Council and shall be
appointed at the Annual Conference and shall hold office during the pleasure of the
Federation, but in any event, not after they cease to be members of the Executive
Council.

(b) In the event of any Trustee dying, resigning, being removed from office, or ceasing to be
a member of the Executive Council, another shall be appointed by a majority of members
of the Executive Council to act until the next Annual Conference.

(c) All property belonging to the Federation shall be vested in the Trustees. The Trustees
shall be responsible for all deeds and documents, and securities for money and shall
produce the same for inspection by the Auditors as and when required by them.

(d) The Trustees shall from time to time, as required and upon the authority of the Executive
Council convey to them in writing and which shall be a complete discharge and
indemnity to the Trustees from all liability on compliance therewith:-

(i) Invest, re-invest and vary the investments of the funds of the Federation as may be
resolved upon by the Executive Council in such securities (including the purchase of
real or leasehold properties) as may be deemed desirable, and may raise money by
loan or otherwise on the security of any such securities or properties in such terms
as they may consider suitable.

(ii) Pay to the Executive Council or to such persons as they may appoint such sums of
money as may be required for the claims and expenses of the Federation from the
funds applicable thereto.

X - ANNUAL CONFERENCE

(a) The Annual Conference of delegates shall be held each year on such days as may be fixed
by the Executive Council and at such place as the members may decide. Branch
delegation shall be on the basis of 1 delegate per 50 Branch members or part thereof, and
Regional Council delegation on the basis of 1 delegate per Regional Council and only
accredited delegates shall be allowed to speak or vote. Only Sub-Postmasters who are
members of Branches of the Federation shall be appointed as delegates. The members of
the Executive Council and the General Secretary and Deputy General Secretary and/or
Assistant General Secretary shall be ex officio delegates to Conference and may on the
instructions of the Executive Council, move, second, or reply to any Resolution on behalf
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

of the Executive Council, but they shall have no voting powers, nor may they exercise
card votes. A separate part of the Conference Hall shall be set apart for visitors.

(b) All proposals for additions or alterations to the Rules, nominations for office during the
ensuing year, and notices of motion must be sent to the General Secretary not less than
8 weeks before the Annual Conference and shall then be arranged and printed on the
Agenda for the Annual Conference, a copy of which with a copy of the balance sheet and
accounts must be sent to all members by the General Secretary 3 weeks before the
Annual Conference.

(c) At the Annual Conference:-

(i) IThe Executive Council shall submit a report of the work done during the year, with
recommendations as to future policy.

(ii) The Treasurer shall submit a fully audited balance sheet and accounts showing the
financial position of the Federation.

(iii) The Editor shall submit a report of his work.

(iv) The result of the election of the Executive Council shall be published in the
Supplementary Report in the April edition of The Sub-Postmaster.

(v) Other matters calling for attention shall be considered.

(d) General arrangements of representation and of Conference business, including Reports
and Resolutions, shall be subject to the Standing Orders for Conference from time to time
approved by the Executive Council and published in the delegates’ Conference Agenda
booklet. Such Standing Orders shall be adopted by resolution at the opening session of
the Annual Conference.

(e) The Executive Council may at the appropriate Executive Council meeting accept any
such Resolutions of which notice of motion has been given as the Executive Council may
deem fit, and show these resolutions on the Conference Agenda as being acceptable to
the Executive Council. Such resolutions shall be read and voted on at the Conference
without discussion. Should there be any objection to the adoption of any such resolution
any delegate may make such objection known to the General Secretary before the
adoption of Standing Orders and the resolution shall be reinstated for full discussion. If
any resolution is of such importance that the Executive Council feel that it should be
discussed in spite of their agreement the resolution should be endorsed “A” for
discussion.

(f) Conference decisions shall be binding on all members of the Federation, provided that, if
it shall appear to the Executive Council on further consideration that any decision with
regard to remuneration, terms of service or working conditions shall not be practicable or
in the best interests of the Federation as a whole, the Executive Council shall in any
negotiation with the Post Office concerning such matters, retain full discretion to conduct
such negotiations in such manner and to approve and agree such terms and conditions as
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

they may deem fit, provided such variance is reported in the January issue of
The Sub-Postmaster in the following year.

XI - SPECIAL CONFERENCES

A Special Conference of delegates shall be convened by signature on a simple petition and/or
signed letter of not less than 1000 members of the Federation, or by a resolution of the Executive
Council, not less than 14 days’ clear notice being given, with a statement of the business to be
considered. Such Conference shall be held within 3 months of the receipt of the requisition.

Delegates shall be on the same basis as that for the Annual Conference. The Standing Orders for
Conference other than those relating to Annual Reports and Balance Sheets shall apply to a
Special Conference in like manner as to Annual Conference except where and so far as the same
would conflict with the provisions of this Rule.

XII - POSTAL QUESTIONNAIRE

The Executive Council may obtain the opinion of members of the Federation on any matters
needing immediate and widely extended attention by means of a postal Questionnaire, notice
being given in The Sub-Postmaster requesting replies to certain set questions. The replies shall
then be laid before the Executive Council for their consideration.

XIII - ALTERATION TO RULES

The Rules of the Federation may be only added to, rescinded, or amended by a two-thirds
majority vote passed at any Conference in accordance with the foregoing Rules and the Standing
Orders for Conference.

XIV - DISSOLUTION

(a) The Federation may be dissolved at any time by a two-thirds majority vote passed at any
Annual or Special Conference in accordance with the foregoing Rules and Standing
Orders for Conference, provided that at least 3 months’ previous notice of such resolution
to be moved at such Conference be given in The Sub-Postmaster.

(b) On such dissolution the assets of the Federation shall be realised by the Trustees, who
shall distribute any net balance available after payment of all claims and liabilities,
equally amongst all those who were members of the Federation immediately prior to the
passing of such resolution.

XV - MISCELLANEOUS

(a) Each member shall be supplied with a copy of The Sub-Postmaster from the date of entry
into membership.
(b)

(c)

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

The books of account of the Federation and the names of members shall be made
available by the Treasurer and the General Secretary respectively for inspection at the
offices of the Federation by any person having an interest in the funds of the Federation.

These Rules shall be binding upon every member of the Federation, and shall be
published in The Sub-Postmaster after each Annual Conference.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

MODEL SET OF RULES FOR BRANCHES

(NOTE - These Rules may be altered to suit the requirements of any particular Branch, provided
that, as altered, they do not conflict with or infringe the Rules of the National Federation.
Branch Rules or amendments to Branch Rules must be submitted to the Executive Council
within 14 days of adoption. It is advisable, therefore, for Branches to submit their draft Rules to
Federation Headquarters as soon as possible after adoption (and before they are printed) to
ensure that they are in a form acceptable to the Executive Council).

1) Title. This Branch shall be called “The ............ Branch of the National Federation of
Subpostmasters”.

2) Status. This Branch shall be affiliated to the National Federation of Subpostmasters
(thereinafter called “The Federation” and shall be subject to the Rules of the Federation.

3) Objects. The objects of this Branch shall be (a) similar in all respects to those of the
Federation within the area of this Branch and (b) generally to promote and defend the
interests of Subpostmasters and to cooperate with other organisations having similar
objects and interests.

4) Membership

a) All Subpostmasters (which terms includes SubPostmistresses for the purpose of
these Rules) in the Branch area and all firms or companies carrying on the
business of a Sub Post Office in the Branch area shall be eligible for membership.

b) Each application for membership shall be submitted to the Branch Secretary for
approval by the Branch and if the application is approved the Branch Secretary
shall enter the member’s name on a Register of members and notify the General
Secretary of the Federation.

c) Members shall pay subscriptions at such rates and on such dates as the Rules of
the Federation may require.

d) Any Subpostmaster, Firm or Company being a Branch member and ceasing to be
a member of the Federation for whatsoever reason (including expulsion
therefrom) shall cease immediately to be a member of the Branch.

e) Honorary members of the Branch may be elected by the Branch Committee and
may attend and speak at any Annual or Special General Branch Meeting or at any
ordinary Branch meeting, but shall not be entitled to vote.

f) A member of the Federation retiring may become an Associate member of the
Branch and may attend and speak at any Annual or Special General Branch
Meeting or at any ordinary Branch meeting but shall not be entitled to vote.

g) Members intending to withdraw from the Branch while still eligible for
membership must give written notice of their intention on or before 31 December
5)

6)

7)

8)

9)

b)

10)

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

in any year, and in the absence of such notice they shall be liable for a full year’s
subscription for the ensuing year

h) No member shall be entitled to vote at any meeting if his subscription has been
applied for and is 6 months in arrears

Officers and Committee

a) The Officers shall consist of a President, Vice- President, a Treasurer, a Secretary,
an Auditor, a Benevolent Member, and a Committee of members all of whom
shall be elected at the Annual General Meeting and shall take office immediately
on their election. They shall all retire at the next following Annual Meeting but
shall be eligible for re-election. The Officers shall be ex-officio members of the
Committee for the current year.

b) If any of the above mentioned offices or a seat on the Committee shall fall vacant
from whatsoever cause between Annual General Meetings the vacancy may be
filled (until the next Annual General Meeting) at any Special General or Ordinary
Branch Meeting providing 2 weeks’ notice of the vacancy shall first have been
given to every Branch member.

c) The Branch Committee, Secretary and/or Treasurer may be removed from office
at a meeting of the Branch called for that purpose and such meeting may fill the
vacancy or vacancies.

Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting shall be held in the month of
= . OF veces. in each year.

Special General Meeting. A Special General Meeting of the Branch shall be called
within 21 days upon the requisition of any 7 members by stating their object and giving
notice in writing to the Secretary, or at any time on the authority of the President and the
Secretary.
Ordinary Branch Meetings. These shall be held at least four times a year.
Notice of Branch Meetings. Conduct of Branch Meetings and Voting.
a) The Secretary shall give the following written notice of meetings to all members
i) Annual General Meetings: 14 days.
ii) Special General Meeting and Ordinary Branch meetings: 7 days.
The President or Vice-President shall normally preside at all such meetings and ..... shall
form a quorum. Voting shall be by show of hands and the Chairman shall have a casting

vote.

Committee Meetings. The Branch Committee shall meet at such times and places as
may be deemed advisable by the President and the Secretary ......... shall form a quorum.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

11) The Secretary. He shall keep a Register of members and the minutes of all the
proceedings of the Branch and of the Branch Committee. The Register and the Minute
Books shall be open to the inspection of any member at any Branch meeting or on
reasonable notice at any other time. The Secretary shall present the report at the Annual
General Meeting.

12) ‘The Treasurer. He shall make up the Branch accounts and produce a statement and
balance sheet at the Annual General Meeting, signed and certified correct by the Auditor.
A copy of the balance sheet shall be sent to the General Secretary of the Federation by
31 March and to each member before the Annual General Meeting. He shall pay all
Branch funds into a deposit or current account at National Giro Bank, the National
Savings Bank or any other Bank in the name of the Branch, and cheques and orders or
applications for payment drawn thereon shall be signed by two persons. All Branch funds
after payment of Affiliation Fees to the Federation shall be applicable to objects and
purposes of the Branch so long as such objects and purposes are not extraneous from or
inconsistent with the objects and purposes of the Federation.

13) Miscellaneous. A copy of the Rules of the Branch and a membership card shall be
supplied to each member.

14) Alteration of Rules
a) Rule 2 shall not be altered or rescinded.

b) No other rule shall be altered or rescinded and no new rule shall be adopted
except by a two-thirds majority vote of those present and voting at an Annual
General Meeting or at a Special General Meeting convened for that purpose. Not
less than 21 days’ notice of any proposed alteration, rescindment or new rule must
be given to the Secretary who shall lay it before the Committee and give 7 days’
notice with full particulars to all members.

15) Dissolution. The Branch may be dissolved at any time by a two-thirds majority vote of
Branch members present and voting passed at any Annual or Special General Meeting
provided that at least two months’ previous notice of such resolution shall be given to
each Branch member and provided further that the approval of the Executive Council of
the Federation shall first have been obtained. On such dissolution, the next assets of the
Branch after payments of all debts and liabilities shall be transferred to the Federation.

THE BENEVOLENT FUND

The Benevolent Fund is a registered charity which was founded in 1944 to help serving or retired
Sub-Postmasters and their dependants who fall on hard times.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

The Fund is administered by a Board of Benevolence whose members are elected by each
Regional Council. The Board elects its own Chairman. Administration costs are minimal, the
majority of work being voluntary. Cases are submitted to the Board of Benevolence for
consideration and are treated in the strictest of confidence. The main aim of the Fund is to
provide help quickly when it is most needed.

For its income the fund relies on voluntary contributions deducted monthly from salaries and
from individual donations and local Branch activities.

Each Branch is encouraged to elect one member to serve as Benevolent Officer. This member is
responsible for local fund raising and case investigation.

BENEVOLENT FUND

CONSTITUTION AND RULES

OBJECTS
1 The object of this Fund is to grant temporary assistance in cases of financial need to
a) Serving or retired Sub-Postmasters

b) Serving or retired full-time employees of the National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters

c) The widows, widowers and children of any of the aforementioned persons
resulting from

i) Breakdown in health.
ii) Death of husband, father, wife or mother.
iii) Domestic distress.
2 The Board of Benevolence (hereinafter called the Board), notwithstanding anything
contained in these rules, shall have discretionary powers to relieve any exceptional cases

which may be brought to their notice.

3 The intention of the Benevolent Fund is to use its Funds in order that those who have
contributed shall in time of need be accorded priority of consideration.

ADMINISTRATION

4 The administration and control of the Fund shall be vested in the Board of Benevolence
which shall consist of one Executive Officer elected from and by each Regional Council
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

of the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters; the names of such representatives to be
intimated at the meeting of the Executive Council held immediately following the Annual
Conference. All members of the Board of Benevolence to retire annually, but shall be
eligible for re-election. In the event of a vacancy occurring by death or otherwise, during
the year, the Regional Council affected shall have power to elect another representative.

5 It shall be the duty of the Board to submit to the Executive Council at each ordinary
meeting of the Executive Council a report of its proceedings. It shall also submit an
annual report and balance sheet to the members of the Federation at the Annual
Conference, and such shall be included in the Annual Report of the Federation and
printed in The Sub-Postmaster.

6 The Board shall meet at each meeting of the Executive Council and at such other times as
may be necessary.

7 The quorum necessary for conducting the business of the Board shall be seven members
personally present at the meeting.

8 The Chairman at every meeting shall be the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman, of the
Board, and he shall have a second or casting vote. In the absence of the Chairman or
Vice-Chairman, the Board shall elect a chairman who shall have a second or casting vote.

OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES

9 The Board shall appoint a Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and such other officers and
sub-committees as it may deem necessary to carry out the work of the Board. The
Secretary and Treasurer of the Fund shall be the General Secretary for the time being of
the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters. He shall have power to delegate the work to
a senior member of his staff.

10 Minutes of the meetings of the Board and any other necessary meetings, shall be kept by
the Secretary/Treasurer and confirmed at the next meeting of the Board.

11 Each constituted Branch of the Federation shall appoint one of its members as
Benevolent Member. The duties of such member shall be to create and foster in such
Branch interest in the Benevolent Fund and its work. Such member shall also, when
required, investigate cases in that area on behalf of the Board, who shall pay any out-of-
pocket expenses incurred in such investigation.

FINANCE

12 The methods of raising money for the Fund shall be by voluntary subscriptions,
authorised deductions from salaries, donations, legacies, interest from investments, and
by such other means as the Board may from time to time deem advisable, subject to
confirmation by the National Executive.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

13 The financial year shall coincide with that of the Federation.

a) It shall be competent for the Chairman of the Board together with the
Secretary/Treasurer to deal with cases requiring immediate relief and to make
monetary grants in respect thereto not exceeding £200 in any one case. In the
unavoidable absence of one or other of these Officers, the consent of the
Vice-Chairman to the grant of any immediate relief shall be obtained.

b) All payments, except in emergency cases, shall be made by cheque signed jointly
by the Chairman and Secretary/Treasurer, or such other persons as may be
authorised by minute of the Board.

15 The auditors of the Fund shall be the firm of accountants who are appointed to audit the
accounts of the Federation.

16 The funds of the Benevolent Fund shall be kept in the name of the fund in an account
placed with the bankers of the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters. All sums received
on account of the Fund shall be paid into the bank and all cheques on the bank shall be
drawn as instructed in rule 14 (a) and (b).

TRUSTEES

17
a) The funds and property of the Benevolent Fund shall be vested in three Trustees,
elected from and by the Board of Benevolence.

The Trustees shall respectively continue in office during their lives, or until they
resign or cease to be members of the Board of Benevolence, or are removed by
resolution of a meeting of the Board of Benevolence. Vacancies in the body of
Trustees shall be filled by the Board who shall have power to remove a Trustee.
Any changes arising from the implementation of this rule shall be reported to the
Annual Conference of the Federation.

b) All funds which are controlled by the Board through the Trustees shall be
invested in securities, authorised by law for the time being for the investment of
trust funds.

FUNCTIONS OF BOARD OF BENEVOLENCE

18
a) The Board shall have power to accept subscriptions, appoint officers whose
appointment is not otherwise provided for under these rules, engage officers,
make and alter bye-laws and regulations for the management of the Fund, and the
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

granting of donations, and other relief after due consideration has been given to
the recommendations submitted by resolution from Federation members
assembled at the Annual Conference; control and administer the funds, direct the
investment of the funds and the change or realisation of investments, in the light
of the advice of a person reasonably believed to be qualified to give advice by his
ability in, and experience of financial matters; decide finally on all applications
for relief, and the amount and mode of affording it, and whether by donation or
otherwise, according to the circumstances of the case and the person to be
relieved, and generally to conduct the business of the Fund.

b) The Board shall also have the power to appoint from time to time sub-committees
to deal with and make reports on any specific case brought to the notice of the
board, and such sub-committee may consist of one person only. Any expenses
incurred by the activities of the sub-committee shall be discharged out of the
funds of the Benevolent Fund. Any sub-committee shall have the power to co-opt
a member of the Executive Council to assist in the duties which have been
delegated to them or him by the Board.

c) The out of pocket expenses of the members of the Board of Benevolence, and any
co-opted Executive Officer, shall be paid from the funds of the Benevolent Fund.

CANDIDATES FOR ASSISTANCE

19 No applicant for assistance can by contribution or otherwise secure any certain right to
assistance, and the Board’s power to grant or refuse assistance shall be exercisable in
their sole discretion.

20 No case of business financial difficulty or appeals for monetary loans can be entertained.

21 The Fund is not intended to be used for the purpose of granting pensions except in special
circumstances or cases at the discretion of the Board.

22 The interest in grants shall be kept entirely for the personal benefit of the beneficiary or
his/her dependant, and cannot be assigned or taken by creditors in any circumstances.
Every grant shall cease to be payable if the beneficiary shall assign or encumber the same
or anticipate payment thereof or if he or she shall make any false representation to the
officials of the Fund.

23 All applications for assistance shall be made in writing in the form prescribed by the
Board from time to time, and shall be verified in such manner as the Board shall require.
All applicants must satisfy the Board regarding their means and that any sick insurance or
pension or other benefits to which they are legally entitled have been secured, and to
disclose particulars or applications for assistance made elsewhere.

DISSOLUTION

24 The fund may, at any time, be dissolved by two-thirds majority vote of the members of
the Federation assembled at the Annual Conference, at least three months’ previous
notice having been given in The Sub-Postmaster. The remaining funds shall be disposed
of among such charitable objects or for such charitable purposes as the Board of
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Benevolence may recommend, subject to the approval of the National Executive Council
of the Federation, and confirmation by the said Conference.

ALTERATION OF RULES

25 No alteration or addition to these Rules shall be made except by a majority vote at a
meeting of the Board of which due notice shall have been given. Such notices shall
specify the suggested alterations or additions which if passed by the Board shall be
submitted to the National Executive Council for approval, subject to confirmation by the
members of the Federation assembled at the Annual Conference.

26 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in or implied by these Rules, no
alteration or addition shall be made which would alter the objects of the Fund to
non-charitable ones or which would cause the Fund to cease to be established as a charity
in law.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

STANDING ORDERS FOR CONFERENCE

1 The National President of the Federation shall be Chairman of Conference, or in his
absence the Vice President.

2 The Conference sessions shall commence at the times printed in the Agenda. These
times may be varied by the authority of the Chairman of Conference. There shall be no
smoking in the Conference Hall during these sessions.

a) That at each Conference the mover of a Motion shall have 6 minutes to speak, the
seconder and each other speaker shall have 4 minutes. After the Executive
Council response has been put, the mover of the Motion shall have 5 minutes for
the right to reply. The mover of a Reference Back shall have 6 minutes to speak
(a Reference Back does not require a seconder). Each other delegate who speaks
to the Reference Back shall have 4 minutes. The mover of a Reference Back does
not have the right to reply. Without the consent of the Chairman, delegates shall
not be allowed to speak more than once on the same Motion or Reference Back.

b) Where a Motion printed on the Agenda is rated by Standing Orders Committee as
an amendment to another Motion, and is the subject of a separate vote, the mover
of such amending Motion shall have the same right of reply immediately
preceding the vote on the amendment, as if his Motion were being put by itself.

c) That subject to the same conditions in paragraph 3a, if Conference so decides, the
seconder and each other delegate who speaks to the same, shall have 3 minutes
and the mover shall have 5 minutes for the right to reply.

d) Additionally, if necessary, the Standing Orders Committee may recommend to
Conference to change ‘Accept “A” motions to ‘Accept’.

e) Election of National President and Vice-President. that in each case the proposer
shall be allotted 4 minutes’ speaking time and the seconder 2 minutes, and this to
be followed by formal approval of Conference. Proposers and seconders for the
Motions of Honorary membership shall also be allowed 4 minutes and 2 minutes
respectively.

a) That all notices of Motions be received at least 8 weeks prior to Annual
Conference by the General Secretary, that they may appear on the printed Agenda
and should be in the name of the Executive Council or a Regional Council or

District Committee or Branch, except that a Regional Council may submit a
motion of an urgent or special nature by giving notice of not less than 28 days to
the General Secretary. Regional Councils may submit Emergency Motions; such
Motions must be presented in writing to the National President within 48 hours of
the commencement of the last session of Conference. The inclusion of an
Emergency Motion on the agenda will be at the discretion of the National
President.
b) No Motion can form part of the Conference Agenda for 2 consecutive years.
11

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

c) References Back on the Annual Report will be subject to the same submission
procedure as Motions. References Back on the Supplementary Report must be
submitted in writing not less than 14 days before the date of Conference. A
resumé of the References Back should be provided at the time of their submission.

That as far as possible the Agenda be previously printed in The Sub-Postmaster.

That all officers’ Annual Reports with the Balance Sheets be published in
The Sub-Postmaster prior to the Annual Conference.

a) That the questions to the officers be submitted in writing and sent to the officer
concemed 7 days before Annual Conference, in order that a complete answer may
be prepared. That all amendments to, or Motions arising out of, these reports be
sent to the General Secretary prior to the Annual Conference.

b) Questions to Executive Officers may be taken immediately after the moving of
the clause but will only be allowed on subjects raised in the verbal report and with
the permission of the National President.

That the Standing Orders Committee shall consist of one representative from each Region
and one representative elected by the Executive Council. It shall be the duty of that
Committee to classify Motions and to arrange for the amalgamation of Motions of a
similar nature, to be presented and discussed in place of separate Motions, and to
recommend the order in which the Motions shall be taken at Conference.

That Standing Orders Committee are authorised:

a) To delete from the Conference Agenda such matters that have been successfully
dealt with or are, at the time of Conference, being favourably dealt with by the
Department. The General Secretary to indicate to the Committee the matters
coming under this heading;

b) To amend a Motion to be a Reference Back where applicable; and

c) To reject a Motion and to indicate it to be dealt with in correspondence with
Federation Headquarters.

That all Motions withdrawn at Conference through pressure of time shall, if presented
again, take precedence in the second day’s Agenda at the next Conference.

The following rules shall govern voting at Conference:
a) All the delegates present at Conference shall be entitled to vote except when a

Card Vote is taken. At the Chairman’s discretion, tellers may be requested to
count such votes. When tellers are called, the doors shall be secured.
12)

13)

14)

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

b) A Card Vote may be demanded after a vote by show of hands has been taken, if
not less than 20 delegates present signify, by standing, their desire for a Card
Vote.

c) Branches shall on a Card Vote be entitled to record the votes in accordance with
the audited paid up membership in the preceding year, such votes being cast in
total either for or against the Motion.

d) A Branch which is unable to send representatives to Conference may nominate
some other delegate to exercise the Card Vote.

1) When a Card Vote is being taken, only those holding cards shall be entitled to
vote. The number of votes recorded shall be indicated on a voting slip, which
shall be handed to the tellers; only one slip in respect of each Branch being used
for each Card Vote.

f) The number on the slips for or against the Motion shall be counted by the
scrutineers and reported to the Chairman of Conference, who will then announce
the result of the vote.

g) Voting slips bearing the number of votes to which each Branch is entitled, and a
Card signed by the General Secretary authorising the delegate to vote, shall be
forwarded by the General Secretary to the Secretary of each Branch at least
14 days prior to Annual Conference.

h) The number of Card Votes to which a Branch is entitled in respect of any
Conference shall be based upon the number of affiliation fees paid by the Branch
in respect of the previous year, as recorded in the balance sheet for that year, such
affiliation fees, which fall due in December, to be included in the balance sheet,
must have been paid not later than the 15th January following.

Any proposals to withdraw Motions, as printed on the published Agenda, or to change
motions from ‘Accept’ to ‘Accept “A’”’, must be notified in writing to the Standing
Orders Chairman by 0900 hours on the first day of Conference. These alterations will be
incorporated in the Standing Orders Report which is moved at the commencement of
Conference.

That in the event of the Chairman’s ruling being challenged, the Motion for upholding
the same shall be put to the Conference without debate. Unless two-thirds of the
members present vote against the Motion, the Chairman’s ruling must stand.

That a two-thirds majority of those present be required for the suspension of any Standing
Order.
DATES AND PLACES OF ANNUAL CONFERENCE

1897 Wakefield
1898 Nottingham
1899 Birmingham
1900 Manchester
1901 Liverpool
1902 London
1903 Southport
1904 Bradford
1905 Blackpool
1906 Manchester
1907 Huddersfield
1908 Liverpool
1909 Sheffield
1910 Glasgow
1911 Cardiff
1912 Dublin

1913 Exeter

1914 Nottingham
1915 Conference Suspended
1916 Bolton

1917 London
1918 Leeds

1919 Newcastle upon Tyne
1920 Edinburgh
1921 Portsmouth
1922 Derby

1923 Liverpool
1924 York

1925 Bournemouth
1926 Cardiff
1927 Aberdeen
1928 Margate
1929 Birmingham
1930 Weston-Super-Mare
1931 Gorleston
1932 London
1933 Belfast

1934 Whitley Bay
1935 Chester
1936 Edinburgh
1937 Plymouth
1938 Ryde

1939 Birmingham
1940 Leicester
1941 Leicester
1942 Leicester

1943 Leeds

1944 Scarborough
1945 Blackpool
1946 Cardiff

1947 Edinburgh
1948 Belfast

1949 Folkestone
1950 Torquay
1951 Gt Yarmouth
1952 Douglas
1953 London

1954 Scarborough
1955 Skegness
1956 Llandudno
1957 Aberdeen
1958 Southsea
1959 Portrush, NI
1960 Torquay
1961 Clacton
1962 Morecambe
1963 London

1964 Scarborough
1965 Skegness
1966 Swansea
1967 Rothesay
1968 St Helier
1969 Portrush
1970 Torquay
1971 Clacton-on-Sea
1972 Isle of Man
1973 Bournemouth
1974 Scarborough
1975 Skegness
1976 Llandudno
1977 Edinburgh
1978 Jersey

1979 Isle of Man
1980 Torquay
1981 Scarborough
1982 Bournemouth
1983 Harrogate
1984 Torquay
1985 Scarborough
1986 Bournemouth
1987 Llandudno
1988 Torquay

1989 Scarborough

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

1990 Jersey

1991 Glasgow
1992 Torquay
1993 Scarborough
1994 Bournemouth
1995 Blackpool
PAST PRESIDENTS

1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943

Mr J Ranns

Mr J Ranns

Mr J Ranns

Mr R Moston.

Mr J W Haigh

Mr H Buckley

Mr W K Inglis

Mr W K Inglis

Mr J Ranns

Mr J Ranns

Mr J Ranns

Mr J Ranns

Mr B Verity

Mr B Verity

Mr W Brook

Mr J Fielding

Mr J Fielding

Mr W J Reed

Mr W J Reed

Mr E Bradley

Mr J Slevin

Mr W Neale

Mr W Neale

Mr R Fulton

Mr F G Fraser

Mr J Harris

Mr W P Hunt

Mr J Davidson
Mr J E Stewart
Mr R J Goodrich
Mr C J Honisett
Mr A St Clair White
Mr H Higgins
Major H C Gould
Mr J W Tirrell

Mr C Lough

Mr F O Edney

Mr H B Chambers BEM
Mr A C Tanner
Mr G Barrett OBE
Mr W N Buckinham BEM
Mr E R Kirkpatrick
Mr M Thomas

Mr J Fairholme
Mr T Molyneux
Mr D Martin

Mr R Armitage

1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989

1990

Mr JSC Tilley

Mr B Rowlands

Mr R Langmuir

Mr H J Allsop JP

Ald. H P Bell BEM
Mr C V Horsley BEM
Mr A Walker MBE
Mr A Jacobs

Ald. H Turner

Mr J H Tremayne

Mr A L Howie

Ald. J S Pollard JP

Mr A Smith

Mr H V Atkins

Mr A Basen MBE

Mr H Lewis

Mr RE Jones

Mr T B McMain

Mr E G Hale

Mr J Humphries

Mr E E Laughton MBE
Mr C Lewis-Ford

Mr T G Richards BEM
Mr P H Rayson

Mr N E Byford

Mr R Dickson BEM
Mr F ML Cooke

Mr H Garn

Mr W I Hughes BEM
Mr W H Hayes

Mr W H Dudley

Mr S G Burford

Mr T W Leonard BEM
Mr E Hadley

Mr R Ratcliffe BEM
Mr J Sherwood

Mr E F Mackenzie BEM
Mr J McKenna BEM
Mr K Ingle

Mr A Buggs

Mr A M Burrows

Mr J Dowdle BEM
Mr D Batey BEM

Mr I Abernethy BEM
Mr B Jay

Mr B W Croydon

Mr A H Potter BEM JP

Mr J G Burke

1991
1992
1993
1994

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Mr F Shuter

Mr J Brennan
Miss E O Parcell
Mr H Atkins
HONORARY MEMBERS OF THE FEDERATION

1974
1975
1977
1978
1981
1982
1982
1983
1984
1985
1985
1985
1987
1987
1987
1988
1988
1989
1990
1990
1990
1991
1992
1992
1992
1994
1995
1995

Mr NE Byford

Mr H Garn

Mr J Humphries

Mr J Elder

Mr W H Hayes

Mr P Rayson

Mr J Sherwood

Mr W Dudley

Mr C Lewis-Ford
Mr E Hadley

Mr A Warbis

Mr T Leonard BEM
Mr W I Hughes BEM
Mr DL Sleith

Mr C L Turner BEM
Mr D Batey BEM
Mr R Ratcliffe BEM
Mr D Gosling

Mr A G Buggs

Mr R Hayhurst

MrB Jay

Mr R Ward JP

Mr J McKenna BEM
Mr A Morgan

Mr A Potter BEM JP
Mr F Shuter

Mr B Melton

Mr R Slack

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

INSURANCE POLICIES
INJURY FROM ATTACK
EAGLE STAR INSURANCES

FEDERATION “INSURANCE AGAINST ATTACK” SCHEME

The Federation’s Malicious Attack Policy provides a benefit for all Sub-Postmasters, their
families and staff who may be injured in the course of a criminal attack whilst engaged on Post
Office business, of £50 per week (for up to two years) whilst totally incapacitated from carrying
out their duties. Benefits under this policy are conditional upon the Sub-Postmaster being a
member of the Federation.

OTHER INSURANCES

The particular needs of Sub-Postmasters have been catered for by Eagle Star for over 50 years.
Federation members who take out their insurance with Eagle Star will receive special discounts
on the premiums they pay providing they stipulate they wish to be part of the Federation scheme.
A brief description of some of the polices available is shown below.

Business Insurances

Tradestar Shop Policy

. Wide cover for Post Offices and retail activities

. Special optional sections for Post Office stock, Post Office salary and anti-bandit screens
. Standard policy excess deleted free of charge

. FREE 24-hour legal and glass replacement helplines

. 15% discount for Federation members

Tradestar Motor
. includes policies for most types of business vehicles
. 15% discount for Federation members

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON BUSINESS INSURANCES, PLEASE CONTACT
THE SUB-POSTMASTERS HELPDESK ON (0345) 554433

Personal Insurances

Homechoice - Private Home Insurance

. Home contents cover up to £35,000

. Interest free monthly instalments

. 10% security discounts

. Special discount for Federation members

MotorQuote - Private Car Insurance

. Interest free monthly instalments

. FREE 24-hour helpline and security etching
. Nationwide network of authorised repairers
. Special discount for Federation members
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

_.FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON PERSONAL INSURANCES, PLEASE CALL

Pensions, Investments and Mortgages

Rainbow Personal Pensions

. Tax-free contributions from only £30 a month
. Tax-free cash lump sum on retirement
. Choose from 13 investment funds including with-profits

Rainbow Investments

. Choose from 12 unit trusts

. Enjoy the tax advantages of a PEP investment
. Lump sum investments from £1000

. Regular savings from £40 a month
Mortgages

. Fixed rate available

. Low start options

. Competitive endowment rates

. Unit linked repayment option

VALUABLE DISCOUNTS APPLY FOR PENSIONS, INVESTMENTS & MORTGAGES.
THESE VARY ACCORDING TO THE POLICY. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION,
PLEASE CONTACT MR. S. SIMMONS ON 0345 554433.

Eagle Star Life Assurance Company Limited is a member of LAUTRO. Eagle Star Unit Managers
Limited is a member of LAUTRO, IMRO and the UTA.

Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. The price of units can fall as
well as rise and the value of investments cannot be guaranteed. Your home is at risk if you do

not keep up payments on a mortgage or other loan secured on it.

Written details and quotations are available on request.

HEALTH AND LEISURE

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF POST OFFICE AND BRITISH TELECOM
PENSIONERS

This organisation was formed in 1930 and provides for membership of retired staff of the Post
Office and British Telecom and their wives and husbands. However, retired Sub-Postmasters
and Sub-Postmistresses are also eligible to join. The Federation now has 265 branches with
94,000 members.

The Federation issues to its members a free quarterly Journal entitled The Veteran which enables
an exchange of information between branches on their local activity, human interest stories and
the latest information on pensioner matters. Each branch, subject to certain national rules, has its
own autonomy. Members can decide how to provide for their own social outings and functions
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

but overall the national headquarters tries to protect members’ pension rights and to preserve
welfare coverage, as well as maintaining contact for those who require help and advice with their
personal affairs.

The organisation holds a conference each year and every member has the opportunity, through
his branch, of submitting motions and contributing to the formation of policies. Between
conferences, the elected Executive Council keeps an eye on developments which affect
pensioners and, where appropriate, make submissions to Government.

Members can also call upon the help of professional staff at the Headquarters in resolving
personal problems with pension administration centres, the DSs or the Inland Revenue. The
Federation also has its own Welfare Fund and local branches arrange visiting schemes.

The National Federation of Post Office and British Telecom Pensioners would welcome
applications from retired Sub-Postmasters and Sub-Postmistresses who would be interested in
supporting their work for an improved standard of living for all pensioners. Membership details
or further information can be obtained from Mrs Gay Appleby, General Secretary, NFPOBTP,
Carlton Court, 64 Alma Street, Luton, Beds, LUI 2PR (Telephone Number 01582 459105).

THE POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE SANATORIUM SOCIETY

The Post Office and Civil Service Sanatorium Society is a Friendly Society funded by members’
contributions. Membership of the Society is open to Sub-Postmasters together with their spouse
plus any children. In some other cases, dependants may be eligible.

Membership of the Society includes the following benefits:-

> A Nationwide Consultation Service - Consultations with a specialist are available
throughout the UK for most conditions.

> Cancer Care - Financial support to provide for post hospital treatment of cancer
patients, including home nursing, home help, extra heating or special diets.

> Medical Treatment - Diagnosis and treatment is provided for most medical conditions
at our own, Beneden Hospital, in Kent. These include asthma and other respiratory
illnesses and disorders of the stomach, bowels, kidneys, blood and glands.

> Surgical Treatment - Designed principally to help members who are experiencing
difficulty in obtaining treatment through the NHS. Specialities include: General Surgery,
Gynaecology and ENT (Orthopaedic and Cardiac surgery is not available).

> Benefits are available after 6 months’ membership.
> Children may remain beneficiaries regardless of age and status.
> Membership may continue if you change employment.

> Membership is continuous on retirement with contributions paid via your pension.
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
> On the death of a member, beneficiaries covered for benefit can continue in membership.
> The Society does not exclude anyone from benefit regardless of previous medical history.

Members who are interested in joining the Society should contact the Membership Services
Manager, The Post Office and Civil Service Sanatorium Society, 29 St George’s Place, York,
YO2 2DT. (Telephone.

P&T LEISURE “

P&T Leisure, formerly known as the Post Office Fellowship of Remembrance Ltd, was set up as
a memorial to the Post Office men and women who died in both World Wars. Membership of
P&T Leisure is open to staff of the Post Office, including Sub-Postmasters, British Telecom and
Girobank and retired personnel.

P&T Leisure provides 2 services to members:-
oO Convalescent Benefit

The primary purpose of the movement is to provide free convalescent accommodation to
any member who may require it providing that six months subscriptions have been paid.
A form of application, including a medical certificate, appears in the Annual Report of
the Fellowship, which is published in September each year, which should, after
completion, accompany any request for convalescent accommodation. Members
requiring convalescence may be accompanied by a relative or friend, where
accommodation is available, who will be subject to normal paying-guest charges.

Oo Holiday Accommodation

After the provision of convalescent accommodation, the remaining accommodation is
available for holiday purposes. During the seasonal months, that is May to the end of
September each year, when the demands for accommodation exceed the amount of
accommodation available, it has been necessary for many years to operate a simple but
fair allocation system, which takes into account (a) the date of joining the Fellowship or
(b) the date of last visit to one of the Centres during the seasonal period, whichever is the
later. From October to April, accommodation is allocated as detailed in the Fellowship
Annual Report. There is a three tier system of charges, namely November to February;
March, April and October, and May to September, and the rates for these periods are also
published in the Annual Report.

There are five holiday and convalescent centres in the UK, located at:

. Bryn Asaph, St Asaph, Clwyd

. Dumbleton Hall, Evesham, Worcestershire
. Brighton Hydro Hotel, Blackpool
. Waterhead Hotel, Coniston, Lake District

. Friars Carse, Auldgirth, Dumfries
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Further details can be obtained from P&T Leisure Centres, Freepost, Godalming, Surrey,
GU7 1BR

BRITISH UNITED PROVIDENT ASSOCIATION (BUPA)

BUPA was founded in 1947 by a group of provident associations and was founded in order to
give ordinary people and their families access to private medical care. BUPA currently has over
3 million members in the UK.

BUPA is unique in developing its own hospitals, having begun a hospital building programme in
1981. A network of BUPA medical Centres exists throughout the country, where over
130,000 people each year go for health screening. BUPA participating hospitals are grouped by
geographical category for the purposes of determining premiums.

The BUPA Care Scheme provides cover for the cost of specialist consultations, medical
treatment, medical care and hospital treatment. BUPA also offers advice on preventive
medicine.

Anyone aged under 65 may apply to join BUPA Care and, once accepted, may continue in
membership regardless of age.

The Federation operates a Group Scheme with BUPA to provide help for all Federation
members. The Group Scheme benefits members by offering a 25% discount on premiums.
Federation members who have retired from office may retain their membership following
retirement. UK residents aged over 60 can claim tax relief on subscriptions for themselves and
their spouses. Claims for age related tax relief can also be made by those paying on their behalf.

Federation Members who are interested and who need more information should write for further
details to our Group Secretary, as follows:

The Group Secretary

National Federation of Sub-Postmaster’s Groups
BUPA

Gresham House

44 North Road

Brighton

East Sussex

BNI 1YT

CIVIL SERVICE MOTORING ASSOCIATION

CSMA Membership is available to all current, former or retired employees of the Civil Service
or ex Civil Service establishments such as the Post Office. Members of the Federation are
eligible to join the Association.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Membership of the Association includes the following benefits:

. 24hr breakdown and recovery service, plus housecall
Advantageous motor and home insurance rates

Worldwide travel insurance

Holiday travel and ferry discounts

New car and motorcycle discounts

Members private country club

Members exclusive camping and caravanning club grounds
Organised social and travel programme

Discount shopping scheme

. Local groups

An in-house magazine Motoring & Leisure regularly updates members on CSMA benefits and
activities.

Federation members who are interested in finding out more should write to:

Civil Service Motoring Association Lt
Brighton, East Sussex, BNI 3WY Tel.

partment M, Britannia House, 95 Queens Road,

‘GRO I

THE TRAVEL CLUB

The Travel Club is operated for Federation members by St. David’s Travel and they are able to
provide discounted travel off all ABTA and AITO bonded Tour Operators, including summer
and winter sun, long haul, cruises, skiing, city breaks and special interest holidays.

Savings are also available on flights, ferries, car hire, hotels, apartments, theatre, event and even
weekend breaks.

Please note that maximum discounts will only apply if insurance cover is also purchased.
However, this is not compulsory and lesser discounts are available even if insurance is not
purchased through the Club. Federation members are also advised to check, prior to booking, the
situation regarding taxes, surcharges etc. that might affect the overall price of their holiday.

i GRO (24 hours).

PRIVATE BUSINESS BENEFIT!

To contact the Travel Club, telephon

Following requests from members the Federation has started to negotiate beneficial
arrangements with trade suppliers to enable Federation members to obtain preferential rates for
goods they sell in their private business.

GALLEON PUBLICATION

This Company will give members:-

* 10% off invoice discount on all goods
* stock control support
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

over 600 designs of everyday and seasonal cards
small unit sizes

continuous updating of designs

support with all fixings and studs

ee eK

Contact Riou Baxter or Jackie Taylor - Telephoné

NESTLE ICE CREAM (LYONS MAID)

A special scheme is available for Sub-Postmasters that enables a 12% off invoice discount on
the majority of products in the Nestlé range.

THE PAPERHOUSE GROUP
A 5% discount is available to Sub-Postmasters on the Paperhouse range of products.
NATIONAL STOCKTAKERS

National Stocktakers is an organisation of individual Stocktakers and Valuers with the ability to
organise stocktakes, valuations, transfer valuations and inventories throughout the country. A
special rate is available to members of the Federation which allows for a 10% discount.

National Stocktakers can be contactedoni GRO I

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

GENERAL

Sub-Postmasters are paid on the basis of the amount of work transacted over their post office
counters, with salaries assessed from returns submitted to the Post Office. Remuneration is paid
monthly in arrears, normally at the rate of 1/12th of the annual remuneration. Payment is made
by bank credit transfer.

A revision of each Sub-Postmaster’s remuneration takes place yearly and is known as the Annual

Revision. The current level of remuneration is based on business transacted during a preceding
twelve month period.

THE SCALE PAYMENT SYSTEM

The remuneration of a Sub-Postmaster is based on the Scale Payment System. This Unit Credit
System was instituted in 1907 and there have been major revisions to the system in 1948 and
1976.

The National Federation of Sub-Postmasters is the only organisation recognised by the Post
Office to negotiate pay and conditions on behalf of Sub-Postmasters. Negotiations take place
annually to determine the level of pay increase. The current review date is 1 April.

A Sub-Postmaster’s pay goes up or down according to the number of units, which is based on the
amount of business transacted. In addition, a Sub-Postmaster also receives a cost of living
increase which is negotiated by the Federation. This increase is implemented by uplifting the
monetary values shown in the Scale Payment Table by the increase agreed between the
Federation and Post Office Counters Ltd. Certain other payments or allowances which Sub-
Postmasters receive are also increased appropriately. When pay is negotiated by the Federation,
the aim is to uplift net pay by a percentage which reflects the increase in the cost of living and
takes into consideration changed conditions, increased responsibilities, etc.

NET PAY AND EXPENSES

The Scale Payment Table shows a single monetary value against each unit band. However, this
amount in fact consists of two notional elements. These two elements are referred to as “net
pay” and “expenses”.

1. Net Pay. This clement of the pay is intended to provide a personal return for service.

2. Expenses. This clement of the pay is intended to compensate for the expenses involved
in running the Scale Payment Sub Office (SPSO), including the cost of employing staff.

It should be noted that the expenses element is not meant to provide a detailed reimbursement for
every cost item, as this would be impossible to administer without a cumbersome system of
receipts etc. The expenses element is calculated as an across the board average of certain returns
submitted for analysis by the Post Office and the Federation jointly. This element is based on the
Post Office portion of the premises only.

The level of expenses was established by a joint exercise with the Post Office between 1974-75
which looked at the actual costs at a wide range of offices, and allocated the amounts incurred
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

for provision of the Post Office services. Since then, annual adjustments have been made by a
formula which takes into account movement in the various items which make up the expenses
element.

The proportion of net pay to expenses varies according to the size of the office. Generally, the
greater the number of transactions, the bigger the office and staff complement required to handle
them, and so the expenses of providing the service at such an office will be greater. This is
reflected in the payment received. In contrast, at a smaller office, the payment is mainly net pay
with a smaller proportion of expenses.

THE BEND IN THE SCALE

The monetary value of a unit is greater at the lower end of the scale which applies to the smaller
offices. This is known as the “bend in the scale” and was conceived by the House of Commons
(Hobhouse) Committee in 1908. The “bend in the scale” was established in recognition of the
fact that the costs of providing Post Office services do not rise proportionately with the amount
of business transacted. At the smallest offices a minimum payment is assured however small the
amount of business handled.

This means that a Sub-Postmaster with a large office does not receive a level of remuneration
which is commensurately higher than that of a smaller office. The scale payment system is
structured in order to pay more per transaction to Sub-Postmasters in smaller offices by giving
them a higher unit value. This is done in order to ensure that the network of small offices
handling fewer transactions can survive.

CALCULATION OF PAY
The various items of work are grouped, for the purpose of calculating total pay, as follows:

1. Scale Payment consisting of items remunerated by the unit credit system. The payment
for these items can be ascertained by a reading from the Unit Scale, contained within the
Pay Supplement. A copy of the Pay Supplement is sent to every Sub-Postmaster on the
occasion of a pay increase and it should be retained for reference purposes. It should be
noted that the appropriate payment for any given number of units, which is not exactly a
point on the Scale Payment Table, will be the amount indicated for the next higher point
in the Scale.

2. Certain Other Payments consisting of:-

e A Special Cash Allowance. This allowance is determined by the total number of
earned units shown in the Annual Revision.

e Cash Allowances. These may be paid on a regular or intermittent basis as
appropriate and include allowances for items such as extra attendance, training in
new work, holiday and sickness substitution.

e Intermittent Allowances. These payments now form a steadily increasing portion
of the remuneration. These payments are made for those items of business which are
not paid as a unit credit, but as a cash payment. These payments are variable each
month depending upon the volume of business transacted at the Post Office.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

3. Minimum Payment which apply to the smaller offices. If the total Scale Payment does
not reach the minimum amount indicated in the table, the minimum amount will
nevertheless be paid.

COMMUNITY OFFICES AND RESTRICTED HOURS OFFICES

Following agreement between the Federation and the Post Office, a new category of Sub Post
Office, the Community Office, was established from July 1987. These offices are designed to
cater for communities where the level of business is low and, therefore, are open for a restricted
number of hours. They are remunerated by a core payment and a payment related to the number
of hours for which service must be provided. The opening hours are determined by Post Office
Counters in consultation with the Sub-Postmaster.

Since 1 July 1987 all vacancies to offices transacting 50,000 units and below, have been on the
basis of the new Community Office contract. In 1989, the Federation agreed to an extension, in
certain cases, of the Community Office contract to offices transacting between 50,000 and
125,000 units. These offices are known as Restricted Hours Offices.

At the time of establishment of a Community Office, the rate of remuneration is determined by
selecting the annual core payment appropriate to the units which are likely to be transacted in a
year. In addition the Sub-Postmaster receives an amount in respect of the number of hours for
which he is required to provide a service during the week. The hourly rate of payment is
expressed as an annual equivalent.

Community Offices receive an annual pay review on I April which is negotiated by the
Federation. In addition to the core payment, Community Sub-Postmasters receive the Special
Cash Allowance, and are able to claim Holiday Substitution and Sickness Absence substitution
allowance. Business attracting a cash payment is paid outside the Community Office rate of
payment.

The Community Office payment scales are published in the Pay Supplement which is issued to
every Sub-Postmaster following the pay review.

The rate of remuneration does not normally change, other than through the annual pay review.
However, a discretionary facility does exist to adjust the core payment in circumstances where
there has been a significant growth in business. This may be done either by an increase in
opening hours or a reassessment of the work being undertaken at the Post Office. Use of this
mechanism is at the discretion of the Regional General Manager.

THE ANNUAL REVISION

A Sub-Postmaster is paid according to the amount of work which is transacted at the office. The
current level of remuneration, assessed by the Annual Revision, is based on business transacted
during a preceding 12 month period.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

It is only possible to claim an Intermediate Revision if a major change in the volume of business
can be demonstrated, for example, the closure of a neighbouring office.

Every major item of work undertaken in Sub Post Offices has been allocated a “unit credit”. The
amount of the unit credit allocated to each transaction is intended to reflect the length of time
required to complete the transaction and any associated accounting work. One unit represents
18 seconds of time. For example, to cash a Postal Order 18 seconds is allowed (1 unit); to sell a
Postal Order 27 seconds (1.5 units). A list of items of work to which unit credits have been
allocated and the current amount of those unit credits, which is applied uniformly for all Sub
Post Offices, is listed on Form P271W and as an Appendix to the Remuneration Section of the
Sub-Postmaster’s Contract.

The amount of any unit credit may be increased or decreased after negotiations with the
Federation. Similarly, a new unit credit or cash payment will be negotiated with the Federation
for any new item of business.

The number of transactions for each type of work are then multiplied by the unit credit assigned
to that item of work. When the unit credits for each type have been calculated and totalled, a
further 3% is added to cover items not specifically credited or covered by cash payments outside
the scale. Having calculated the grand total of units for the office, the corresponding payment is
read off from the current Scale Payment table. Where the number of units does not coincide
exactly with a point on the scale, the payment should be taken from the next higher point. The
Pay Supplement also includes the minimum payments which apply to smaller offices. If the
scale payment does not reach the amount indicated, the minimum amount will nevertheless be
paid.

The Scale Payment tables are issued as a Pay Supplement each time the scale is revised
following a Pay Settlement. A copy of this Supplement is supplied to each Sub-Postmaster and
should be retained for reference.

In addition to the Scale Payment there is a Special Cash Allowance. The current value of this
allowance is published in the Pay Supplement, and the actual payment is based on bandings
determined by the total units earned. This allowance is paid to all offices, including minimum
payment and Community offices.

All these items are brought together on the computer print-out of the P271W to give the total
remuneration for the office.

There are a number of other allowances which are paid in cash on a regular or intermittent basis
as appropriate, and these are listed in the current Supplement on Pay.

It is very important that Sub-Postmasters should be able to check the basis on which their
Revision is calculated, as Post Office staff are not infallible, and mistakes can result in a major
loss of remuneration. The Swh-Postmaster’s Record of Transactions and Units book (which is
currently available from the Federation at a cost of 85p, post free) is designed primarily for the
purpose of recording and checking Annual Revisions. It can also be used to demonstrate major
changes in the volume of business transacted following the closure of a neighbouring office, or
other clearly identifiable change.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

DATES ON WHICH ANNUAL REVISIONS ARE DUE

Annual Revisions in the area controlled by the Regional General Manager are carried out
according to rota. Every office occupies a particular place in that rota and the date when the
Revision is due is fixed accordingly. It does not depend upon the date when the Sub-Postmaster
was appointed, and may not be altered, except that: the Regional General Manager may bring
forward the date of an Annual Revision by not more than 3 months. If he does so, and the
revision results in a reduction in the Sub-Postmaster’s remuneration, this reduction will not be
made until the “old” Revision date, unless the appointment has become vacant in the meantime.

INFORMATION ON WHICH REVISIONS ARE BASED

The dates on which Revisions may be due, and the corresponding period from which records of
work done will be used are:

DATE ON WHICH REVISION DUE PERIOD FROM WHICH RECORDS USED

1 January Year ended the preceding 30 September
1 February Year ended the preceding 30 September
1 March Year ended the preceding 31 December
1 April Year ended the preceding 31 December
1 May Year ended the preceding 31 December
1 June Year ended the preceding 31 March

1 July Year ended the preceding 31 March

1 August Year ended the preceding 31 March

1 September Year ended the preceding 30 June

1 October Year ended the preceding 30 June

1 November Year ended the preceding 30 June

1 December Year ended the preceding 30 September

The precise dates of the start and end of the Revision periods are published in the Counter News.
Normally the actual record of transactions carried out in the Sub Post Office over the appropriate
12 month period is used in assessing remuneration, and the Sub-Postmaster must supply certain
information for use in the Revision. It is most important to record transaction details where
required to ensure correct remuneration.

Where a type of work has been entirely withdrawn in the course of the year covered by the
returns of work or subsequently, but before the due date of the Revision, no unit credits for this
work will be included in the final total of unit credits used for determining the future scale
payment. However, unit credits based on the annual equivalent of the work performed up to the
date of withdrawal will be included in the final total of unit credits used in calculating any
arrears of remuneration which may be due.

Where there has been a temporary increase in the work undertaken at a Sub Post Office for
whatever reason, the increase in the work will be included in the figures of business used at the
time of the next Revision.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

When a Sub Post Office is temporarily closed (except to allow the Sub-Postmaster to take a
holiday) or a particular type of work is suspended for a period falling within the year covered by
the returns of work, the actual figures of work done in the 12 month period will be increased
proportionately in order to cover the temporary closure or suspension of business.

BACK-DATING OF RESULTS OF REVISIONS

If following an Annual Revision the Sub-Postmaster’s remuneration is to be increased, then this
increase is back-dated to a date 6 months before the date on which the Revision was due.
Arrears of remuneration are paid accordingly.

If following an Annual Revision the Sub-Postmaster’s remuneration is to be decreased, the
reduction will come into effect only from a current date, ie, the date on which the Revision is
finalised and implemented.

INTERMEDIATE REVISIONS

A Sub-Postmaster will not normally be allowed to claim a revision of remuneration between.
annual revisions. However, an intermediate revision may be claimed where exceptional
circumstances can be demonstrated which cause a major change to the volume of business
transacted (eg, closure of a neighbouring office or other clearly identifiable change).

The Sub-Postmaster’s contract states that a claim for an intermediate revision should be
submitted via the Regional General Manager to Post Office Counters Business Headquarters who
have sole discretion to decide whether an abnormal change in business has occurred.

It should be noted that responsibility for authorising intermediate revisions was devolved to the
Regions in 1994. In practice, this means applications will be considered by people who are more
likely to understand the full circumstances of the individual case. In circumstances where a
claim is unsuccessful and it is not possible to resolve the claim at Regional level, the Federation
has reserved the right where appropriate to pursue an appeal with Counters Business
Headquarters.

In the event that a claim is successful, any intermediate revision will attract arrears to the date of
the increase in work, which must not be before the date of the traffic period used for the previous
annual revision.

ADJUSTMENT OF REMUNERATION FOR NEW TYPES OF BUSINESS

If a new class of business is required to be undertaken at a Sub Post Office, an estimate is made
of the additional amount by which the new work is likely to increase the Sub-Postmaster’s
annual remuneration. For most types of new business, the estimate is arrived at by taking the
figures of the new business transacted during weeks 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the first 8 complete weeks of
business and multiplying appropriately to produce an annual figure. Two-thirds of the estimated
increase in remuneration should be paid as soon as possible after the introduction of the new
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

work. The increase is adjusted as appropriate when figures of business for a full year are
available and any arrears due are paid.

For Giro Rent and Giro Rate schemes, an alternative method is used to calculate the amount by
which the new work is likely to increase the Sub-Postmaster’s remuneration. For Giro Rent
schemes (Giro Rent Voucher/Card schemes or Giro Inpayment schemes) and Giro Rate Card
schemes, this is done by taking the figures for the new business transacted during the last 13 of
the first 18 weeks of business. For Giro Rent schemes, this figure is then multiplied
appropriately to produce an annual figure to be paid to the Sub-Postmaster. The method used to
calculate the annual figure for Giro Rates schemes is similar to that for Giro Rent schemes, but
the multiplier reflects the fact that the incidence of payments occurs less evenly through the year.

No change is made at minimum payment Sub Post Offices except where the new class of
business warrants a higher minimum payment. This higher rate is paid from the date of
introduction of the new business.

SEASONAL SUB OFFICES

Where a Sub Post Office is regularly open for part of the year only, remuneration will be paid for
the period of opening only. The minimum payment for the class of office or half the estimated
remuneration, whichever is the greater, will be paid provisionally and, at the end of the season,
the remuneration will be revised on the basis of the actual work performed.

POST OFFICE COUNTER UNIT CREDITS
POSTED ITEMS

For posted work not every item is counted. A baseline for posted traffic for each office was
established using the 1986 traffic figures. This was used in all subsequent Revisions unless the
Sub-Postmaster could substantiate a claim for an increase.

In 1989, the method of payment for posted items was revised. With effect from
1 December 1989, the number of units warranted for items handed across the counter were
frozen into total units.

Post Office Counters may now only take a count of traffic handed over the counter where the
total units earned by the office is in excess of 125,000 units and where the current units earned in
respect of baseline traffic represents 10% or more of the total units. Where a Regional General
Manager decides to take an “on site” count, the effect of that count will not be introduced until a
new Sub-Postmaster is appointed.

The baseline traffic figures were originally established by an estimate of the yearly traffic based
on 1 week’s traffic taken 4 times in 1986 to secure a fair average. The multiplier was then
applied to yield an annual figure including an allowance of 4 additional weeks for Christmas
pressure.

Description Unit Credit Remarks
1 Letters posted across the counters.
These items of business are formed
into a baseline traffic figure
comprising of traffic for the
following posted items, taken from
four quarterly counts of traffic
recorded on Forms P2313 in 1986,
or a subsequent weeks count,
whichever is the later.

RPP Parcels Posted

Inland Letter Packets

a) Unbundled adhesive stamped items
about the minimum weight step
tendered for individual weighing
[as for inland letter packets (b)]

b) Unbundled adhesive stamped items
within the minimum tariff weight
step tendered for individual
weighing at the request of the
customers and accepted across the
counter for transmission by letter
post

c) Adhesive stamped items,
irrespective of weight, presented
for posting at the counter in
bundles tied with string or held
with rubber bands which do not
require individual treatment by the
Sub-Postmaster

Description

Overseas Letter Packets

1.5

75

7.5 per 20
items

Unit Credit

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

The baseline figures were formulated
from an estimate of the yearly traffic
based on a week’s traffic taken 4 times
in 1986 to secure a fair average. The
multiplier was then applied to give an
annual figure, including an allowance
of 4 additional weeks for Christmas
pressure.

Multiplier of 21 applied to bring it to

an annual equivalent.

Multiplier of 10.5 applied to bring it to
an annual equivalent (ie, 0.75 x 14)

Multiplier of 5.25 applied to bring it to
an annual equivalent (ie, 7.5 x 14)

Multiplier of 21 applied to bring it to
an annual equivalent (ie, 1.5 x 14)

Remarks

The yearly traffic for overseas letter
packets was derived from the same
count as inland letter packets.
a) Unbundled adhesive stamped
items, bearing a customs
declaration, tendered for individual
weighing as for Inland Letter
Packets (b)

b) Unbundled adhesive stamped items
not bearing a customs declaration
form, excluding postcards and
officially approved air letter forms,
tendered for individual weighing as
for Inland Letter Packets (b)

c) Adhesive stamped items,
irrespective of weight [presented as
for Inland Letter Packets (c)]

Meter franked correspondence handed
in over the counter

a) Bundles

b) Pouches

Recorded Delivery items posted

RPP Packets posted

2 Compensation fee parcels

3 International parcels

4 Personal Account Cheque Deposits
5 Discount wholesale stamp packs

6 Registered letters posted

Description

7 Ulster Savings Certificates repaid

3.25

1.5

0.5

1.25

7.5 per 20
items

2,
a5
1
10
3:25)
Unit Credit

9.5

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Multiplier of 45.5 applied to bring it to
an annual equivalent (ie, 3.25 x 14)

Multiplier of 21 applied to bring it to
an annual equivalent (ie, 1.5 x 14)

Multiplier of 21 applied to bring it to
an annual equivalent (ie, 1.5 x 14)

The yearly traffic is calculated as for
letter packets.

Multiplier of 7 applied to bring it to an
annual equivalent (ie, 0.5 x 14)
Multiplier of 42 applied to bring it to
an annual equivalent (ie, 3 x 14)

The yearly traffic is calculated as for
letter packets. A multiplier of 17.5 is
applied to give an annual figure (ie,
1.25 x 14)

Multiplier of 5.25 is applied to give an
annual figure (ie, 7.5 x 14)

Remarks
8 Postage stamps sold 16.4 per £10

9 Milk tokens issued 7 per 10

10 Citizen Bank Radio Licence stamps 4
sold

11 National Insurance Stamps sold 5.5 per £10

12 No of pensions paid 3

13 No of allowances paid 2.5

14 PSB warrants repaid 6.25

15 Savings Bank deposits and 6.5
withdrawals

16 No of DNS Dividend Warrants 4
cashed

17 DNS Other Stock and Bond 6.5
payments

18 Savings Certificates repaid 9.5

19 Premium Savings Bonds repaid and 1.5
each prize repaid

20 Motor Vehicle Licence stamps 2.75 per £10
supplied (less returns)

21 No of National Savings Stamps 4
encashed

22 Television Licence Savings Stamps 6.4 per £10
supplied (less returns) from 1.4.95

23 Local Taxation licences sold 5:75

Description Unit Credit

24 Television Licences sold 6

NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899

This credit covers postage stamps,
stamped stationery items and philatelic
items as well as stamps supplied for
vending machines

Annual traffic based on number of
licence fee stamps sold

Withdrawn April 1993.

Sales rounded up to next £10

Sales rounded up to next £10.

Remarks
25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

Motor Vehicle Licences issued

Thomas Cook’s/Visa Travellers
Cheques supplied (less returns)

International money orders

Postal Orders supplied (less
number returned)

Postal Orders paid

Postal Orders in excess of 5,000
paid in batches where a docket is
used

Cashing other banks’ cheques

Girobank deposits, inpayments and
transcash transactions

Girobank deposits, inpayments and

transcash transactions aggregate
value

Girobank coloured social security
payment orders

Girobank outpayments and
withdrawals

Girobank rent/rate vouchers and
card payments

Phonecards

No of telephone — subscribers’
accounts paid

Telephone Savings Stamps
supplied (less returns)

Description

40

RMSD items accepted

13

3.75 per
£156

4.5

1.5

0.5

4

4.25

1 per £119
from 1.4.95

3.5

4.5

7 per £10

3.5

6.5 per £10

Unit Credit

1.5

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Withdrawn 31.10.92

Number of transactions

This credit is in addition to the normal
Girobank deposit, inpayment and
transcash credit of 4.25 units and
Girobank rent/rates voucher and card
credit of 4 units

Sales rounded up to next £10

Remarks
42
43

44

45

46

47

48

49

33

56

57

59

}Mailwork Items

}

NHS prescription charge refunds
Refunds on Mono TV Licences
Custody of Postmans Pouches
E111 Certificates issued

British Gas Meter tokens

Inland stamped and metered parcels

No of Girobank high value
withdrawals

Postage Stamps sold A
Postage Stamps sold B

Council Tax Cards/Vouchers

4.5

2.5

2.0

2.5

4

See Section on Mailwork Pay

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

* NOTE These unit credits were correct at the time of going to press and in line with the
Sub-Postmaster’s Contract. However, line numbers may vary according to the

Regional Revision print-out.

Changes are advised in The General Secretary’s Notes contained within The Sub-

Postmaster.

SPECIAL CASH ALLOWANCE

The special cash allowance is based on final units and calculated as in the table below:-

Band 1..
Band 2
Band 3
Band 4..
Band S..
Band 6...

Minimum payment offices and offices up to 31,750 units
Offices with 31,751-99,850 units

Offices with 99,85 1-299,750 units

..Offices with 299,751-500,300 units

..Offices with 500,301-698,650 units

..Offices with 698,651 units or more

The payment for each band is shown in the current edition of the Sub-Postmasters’ pay
supplement.

CASH ALLOWANCES

Some items of business are remunerated by a cash payment paid on a regular or intermittent
basis as appropriate. These are listed in the Pay Supplement and are:-
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
ALLOWANCE PAYMENT AS AT 1 APRIL 1995
Datapost
Per item transferred (Mailwork Offices)........0cccssssseeeeseeseneseeteseeeneeeete £0.61

Per item accepted across the counter
Girobank change giving, for every £100 given

Distribution of leaflets

Payment (per distribution)
Minimum payment offices and offices up to 75,000 umits «00... cece £11.79
Offices with 75,001 to 209,000 units..
Offices with 209,001 to 569,000 units
Offices with 569,001 units or more ....

Delivery of correspondence across the counter

Payment (per iteM)........scsessessesseesesseeesseesesssesssneeessseeaeereaneetsaresessreatesreseese £0, 1686
Re-setting of franking machine meters

Payment (per Setting) ..........secesseseseesesesssseseesesessescseesesssneesseesssesseeeseessaceeeseeeee £1.53
Casual feeder point schemes

Payment (per casual per day)..........s.sscssssessssseeseeseesesseesesseesesssesesneeseensesesneesess £4.28
Pre-appointment training

Payment (Pet WOUL) excuse cecnscs se cesses.cosense ss saeresecsoass se sstass. session weeraeressanss cases ol A
Training in new work

(a) Weekdays (per hour) ..........scesssseessesessesseeseeseesesseesesseesesnsesssnesssaneeseseeee nn £4.27
(b) Sundays (per Hour) ........cscsceseseesesssseesesesesseseseeseseseeeetenssnsnsseeseneaeeneeeeee ne £9.98,

Payment for extra attendance
(a) Between 6am-9am (non-mailwork offices)
5.30pm-8pm and Ipm-5.30pm on m weekly

half holiday payment (per hour)... sosseeesseseesseeeesneseesnssesseesesseeseese £3.58
(6) 8pm-6am:payment (per hOUr) j..c:0<: ccccsccssaers co sassucesecsnss sasecesvecarevesceseeved £4.32
(c) Sundays and Bank Holidays payment (per hour) ............::scsssesseeeeeeeeeeeee £5.04

Training of new Sub-Postmasters

For Sub-Postmasters earning more than 153,850 umits «0.0.0.0... £6.45 per hour

Holiday Substitution Reimbursement Allowance
Sub-Postmasters who undertake postal delivery work
where a daily attendance before 8am is regularly scheduled.

£30.86 per day
£216.02 per week
Remaining Sub-Postmasters

INTERMITTENT ALLOWANCES

£25.64 per day
£179.48 per week

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

In addition to those allowances listed in the Pay Supplement, there are a number of other items of
work which are remunerated as a cash payment.

Most of these items of work are undertaken only by those Sub-Postmasters within a local area
and include schemes such as those run by local authorities, regional electricity and water
companies. However, a number of agreements have been made recently for payment to be made

by this method for work undertaken on behalf of national clients, eg, British Gas.

A payment for each type of work is negotiated between the client and Post Office Counters Ltd.
The Federation in turn negotiates the payment for Sub-Postmasters to take on this business.
These are normally paid as intermittent cash allowances.

% POOL

Items of work, not specifically credited and not carrying cash payments outside the scale, will be
regarded as covered by the percentage addition provided for in the final item. The main items
are as shown in the following list:-

a)
b)
c)
d)
°)
fy
8)
h)
i)

Express packets delivered

COD packets from abroad delivered

COD packets from abroad entered on Delivery Register
Inland COD packets and parcels posted

Home Safe Transactions

Official Paid Correspondence handed over counter
Postage Prepaid in Cash

Correction of Post Office Guide and Rule Books
Stocking and Issuing of Forms

Post Restante Mails

Encashment of Wages Cheques and Payment of Wages
Giving Change for Telephone Calls

Exhibition of Notices

Introduction of revised working practices

Co-operation in experiments involving new procedures
Merchant voucher deposits

OFFICIAL TELEPHONE ALLOWANCES

RENTAL CHARGES

Post Office Counters Ltd on production of a paid quarterly telephone account, will reimburse the
Sub-Postmaster the rental charges, including the VAT element, appropriate to the type of
telephone facility that the Regional General Manager has agreed is necessary. Rental charges
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

which exceed the levels so authorised by the Regional General Manager remain the
responsibility of the Sub-Postmaster.

CALL UNIT ALLOWANCE

Each Sub-Postmaster is given for each telephone account period an allowance of call units for
official purposes, based on the scale of Post Office business transacted; any part of the allowance
not expended in a telephone account period cannot be carried over to the next. The
Sub-Postmaster is due to pay for any call units used in excess of this allowance.

The standard allowances have been fixed at a level which takes into account the varying
conditions between offices. They also allow a margin for contingencies.

The scale of allowances, related to the telephone account period, is as follows; the call unit
allowance in column (b) is intended to reimburse Sub-Postmasters for longer distance calls to
DNS, Girobank etc, where these are not covered by the basic allowance in column (a):-

Offices in unit bands: Official call units per annum: Additional call units per annum:

(a) (b)
Up to 85,000 260 Nil
85,001-225,000 360 350
225,001-400,000 460 500
over 400,000 560 700

Where calls from a Sub Post Office to its Regional or controlling Crown Office are not within a
local call area and are charged on the basis of the distance between the two points, the standard
allowance of official call units will be subject to the following multipliers:

Distance in miles from Region or  Rateofcharge: Multiplier to be applied
controlling Crown Office to official allowance

Up to 35 miles a 5

Over 35 miles b 14

A Mailwork Sub-Postmaster may claim an additional allowance, in respect of calls made in
connection with his Mailwork responsibilities, providing that the standard allowance has been
expended. A claim, supported by documentary evidence, should be submitted to the Regional
General Manager with the telephone account for the period concerned.

The Post Office will reimburse the Sub-Postmaster the charges raised for VAT at the standard
rate, in respect of that part of the total charge related to Post Office services, ie rental, the free
call allowance and emergency repairs.

RETIRING OR DECEASED SUB-POSTMASTERS

Where a change of Sub-Postmaster takes place during the Revision year, and an increase is
arranged, the benefit of any arrears due up to the date of cessation of his service should, unless
there are good grounds for withholding payment, be allowed to the out-going Sub-Postmaster, or
to the executors on application.

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NEW APPOINTMENTS

The Sub-Postmaster’s initial remuneration will be in accordance with the official figures of
business found to be warranted at the last Revision. Post Office Counters Ltd should supply a
newly appointed Sub-Postmaster with a copy of the P271W applicable to that Post Office. Post
Office Counters will furnish similar information in cases where the actual P271W figures have to
be adjusted at the time the vacancy is filled.

MAILWORK SUB-POSTMASTERS

A Sub-Postmaster who provides sorting facilities for both delivery and collection of mails is
known as a Mailwork Sub-Postmaster. A Mailwork Sub-Postmaster enters into a separate
contractual arrangement with Post Office Counters Ltd to provide this service on behalf of Royal
Mail.

Up until 1995, the payment system was based around the volume of mail handled in the office.
This was translated into scale payment units plus a complex range of allowances. This system
has led to great differences in payment for similar sized offices. Also, the system did not provide
clear guidance on a Mailwork Sub-Postmaster’s responsibilities, nor the level of support they
should receive from Royal Mail and Post Office Counters Ltd.

In 1995, discussions between the Federation and Post Office Counters resulted in agreement to
introduce revised payment systems together with specifications which make clear the respective
responsibilities of the Mailwork Sub-Postmaster, Royal Mail and Post Office Counters. These
are underpinned by a “local unit specification”, agreed between the individual Sub-Postmaster,
the Retail Network Manager and local Royal Mail management. (For further details, see Section
4 - Sub-Postmasters’ Contract.)

NEW PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS

The new arrangements involve two payment systems to be run side by side and known as the ‘A’
scale or ‘B’ scale. At the time of introduction, the Sub-Postmaster was able to choose the scale
which is most beneficial. These new arrangements were introduced in the latter months of 1995
and will be operated until 1998. A joint review of the new approach will then be conducted by
the Federation and Post Office Counters with the aim of making further improvements as
appropriate. Regular liaison will take place between the Federation and Post Office Counters to
monitor the new arrangements.

‘A’ SCALE

This is calculated by assessing the value of Mailwork currently paid to an office, by taking the
units of the overall scale for the office, determining their value and adding any allowances or
other payments related to Mailwork. This scale will not attract any annual remuneration
increases, but the Sub-Postmaster will receive a lump sum payment during each of the next three
years, based on the number of postmen at the office.

The ‘A’ scale can be calculated using the following method:-
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Example:

_

+ Take Mailwork (line 42) units (in this example 37,665) .
38,795

Add 3% as follows: 37,665 x 1.03 = 38,795 iao mits

2. Subtract those units (38,795) from the evaluated total P

units (136,722) as follows: 136,722 - 38,795 = 97,927 97,927 units

3. This figure (97,927) is read against the Scale Payment

table (this example is against the unenhanced scale) and £9,601 new scale payment

results in a new scale payment of £9,601

4. Add Special Cash Allowance (£452) to new scale
payment (£9,601) to give new counter pay as follows: £10,053 new counter pay
£9,601 + £452 = £10,053

5. Subtract mail cash allowances (£521) from current
remuneration figure from revision form (£13,020) as
follows: £13,020 - £521 = £12,499

£12,499 current counter
pay

6. Subtract new counter pay (£10,053) from current counter £2,446
pay (£12,499) as follows: £12,499 - £10,053 = £2,446 *

7. Add total mailwork allowances (£521) as follows: £521 + £2,967 value of mailwork
£2,446 = £2,967 or ‘A’ Scale

‘B’ SCALE

Alternatively, a Sub-Postmaster could opt to go onto a completely new basis for Mailwork pay,
based on a premises payment and a supervisory payment depending on the number of postmen at
the office. The ‘B’ scale will attract any annual remuneration increases agreed between the
Federation and Post Office Counters. It can also change if the number of postmen in the office
changes.

For a Sub-Postmaster who decides to opt for the ‘B’ scale, the increase is to be phased in over
two years. On introduction, the Sub-Postmaster will immediately go on to an annual salary that
includes 30% of the difference between the ‘B’ and ‘A’ figures for the office. A year later this
will go up to 60% of the difference and a year later, up to 100% of the difference.

In addition, the Sub-Postmaster will receive a lump sum payment during each of the next three
years, based on the number of postmen at the office.

COMMUNITY, RESTRICTED HOURS, MINIMUM PAYMENT OFFICES
Up to 1995, these offices did not have identifiable Mailwork units and a slightly different system

will operate within these offices. For these offices, current Mailwork pay will be calculated and
then compared against a separate scale. These Sub-Postmasters will have the choice of opting
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

for the ‘A’ or ‘B’ Scale, with the ‘B’ scale being phased in over two years in line with the
arrangements for other Sub-Postmasters.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

GENERAL

When a Sub-Postmaster is appointed he signs a document acknowledging acceptance of the
appointment and agrees to be bound by the terms of the Contract, the Personal Declaration (P13),
the Rule Book and Postal Instructions issued by the Post Office.

The Sub-Postmasters Contract is a contract for services and consequently the Sub-Postmaster is
classified as an agent and not an employee of Post Office Counters Ltd.

The Sub-Postmaster is required to provide reasonable office accommodation and to meet the
maintenance expenses out of his remuneration. This includes paying the cost of employing any
assistants that are required to run the Post Office business.

When a Sub-Postmaster is appointed he is informed of the classes of business he is required to
provide. The Post Office may require other classes of business to be undertaken at a later date.
The only exception to this requirement is that a Sub-Postmaster need not take on Mailwork if this
was not agreed to as part of the terms of appointment.

The principal duties of a Sub-Postmaster are:-

« Sale of postage stamps

e Filling and clearing of stamp selling machines

¢ Treatment of Postal Packets, including Overseas Parcels
¢ Despatch and receipt of mails

and business connected with:-

¢ Postal orders.

¢ Pension Allowances

¢ Savings Certificates

Savings Bank, Government Stock and Annuities
Television Licences

Television Licence Saving Stamps
Motor Vehicle Licence Saving Stamps
Telephone Accounts

Telephone Saving Stamps

Premium Savings Bonds

Local Taxation Licences

Girobank

¢ Council Tax

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

All Sub-Postmasters on taking up appointment and newly recruited Sub-Office Assistants are
required to sign a Personal Declaration (Form P13) to remind them of the duty of the Post Office
to ensure that all communications and items entrusted to it reach the people for whom they are
intended promptly and safely and that the information in them reaches no-one not entitled to it.
The Personal Declaration also brings to the notice of newly appointed Sub-Postmasters and
Sub-Office Assistants their obligations under the Official Secrets Acts and the various Post
Office and Telegraph Acts.

On termination of appointment, a Sub-Postmaster is required to sign a declaration (Form P301)
as a reminder that the provisions of the Official Secrets Acts continues to apply to him in respect
of information which he has acquired or has had access to by virtue of his appointment.

The duty not to disclose information is imposed by the various Acts of Parliament, not the
Personal Declarations. These obligations cannot be avoided by refusing to sign these
declarations.

ATTENDANCE AT LAW COURTS ON POST OFFICE CASES AND COURT
PROSECUTION

A number of members and their assistants have, at various times, been involved in court
proceedings on official matters. The rules dealing with such attendances are laid down in Post
Office Rules Al, section XII, rules 1-4. Rule 1 reads as follows:-

“When a Sub-Postmaster or his assistant is required to give evidence, either in a criminal
prosecution or in civil proceedings, on a matter coming before him in his official capacity, the
Sub-Postmaster should seek instructions from the Head Postmaster as regards the expenses
incurred in attending court. In civil proceedings, an undertaking to pay the expenses which fall
upon the Post Office should, if possible, be obtained from the party in whose interest the witness
is summoned, and, if by failing to give notice beforehand, a Sub-Postmaster prevents this being
done, he may be held liable. The witness will generally be paid the cost of conveyance and
subsistence at certain authorised rates, and he must surrender to the Department any witness
allowance he receives from the Court. If it is necessary to provide a substitute, any reasonable
expenses incurred will be defrayed by the Department.”

This rule is further amplified in the old Head Postmaster’s Manual, which states: “When a Post
Office servant attends to give evidence in a criminal prosecution or in civil proceedings, whether
instituted by the Department or not, on a matter coming before him in his official capacity, he
should be paid by the Department the sum, if any, to which he would have been entitled if the
giving of the evidence had been part of his ordinary official duty, and he must surrender to the
Department any witness allowances, or conduct, or other money which he may receive, whether
from the Court of from parties interested in the case, as soon as possible after receipt thereof.
The cost of substitution should be borne by the Department.”

NOTE: These Rules have not been rewritten in the light of subsequent Post Office reorganisation.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Cases where Sub-Postmasters or their assistants consider that they would be out of pocket if
given allowances under the usual Post Office rules will be considered on application to their
Regional General Manager.

The above information should be helpful to Sub-Postmasters, as it appears a number of members
have no knowledge that rules covering this important matter exist.

INTRODUCTORY PAYMENT

Since 1989, Post Office Counters has collected an “introductory payment” from incoming
Sub-Postmasters. This payment was introduced alongside a new agreement designed to give
greater security of tenure.

PAYMENT OF THE INTRODUCTORY FEE
As from 1 April 1992, the arrangements for payment of the fee are as follows:-
1. Establishment of new Sub-Post Offices

Post Office Counters will collect from the initial Sub-Postmaster of a new Sub Post
Office an introductory payment, the size of which will be set at the absolute discretion of
Post Office Counters. This is currently fifteen months’ remuneration in England and
Wales and nine months’ in Scotland and Northern Ireland. In addition, the remuneration
of any incoming Sub-Postmaster in an office transacting more than 125,050 units of
business will be set for the first twelve months of the contract at 75% of the remuneration
scale then in force.

2. Relocation of existing Sub Post Offices to Different Premises

Post Office Counters will collect from any incoming Sub-Postmaster of the relocated
office an introductory payment, the size of which will be set at the absolute discretion of
Post Office Counters. This is currently fifteen months’ remuneration in England and
Wales and nine months’ in Scotland and Northern Ireland. In addition, the remuneration
of any incoming Sub-Postmaster in an office transacting more than 125,050 units of
business will be set for the first twelve months of the contract at 75% of the remuneration
scale then in force.

For those cases in which the outgoing Sub-Postmaster receives a payment from the joint
Post Office Counters/National Federation of Sub-Postmasters Discretionary Fund in
respect of office relocation, Post Office Counters will credit the Fund with 10% of the
introductory payment received from the new Sub-Postmaster of the relocated office.

3. Retention of Sub Post Office in Existing Premises
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

The remuneration of any incoming Sub-Postmaster in an office transacting more than
125,050 units of business will be set for the first twelve months of the contract at 75% of
the remuneration scale then in force.

No introductory payments are collected from Sub-Postmasters of offices
attracting less than 125,050 units.

The collection of introductory payments from Sub-Postmasters of relocated offices is not
intended to influence Regional General Managers in the decision on where to locate offices.
This should be based on network and customer service criteria. If The National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters has evidence which suggests this principle is being abused, this will be taken up
with Counters Business Headquarters.

Nominee organisations are no longer required to make an Introductory Payment when the
nominee Sub-Postmaster changes. However, an administration fee of £100 per office transferred
will be levied in such circumstances and Post Office Counters reserves the right to charge an
Introductory Payment when the ownership of the nominee organisation changes. Both payments
will be subject to VAT.

HOURS OF BUSINESS AT SCALE PAYMENT SUB-OFFICES

The actual hours of opening of any individual Sub Post Office are set by the Regional General
Manager. The Sub-Postmaster must not without permission vary the hours of business set by the
Regional General Manager.

The standard hours during which the Sub-Postmaster may be required to open his office are:-

.0900 - 1730
.0900 - 1230 or 1300 (depending on local circumstances)

Monday to Frida
Saturday

Recognising the changing pattern of customer shopping habits in certain locations, Post Office
Counters and the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters agreed in 1989 to introduce some
flexibility into the opening hours of some Sub Post Offices where there is a clear customer need
and when the Business and the Sub-Postmaster would benefit as a result.

Lunchtime and Half Day Closure (Monday to Friday)

At the Sub-Postmaster’s request the Regional General Manager may authorise the closure of an
office within standard counters hours:-

¢ For up to 1 hour at lunchtimes, at times agreed between the Regional General Manager and
Sub-Postmaster.

¢ On one afternoon per week (normally Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday but, in exceptional
circumstances Monday or Friday) from 1300 onwards.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

At the time of the contract change it was agreed that lunchtime closure concessions would be
maintained for Sub-Postmasters in post at the time of the change.

Extended Hours

Where a Sub-Postmaster wishes to conduct Post Office business outside standard hours,
Regional General Managers will consider such requests taking into account the normal shopping
patterns in the locality and the proximity of other Post Offices. Regional General Managers must
also consider the security of a Sub-Postmaster and his/her staff and the availability of operational
support.

Where a Regional General Manager considers non standard hours may be more appropriate for a
particular office but the Sub-Postmaster disagrees, the Sub-Postmaster may if he wishes trial a
rearrangement of the opening hours. This trial period should not be extended beyond three
months.

Suspension of Mid-week Half-day Closing during the Christmas and New Year Period and
(where applicable) on the Thursday preceding Good Friday

The Regional General Manager may, on his own initiative or at the request of the Sub-
Postmaster, suspend any mid-week early closing on any day or days between 18 and 31
December (Christmas Day and Boxing Day excluded) and on the Thursday before Good Friday.
Additional payment will be made by Post Office Counters for such opening.

Local Holidays and Tuesdays after Bank Holidays

Regional General Managers will review the concession under which some offices close on Local
Holidays or on Tuesdays after Bank Holidays. Where this no longer matches customer needs the
concession will be withdrawn.

Advertising of Holidays

The times at which a Sub Post Office is closed for National or local holidays should be
prominently advertised at the office concerned.

Payment for those Periods outside Standard Hours

No additional payment will be made by Post Office Counters for any opening outside standard
Counters’ hours other than that attracted by the extra business transacted. Separate arrangements
exist for those offices which provide a mailwork facility.

Restricted Hours

For information on a Restricted Hours Office, please refer to Section on Community Sub Office
Contract.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

RESPONSIBILITY FOR POST OFFICE STOCK & CASH

On taking up the appointment, a Sub-Postmaster is supplied with suitable Post Office stock, the
amount of which is fixed by the Regional General Manager.

The Sub-Postmaster may hold Post Office Counters cash to meet normal payments at the Sub
Post Office in accordance with official accounting and security instructions. The Sub-Postmaster
is expressly forbidden to make use of the balance due to Post Office Counters for any purpose
other than the requirements of the Post Office service. No portion of Post Office Counters
monies should be used for private use and Post Office Counters monies must be kept separate
from private business monies. Misuse of Post Office Counters cash may render the offender
liable to prosecution and/or termination of the Contract of Appointment.

Accounts of all Post Office Counter’s stock and cash must be kept in the form prescribed by Post
Office Counters and must be produced for inspection by authorised personnel.

SECURITY

The Sub-Postmaster is held strictly responsible for the safe custody of cash, stock and other Post
Office Counters property whether held by himself or his Assistants, and is required to keep them
in a secure place. When deciding the required standard of security, Post Office Counters takes
into account:-

1. the circumstances in which the Sub-Postmaster was appointed and, in particular, the
standard of security then accepted;

2. the length of time since the appointment; and
3. any particular circumstances relevant to the Sub Office.

The Federation has agreed guidelines with Post Office Counters on standards for secure
accommodation. These guidelines advise Sub-Postmasters what to do if minimum standards
cannot be met. By following the guidelines, Sub-Postmasters can ensure they cannot be accused
of negligence simply as a result of shortage of secure space. Where such standards cannot be
met, it is important to advise the Retail Network Manager of the problem in writing. This must
be done to protect against accusations of negligence, or non-compliance of instructions following
an incident at a member’s Post Office.

The agreed guidelines on standards for secure accommodation are as follows:-

1. Ideally, all cash and stock should be accommodated in a safe either supplied by Post
Office Counters or equivalent standard private safe.

2 If the above is not practical the following standards are acceptable:-
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Banknotes

Pre-authenticated Lottery Cheques
Travellers Cheques

Postal Orders

MVLs

Other Licences

Postage and other stamps
Phonecards

Travel Permits/Bus Tickets
Activated Lottery Instant Win Tickets
Pension & Allowance Books

Official safe (as above)

Datestamps

£1 Coin Any safe

Unactivated Lottery Instant Win Tickets

Other Coin

Tokens Lockable steel cupboard

Power Cards
Stamped Stationery

Lottery Printer Rolls
Datestamp Type
Non-negotiable documents

Lockable cupboard or drawer

ee ee ee Oe eee ee eee

Sub-Postmasters who cannot provide secure accommodation sufficient to meet
the above minimum standards must use what they have to best advantage and
advise his/her Retail Network Manager of the problem in writing.

LOSSES

The Sub-Postmaster’s contract provides that a Sub-Postmaster is responsible for all losses caused
through his own negligence, carelessness or error and for losses of all kinds caused by his
assistants.

In practice, where losses occur, Post Office Counters does not always exercise the full
contractual right to recover the total loss. Relief may be given, in full or in part, depending upon
the specific circumstances surrounding the loss. Each individual case will be judged upon its
merits. Full relief is normally given for losses incurred in the first 6 weeks of the appointment.

In the case of theft or burglary, the question of granting relief will depend upon whether the
Sub-Postmaster has taken reasonable precautions to safeguard the official cash and property.

In the case of losses caused by fraud, the question of granting relief will depend upon the specific
circumstances of the case. Relief will be given where the Sub-Postmaster is in effective control
of the Sub Post Office and where the circumstances of the case indicate that the loss did not arise
from negligence.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

It is imperative that in any case where a Sub-Postmaster suspects fraud, this be
immediately reported to the Regional General Manager.

TRAINING

At the time of going to press, the Federation was actively participating in a Quality Improvement
Project (QIP) on Sub-Postmasters’ training. The aim of the QIP is to identify and introduce
methods to improve the initial and ongoing provision of training of Sub-Postmasters and their
assistants in handling Post Office business in order that they are enabled to achieve the standards
of service expected by Post Office Counters, its customers and clients and to enhance pride in
their performance.

UALITY STANDARDS

In 1989, agreement was reached with Post Office Counters to introduce a new section on quality
into the Sub-Postmaster’s contract. This section of the contract sets out to clearly define the
difference between quality of service (eg, waiting time) and quality of performance (eg,
transaction accuracy).

The contractual change was supported by Guidelines for District Managers to be read in
conjunction with the contract. The aim of these Guidelines was to ensure that this element of the
contract was implemented fairly and consistently throughout the network. The Guidelines
placed emphasis upon positive encouragement to achieve high quality standards, rather than
being viewed primarily as an opportunity to take sanctions against Sub-Postmasters.

These Guidelines were issued in 1990 to ensure that financial penalties were not passed on to
Sub-Postmasters without proper consideration of the specific circumstances of the case and with
due regard to positive measures to improve performance.

The 1990 guidelines remain relevant and they are therefore reproduced below in full:-

“QUALITY OF SERVICE & QUALITY OF PERFORMANCE

GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT MANAGERS TO BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH
SECTION 22 OF THE SUBPOSTMASTER’S CONTRACT

vf This commentary should be read in conjunction with the subpostmaster’s contract. The
objective behind having a Quality chapter is to improve the service which we give to
customers and clients. It must not be viewed primarily as an opportunity to take
sanctions against subpostmasters. It calls for regular assessment of standards of service
and for those standards to be communicated clearly and concisely to the subpostmaster.

2. In laying down our requirements we must have a proper regard to our own standards. It
is not sufficient for us to require particular standards of a subpostmaster when we cannot
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

provide the subpostmaster’s needs. Consequently before any action is taken, the local
manger must satisfy himself that there were no relevant deficiencies in
POCL’s performance.

Throughout, the emphasis must be on improving service rather than punishing for poor
service.

District Managers should pay particular attention to any apparent failings in the training
that a subpostmaster has received and should seek to remedy such by placing special
emphasis on transactions which appear to cause difficulty.

Visiting Officers and Area Managers will in future need to develop methods of briefing
which ensure that subpostmasters are aware of our requirements with a view throughout
to improving performance.

It must be only when all else fails that penalties or parts of penalties are passed on to
subpostmasters. In such cases local managers will need to have a special regard to the

items listed on the associated paper.

In applying these guidelines, Managers should take the following factors into
consideration before reaching a decision:-

() The experience of the subpostmaster.

(2) The way in which the office is run e.g. the extent of supervision or degree of
carelessness.

(3) Inability of POCL to meet its obligations to provide facilities which would bear
on standard of service.

(4) Extent to which the subpostmaster was aware of the standard required.
(5) Training given to the subpostmaster.
(6) Extent of retraining or counselling.

(7) Previous errors of a similar nature.
(8) Previous errors from other transactions.

(2) Accounting record.
(10) Any other exceptional circumstances which would have a bearing.

In particular for items 7, 8 and 9, provided there has not been a recent recurrence there
must come a time when a previous errors should be regarded as “spent”.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

9. Throughout, the principle must be to encourage subpostmasters and their staff to improve
their standard of performance. This should be achieved by briefing subpostmasters to
ensure that they fully understand what is required of them. Where a gap in knowledge is
identified, appropriate action should be taken to give the subpostmaster the opportunity
to revisit areas which give cause for concern.

10. Punitive measures be they financial or contractual, will normally be a last resort. The
local Manager can only pass on the cost of any loss or penalty borne by
POCL. However, depending upon the circumstances set out above there will be many
cases where a degree of relief should be given.

11. All subpostmasters should be furnished with a list of transactions which may carry a
financial penalty for Post Office Counters Ltd.”

NB These guidelines have not been rewritten to reflect subsequent reorganisation.

PUTTING THE CUSTOMER FIRST

In 1993, the Federation agreed to a change to the Sub-Postmaster’s contract to support the roll
out of the “Putting the Customer First” programme to Sub Post Offices. This contractual change
committed Sub-Postmasters to participate in “Putting the Customer First” by attending the
training sessions which form the programme and carrying out the interim activity required
between sessions. A Sub-Postmaster’s Sub Office assistants are also expected to undergo the
training programme, either at sessions led by the Sub-Postmasters themselves, once they are
trained, or the Retail Network Manager. Sub-Postmasters should make all reasonable efforts to
encourage their staff to participate in the training.

Payment for travel and substitution is made by Post Office Counters at the “off-site” sessions
which make up the programme.

MORATORIUM ON PENALTY PAYMENTS

In August 1993, agreement was reached with Post Office Counters for a moratorium on the
passing on of certain QPA penalties in recognition of the considerable improvements made in the
standards of service delivered to Counters Agency clients by Sub-Postmasters and their staff. It
also took into account the constructive manner in which the Federation had approached the roll
out of the “Putting the Customer First” programme. The moratorium was agreed in respect of
the following transactions:-

Girobank

e Error notices issued in respect of PDR, (G6301/G6302) and Green/Violet Giro cheques
(G6305/6307) transactions
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

British Telecom

e Late dispatch of BT bills, with due account to cut off times where this is demonstrably the
fault of the Sub-Postmaster.

DVLA (MVL offices only)

e Licence issued early
¢ Incorrect licence issued.

Initially, the moratorium was agreed until 31 March 1994, but was subsequently extended to
cover the whole of the 1994-95 financial year. Its future beyond the end of March 1995 was not
determined at the time of going to press.

It should be noted that the moratorium on QPA penalties does not in any way lessen the
contractual responsibility for Sub-Postmasters to make good any losses to the Business caused
by their, or their assistants’, carelessness or negligence. All contractual provisions referring to
those losses were specifically excluded from the moratorium. In view of the importance of the
QPA issue, the current contract referring to QPA penalties also remains a part of the Sub-
Postmaster’s contract.

Full details of those errors for which a contribution may be sought towards losses incurred are
contained in the Sub-Postmaster’s contract.

ABSENCE FROM THE OFFICE

The Sub-Postmaster is not obliged to attend the Sub Office personally, but he is required,
whether he is there or not, to accept full responsibility for the proper running of the office. A
Sub-Postmaster must make proper provision, at his own expense, for the conduct of the office
whilst he is away. Any absence lasting more than three days should be notified to the Regional
General Manager.

The Post Office provides assistance towards the cost of a substitute in respect of certain
absences. These are:-

Absence on holiday

Sickness Absence

Absence on Territorial Training
Absence on Jury Service.

HOLIDAY SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE

A Sub-Postmaster is not entitled to annual leave, but subject to certain conditions, may claim
reimbursement of the necessary cost of substitution when taking a holiday. To qualify for
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

reimbursement, the Sub-Postmaster must be able to certify that he renders on average not less
than eighteen hours’ personal service each week.

Reimbursement of the costs of substitution is paid as a Holiday Substitution Allowance and the
maxima payable are published annually in the Pay Supplement.

To help Sub-Postmasters to overcome the difficulties sometimes experienced in obtaining
suitable substitutes in a particular year the holiday substitution allowance extends over a period
of two years. The holiday periods for which the costs of substitution are payable are:-

. For a Sub-Postmaster with less than ten years service; a total not exceeding seven weeks
in a period of twenty four months beginning 1 April in every odd year; seven weeks for
this purpose consists of forty two weekdays plus not more than seven associated Sundays.

. For a Sub-Postmaster with ten years or more aggregated service; a total not exceeding
8 weeks in a period of twenty four months beginning 1 April in every odd year; eight
weeks for this purpose consists of forty eight weekdays plus not more than eight
associated Sundays.

. Subject to the above limits on holiday periods, Sub- Postmasters may claim
reimbursement of substitution costs for absences of less than three days, provided that
claims are aggregated and made quarterly.

. The amount of the allowance is proportionately reduced in respect of the first and last
years of a Sub-Postmaster’s service. A proportionate adjustment will be made when a
Sub-Postmaster qualifies for the higher allowance during the two year cycle.

The Sub-Postmaster must do his best to find his own substitute and make all necessary
arrangements for his absence, which should be notified to the Regional General Manager. In
cases of difficulty the Regional General Manager or the Secretary of the local Branch of the
National Federation of Sub-Postmasters may be able to give the names and addresses of local
people known to be willing to offer their services as holiday reliefs to Sub-Postmasters.
Responsibility for concluding agreements with such people remains with the Sub-Postmaster
concerned.

The Sub-Postmaster must submit a formal claim for reimbursement of the holiday substitution
allowance within three months of the end of the period of substitution to which the claim relates.
He must certify:-

e that he has taken a holiday both from the Sub Post Office and from his private business
during the whole period covered by the claim; and

« that, in respect of the services he provided as Sub-Postmaster, he has actually and
necessarily incurred additional expenditure equating to the amount claimed, in respect of a
paid substitute or substitutes with the exception of members of his family who normally
participate in the Sub Office work other than merely occasionally.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

A Sub-Postmaster who holds more than one Sub Office appointment and who satisfies the
general conditions entitling him to claim reimbursement must also satisfy the further conditions
that he is absent from all his Sub Offices at the same time. Only one claim for reimbursement is
admissible and not one claim per office held.

A Sub-Postmaster is allowed to dispense with the preparation of cash accounts on up to
three occasions in each accounting/financial year during his own absence on holiday.

It should be noted that it will not be possible to dispense with two consecutive cash accounts
when one or both of them, or the next account that would be due, is for longer than a normal cash
account week, eg Christmas and New Year. However, applications to dispense with one account
at such times will be considered.

Where a cash account is prepared during the Sub-Postmaster’s absence on holiday and is signed
by a substitute on his behalf, a note to this effect should be made on the Account.

The full conditions and procedures to be followed are contained in Section 4 of the
Sub-Postmaster’s contract.

SICKNESS SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE
See Section on Sickness

ABSENCE ON TERRITORIAL TRAIT

NG

A Sub-Postmaster who renders on average not less than eighteen hours’ personal service each
week may be reimbursed with the cost of providing a substitute, up to the maximum of the
appropriate Holiday Substitution Allowance in force, for an additional period of absence of up to
twelve working days and two associated Sundays in each year, to attend territorial training.

The conditions and procedures to be followed are contained in Section 5 of the Sub-Postmaster’s
contract.

ABSENCE FOR JURY SERVICE

Post Office employees are not entitled to claim exemption from Jury Service on the grounds of
their employment. A Sub-Postmaster who receives a summons to serve on a jury should notify
his Regional General Manager immediately, and should inform him of the arrangements which
he proposes to make for the conduct of the work of the Sub Office in his absence.

Where exceptionally the Sub-Postmaster is unable to find a substitute and the Sub Office is
temporarily closed on account of the absence of the Sub-Postmaster on jury service, the scale
payment for the period of the closure will be withheld.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Sub-Postmasters attending for jury service should claim from the court any allowances for which
they are eligible in respect of travelling and subsistence and, where appropriate, compensation
for loss of remuneration. If a Sub-Postmaster is in need of advice as to the allowances to which
he will be entitled, he should seek this from the official responsible for the issue of the summons.

COMMUNITY SUB OFFICE CONTRACT

A Sub Office is designated as a Community Sub Office if it earns less than 50,000 units a year
and the Sub-Postmaster is not required to be open for the total hours of normal counter service.
Where a Sub Post Office is not open full time and transacts between 50,000 and 125,000 units a
year, it is referred to as a Restricted Hours Office.

Since June 1987, the majority of offices transacting less than 50,000 units have been
redesignated a Community Office upon vacancy.

Under the terms of the Agreement which extended the Community Contract to Restricted Hours
Offices, no existing Sub-Postmaster may be forced to convert to Community status, but can
volunteer to do so with the agreement of the Regional General Manager. Otherwise an office
open full time will only be converted to Community status at the time of vacancy if it is not
possible to appoint a suitable full time candidate. If the work of a Community Sub Office
exceeds 125,000 units the Sub-Postmaster may opt to provide services on a full time basis.

MAILWORK SUB-POSTMASTERS CONTRACT

Sub-Postmasters enter into a separate contract with Post Office Counters for their Mailwork
duties. This contract is signed in addition to the normal contract of appointment as a
Sub-Postmaster.

Remuneration for the facilities and services provided by the Mailwork Sub-Postmaster are paid
in accordance with the agreements in force between Post Office Counters and the Federation.
Any changes to pay and conditions of service are also subject to consultation with the
Federation.

Following negotiations between the Federation and Post Office Counters, it was agreed that new
payment arrangements would be introduced towards the end of 1995. (For further details, refer
to Section 3 - Pay.) The revised payment systems are being introduced together with
specifications which make clear the respective responsibilities of the Mailwork Sub-Postmaster,
Royal Mail and Post Office Counters. These will be underpinned by a ‘local unit specification’
which will be agreed between the individual Sub-Postmaster, the Retail Network Manager and
local Royal Mail management. This is due to be set up for every Mailwork Office by the end of
1996.

The new arrangements identify that the key responsibilities for Mailwork Sub-Postmasters
revolve around their requirement to provide premises and to supervise the Royal Mail staff and
the operations that are carried out in those premises. The approach also recognises that in
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

different size offices, in different parts of the country, the precise application of the arrangements
may differ.

REVISED SPECIFICATIONS

The Sub-Postmaster’s specification outlines the responsibilities of the Sub-Postmaster in a
Mailwork Sub-Post Office, the activities being basically the same as that already covered in the
existing contract. The revised specification makes these requirements more explicit and
therefore clearer.

For the Sub-Postmaster to do the job effectively, Royal Mail must support various activities and
these are covered in the Royal Mail specification.

Mailwork Sub-Postmasters have always been required to provide suitable accommodation for the
effective discharge of Mailwork duties and have been responsible for meeting the provisions of
relevant legislation, in particular the Health & Safety at Work Act. The accommodation
specification does not change this, but it does clarify the types of issue involved in
accommodation provision by reference to work place regulations issued by the Health & Safety
Executive.

The specification also explains how Royal Mail can undertake assessments of premises in line
with their statutory responsibilities. If action is necessary to bring standards up to the relevant
legislation, an action plan is agreed between the Sub-Postmaster and local Post Office Counters
Limited and Royal Mail representatives. If the action is necessary because of changes in Royal
Mail requirements (such as more Postmen) or legislative requirements changing since the Sub-
Postmaster’s appointment, then arrangements are made for Royal Mail to fund the work.

These three specifications are tailored to the needs of an individual local office through the
agreement of a ‘Local Unit Specification’ by the Sub-Postmaster and local Royal Mail and Post
Office Counters Limited representatives. That Local Unit Specification details how Mailwork is
done at that particular office. These should be set up by the end of 1996.

PAYMENT ON WITHDRAWAL OF MAILWORK

Where the whole or part of either category of Mailwork carried out at a Sub Office is withdrawn,
the Sub-Postmaster will receive a lump sum, an amount equivalent to 1.5 times the consequential
annual reduction in pay. The reduction in pay should take effect from the date of the withdrawal
of the work.

If the withdrawal of mailwork happens in stages, the Sub-Postmaster should receive a lump sum
in respect of the reduction on each occasion. In cases where there is simultaneous loss and gain
of mailwork the lump sum payment should be calculated on any nett loss.

Payments should not be made where the change is due to variations in traffic.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

At least three months’ notice, or payment in licu of three months’ notice will be paid on
withdrawal of mailwork, except in those cases where the Sub-Postmaster’s contract is summarily
terminated or where he resigns to avoid summary termination.

Payment for the loss of mailwork will not be made where work is withdrawn at:-

1. the request of the Sub-Postmaster;

2. the time of summary termination or resignation to avoid summary termination;

3. a minimum payment office which is already paid for more work that it carries out.

The annual revision date will be unaffected by the withdrawal of mailwork.

SECURITY OF TENURE

Prior to 1989 the terms of the contract provided Sub-Postmasters with no guaranteed tenure of
appointment beyond three months from a current date.

In 1989 a new agreement was reached which provided greater security of tenure. The terms of

the agreement which now operates specifies that a successor will be appointed at the outgoing

Sub-Postmaster’s premises unless:-

« the Regional General Manager has stated that he wishes to close or resite the office on
vacancy, or

¢ no acceptable candidate can be found to take over the appointment as Sub-Postmaster in the
existing premises before the incumbent Sub-Postmaster wishes to cease his appointment.

« — the outgoing Sub-Postmaster’s contract is terminated either summarily or with three months’
notice by Post Office Counters, or where the Sub-Postmaster resigns to avoid termination of
contract.

In accordance with this agreement, when a Sub-Postmaster resigns, the vacancy is advertised for
filling only at the existing premises. Sub-Postmasters may extend their contractual three months’
notice period in order to give the opportunity for an acceptable candidate to be appointed.

The absolute discretion of Regional General Managers to appoint a Sub-Postmaster remains
unchanged by this agreement.

RESIGNATION

A Sub-Postmaster who wishes to resign his appointment must give three calendar months’ notice
in writing. If he does not give such notice Post Office Counters may require him to pay any
expense which it incurs in providing temporary arrangements to cater for the business which
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

would normally be expected to be transacted at the Sub Office during any part of the three month
notice period.

It should be noted that there is no specific age limited for the retirement of a Sub-Postmaster.
Unless indicated otherwise by the Regional General Manager, a vacancy will be advertised at the
existing Sub Post Office premises.

COUNSELLING ON RESIGNATION

Any Sub-Postmaster contemplating resignation from his office, or planning major investment in
his premises, is entitled to seek a counselling interview from his Regional Office at which the
Region will inform him of their future plans for the office should he resign, confirming this
advice in writing.

If that advice is that the Regional General Manager would propose to close the office, or to
relocate it, both parties must understand that, under the Code of Practice agreed with the Post
Office Users’ National Council, Regional General Managers must consult local opinion (MP’s,
Local Authorities, POACS, etc) before making their final decision on any proposal to close or
relocate an office. Any advice to the effect that, in the event of the Sub-Postmaster resigning, the
Regional General Manager would intend to propose closing the office must therefore be subject
to the outcome of this consultation.

The following principles will govern all such interviews:-

1. they will be convened only at the request of the Sub-Postmaster;

2. they will be strictly confidential to those involved;
3. advice given by Post Office Counters will be open, honest and as definitive as is possible;
4. any such advice will normally hold good for at least eighteen months unless a shorter

period of validity is specified at the interview;

5. while time limits on the validity of advice of six months may be necessary in areas where
complex network decisions are involved this short a time period should be used as
infrequently as possible;

6. In those exceptional cases in which no assurances can be given but no plan for closure
has been developed, the Region should make clear to the Sub-Postmaster that the issue
will be resolved as soon as possible, and in no more than three months.

It is intended that the advice given should be accepted as sufficiently robust for Sub-Postmasters
to have confidence in its value. If, exceptionally, during the period of validity of the counselling
advice, the decision as to the future of the office concerned is changed, the Regional General
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Managers should, in order to avoid unnecessary disruption and possible financial loss to the
Sub-Postmaster, inform the Sub-Postmaster of the changed circumstances.

The counselling agreement is designed to benefit Sub-Postmasters. Both the National Federation
of Sub-Postmasters and Post Office Counters believe it is important that Sub-Postmasters take
advantage of the opportunity it offers. It is also important that Sub-Postmasters understand that
they can seek a renewal of such counselling advice at any stage.

TRANSFER OF OFFICE

Under the terms of an agreement between Post Office Counters and the Federation, the
requirement for an introductory payment will be waived in cases where the Sub Post Office
appointment passes to the spouse or a member of the immediate family (ie, son or daughter).
This may be done in the event of death, retirement (ill health or age) or resignation of the
Sub-Postmaster.

The introductory payment will be waived provided that:-

1. the premises are satisfactory and conveniently situated, enabling the office to remain “on

site”,
2. the office has been conducted satisfactorily, and
3. the spouse, son or daughter or to whom it is proposed to transfer the appointment, is

eligible and suitable in all respects.
There is no requirement for previous service in the Post Office by that member of the family.

This agreement is designed to cater for those specific circumstances in which Post Offices have
been run successfully and it is intended to keep them running within the immediate family.

It should be noted that in order to qualify for this waiver, the transfer of the Post Office must be
made for non-commercial reasons. Regional General Managers have been instructed by
Counters Business Headquarters to be flexible in approach in these cases.

RETIREMENT

GIFTS FOR LONG SERVICE IN THE POST OFFICE

Long service with the Post Office is recognised by the Post Office Group presenting the officer
with a gift when he leaves its employment. Sub-Postmasters who have given twenty five years’
or more service to the Post Office are included in the scheme. Qualifying service includes full
time Post Office service (whether temporary or permanent), sick leave, special leave with pay,
National Service which interrupted Post Office service, and part time service of eighteen hours a
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

week or more. Officers who are dismissed, resign to avoid dismissal, or whose services are
terminated for inefficiency do not qualify for consideration.

Gifts fall into four categories, one for those with 25-34 years of service; one for those with 35-39
years of service; 40 years plus; and 50 years plus. Those in the 50 years plus category have an
option of:-

1. choosing a gift from the special range appropriate to their category

2 choosing instead from the normal 40 years plus range and having, in addition, a suitable
memento in a form favoured by the individual.

The gift will be chosen from an officially approved catalogue and ordered by the local
management from the official suppliers. A request can be made for the gift to be suitably
inscribed except where the article chosen is not suitable for engraving. Presentation will be
made on the last day of service, or the last day of work, and normally made personally. In
exceptional cases, the gift will be forwarded by post in which case care will be taken to avoid
damage.

A recipient may not opt for cash in lieu of the gift nor may he choose to make a contribution in
order to obtain a more expensive gift.

COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE

An agreement between Post Office Counters and the Federation makes provision for machinery
and funds to enable certain discretionary payments to be made to certain Sub-Postmasters who
terminate their contracts and whose Sub Post Offices are either then closed or re-established in
other premises.

Under the terms of this Agreement a discretionary payment may be made to Sub-Postmasters
who:-

1) resign and whose Sub Post Office is either closed or resited, or

2) whose contract is terminated by Post Office Counters in order to close the Sub Post
Office permanently.

The Fund from which these payments are made is financed jointly by the National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters and Post Office Counters. The Fund is administered by a management
committee consisting of nominees put forward by both the Federation and Post Office Counters.
Responsibility for making a discretionary payment in certain circumstances rests with the
Management Committee which reviews all applications prior to payment.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

A Sub-Postmaster who is granted a payment under this Agreement is paid an amount equal to
twenty six months of the gross remuneration in force on his last day of appointment. Gross
remuneration for these purposes is calculated in accordance with the unit scale and includes all
regular allowances in force on the last day of appointment.

If a Sub-Postmaster who is awarded a payment under this Agreement has a deficiency in his final
account, Post Office Counters may, at its absolute discretion, deduct from the payment a sum
equivalent to that deficiency.

There is no contractual entitlement to payment which is made on an ex gratia basis. Such
payment has only a limited liability to taxation - under Section 148 of the Income and
Corporation Taxes Act 1988. This provides that the first £30,000 of any payment is exempt from
taxation.

INJURIES FROM ATTACK

Under the terms of a long standing agreement between the Federation and Post Office Counters,
Post Office Counters may provide financial assistance to Sub-Postmasters who are attacked.

Where in the course of duty a Sub-Postmaster and/or his Assistant receive injuries in a robbery
the amount of assistance to be given to the Sub-Postmaster by the Post Office is determined on
the merits of each case, on the following broad basis:

1. Where the Sub-Postmaster or an Assistant is temporarily incapacitated but the office is
kept open, reasonable additional costs of any necessary substitution, less the amount of
any state benefits received, may be granted on the authority of the Regional General
Manager.

2s Where the Regional General Manager agrees that it is necessary to close the office
temporarily, payment of the normal scale payment, less the amount of any state benefits
received, and any savings made possible by the closing of the office may be made for a
period of up to twelve months on the Regional General Manager’s authority.

3. Reimbursement of reasonable expenses necessarily incurred on incidental items, (eg, for
damage to clothes, conveyance to hospital) may be approved by the Regional General
Manager.

CRIMINAL INJURIES COMPENSATION BOARD

Compensating victims for crimes of violence is dealt with by the Criminal Injuries
Compensation Board. Details of the scheme can be obtained from the Board, The Department of
Social Security, Department of Employment and Citizens Advice Bureaux.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

The address for England and Wales is Whittington House, 19 Alfred Place, London, WC1E 7EA
and for Scotland is Blythswood House, 200 West Regent Street, Glasgow, G2 4SW.

Injuries which occur in Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man are outside the
scope of the government scheme.

CRIMINAL INJURY COMPENSATION SCHEME

Since 1 September 1993, Post Office Counters has been operating an in-house Criminal Injury
Compensation Scheme which replaced the Norwich Union Insurance Scheme.

The scheme continues to provide cover to Sub-Postmasters and their registered Sub Office
assistants, reliefs and substitutes who sustain permanent physical injury arising from an attack in
the furtherance of theft of Post Office cash and stock on the premises, in and out of normal
business hours.

The current maximum benefit payable is £60,000 in cases of death or 100% permanent disability.
The scheme also covers travel to and from banks, CRU’s, etc, where this travel is required to be
undertaken by Post Office Counters . In cases of dispute, claims may go to the insurance broker
Alexander & Alexander, for independent arbitration.

Full details of the Compensation scheme can be found in Section 11 of the Sub-Postmaster’s
contract.

The scheme has been extended to cover Sub-Postmasters and all staff, reliefs and substitutes who
are engaged in Lottery business on the retail side of their business.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

STATUTORY SICK PAY

Employees are entitled to be paid Statutory Sick Pay (SSP) by their employer, the
amount of which has been fixed by Government in each financial year. Payment of
Statutory Sick Pay is dependent on the employee satisfying rules regarding periods of
incapacity, periods of entitlement, qualifying days and, at the discretion of the employer,
rules on notification of absence.

The employer's ability to reclaim Statutory Sick Pay payments from the Government has
been the subject of a number of significant changes. Prior to 6 April 1994, most
employers were limited to reclaiming 80% of Statutory Sick Pay payments. From 6 April
1994, the right of employers to reclaim Statutory Sick Pay payments was removed,
other than for small employers. The Statutory Sick Pay Small Employer's Relief
Scheme was abolished from 6 April 1995 and is replaced by the Percentage Threshold
Scheme. The new scheme is not restricted to small businesses and applies to all
Statutory Sick Pay payments for days of incapacity on or after 6 April 1995. The new
scheme is designed to help employers who have a high proportion of their workforce
sick at any one time and is not restricted to small businesses. Unless you qualify under
the new scheme you are not entitled to recover any of the Statutory Sick Pay paid to
your employees.

A single rate of Statutory Sick Pay is payable for days of incapacity for work which falls
on or after 6 April 1995. Statutory Sick Pay is treated as earnings and so is subject to
PAYE and National Insurance Contributions from the employee. Statutory Sick Pay
should be paid to employees at the same time that wages would have been paid for the
same period.

Employees who are not eligible for Statutory Sick Pay may be entitled to other Social
Security benefits instead. In Northern Ireland, arrangements are basically the same,
although with some differences in detail.

There is no legal requirement on an employer to pay an employee sick pay whist the
employee is absent from work, other than a requirement to pay Statutory Sick Pay.

SUB-POSTMASTERS

Post Office Counters Ltd is obliged to comply with the Statutory Sick Pay Scheme in
respect of Sub-Postmasters. This is because under the terms of the legislation, the
term employee includes those employed in an office with emoluments chargeable to
Schedule E Income Tax.

Statutory Sick Pay can only be paid on qualifying days. Qualifying days for Sub-
Postmasters are those days on which a Sub-Postmaster is normally required to provide
a service. Where service is only required for part of a day, this day counts in full for
Statutory Sick Pay purposes.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

ELIGIBILITY

An employer is obliged to pay statutory sick pay to employees, aged sixteen and over,
who have been off sick for four or more days in a row. Any period less than this does
not qualify for statutory sick pay.

A period of incapacity for work (PIW) is a period of sickness lasting for four days or
more. Any two PIW’s which are separated by less than eight weeks are known as
linked PIW’s and are treated as one PIW. This is important to know when working out
whether Statutory Sick Pay is to be paid and the amount of the payment. If an
employee cannot get Statutory Sick Pay at the start of a PIW, they will not be entitled to
it in any subsequent linking PIW.

An employee cannot get Statutory Sick Pay if, on the first day of the PIW:-

1. Their PIW links with a recent claim for Social Security Benefit. The benefits
which link are Incapacity Benefit, Severe Disablement Allowance and Maternity
Allowance.

2. They have already been due twenty eight weeks’ Statutory Sick Pay from their
previous employer.

3. Their average weekly earnings are below the level at which National Insurance
contributions are payable.

4. Their contract of service is for a specified period of three months or less.

5. They are over age sixty five.

6. She is within the “disqualifying period” related to her pregnancy.

Tt. They are away from work because of a trade dispute.

8. They are in legal custody.

S$. They are outside the European Economic Area.

10. They have not yet done any work for you.

RECORDS

A Sub-Postmaster, like other employers, is required to keep accurate records relating to
all employees and Statutory Sick Pay liabilities. These records can be kept in any way
which is convenient but in such a way that National Insurance Inspectors can have
access to them on request within a reasonable time. These records must be kept for at

least three years after the end of the tax year to which they relate. There is a penalty on
conviction for failure to comply. The DSS has produced a Statutory Sick Pay record
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

sheet, Form SSP2, which is available free from the Contributions Agency at the local
Social Security office.

DISAGREEMENTS

An employer who refuses to pay Statutory Sick Pay to an employee is required to
provide a written statement of these reasons if requested by the employee. An
employee who disagrees with this decision can ask the Adjudication Officer for a formal
decision. Adjudication Offices are based at the local Social Security Office.

A further right of appeal for either side can be referred to a Social Security Appeal
Tribunal or Commissioner.

Detailed advice concerning all aspects of Statutory Sick Pay can be found in the
Employer’s Manual on Statutory Sick Pay produced by the Contributions Agency.

WHEN STATUTORY SICK PAY ENDS

Usually, liability to pay Statutory Sick Pay will end because an employee's incapacity for
work under the contract ends, ie, they return to work or stop sending doctor's
statements. But there are other reasons for an employer's liability to end. Statutory
Sick Pay does not have to be paid for any day after an:-

1. employee's contract of service ends,

2. employee has been due twenty eight weeks’ Statutory Sick Pay in a PIW,

3. employee’s linked PIW with you has run for three years,

4. employee's disqualifying period related to her pregnancy begins,
5. employee is taken into legal custody,

6. employee goes outside the European Economic Area,

te employee dies.

The liability to pay Statutory Sick Pay ends after the last qualifying day of an employee’s
sickness.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

INDUSTRIAL INJURIES

In the event of an injury resulting from an accident “arising out of and in the course of
employment as a Sub-Postmaster’, the Regional General Manager should be informed
at once. This is most important as an employee who fails to notify the employer may be
unable to qualify for Industrial Injuries Benefit.

Industrial Injuries Benefit is a general term covering a number of benefits. If a claim for
Industrial Injuries Benefit is made, the DSS will send a form asking for full details of the
accident. A claim should be made within three months of the first day of entitlement.
The claimant should obtain the correct application form from the local Social Security
Office.

Even if the accident does not cause incapacity for work qualifying for injury benefit, but
does result in disablement which is substantial or likely to be permanent, an injured
person may be entitled to an alternative benefit. This should be claimed by applying to
the local DSS Office.

If the accident does not immediately result in incapacity or disablement, but there is a
possibility it may do so in the future, an injured person can safeguard his future right to
benefit, by applying for a declaration that the accident was an industrial accident. This
should be done on a form which can be obtained from the local DSS Office.

STATUTORY MATERNITY PAY

Statutory Maternity Pay is normally paid to an employee who is away from work to have
a baby.

An employer who is entitled to Small Employer’s Relief can recover 100% of the
Statutory Maternity Pay and an additional amount, 5% from 6 April 1995, of the total
gross Statutory Maternity Pay as compensation for the National Insurance Contributions
payable on the Statutory Maternity Pay.

An employer who does not qualify for Small Employer’s Relief can recover a lesser
amount of the Statutory Maternity Pay paid to employees from National Insurance
Contributions and, if necessary, tax payments.

In Northern Ireland, arrangements are basically the same as in Great Britain, although
with differences of detail.

ELIGIBILITY

For women whose babies are expected on or after 16 October 1994, the new Statutory
Maternity Pay regulations have introduced a new system of payment.

Once an employee has completed twenty six weeks’ service at earnings more than the
National Insurance lower earnings limit and is still employed by the qualifying week,
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

which is fifteen weeks before the week in which the baby is expected, the employee has
the right to Statutory Maternity Pay from her employer. This is up to a maximum of:-

e six weeks at 90% of her earnings
e up to twelve weeks at the lower rate of Statutory Maternity Pay

The new rules have removed the requirement that a woman must be in receipt of
Maternity Pay no later than six weeks before the expected week of birth. Entitlement to
Statutory Maternity Pay commences when she begins maternity leave and as long as
she does not return to work will be entitled to the maximum eighteen weeks regardless
of when the expected week of confinement (EWC) or date of birth falls.

THE RIGHTS OF AN EMPLOYEE DURING MATERNITY LEAVE

Regardless of her length of service, she has the right to have all her benefits except
remuneration maintained for the first fourteen weeks of maternity leave. Conditions of
employment, such as employer contributions to her occupational pension scheme and
accrual of holiday pay should also be continued throughout the whole of extended
maternity leave.

Other rights are dependant upon the employee's length of service and are listed below.
An employee’s service is calculated at the eleventh week before the expected week of
confinement for the purposes of determining her rights.

If she has less than twenty six weeks’ service:

She may begin her maternity leave at any time between the eleventh week before the
expected week of confinement and the birth and return to work after a maximum of
fourteen weeks’ leave. She will have no entitlement to Statutory Maternity Pay from her
employer.

If she has twenty six weeks’ service or more:

She will have a possible entitlement to Statutory Maternity Pay if she meets the
qualification criteria and may begin her maternity leave at any time between the
eleventh week before the expected week of confinement and the birth and return to
work after a maximum of fourteen weeks’ leave.

If she has two years’ or more service:

In order to qualify for extended maternity leave, the woman must have service of at
least two years full time (sixteen hours per week or more) or five years part time (eight
to sixteen hours per week) immediately prior to the eleventh week before the expected
week of confinement.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

She will have a possible entitlement to Statutory Maternity Pay if she meets the
qualification criteria and may begin her maternity leave at any time between the
eleventh week before the expected week of confinement and the birth and may return at
any time up to twenty nine weeks after the birth, making a maximum of forty weeks’
leave possible.

She must give twenty one days’ notice of her return to work, but her employer may ask
for confirmation of her intention to return after she has completed at least eleven weeks
of her maternity leave. If she fails to respond within two weeks she may lose her right to
return and she must be told this in the letter. Her return to work may be delayed by her
for up to four weeks on medical grounds, upon production of a medical certificate. The
employer may delay her return to work by up to four weeks on business grounds.

THE RIGHT TO RETURN

The employee has the right to return to the same work and contract under which she
worked immediately before the beginning of her maternity leave. The terms of
employment must be not less favourable than if she had not been absent, for example,
if there has been an across-the-board pay increase for employees, she must receive it
too. This does not necessarily guarantee her return to exactly the same job as long as
it has the same status and conditions and is essentially the same work as before. If she
wishes to return to part time work having previously been full time and the management
decides that they can accommodate her request, she may do so. Failure to allow her to
return to part time work when it is available can be construed as sexual discrimination.
Tribunals look closely at every case on its merits. If an employer can show that a return
to part time work would be seriously disruptive to the organisation he might justify
refusing to allow it.

SICKNESS SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE

A Sub-Postmaster is not required to give personal service and is not entitled to sick
leave. However, a Sub-Postmaster giving eighteen hours’ or more personal service a
week, with the exception of men over seventy years of age and women over sixty five
years of age, who incurs substitution costs as a result of absence from the office
through illness for a continuous period of three weeks, or more, may claim a Sickness
Substitution Allowance from Post Office Counters Ltd.

This allowance is paid when any continuous period of absence as a result of illness
extends to three weeks or more, and is paid retrospectively for all but the first week of
absence. Payment continues until an aggregated period of thirteen weeks has been
reached in any consecutive period of twelve months.

The maximum allowance which can be claimed is the current Holiday Substitution
Allowance, other than for the first week, or the actual cost of the substitution. If certain
state benefits are paid to the Sub-Postmaster, then this must be notified to the Post
Office who will reduce the allowance by the personal benefit paid to the Sub-
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Postmaster. The personal benefit does not include any allowances for dependant
adults or children. Where Statutory Sick Pay applies, there should be no reduction in
the rate of the allowance.

Claims for the allowance should be submitted at the end of the three weeks’ period, and
at the end of each subsequent four weeks’ period until either the period of sickness is
finished, or, the maximum entitlement of thirteen weeks in a year has been reached.

Where a Sub-Postmaster is incapacitated by an accident or illness which results, or is
likely to result, in a CONTINUOUS absence beyond thirteen weeks, Regional General
Managers may authorise payment of the allowance to be extended up to a maximum
period of twenty six weeks in any one period of twelve months. Where a
Sub-Postmaster has already received up to twelve weeks of the Sick Absence
Substitution Allowance entitlement in the previous twelve months he may, because of
an absence resulting from an extended illness, be entitled to an allowance up to a
maximum of twenty six weeks in any one period of twelve months.

Where a Sub-Postmaster’s period of reimbursement of sick absence substitution costs
is extended beyond thirteen continuous weeks, such extension will be reviewed
periodically. Under no circumstances will a Sub-Postmaster be allowed to aggregate
separate periods of sick absence beyond thirteen weeks in any one period of twelve
months.

In cases where the period of sickness is less than three weeks, Sub-Postmasters
eligible for the above allowance may claim any outstanding Holiday Substitution
Allowance due to them for the year. In such cases, the allowance is not affected by
certain other state benefits received by the Sub-Postmaster.

Statutory Sick Pay and other State benefits are complex areas which are
constantly changing. The purpose of this section is to make members aware of
the need to comply with their responsibility as employers, but is not intended to
provide advice for any individual member. No responsibility for any member’s
action or their refraining from action as a result of information in this section can
be accepted by the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters.

NOTE: A Social Security Advice Line is provided for employers by the DSS for help on
National Insurance Contributions, Statutory Sick Pay and Statutory Maternity Pay. The
telephone number is {~ GRO ~
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

INCOME TAX

Income Tax is collected applying different rules and collection methods, there being two main
distinctions in relation to earned income, the distinction being made between income from
employment and income from self-employment.

Income from employment by the Post Office is taxed under Schedule E, being collected under
the Pay as You Earn (PAYE) system.

Income from self-employment, such as earnings from retail businesses, run parallel to Sub Post
Offices, is taxed under Schedule D Case 1, being collected by way of direct Assessment up to
and including the 1995-96 tax year.

A new system of assessing and collecting Income Tax from self-employment is to be applied
from 1996-97 onwards.

The new system will not affect the manner in which taxable profits are calculated and, more
specifically, the rules governing the allowability of expenditure, but will transfer the
responsibility for calculating and then reporting tax liabilities to the tax payer, albeit with the
option of arranging for the Revenue to calculate the liability on your behalf if the Self-
Assessment form and all appropriate information relating to assessable income is forwarded to
them by 30 September following the end of the tax year.

In conjunction with the change over to Self-Assessment, the basis on which self-employed
income is to be taxed is to be changed from what is currently known as the Prior Year Basis
(PYB) to the Current Year Basis (CYB). This will apply fully from 1997-98, 1996-97 being what
is known as the “transitional year”.

The new system will tax business profits on the basis of the twelve months accounting period
ending in the year of Assessment, for example, year ended 31 December 1997 will form the basis
of assessment for 1997-98.

The Federation, at the time of going to press, is compiling more information on these important
changes and will endeavour to keep members informed of matters which may affect them and on
which they may wish to seek specific advice in relation to their personal circumstances, from
their own Tax Advisors.

PERSONAL ALLOWANCES

Since the introduction of separate taxation of husband and wife on 6 April 1990, each partner is
treated completely separately for Income Tax and National Insurance purposes.

This means that each is entitled to their tax free personal allowances, the married couple’s
allowance, where it is possible to elect to share this equally or transfer it in total to the wife,
together with the independent lower rate and basic rate bands.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Sub-Postmasters and their married partners should ensure that they are planning their affairs in
the most tax efficient way to avoid situations where one partner is not fully utilising the tax free
or lower rate bands allowances and the other partner may be, for instance, paying tax on part of
their income at the higher rate.

Tax codes are issued to individuals taxable under the PAYE system, these taking into account
allowances based on age, marital status and annual payments allowable for income tax and there
are then deductions from the coding for a wide variety of reasons such as collecting tax at the
higher rate on taxed investment income and ensuring that the married couple’s allowance is
suitably restricted so as to only give relief at the rate of 15% for 1995-96.

The notices of coding, which are issued annually, should be accompanied by an explanatory
booklet which should explain the reasons for the allowances and deductions.

It should be noted that the Federation’s subscriptions are not allowable expenses against income.

Expenditure incurred on the maintenance of a guard dog continues to be an allowable business
expense for self-employed purposes, conventional principles regarding allowability for business
purposes being applied. These would include the suitability of the breed for protection of the
premises, the primary purpose of its acquisition being the protection of the business and only a
reasonable proportion of its maintenance being claimed due to its likely “dual role” as a family

pet.

Holiday substitution and sickness substitution allowances are excluded from the amount
assessable for Income Tax and members should ensure that no deductions have been made
through their PAYE codings in respect of these allowances.

TAXABILITY OF DISCRETIONARY PAYMENTS MADE ON CLOSURE OR
RESITING OF OFFICES

The Income Tax position in connection with such payments is liable to scrutiny by the Inland
Revenue who will be attempting to identify if any lump sum payments arise from either the
cessation of the holding of the office or relate to a payment for services previously performed.

The distinction is a very important one as if the lump sum payment can be identified with
services previously performed, then it will be subject to Income Tax and National Insurance
following the normal rules under Schedule E. However, if the lump sum payment is not
contractual and has been paid purely because of the closure or resiting of an office, then the first
£30,000 of any payment is exempt from Tax and National Insurance.

MARRIED COUPLES JOINTLY RUNNING BUSINESS

Where a Sub-Postmaster runs their business with their husband or wife, then, as intimated earlier
in this section, thought should be given to arranging entitlement to business income in the most
tax efficient manner in order not to waste personal allowances, lower rate bands, etc.

NATIONAL INSURANCE

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Since 6 April 1975, all Sub-Postmasters, irrespective of the number of hours devoted weekly to
Post Office activities, have been required to be treated as employees for the purposes of National
Insurance Contributions in respect of Post Office remuneration. Accordingly, the Post Office
deduct employees’ National Insurance Contributions from salaries paid to Sub-Postmasters.
Contributions should not be deducted from any payment of holiday substitution allowance or
grants paid in connection with anti-intruder alarm installations.

Sub-Postmasters are potentially liable to three classes of National Insurance Contributions,
namely Class 1 Primary Contributions, Class 2 and Class 4.

Whilst general information is given in relation to the various classes of National Insurance and
Sub-Postmasters’ potential liabilities to them, each individual Sub-Postmaster’s circumstances
will, as for Income Tax, be peculiar to him and he should either contact his local Contributions
Agency or speak to his Tax Advisor if he is in any doubt that correct contributions are being
paid.

CLASS 1 CONTRIBUTIONS

Class 1 Primary Contributions are paid by employees who for 1995-96 earn £58.00 or more per
week and are over sixteen years of age and under sixty five years of age (under sixty years of age
for women) during a weekly earnings period.

The percentage of income assessed to National Insurance is variable, but for 1995-96, the first
£58.00 are taxed at 2% and the remainder, up to a ceiling of £440.00 per week is taxed at 10%.
The employer which, in the case of Sub-Postmasters will be the Post Office, is liable to
Secondary Class 1 contributions which are applied on a sliding scale, rising to 10.20%. There is
no upper limit on earnings chargeable to Secondary Class 1 contributions for 1995-96.

Any Sub-Postmasters who employ staff who are liable to National Insurance Contributions will,
of course, also be liable to Secondary Class 1 contributions in their capacity as employer. The
contributions paid by Sub-Postmasters in their capacity as employer would, of course, be subject
to the same rules as described above. It should also be noted that even though employees over
the age of sixty five are not liable to Class 1 Primary Contributions, the employer is still liable to
Class 1 Secondary Contributions.

MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS - REDUCED RATES OF CONTRIBUTIONS

Married women and widows were able to elect on or before 11 May 1977 to pay reduced rates
(Table B) contributions in exchange for limited benefits. The employer is still liable to pay full
Secondary contributions. Ifa reduced rate election elapses or is revoked, it cannot be revived.

Married women become ineligible to pay reduced contributions on divorce or widowhood or if
no Class I contributions have been paid or self-employed earnings arisen for two consecutive tax

years.
CONTRIBUTIONS
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Class 2 Contributions are payable by the self-employed and are due at the flat rate of £5.75 per
week for 1995-96.

Contributions are payable within twenty eight days of receiving a bill for the previous quarter or
by monthly direct debit to the DSS.

Class 2 National Insurance liabilities apply to self-employed persons who during any weekly
earnings period are either over sixteen or under sixty five (sixty for women).

Exemption may be claimed where net profits from self-employment are less than the small
earnings limit for self-employed persons, as fixed by the DSS for the relevant year. It should be
borne in mind that for the purposes of applying the Small Earnings Exception, from 1994-95
onwards, earnings from employment by the Post Office are excluded from profits in determining
if a Sub-Postmaster is eligible for exemption under the Small Earnings Exception rules. In 1995-
96 this limit is £3,260.

Applications for exemption are renewable annually or at such time as the DSS specify when
granting the original exemption.

Class 2 Contributions entitle contributors to certain benefits including retirement pensions,
sickness benefit, maternity benefit and invalidity care benefit and if no such contributions have
been paid, together with no Class 1 Contributions, then eligibility to these benefits will be
jeopardised.

CLASS 4 CONTRIBUTIONS
Class 4 Contributions are payable annually in respect of profits from businesses assessable to
Income Tax under Schedule D Case 1. The amount assessable for Class 4 Contributions is

adjusted for certain allowances, including any loss relief claims and capital allowances.

The net profits assessable to Class 4 Contributions are those for 1995-96 falling in the band
£6,640 to £22,880.

The contribution for 1995-96 will be 7.3%.

Income Tax relief is given on an amount equal to half of the Class 4 National Insurance payable.
No benefits are payable as a result of contributions paid under Class 4.

DEFERMENT OF LIABILITY
Where an individual pays contributions in respect of more than one employment or under both

Class 1 and Classes 2 and 4 categories, it is possible that the total amount of contributions paid
will exceed the maximum annual liability.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Whilst excess contributions will be repaid, initially Class 4 contributions then followed by Class
2 contributions and finally any excess of Class 1 Primary contributions, it is best to avoid this
situation by applying to the Secretary of State for a deferment of liability.

It is beneficial from a cash flow point of view to apply to defer any excess liabilities. The
criteria used in calculating the level beyond which any refunds of National Insurance
Contributions are repaid is based on fifty three weeks’ contributions, whereas a weekly paid
contributions, such as Class 2, is only payable on fifty two weeks’ contributions. When a
deferment of liability is in place, it will mean that technically there could be an underpayment of
National Insurance Contributions but no action is usually taken to collect any such shortfall.

Class 1

Application for deferment of Class 1 liability is made by sending completed Form CF379
supported by the relevant documentary evidence to the DSS at Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Once a
certificate of deferment has been issued, the employer will not deduct Primary contributions
from the individual’s pay, but will continue to pay the Secondary contributions required by the
employer.

Class 2 and/or Class 4

Application for deferment of Class 2 and/or Class 4 liabilities should be made on Form CF379.
The applicant must be prepared to supply any information or evidence required in support of the
claim. Any deferred contributions which are ultimately found to be due must be paid within
twenty eight days.

CONTRIBUTION LIABILITY IN RESPECT OF RELIEF FOR SUB-POSTMASTERS

Relief Sub-Postmasters are now treated as from 6 April 1987 as being self-employed and,
therefore, liable to National Insurance Contributions or deferment or exemption thereof under
Classes 2 and/or Class 4.

If Class 1 Primary contributions have been paid by relief Sub-Postmasters since 6 April 1987,
then any excess paid after taking into account any Class 2 and/or Class 4 liabilities will be
refunded upon written application to the Contributions Agency in Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

Sub-Postmasters who have employed relief Sub-Postmasters may also apply in writing to the
Contributions Agency in Newcastle-upon-Tyne to obtain a Class 1 Secondary contribution
refund.

It should be borne in mind that Sub-Postmasters will have received Income Tax relief through
their accounts for any Secondary Class I contributions paid on behalf of relief Sub-Postmasters
and if these are refunded it may result in an adjustment to taxable income for the appropriate
year of assessment.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

VAT

Since 1 April 1976 the services provided to the Post Office by Sub-Postmasters have generally
ceased to come within the scope of VAT.

The requirement to register for VAT, therefore, depends on the level of turnover of any
associated business activities. It is possible to voluntarily register for VAT, regardless of the
level of turnover, but it is a statutory requirement to register once there is reason to believe that
annual turnover will exceed £46,000 per annum. This threshold is revised, usually annually, and
the threshold given has applied since 30 November 1994.

There are penalties and interest charges if persons required to register for VAT, either fail to do
so or do not do so within specified time limits.

Contravening VAT rules can result in onerous penalties and charges and Sub-Postmasters, if in
any doubt whatsoever in connection with their responsibility to register for VAT, should seek
guidance from their Tax Advisor.

Sub-Postmasters who are VAT registered cannot claim input VAT paid in connection with goods
or services used solely in connection with the Post Office part of their business. Where the
goods or services are used both in connection with the private side and the Post Office, the VAT
incurred can be reclaimed in respect of the proportion of the part which applies to the vatable
business element.

It should be noted that if goods are taken for own consumption by Sub-Postmasters, then if input
of VAT has been claimed on acquiring these goods, a supply at cost is deemed to take place
when the goods are taken out for private use. This differs from the treatment for Income Tax
purposes which deems that goods taken for own use are included in the turnover of the business
at the retail price.

Where companies appoint nominee Sub-Postmasters, there is a liability for output VAT to be
charged in respect of the costs of the staff supplied to the Post Office in the conduct of its
business.

Income Tax and National Insurance Contributions are extremely complex areas
which are constantly changing and each member’s circumstances are different.
The purpose of this section is to make members aware of the need to consider
their Income Tax, National Insurance and VAT positions, but is not intended to
directly advise any single member in connection with any of these areas.
Members should always consult their own personal Tax Advisors in order to
ensure that they are complying with tax legislation and are conducting and
arranging their affairs in the most tax effective manner. No responsibility for loss
occasioned to any person acting or refraining from action as a result of any
information in this section can be accepted by the National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

SECURITY

Post Office Counters’ policy is that Sub-Postmasters are responsible for the safe custody of Post
Office cash and stock. On appointment, a Sub-Postmaster is required to satisfy the Regional
General Manager that the arrangements for safeguarding cash and stock are adequate. Once
these requirements have been met, any additional security measures required by Post Office
Counters at a later date are paid for by Post Office Counters Ltd.

Post Office Counters Ltd provides certain security devices for Sub-Postmasters, and information
on some of these is given in the following pages. In view of the sensitive nature of the subject, it
is not possible to print full details and, where appropriate, further clarification should be sought
from your local Federation Branch officials.

Any Sub-Postmaster who has a problem or query concerning their security provision should
always contact their Retail Network Manager.

SAFES
All Sub-Postmasters are eligible for the supply of an official safe. Any Sub-Postmaster who

feels that one is required should contact their Retail Network Manager. There is an ongoing
programme for anchoring of safes.

ANTI INTRUDER ALARMS

Anti intruder alarms are designed to protect the Sub-Postmaster from attack when he is off duty
in his private residence, by giving an audible warning of any intruder.

The Post Office will make a grant towards the cost of anti intruder alarms in respect of
installation, together with a contribution towards the cost of maintenance.

ELIGIBILITY

Residential Sub-Postmasters

All residential Sub-Postmasters are eligible. The contribution may also be made in respect of
any Sub Post Office which although the Sub-Postmaster does not himself reside on the premises
they are occupied by a keyholder who is a registered Sub Office assistant. Only one grant can be
made per office.

Non-Residential Sub-Postmasters

With some exceptions all non-residential Sub-Postmasters are eligible. Only one grant can be
made per Sub-Postmaster. Non-residential Sub-Postmasters are excluded from the scheme if:

a) they have previously taken advantage of the offer for protection of a residential Sub Post
Office either by themselves or an assistant. In these circumstances Post Office Counters
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

will not only pay for a second system or for transfer of an existing system but an existing
maintenance grant may be transferred.

b) they do not personally perform Post Office work.
TERMS OF POST OFFICE CONTRIBUTION
Installation

Sub-Postmasters are responsible for arranging purchase and installation direct with contractors.
When installed the equipment remains the property of the Sub-Postmaster and he is responsible
for arranging subsequent maintenance testing and for dealing with false alarms.

Selection of system

Post Office Counters Ltd has provided technical and crime prevention consultative services to
the Federation but not on an individual office basis. All-in rental systems are not eligible for a
grant.

Post Office Contributions

The Post Office will reimburse the Sub-Postmaster for the initial cost of equipment and
installation of anti intruder alarms up to a maximum of £350 + VAT from 1 April 1995 in respect
of any one premises.

Currently, the financial assistance for the initial installation is a once and for all payment in
respect of any one premises. There is no contribution to new or extended alarm systems when
residential Sub Post Offices change ownership, or where a Sub-Postmaster moves his office to
another site, unless the move is in the interests of the Post Office.

Some Sub-Postmasters may experience difficulty in meeting the initial outlay of up to
£350 (+ VAT) for the installation. Regional General Managers may, at their discretion, advance
the money to the Sub-Postmaster on receipt of the invoice and the Sub-Postmaster’s assurance
that the work has been satisfactorily carried out. He should also ask to see the receipted account
in due course.

Maintenance Costs

For installations which require regular maintenance, on production of documentary evidence that
the maintenance charge has been paid, Post Office Counters will make an annual contribution of
half the basic cost of maintenance up to a maximum of £100 plus 50% of the VAT. Any
additional payments for emergency repairs carried out during the preceding twelve months may
be included in the normal annual maintenance claim provided that the total claim does not
exceed £100.

Second Installation Grants
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Post Office Counters Ltd has agreed in principle to second grants becoming available to
Sub-Postmasters whose alarm systems have become obsolete since the initial grant was given.
These will become available from 1 April 1996.

Payment of a second grant would be at the discretion of the appropriate Regional General
Manager and subject to the following considerations:

e A second grant would normally only be considered after a minimum of ten years from the
payment of the first grant. (This is in line with the widely accepted commercial standard that
an alarm system will have a minimum ten year life expectancy).

¢ Priority will be given to those Sub-Postmasters with the oldest systems and those who live in
high risk areas.

e A second grant would not be payable to any residential Sub-Postmaster where the office has
been, or is scheduled to have a Europlex or equivalent type of alarm fitted.

EUROPLEX SYSTEM ENHANCEMENT

In April 1994, the Federation agreed with Post Office Counters an enhancement package for
Sub-Postmasters who have a Europlex Alarm. This agreement will allow Sub-Postmasters to
extend the use of the Europlex Alarm throughout the premises (not just the Post Office) as a
whole, including any residential accommodation. This deal will be offered to Sub-Postmasters
who already have a Europlex Alarm fitted and also to Sub-Postmaster who are having this newly
installed.

Further details of the package may be obtained from a local Federation Branch official.
RoMEC DEAL

In April 1994, the Federation agreed an exclusive new deal with RoMEC Security for the
installation and maintenance of intruder alarm systems. The deal, to be offered to members of
the Federation, covers services to improve security on both the commercial and domestic
premises.

The first opportunity will be where a new “Europlex” counter alarm has been fitted, this can be
extended to cover the whole of the shop and living accommodation within the same building.
Obviously, it is easier to have just one system rather than several, but it is also cheaper to
maintain, and a special deal has been agreed for Sub-Postmasters.

The second opportunity is to cope with problems expressed by many National Federation of Sub-
Postmasters members about the maintenance of alarm systems in their homes or shops. Many
are seeing costs escalate as systems get older and sometimes the alarm company has disappeared.
RoMEC Security, as part of Royal Mail, expects to be around for a long time and wants to give
good service at a fair price. It will survey any existing systems for free, giving an honest
opinion. If it agreed that RoMEC Security will take the alarm system maintenance over, it will
be on a full warranty basis.

Further details of this package may be obtained from your local Federation Branch official.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

STOCK PROTECTION

Where stock held is considered to be extensive, Post Office Counters Ltd will install a Time
Controlled Alarm.

TELEPHONES

Post Office Counters Ltd will pay for the installation of a portable telephone with two sockets,
one in the office and one in the Sub-Postmaster’s bedroom. Rental charges and emergency
repairs may also be paid for by Post Office Counters Ltd if this is appropriate.

URGLAR ALARMS

Post Office Counters Ltd will fit time controlled burglar alarms to all Post Office safes and
suitable private safes. The alarm remains the property of the Post Office and is fitted free of
charge.

ANTI-BANDIT SCREENS

Anti-Bandit screens are available to all Sub-Postmasters. Post Office Counters Ltd pays for
survey work and the supply of parts and glass. The Sub-Postmaster is responsible for the
installation and maintenance of the screen which becomes his own property.

All Sub-Postmasters have the opportunity of obtaining free issue anti-bandit screen components.
All offices which have screens are entitled to an anti-bandit alarm.

OTHER EQUIPMENT

Other items of equipment may also be supplied, including:-

. screen strengthening
. time delay devices
. time controlled alarms
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

A Sub-Postmaster must provide, at his own expense, the premises for carrying on Post Office
Counters business. The premises must contain such reasonable accommodation and fittings as
required by Post Office Counters Ltd.

In general, the Sub-Postmaster must hold the premises as owner or on a tenancy subject to at
least 3 months’ notice.

The Sub-Postmaster must also at his own expense:-
e clean, decorate and maintain the Sub Post Office premises inside and out to a good standard;
e light and heat the Sub Post Office premises;

e exhibit the Sub Post Office title (ie “...POST OFFICE”) in large painted letters in a prominent
position outside the building.

e in Wales exhibit an external bi-lingual sign “Swyddfa ’r Post/Post Office”;
¢ if required, provide convenient space for a letter box;

¢ if required, provide for the installation of a security screen if one is not already in existence.
The screen should be of a type approved by Post Office Counters Ltd. Post Office Counters
Ltd will provide and pay for the components of the screen and the Sub-Postmaster will be
responsible for its erection to the satisfaction of the Regional General Manager and for its
maintenance. On installation, the screen becomes the property of the Sub-Postmaster.

ALTERATIONS

A Sub-Postmaster must not alter the Sub Post Office accommodation nor move its position
within the premises without obtaining prior agreement from the Regional General Manager.
Where an agreed re-arrangement of Sub Post Office accommodation and/or fittings involves the
moving of Post Office security equipment, the Post Office shares the cost of the re-arrangement.
The contribution required from the Sub-Postmaster depends upon the nature of the alteration.

Regional General Managers have the discretion to fix the level of contribution according to the
circumstances of each particular case. For full details on the amount of contribution required
from the Sub-Postmaster, please refer to Section 13 of the Sub- Postmaster’s Contract entitled
“Premises”.

RESIDENCE

A Sub-Postmaster who does not reside on the premises must make proper provision for the
safety of stock and cash entrusted to his care. The Sub-Postmaster must inform the Regional
General Manager if he does not occupy, or if he ceases to occupy, any residence which is
associated with the Sub Post Office. The Regional General Manager must also be informed if
the residence becomes vacant.

MAILWORK OFFICES
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Sub-Postmasters enter into a separate contractual arrangement with Post Office Counters for
their mailwork duties. This contract is signed in addition to the normal contract of appointment
as Sub-Postmaster. At Mailwork Sub Offices where Post Office employees work on the
premises, the Sub-Postmaster is required to provide certain additional facilities at his own
expense.

Full details of the contract are contained at Section 24 of the Sub-Postmaster’s Contract.
STAFF
SUB POST OFFICE ASSISTANTS

A Sub-Postmaster must provide, at his own expense, any assistance which is needed to carry out
the work in the Sub Post Office.

A Sub-Postmaster is required to report to the Regional General Manager particulars of all
persons whom he employs as assistants (including temporary assistants) and to satisfy him that
proper care has been taken in their selection. All assistants who are engaged on Post Office work
must sign the Personal Declaration Form (Form P13).

The assistants employed are regarded as employees not of the Post Office but of the
Sub-Postmaster and are responsible to him; but the Sub-Postmaster is required to see that, in all
matters of conduct and performance of official duties, they conform to the rules of the Post
Office.

A Sub-Postmaster is held responsible for any failure on the part of assistants to apply Post Office
rules or to provide a proper standard of service to the public. A Sub-Postmaster is also required
to make good any losses which arise from his assistants’ actions. For more information on what
to do in the event of such losses, please refer to Section 4 of this handbook.

Conditions of Service

The conditions of service (wages, hours of duty, leave, etc) of assistants employed on Post Office
work are a matter of arrangement between a Sub-Postmaster and his employees. The
Sub-Postmasters’ contract states that these should be not less favourable than those of shop
assistants of about the same standing in the service of good employers in the same district, and
Post Office Counters reserves to itself the right of intervention if the conditions are considered to
be inequitable.

Assistants’ Holidays

The Sub-Postmasters’ contract states that the annual leave of assistants and other conditions of
service are a matter of arrangement between a Sub-Postmaster and his employees but that they
should be not less favourable than those which apply to local shop assistants.

There is currently no statutory right for an employee to have holidays, even the eight statutory
bank holidays. Entitlement to annual leave will depend on the terms of the contract of
employment. However, because employees are unlikely to work for employers without having
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

the benefit of annual holidays, holidays are accepted practice within the United Kingdom.
Similarly, there is no statutory defined minimum as to the amount of holiday pay. This is a
matter for agreement between employer and employee.

EMPLOYMENT LEGISLATION

Sub-Postmasters are employed on a contract for services by Post Office Counters Ltd. Under the
terms of this contract, Sub-Postmasters are not employees of Post Office Counters and therefore
do not come within the scope of employment law.

Sub-Postmasters who employ staff in running the Post Office will in their capacity as an
employer, need to be aware of the rights of employees which are protected by employment
legislation.

All employees have a contract of employment which forms the basis of the employment
relationship.

The contract of employment includes the offer of employment letter and should include all the
information that is necessary as part of that contract. Variations to any part of the contract
cannot be made unilaterally by either party.

WRITTEN STATEMENT OF EMPLOYMENT PARTICULARS

All employees are entitled to receive a written statement of employment particulars provided that
they are employed to work eight hours a week or more and that their employment lasts for one
month or more. It should be noted that those whose employment began before 30 November
1993 must request that statement before becoming entitled to it.

The particulars which must be included in the statement should cover:-

names of employer and employee,

date when employment began,

date when continuous employment began,

job title or brief job description,

place of work,

the amount of remuneration,

the pay intervals,

normal working hours,

holiday entitlement.

the date of termination or expected duration of contract, if the employment is fixed term or
temporary,

how much notice of termination should be given by each party,

sick leave and entitlement to sick pay,

details of any pension scheme,

disciplinary procedure,

grievance procedure,

details of any collective agreements which affect the contract of employment.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Where there are no particulars to be given for one of the items required to be covered in the
statement (for example, where there is no pension entitlement), this must be indicated.

DISMISSAL

The law on unfair dismissal gives employees a legal right to be treated in the way in which a fair
and reasonable employer would treat them. For an employer to dismiss an employee fairly, the
employer must both have a valid reason for dismissing the employee and act reasonably in
treating that reason as a sufficient reason for dismissing the employee.

ACAS has produced a code of practice on disciplinary practice and procedures in employment.
This aims to help employers to set up fair procedures for dealing with the type of problem which
may lead to dismissal. It is intended to help both employee and employer and is based on good
management practice. Industrial Tribunals take into account any provision of the code which is
relevant to a case before them. It should be borne in mind that whilst all employers are not
expected to follow the code to the letter regardless of their particular circumstances, they are
expected to decide to what extent it is practicable and necessary to do so given the size of the
firm. In relation to small firms, the code states “...it may not be practicable to adopt all the
detailed provisions but most of the features listed could be adapted and incorporated into a
simple procedure”

Sub-Postmasters who employ staff are advised to obtain a copy of the Code of
Practice which is available from ACAS.

An employee who has been dismissed may request from the employer a written statement of the
reasons for the dismissal, provided they have at least two years’ service. The employer must
provide such a statement within fourteen days’ of receipt of the request.

Any employee has the right to make a complaint of unfair dismissal to an industrial tribunal
provided they do so within three months of the effective date of termination and have completed
at least two years’ continuous service. Certain complains may be made regardless of length of
service, hours of work or age.

STATUTORY NOTICE PERIODS

An employee’s Statutory notice entitlement is one week for every year of service completed up
to a maximum of twelve weeks. If service is between four weeks and one year, the notice period
is one week. An employee with less than four weeks service has no statutory notice entitlement.
DEDUCTIONS FROM PAY

The Wages Act sets down the rules governing deductions by employers from the wages of
employees. An employee who works over eight hours a week has the right to an itemised pay

slip. An employer cannot make an authorised deduction from any employee’s wages except
where the deduction is:-

1. required or authorised by statute (eg, tax and National Insurance),

2. required or authorised by a provision contained within the employee’s contract,
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

3. made with the employee’s advance written consent.
STATUTORY TIME OFF

An employer must allow an employee time off, but not always with pay, in several situations.
Employees have the right to time off for:-

public duties,

Trade Union duties and activities where a Trade Union is recognised for collective bargaining,
Health and Safety duties,

court attendance,

to look for work or to make arrangements for retraining if declared redundant after two years’
service

MATERNITY

See Section 5 on sickness

SICKNESS ABSENCE

See Section 5 on sickness.

REDUNDANCY

An employee is only dismissed for redundancy if the employer ceases or intends to cease
carrying on a business in the place where the employee was employed or if there is a diminished
requirement for employees to carry out work of a particular kind.

An employee who is dismissed by reason of redundancy is entitled to a statutory redundancy
payment if at least two years’ service have been completed. Employees are entitled to statutory

notice or contractual notice whichever is the higher.

The maximum number of years to be taken into account in calculating a statutory redundancy
payment is twenty. The ceiling for a week’s pay is set by the Department of Employment

The number of weeks’ pay is as follows:-

1. One and a half week’s pay for each year of employment during which the employee was
age forty one or over.

Plus

2 One week’s pay for each year of employment during which the employee was aged
twenty two to forty.

Plus
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

3. Half a week’s pay for each year of employment during which the employee was aged
eighteen to twenty one.

If the employee is aged sixty four or over, the amount payable is reduced by one twelfth for each
month by which his age exceeds his sixty fourth birthday.

Employment prior to the employee’s eighteenth birthday does not count.

TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS

The Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 1981, known as TUPE,
are based on the European Acquired Rights Directive of 1977.

The effect of these regulations is to ensure employees retain their terms and conditions of
employment in the event of a transfer of the business to another party. The transferee inherits all
accrued rights and liabilities connected with a transferred employee’s employment contract,
together with all the statutory rights and liabilities.

The regulations mean that if either before or after a transfer, an employee is dismissed because of
the transfer it will be automatically unfair dismissal unless it can be justified on the grounds of
business need.

It is essential that Sub-Postmasters involved in acquisition or sale of their
business take proper advice on the arrangements regarding the employment of
existing staff.

HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK

Employers in the United Kingdom have a duty to have regard for the safety of their employees.
Guidance on the employers’ duties is provided by various publications available from the Health
& Safety Executive (HSE).

The Health & Safety at Work Act 1974 is the principal Act governing the health and safety of
employees. The Act established the Health & Safety Commission and the HSE which employs
inspectors who have powers to visit premises.

Six new sets of Health & Safety at Work regulations came into force at the beginning of 1993.
The regulations were required in order to implement six European Community Directives on
health and safety. Many of the duties in the new regulations are not completely new, but where
appropriate they update pre-1974 legislation. The regulations cover:-

¢ Health & Safety management,
e¢ Work equipment safety,
¢ Manual handling of loads,
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

¢ Work place conditions,
e Personal protective equipment,
© Display screen equipment.

An employer must, as far as is reasonably practicable ensure that:-
e the workplace is safe and to protect employees from unnecessary risk,
there is a safe system of work and that employees comply with safety arrangements,

e employees have healthy working conditions including adequate lighting, heating, ventilation
and access to toilet facilities etc,

e provide adequate equipment and materials to perform the work,
e provide necessary training, information and supervision to ensure safety.

Employees are also required to co-operate with the employer in health, safety and welfare
matters and not to put at risk other employees by their acts or omissions.

All employers with five or more employees must draw up a Health & Safety Policy and this must
be up to date and drawn to the attention of the employees. In addition, the employer must
consult with the safety representatives if one is appointed by the recognised Trade Union.

Other regulations lay down specific requirements which apply to employers, including first aid
and the reporting of injuries. Codes of Practice provide guidance on meeting these legal
requirements.

It has been agreed with Post Office Counters that it will make a 100% grant (subject to certain
conditions) to Sub-Postmasters who carry out structural alterations to enable them to comply
with the terms of the Health & Safety at Work Act in respect of the mailwork duties they
undertake for Post Office Counters. Members affected by the Act are advised to contact
Federation Headquarters for advice before they commit themselves to such alternations.

Members are advised to obtain further information and guidance regarding their
duties as employers from the local HSE office. Health & Safety inspectors will
give advice on improvements to comply with the law. Refusal to comply with the
law may result in prosecution.

EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY

It is essential that employers hold employer’s liability insurance against injury or illness
sustained by an employee caused in the course of their work as a result of their employer’s
negligence. An up to date Certificate of Insurance must be displayed by the employer.

DISCLOSURE OF BUSINESS OWNERSHIP

All businesses (whether owned by individuals, partnerships or registered companies) which trade
under a name other than that of their owners have to display the names and addresses of the
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

owners at their business premises and on their business stationery. This information must also be
given on request to any customers and suppliers.

Concern has been expressed by members that in the case of a Sub Post Office where the
associated business was trading under a name other than that of the Sub-Postmaster, the
requirement to disclose the name and address of the owner could lead to a security risk. We
raised this aspect with the Companies Registration Office and they confirmed that the “Address
for Service” does not intend to imply a private address but rather an address at which documents
can be served for the business, ie, “business address”.

The legislation governing the issues referred to in this section is complex and is
constantly changing. The purpose of this section is to make members aware of
their responsibility as employers, but is not intended to provide advice for any
individual member. No responsibility for any member’s action or their refraining
from action, as a result of information contained in this section, can be accepted
by the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

RESTRICTIONS

The Sub-Postmaster’s Contract includes certain restrictions on the kind of private business which
a Sub-Postmaster can undertake on the premises in which the Sub Post Office is situated. This is
necessary to ensure the continued viability of Post Office Counters’ nationwide network.

The current restrictions on private business activities on the premises in which the Sub Post
Office is situated are as follows:

1. collection of payments, or sale of prepayment meter tokens on behalf of any public utility
- water, gas, telephone or electricity company;

va collection of payment, on behalf of cable or satellite television companies, collection of
revenue whether by sale of stamps or other means on behalf of local authorities;

3. sale of “unbooked” travel tickets or passes on behalf of any transport company or local
authority;
4. sale of National Lottery tickets, or similar nationally available lottery products, unless

Post Office Counters Ltd is unable to secure this business because of legal restraints;
5 commercial change giving service;

6. phone card sales on behalf of BT, Mercury or any future phone card operator with whom
Post Office Counters Ltd obtains or seeks a contract for the sale of such cards;

7. business concerned with the provision of services relating to the conveyance of letters,
parcels and other postal packets;

8. provisions of private box and poste restante facilities;
9. business which is connected with the acceptance or delivery of parcels;
10. collection/delivery or return of undeliverable packets and parcels;

11. Banking, Building, Provident or Friendly Society business.

Post Office Counters reserves the right to reviews these restrictions in the light of changing
Business requirements, varying them if necessary. All Sub-Postmasters will be informed of any
such changes.

If an opportunity for new business occurs to a Sub-Postmaster, or if a Sub-Postmaster receives
any communication from a third party which amounts, or may amount, to an offer to the
Sub-Postmaster to undertake the work, which come within the current restrictions, the
Sub-Postmaster should inform Post Office Counters Ltd of the circumstances and seek advice as
to whether the work concerned falls within those restrictions.

BETTING AND GAMBLING
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

In general, a Sub-Postmaster should not become involved in betting and gambling. However, in
his private capacity he may take part in or act as a promoter or as an agent for promoters for
lotteries which are permitted under the Lotteries & Amusements Act 1976. (Northern Ireland -
Betting & Lotteries Act (Northern Ireland) 1957).

The sale of alcoholic drinks on the premises is restricted to sale on an “off” licence basis, except
where a restaurant is attached to the premises. In these circumstances, the premises must be
clearly divided, and Post Office customers should not have to go through the licensed premises
in order to reach the Post Office portion of the premises.

USE OF THE NAME “POST OFFICE”

The Sub-Postmaster’s Contract precludes use of the name “Post Office” in connection with the
Sub-Postmaster’s private business activities or in such a way as to imply that the Post Office is
connected in any way with this business.

CANVASSING
The Sub-Postmaster’s Contract debars the Sub-Postmaster from canvassing any person, firm or
company which resides or carries on business at a place nearer to another Post Office, to transact

business at his Sub Post Office.

In addition, a Sub-Postmaster should not deliver items of Post Office business to a customers’
premises.

COMMERCIAL ADVERTISEMENTS IN SUB POST OFFICES

Some Sub-Postmasters earn additional income by renting out advertising space in their office,
either to individual businesses or to agents who sell the advertising space and are responsible for
installing and changing the displays. From time to time, cases have arisen where Post Office
staff have queried the right of Sub-Postmasters to display commercial advertising in their offices.
In fact, the Post Office should not be concerned with advertising in Sub Post Offices apart from a
few limited cases.

The whole question of commercial advertisements was reviewed jointly with the Post Office in
1983 and confirmed in 1984. The Sub-Postmaster’s Contract was amended to allow the display
of commercial advertisements in the Sub Post Office section of the premises. The relevant text
of the Contract is contained within Section 13, entitled Premises, and is reprinted herewith:-

“No advertisement may be exhibited in the part of the premises used for Post Office business
where the advertisement relates to:

a) Alcoholic liquors (for or against)
b) Betting, gambling and football pools

©) Any illegal business or matter
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
Co) Any controversial matter, an advertisement for which might suggest the Post Office
supported one side or the other
e) Any commercial business which operates services of a kind conducted by the Post Office.

Otherwise Post Office Counters _Ltd_is not concerned with the display of commercial
advertisements in the Sub Office provided that they are not placed in such a position as to impair
the security or the facilities for transacting Post Office Counters business.

In cases of doubt the matter should be referred to the Regional General Manager.”

Any Post Office Counters personnel, who may question a Sub-Postmaster’s/Sub-Postmistress’s
private advertising should be referred to this section of the contract. If they persist with the
demand that the advertising should be removed, they should be asked to put the matter in writing
so that the case can be taken up by the Federation.

THE ROLE OF THE FEDERATION

For the majority of its existence, the Federation’s role has been clearly defined as dealing with
the professional relationship that Sub-Postmasters have with the Post Office. However, in recent
years, members of the Federation have requested that a wider role is developed, so if a member
requests help, it may be available in their private business as well as their Sub-Post Office. Any
development in addition to traditional areas of activity is approached cautiously. However, the
lengthening list of services and facilities available to members can be found in Section 2 of this
Handbook.

ELECTORS’ LISTS

The steps taken by Electoral Registration Officers to secure the display of Electors Lists and
Register are entirely at their own discretion, as are the arrangements they may make locally to
pay fees to Sub-Postmasters, who keep the Lists and Register available for public inspection.
There is no specific provision under the Representation of the People Act 1949 for payment to be
made to Sub-Postmasters, and consequently Electoral Registration Officers are not required by
law either to arrange for display in Sub Post Offices or to pay fees where this is done. If they do
pay fees, however, the Treasury will allow a sum up to an agreed level as a proper Registration
expense. Sub-Postmasters who wish to do so are therefore recommended to make application to
their local Electoral Registration Officer for the maximum amount allowed by the Treasury. The
decision of the Electoral Registration Officer is final. However, in the event of a payment being
refused, the Sub-Postmaster can decline to exhibit the List.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

IN CASE OF EMERGENCY

When disaster strikes, it is often difficult to remain calm and to take the correct actions which, at
other times, you would consider to be only common sense but which you might forget in the heat
of the moment. This Section attempts to summarise briefly the sources of advice and assistance
and/or the correct action to take.

In most cases, it is important to seek advice at the earliest possible stage. If you take precipitate
action under pressure, you may create situations which are difficult, or even impossible, to
retrieve. Advice from a third party who is not under the same stress as yourself will be more
balanced and objective and could, therefore, avoid compounding your problems. Whenever
possible, confirm communications in writing, and keep a copy of your letter. This can often be
invaluable in establishing your true position if doubts are raised at a later date.

POST OFFICE PROBLEMS

If disciplinary problems, operational difficulties, shortages, ete arise, discuss the matter with
your Branch Secretary or designated Committee member at the earliest possible opportunity. He
or she will be able to give advice or, alternatively, refer you to some other person or organisation
who will be able to help.

FINANCIAL PROBLEMS

Difficulties in meeting commitments should be discussed with your Accountant and Bank
Manager at the earliest stage as they may well be able to advise a way of spreading the burden.
Where some sudden calamity strikes, the Federation’s Benevolent Fund may be able to assist and
can be contacted via your local Branch. Matters relating to Tax and VAT should be referred to
your accountant, but it may also be worth remembering that many Banks have an advisory
service these days.

STAFF PROBLEMS

Employment legislation can be a minefield for the unwary and it is particularly important that
you do not take any hasty steps. Advice and guidance on aspects covered by Employment Law
can be obtained from your solicitor, from the Department of Employment, from ACAS or from
your local Citizens Advice Bureau.

If security is involved, for example, if you suspect that shortages in the Post Office accounts are
being caused by theft, you should advise the Regional General Manager immediately and
confirm it in writing. The Regional General Manager may be able to obtain assistance from the
Post Office Investigation Division in detecting the source of the losses but having reported your
suspicions, the responsibility passes to the Regional General Manager and you should not be
held responsible for subsequent losses. In cases where a Sub Post Office Assistant is suspected
of having carried out or taken part in an act of dishonesty, Post Office Counters Ltd may
recommend to the Sub-Postmaster that the Assistant should no longer remain in his employ on
Post Office Counters Ltd business.

SECURITY MATTERS
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

If you have difficulty with the supply or maintenance of any item of security equipment contact
your Branch Secretary or designated Committee member. In the case of a serious incident such
as a raid, or a burglary, the first requirement will of course be to contact the Police (and other
emergency services in case of injury to persons, damage to premises, etc). The Regional General
Manager and Federation Branch Secretary should be advised at the earliest possible opportunity.
If contacted by the press, you should say as little as possible, referring them to the Regional
General Manager instead. Under no circumstances should the amount stolen be disclosed to the
press or persons outside the Post Office. Similarly, no details should be given out on security
systems or procedures. When reporting the incident to the Regional General Manager, you
should give the facts as fully as possible, but bear in mind that the Post Office may subsequently
carry out an internal investigation to allocate blame for the incident. You should not make any
statement which admits negligence or other liability.

MATTERS AFFECTING PREMISES

Any legal matters, disputes or difficulties relating to renting or rating of premises, etc, should be
discussed with your solicitor. Information can also be obtained from the Citizens Advice
Bureau.

PRIVATE BUSINESS PROBLEMS

Apart from certain schemes involving the Federation, the Federation is unable to assist with
problems specific to the private business. However, the Federation can help to direct a member
to the most appropriate source of assistance or professional guidance. In matters of principle
affecting your private business, ie where a Retail Network Manager suggests that there is a
conflict with Post Office Rules, your first point of contact should be your Branch Secretary for
advice.

ERROR NOTICES

As a result of Financial Accounts Division’s computerised checking process error notices are
produced every week. These are then subjected to clerical verification, in some cases
necessitating an approach to the appropriate Agency Customer Department. This frequently
produces evidence (a common example being that entries have been made on the wrong
transaction line) which enables PFD to cancel the error notices rather than issue them. Some
inevitably “slip through the net” from time to time, and these generally are rectified by a
subsequent “contra” error notice.

Financial Accounts Division’s checking team are under instruction when issuing error notices to
ensure that they are accompanied by documentary evidence or, where that is impracticable, to
give as full a written explanation as possible on the reverse of the error notice. Members are
advised to insist on being supplied with a copy of the evidence before agreeing to make good any
error notice.

COUNTER LOSSES - TAX POSITION

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

The Inland Revenue Authorities have agreed that losses which are made good are deductible
from income as a justifiable expense. All such losses should be claimed when completing the
Income Tax Return. It is necessary to keep records of losses in the Cash Book so as to afford
confirming evidence if required.

RELIEF OF COUNTER LOSSES AT SUB POST OFFICES

The Sub-Postmaster is responsible for all losses caused through his own negligence, carelessness
or error and also for losses of all kinds caused by his Assistants.

A Sub-Postmaster’s financial responsibility does not cease when his appointment is relinquished.
Any losses which subsequently come to light and which were incurred during his term of office
must be met by the Sub-Postmaster.

In practice, where losses occur, Post Office Counters Ltd does not always exercise the full
contractual right to recover the total loss. Relief may be given, in full or in part, depending upon
the specific circumstances surrounding the loss. Each individual case will be judged upon its
merits. Full relief is normally given for losses incurred in the first six weeks of the appointment.

In the case of theft or burglary, the question of granting relief will depend upon whether the Sub-
Postmaster has taken reasonable precautions to safeguard the official cash and property.

In the case of losses caused by fraud, the question of granting relief will depend upon the specific
circumstances of the case. Relief will be given where the Sub-Postmaster is in effective control
of the Sub Post Office and where the circumstances of the case indicate that the loss did not arise
from negligence.

It is imperative that in any case where a Sub-Postmaster suspects fraud, this be
immediately reported to the Regional General Manager.

INVESTIGATION BRANCH OFFICERS’ INQUIRIES

The Post Office Investigation Division is a civilian detective force and is recruited from serving
staff who are specially trained. Its job is to investigate, or to help the Police to investigate
criminal offences against British Telecom, the Department for National Savings and the Post
Office, committed by people outside or inside the Business. The Investigation Division does not
enquire into matters where crime is not suspected.

Most of the crimes dealt with by the Investigation Division are committed by outsiders. The
most common reason for Post Office Investigation Division officers to seek an interview with the
Sub-Postmaster or Sub Post Office Assistant is to gather evidence about any acts which have
taken place and which may help in clearing up an offence. This normally takes the form of a
Witness Statement.

It is important that you should know your rights should you come into contact with Investigation
Division. This Section attempts to set out those rights and how the Federation may assist you.
All members are urged to familiarise themselves with its contents.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

KNOW YOUR RIGHTS

There are two kinds of interview that could take place with an Officer of the Investigation
Division.

a. a non-suspect interview where the Investigation Division Officer is seeking information.

b. a suspect interview where the Investigation Division Officer has reasonable grounds for
believing that the person being interviewed has committed an offence against the
Department for National Savings, British Telecom or the Post Office.

Have a “friend” present

“Non-Suspect” Interviews

Before the interview commences, the Investigation Division Officer must introduce himself and
inform the person to be interviewed what his purpose is. He is also required to inform the person
being interviewed, in writing, that he is entitled to have a “friend” present.

You are entitled to have a “friend” present at such interviews who may be a local
or national union official

The Federation’s advice is that members should insist on their right to have a “friend” present
during such interviews, preferably the Branch Secretary or other Federation representative.
Reasonable time will be allowed for that person to arrive before the interview commences. Only
if the Investigation Division Officer considers any delay to be excessive will the need arise for an
alternative “friend” to be nominated. The interview should not proceed until the “friend” is
present. The “friend” will not be allowed to interrupt or advise during the interview.

The “friend” is present to ensure that the interview is carried out fairly and in accordance with
the agreed procedures. The value of a Federation official as the “friend” lies in his general
understanding of regulations and work practices and his ability to record, and use an objective
account of the proceedings if this becomes necessary.

Right to stay silent
“Suspect” Interviews

If an Investigation Division Officer has evidence which affords reasonable grounds for
suspecting a Sub-Postmaster’s involvement in an offence, or a “non-suspect” interview develops
to the stage where such grounds become evident, the Investigation Division Officer must
administer a caution. It should be noted that from April 1995, the wording of the caution
modifies the right to silence.

No person can be required, against his will, to give evidence which may incriminate him. The
entitlement to have a “friend” present must again be offered or re-offered.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

The Federation’s advice in these circumstances is that members so cautioned should request the
presence of a “friend” and remain silent until the arrival of that “friend”.

Reasonable time will be allowed for that person to arrive. Again, the Federation’s advice is that
the “friend” should be a Branch Official (normally the Branch Secretary).

The Branch Official will not be able to intervene or advise during the interview, but he will be
able to see that the interview is conducted fairly, and that the correct procedures are followed.
He will be allowed to take notes of the proceedings which subsequently could be used in defence
of the individual.

Ask at any stage

It must be emphasised that, in both sets of circumstances, the person who is being interviewed
may request the presence of a “friend” at any stage of the interview.

During the course of an interview an Investigation Division Officer will record in written form
what is said. Interviewees will be asked to sign this written record at the conclusion of the
interview to indicate that it represents an accurate statement.

Be careful what you say

It is important that the statement should be read carefully and not signed until the individual is
fully satisfied that it correctly records what was said. The individual is entitled to a copy of the
notes which should be requested from the local manager.

You may consult a solicitor

Investigation Division Officers are required to work within the same guidelines as are set for the
Civil Police. This provides for an officer investigating a criminal offence to question any person,
whether suspected or not, from whom he thinks that useful information may be obtained. The
guidelines make clear that an individual has a responsibility to assist in the discovery and
apprehension of offenders. They also state that every person at any stage of the interview should
be able to communicate and consult privately with a solicitor.

Beware of incriminating yourself

Recognising that an interrogator’s aim is to establish the facts and identify the wrongdoer,
remember that under law no one is obliged to say anything which may incriminate him. It must
be remembered that at any stage of a “suspect” interview, the suspect has the right to contact and
consult privately with a solicitor.

The atmosphere in which you may need to exercise these rights will be difficult, and there may
be attempts to deprive you of them. However, they should be remembered and insisted on if
circumstances demand.
Search and detention
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

Investigation Division Officers may request permission to search you, your locker, your car, or
your home. They may also request that you stay at work beyond your normal finishing time in
order to assist in an enquiry.

The Federation’s advice is that individuals do have a responsibility to assist the Investigation
Division. Nonetheless, you are entitled as a matter of right to refuse permission for a search to
take place or to decline to stay at work after your normal finishing time.

Investigation Division Officers have to apply for search warrants in the same way as the Civil
Police and, when granted, they must be executed by the Civil Police.

Investigation Division Officers have no powers of arrest beyond those available to the ordinary
citizen, and must involve the Civil Police if they consider they have sufficient grounds for
detention.

Individuals must decide for themselves whether to co-operate with Investigation Division
Officers’ requests to search or to stay beyond normal finishing time. In the vast majority of
cases, since the individual will be innocent of any offence, co-operation will be the best course of
action.

For further information please refer to Section 19 of the Sub-Postmaster’s Contract entitled
“Offences: Suspension: Enquiries by Officers of the Investigation Division”.

DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
NON-COMPLIANCE OR NON-OBSERVANCE OF THE RULES

Repeated breaches of Post Office Rules may lead to termination of the Sub-Postmaster’s
Contract of Appointment.

A Sub-Postmaster who is alleged to have not complied with or has not observed the Rules must
be given the opportunity to provide a written explanation of his conduct and the allegations
against him.

A meeting will normally be held to discuss these matters with the Retail Network Manager and a
record of this meeting will be kept by the Retail Network Manager. The Sub-Postmaster is
entitled to have a “friend” present at this meeting who may be the local Federation official.

The Federation’s advice is that members should insist on their right to have a friend present at

this meeting. In addition, the Sub-Postmaster should keep a copy of the record of discussion in
order that it may be used later if this becomes necessary.

REPRESENTATIONS ON POST OFFICE MATTERS
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

A Sub-Postmaster may make representations at any time to the Regional General Manager on a
matter relating to his duties, remuneration or any other Post Office matter. The decision of the
Regional General Manager is final.

APPEALS

There is no provision for a formal appeals procedure against three months’ notice of contract
termination or against remuneration with pay in lieu of notice.

A Sub-Postmaster who wishes to appeal against a decision to summarily terminate his contract
may do so either in writing or by personal interview to a member of the Counters “Appeals
Authority”. The decision of this Authority is final.

Appeals on all other issues are heard by the Regional General Manager, whose decision is final.

Until the final right of appeal has been exercised, the Sub-Postmaster should not ask persons
outside the Post Office to take up the case on his behalf. This does not prevent the
Sub-Postmaster from obtaining advice and support to help present his case.

The Federation’s advice is that a Sub-Postmaster who is in this position should obtain advice or
support from the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters or any other outside person where this
will be of help to his case.

NOTE: At the time of going to press, the Federation was working with Post Office
Counters Ltd on a review of Disciplinary Procedures. As part of this review it is
anticipated that a Code of Practice will be produced to ensure that Sub-Postmasters,
Federation representatives and Post Office Counters’ Managers should all understand
that they are working within the same guidelines and that Sub-Postmasters should be
able to feel that the system is fair and will be implemented in a manner which gives
them full opportunity to state their case should there ever be a need.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

NOTE: Much of the information in this
Handbook summarises the provisions of Post
Office Rules and the Sub-Postmasters’
Contract. In cases of doubt or dispute,
reference should be made to the wording of the
appropriate Rules or Section of the
Sub-Postmasters’ Contract.

The National Federation of Sub-Postmasters
cannot accept responsibility for any direct or
consequential loss suffered by
Sub-Postmasters acting or refraining from
action on advice or information given in this
Handbook.

Please note that any reference in_ this
Handbook to Sub-Postmasters also includes
Sub-Postmistresses.
NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899

National Federation
of
Sub-Postmasters

EVELYN HOUSE
22 WINDLESHAM GARDENS
SHOREHAM-BY-SEA
WEST SUSSEX
BN43 5AZ

GENERAL SECRETARY:
COLIN BAKER

ASSISTANT GENERAL SECRETARIES:
KEVIN DAVIS

PAUL HEASMAN
SUBPOSTMASTERS HANDBOOK
27th Edition
Published November 1995

ERRATA NOTICE

Pages 62-63
MAILWORK SUBPOSTMASTERS

Please delete all text from: “There is a
special method of giving credit to Mailwork
and its associated attendances .. .”

on page 62, and the whole of page 63 as this
is no longer relevant to the Mailwork Payment
system described on the earlier pages.

Page 80
Remove paragraphs on PRE-RETIREMENT

SEMINARS as they are no longer run.

Page 92
CLASS 2 CONTRIBUTIONS are due at the

flat rate of £5.75.
Small Earnings Exception limit in 1995-96 is
£3,260.

Page 94
VAT - The threshold of £46,000 has applied
since 30 November 1994.

NFSP00000899
NFSP00000899
