NFSP00000718
NFSP00000718

Message

From: Nick Beal

Sent: 16/12/2019 14:55:05

To: Calum Greenhow Peter Hall I
Subject: Media statement

As discussed — this is not a press release but a reactive statement for he media.
POST OFFICE RESPONSE TO GROUP LITIGATION JUDGMENT

The Group Litigation (Bates v Post Office) was concluded on 11 December 2019 when the parties reached a
comprehensive resolution in full and final settlement of this litigation, following several days of mediation, beginning
last month. As a result, no further trials will take place.

In closing these proceedings, the Honourable Mr Justice Fraser today delivered his judgment on a trial in the litigation,
which took place last Summer. That trial focused on technical matters relating to Post Office’s Horizon system, the
electronic point of sale system used in Post Office branches.

Post Office Chairman, Tim Parker, said:

“In reaching last week’s settlement with the claimants, we accepted our past shortcomings and I, both personally and on
behalf of the Post Office, sincerely apologised to those affected when we got things wrong. We have givena
commitment to learning lessons from these events, and today’s judgment underlines the need to do so.

“Whilst the judgment does recognise improvements we have made and that our current Horizon system is robust
relative to comparable systems, it makes findings about previous versions of the system and past behaviours which
further demonstrate the importance of the changes we must make in our business, particularly the ways in which we
support our postmasters. Importantly, our new CEO has made clear the need to reset our relationship with postmasters
and started the process to build a much better relationship with them.”

Chief Executive, Nick Read, said:
“We are now working to shape a modern and dynamic Post Office, with changes at every level of the organisation
placing our postmasters and our customers at the centre of the business.

The task ahead is to improve, be clear about our direction and purpose, and to give all of those who work for and with
us the guidance and support they need to help us build a Post Office fit for the future, serving in communities
throughout the UK.”

Nick Beal

Head of Agents’ Development & Remuneration
Retail Business Unit

20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 9AQ
NFSP00000718
NFSP00000718

ARIE SSI ASI ASI IG GI ISI I ACACIA CC GR GR ACR CA CA CA CA CA A AA AA RA A AC A A A
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

ERR RR 2A A 2K 2 RR A ORR ORR A ORR CORR A OAR CORR OR OR a

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”
