NFSP00000713
NFSP00000713

Message

From: Sharon Merryweather
Sent: 28/03/2019 15:07:24

To: Audrey Cameron:

cc: Calum Greenhow:

Subject: FW: Grant Fund Agreement

Attachments: Final version of framework agreement, 090715.docx

Dear Audrey

Attached is our Grant Fund Agreement with PO that I was referring to below. Bond Dickinson were PO’s lawyers.
Could Calum Greenhow come in to see you to discuss this further please?

Many thanks

Sharon
Xxx

Sharon Merryweather
Personal Assistant to CEO
The National Federation of SubPostmasters

oy Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens

Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

(@
‘eI

W:  www.nfsp.org.uk

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the addressee only. If you have received
it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the sender and then delete this message. Please do not copy it,
disclose its contents to any other person or use it for any purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been scanned for software viruses. We
cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus
checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company number 9771284)

From: Sharon Merryweather
Sent: 26 March 2019 09:13
To: Audrey Cameron <
Cc: Calum Greenhow;, GRO i
Subject: Grant Fund Agreement ~~

NFSP00000713
NFSP00000713

Dear Audrey

As I remember you are very good on European Procurement legislation, we need your advice again please.

George Thomson has retired and our CEO is now Calum Greenhow.

The situation is that the NFSP have a Grant Fund Agreement in place with Post Office to fund our existence.
Due to the Judge’s ruling in a recent court case, both the NFSP and PO would like to remove a couple of
clauses. The CWU as usual are kicking up so we need to make sure we will not fall foul of any legislation by

making the changes.

As Calum is based in West Linton, it would probably make sense for him to come and talk to you direct. I can

send the current agreement and the proposed deletions when I am back in the office tomorrow.

Calum is usually in West Linton on a Friday. Could we call to arrange a mutually convenient appointment

ASAP please?

Many thanks
Regards
Sharon

XXX

Sent from my iPad

From: Audrey Cameron! ™ GRO

Sent: Tuesday, September 19, 2017 9:09 pm

To: George Thomson
Ce: Eilidh Dunn
Subject: Draft Report [AS-MATTERS.FID2718503)

George.

l attach a first draft of the report. As we discussed at out meeting what this is coming down to is ensuring that you have

a valuation which (i) supports the value and (ii) sets out that stagedpayments are not off market. Without this it will be

difficult to persuade the Council that they are not awarding state aid. I have sent this out in draft at the moment as I
NFSP00000713
NFSP00000713

think it would be much more persuasive once you have had a value which fits with yourprice. The valuer should also be
asked to consider the payment of a deposit. I have seen transactions where there is a requirement for deposit but it
would require to be a valuer who is an expert in the field who would have to confirm this. Have you had anymore
thoughts about instructing a valuer jointly with the Council as we discussed that this was something you were looking at

doing?

I think I mentioned when you were in I am off} GRO this evening for 10 days. I am leaving you in the capable hands

of Eilidh Dunn one of my colleagues who assisted with the drafting ofthe report.

Also, there is a difficulty with the copies which I took. Can I ask that the next time you are in Edinburgh and are going to
be near the Edinburgh office you could pop in and we will take othercopies. If you could let Eilidh know she will arrange
for someone to pop down and take the copies for you. I should clearly not be allowed to operate a photocopier without

supervision!
We can catch up again once I get back.
Kind regards

Audrey

Audrey Cameron

Partner

Anderson Strathern

Y(Ext. 3066)

W andersonstrathern.co.uk

NS in v f

Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Anderson Strathern LLP is licensed by the Law Society of Scotland for incidental financial business.

This email has been sent from Anderson Strathern LLP, Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited or Anderson Strathern Asset Management
Limited, together "Anderson Strathern". Anderson Strathern has offices in Edinburgh, Glasgow and Haddington. For furtherinformation on the services
we provide, our staff, current legal developments, events, career opportunities and a full list of partners, visit our website at
Www.andersonstrathern.co.uk Please note that the contents of this email are privileged and/or confidential.If you are not the intended recipient, please
NFSP00000713
NFSP00000713

nofify the sender and ensure that this email is deleted and not read, copied or disclosed to anyone else. It is your responsibility to scan this email and
any attachments for computer viruses or other defects. Wedo not accept liability for any loss or damage which may result from this email or any file
attached. Email is not secure and can be intercepted, corrupted or amended. We do not accept liability for errors or omissions arising as a result of
interrupted ordefective transmission. Email entering or leaving Anderson Strathern's system is subject to random monitoring and recording by the firm.
Telephone calls may be recorded for compliance and training purposes. All business is transacted for and on behalf of AndersonStrathern LLP or
Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited or Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited.

Anderson Strathern LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in Scotland (SO301485) and having its registered office at 1 Rutland Court,
Edinburgh, EH3 8EY. ‘Partner’ denotes a member of, and all business is transacted for and on behalf of, AndersonStrathern LLP. A list of members’
names is open to inspection at each of our offices.

Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited is registered in Scotland (SC138174) and has its registered office at 1 Rutland Court, Edinburgh, EH3
8EY.

Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited is registered in Scotland (SC376947) and has its registered office at 1 Rutland Court, Edinburgh, EH3
8EY.

This email message has been scanned for viruses by Mimecast.
Mimecast delivers a complete managed email solution from a single web based platform
For more information please visit http:/Awww.mimecast.com
