NFSP00001471
NFSP00001471

Subject: RE: Letter to the Board of Post Office Ltd

From: Nick Read,
Date: 1 May 2024 at
To: Calum Greenho'
Cc: Tim Boothman
Subject: RE: Letter

Dear Calum
Acknowledging receipt of your email below.
I have forwarded to the other members of the board.

Regards
Nick

Nick Read
Group CEO

EA: philippa.hanki

GRO

postoffice.co.uk

From: Calum Greenhow!.
Sent: Monda
To: Nick Reat

Subje etter to the Board of Post Office Ltd

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening
attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

For the Post Office Board,

As I do not have email addresses of all the Board of the Post Office, I would be grateful if the
below was past to them for consideration ahead of any planned meetings.
NFSP00001471
NFSP00001471

I write to the Post Office Board after watching the events in the Horizon Inquiry over the last
few days. It has once again highlighted employees of the Post Office who in the past were part
of the obfuscation of the truth in relation the accuracy and reliability of the Horizon system and
its use in the victimisation of Postmasters, their assistants and Crown office employees and the
ruining of their lives.

Some of these employees of Post Office involved in the past remain employees of Post Office
today, where their present roles is very much Postmaster facing or indeed are in senior
management positions.

This information is not unknown to the Board, yet as a group, there has not been any action
taken to remedy the situation. How many more current employees will over the remainder of
the Horizon Inquiry be revealed to have been aware of the inaccuracy and unreliability of the
Horizon system be involved without the Board of Post Office Ltd taking the required action to
consider whether their employment should continue? This is not the first time I have raised this
with Post Office.

1am sure you will appreciate that as a group of Postmasters ourselves, we are growing
increasingly concerned that we keep having to deal with those individuals who have been
involved in the most reprehensible behaviour towards Postmasters and indeed, as has been
repeatedly stated during the Inquiry, have been involved in the “lie” to not only Postmasters in
the past but, indeed the NFSP as their representative body?

It therefore leads to the reality that if these individuals participated in this “lie” in the past, how
can we have any confidence that in their leadership role today, they will act in an open and
transparent manner for the betterment of Postmasters?

To be clear, it is imperative that the Board takes the required governance remedial action to
identify any and all current Post Office employees, whose actions were involved in the
victimisation of Postmasters, their assistants and Crown office employees. If the Post Office
Board fails to take such governance action, then it would fall to the current Postmaster Non-
Executive Directors to resign their positions on point of principle. There would also be a
requirement for the recruitment process for the replacement of the Non-Executive Directors to
be paused because no existing Postmaster could, in good conscience, serve alongside a
group, who enable individuals identified via the Horizon Inquiry, to be so involved in the past to
remain in the employ of the Post Office.

The NFSP would be open to discussing the seriousness of this situation further with the Board
of the Post Office. The reason for this is because Postmasters of today, are concerned how
the constant revelations over the Post Office impacts in the viability of their businesses today
and tomorrow.

Yours,

Tim Boothman Calum Greenhow

Chair of the NFSP CEO
NFSP00001471
NFSP00001471

Calum Greenhow
Chief Executive Officer

The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

w:i GRO M

E: calum.areenhow! . GRO

W: www.nfsp.org.uk

Link >it £)

#LOVEYOUR } : :
LOCAL 98% of UK post offices are privately owned

POSTOFFICE postmasters being self-employed investors
: their own small business.

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for
the addressee only. If you have received it in error please inform us immediately by email
responding to the sender and then delete this message. Please do not copy it, disclose its
contents to any other person or use it for any purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been
scanned for software viruses. We cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software
viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England,
company number 9771284)
NFSP00001471
NFSP00001471

TILT LET ELLE L LLL ELL LLL ELLE LEELA EEE RE RELL EEE EEE
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 100 Wood
Street, London, EC2V 7ER.

SEIS ISSCC SISSIES ORES SSSES SESS ESSE ESS EISISR EI Iara a tor

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be

found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy
