NFSP00001037

NFSP00001037
Midlands Region
Motions for conference as agreed at the MRC meeting on February 12" 2010
NS & SC That this conference nominate a member of the NFSP (and promulgate their

contact details to the membership) as the”subject matter expert “for all ATM
issues which cannot be resolved by either the BOI or the NBSC helpline.

NS & SC That this conference demands that the NFSP do not accept any reduction of
whatever kind, when it has already been agreed as part of the annual pay
negotiations without further consultation and agreement by the NC.

NS & SC That this conference mandates the EC not to accept any changes to the
Horizon system (either firmware or software) until fully validated as “fit for
purpose” by the Horizon steering group.

NS & SC That this conference mandate the EC to remind all NFSP employees, from the
GS down, that they are actual paid employees of this organisation, and should
conduct themselves accordingly and be respectful at all times of the
membership.

NS & SC That this conference mandate the EC to explain to members by means of a
publication in the “Sub postmaster Journal”, the procedures implemented for
electing the national president and to ensure that those procedures comply
with current trade union law.

NS & SC That this conference mandate the EC to demand that POL retain all historical
Horizon data that relate to Horizon failures both firmware & software for a
minimum of a twelve month period.

NS & SC That this conference mandate the EC to work towards securing a one off
payment / bonus to reflect the contribution NFSP members have made to
the reported record 2009 Royal mail Group profit.

NS & SC That this conference mandate the EC to negotiate with POL to secure
remuneration for SPM and their staff for attending POL training courses &
meetings.

NS & SC That this conference mandate the EC to demand that POL remain totally

responsible for all replacement cost relating to POL owned equipment and
the installation and servicing of this said equipment, when the replacement of
this equipment is enforced due to a POL suggested relocation, a
refurbishment following a natural disaster, criminal damage or a forced
closure that the SPM has had no control over.
10

dz

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

MRC

Leics.

Leics.

MRC

Leics.

Leics.

Leics.

Leics

Leics.

Leics.

NFSP00001037
NFSP00001037

That this conference demands that the EC make clear to all NFSP members by
means of a publication in the Sub postmasters journal, exactly what an
election address can consist of and by what means the election address can be
relayed to the members.

That this conference mandates the EC to demand from POL, full disclosure of
the value and agreement with agents regarding all transactions undertaken by
SPM in their everyday business. The value element should include both the
share of the transaction payment made to the SPM and the share of the
payment POL receive.

That this conference mandate the EC to demand from POL that they (POL)
address the huge losses that are still being incurred by the Crown Office
Network and agree to implement an increased rate of remuneration for SPM
which would enable SPM to pay sub post office staff a salary equivalent to
that of Crown Office staff.

That this conference mandate the EC to provide financial assistance through
the benevolent fund for members in the circumstances following a natural
disaster, criminal damage or any kind of forced closure that the member could
not have possibly avoided.

That this conference mandates the EC to demand from POL the
reimbursement to SPM for losses incurred at their PO when it has been
proven in a court of law that the SPM was not responsible for those losses

That this conference demands that the EC with the guidance of a contract
lawyer, challenge POL to rewrite the SPM contract in twenty first century
language with twenty first century conditions, as the present contract is
outdated and favours POL in a manner which should be challenged.

That this conference mandates the EC to demand that POL audit teams
provide SPM with a copy of the report that is signed by the SPM on the day of
the audit.

That this conference mandate the EC to urgently promote information

to SPM that advises them, that in the event of a suspension,

the SPM is entitled to choose his or her temporary interim if they meet POL,s
requirements.

That this conference mandate the EC to demand from POL that they (POL)
offer support to SPM when they (the SPM) are under threat from local
completion which is undermining their business with more competitive rates
than POL can offer.

That this conference mandates the EC to demand from POL a full list of audit
and compliance requirements that an audit team would require a SPM to
produce during an audit, also any amendments or updates should

be forwarded forwarded to SPM regularly.
