NFSP00000368

NFSP00000368
CIRCULATION: NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL A/3 PC NW 06 01
Coker CBIEJAIPC NW 06 01 National:Federation of ©
PO PZ _SubPostmasters
2nd October 1998

The Rt. Hon. Alistair Darling Esq.
Secretary of State for Social Security
Department of Social Security

General Secretary

Richmond House COUN Baer
79 Whitehall Assistant General Secretaries
London SW1A 2NS Kevin Daves

Paul HEASMAN:

Qos W Deda,

Thank you for your letter of 8th September. I, too, look forward to a meeting between
us in the very near future when we can discuss the important questions of the Post
Office’s role in the delivery of Government services and tackling financial exclusion.
On that point I was delighted to receive the news contained in the Prime Minister's
speech at the recent Labour Party Conference, supported by a written statement that
there is to be a single account with Government for all and these are to be developed
with The Post Office.

Members of the Federation have warmly received this news as I have circulated the
details of the announcement to our Branch Secretaries. They see this as good news
for the 28 million customers who use their post offices each week and they hope that
this will put to rest any doubts about the future of the Post Office’s automation project
and, indeed, the Government's commitment to the future of The Post Office network. !
share those views and am pleased that this positive announcement could be made.

I would, of course, like to understand a little more about the detail of the pilots that you
are planning with The Post Office. I would very much appreciate confirmation that the
Federation will be fully involved in these pilots which, we trust, will lead to a single
account which has the real potential to simplify dealings with the Government and help
to maintain thé nation’s network of Post Offices.

“GRO I

cou BAKER
General Secretary

CIRCULATION: NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

A/3,

NFSP00000368

NFSP00000368

PC NW 06 01

No. 66,320

WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 30 1998 t zane

Lone parents ‘must work’

By Jt SHERMAN, CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

MINISTERS are planning to
withhold benefits from dis-
abled people and Ione parents
who are fit for work unless
they are actively secking jobs.
Until now the Government
has balked from introducing
compulsory job-secking for
the disabled or single parents,
But yesterday officials hinted
that new legislation was being
drawn up to ensure that rights
to benefit are balanced with
responsibilities to find work.
“Anyone seeking support
from the State“ will be re
quired to come in for an
interview to talk about how to
become more independent,”
said officials, I (t
...Anjtially only new.claimants
would be affected ty, the
proposals, and it would not

apply to those “for whom
work is not a serious option”.
‘The changes coincide with
moves to streamline the bene-
fits. system ‘by . introducing
one-stop shops for the jobless,
disabled and fone parents,
Each claimant will also get
a personal adviser to help
them find jobs. and ‘get the
benefits they are-entitled to.
The aim is to shift the culture
from “what money can we pay
you?" to “how can we help you
become more’ independent?”,
said a party source. Some of
the job centres will be run
privately or by the voluntary
‘sector.
There will be four new
~-Pilots..in, June 1999 and a
further eight next autumn.
The Government also an-

nounced long-term plans fora
“single account” for all bene-
fits at Post Offices to stream-
line administration and help
prevent benefit fraud. Anyone
receiving: benefits would be
offered an account which
would help them manage
bills and savings, The account
would he used for a number
of state benefits and grants for
which there is often low take-
up.

It was. also confirmed yes-
terday that the Queen's
Speech would include a Bill
on welfare “reform, ° which
would comprise a shake-up of
disability benefits and some
initial” pension -b'reforms,
Movesiowardsasecond com-
pulsory pension are likely to
be delayed a.further year. .

ip tee estes cae

NFSP00000368

NFSP00000368

CIRCULATION: NATIONAL EXECUTIVE. COUNCIL A/3 PC NW 06 01

SINGLE ACCOUNT WITH GOVERNMENT

Everyone to have option of a single account to. manage their transactions with
government, offering convenience, transparency, and tackling some of the
problems of financial exclusion and welfare to work.

The account is designed to tackle three problems:

« financial exclusion: there are over 2m people in Britain withouta bank
accoum. This financial exclusion leads to dependence on loan sharks and
difficulties managing finances.

« welfare to work: many people fear that if they take up a job they wil} lose
money in the shortrun, while they wait for their first pay cheque.

« duplication and form filling: everyone suffers from having to deal with
many different arms of government, different agencies delivering benetits,
Taising taxes, using personal information ete

Our Jong-tetm vision is to offer everyone a single account through which to
organise many of their transactions with government, from benefits to driving
licence applications.

As a first step we will develop pilots with the Post Office to offer an account

to anyone receiving benefits, This account will help tim manage bills, and

savings. It will greatly help the transitions in and out of work. The account

would bring together existing policiés a range of benefits and grants. many of

which have very low awareness and takeup, The new arrangements will

improve access and guarantee that anyone going from welfare to work can be
. confident thar they won't fose out. :

Contacts: Department for Socia! Security, I

