NFSP00001305
NFSP00001305

From: Andrew Winnf_
Sent: Thur 12/01/2012
To: Marilyn Stoddart[}._

1 PM (UTC)

Ce: Branch Support Team.
Subject: RE: Balance discrepancy, Queen's Ferry Post Office 352614
Attachment: Queensferry 12-1-12.doc

Sent today

-----Original Message-----
From: Marilyn Stoddart [mailto:
Sent: 04 January 2012 15:14
To: Andrew Winn

Cc: Lynda Willoughby

Subject: Balance discrepancy, Queen's Ferry Post Office

Dear Andy

Firstly let me wish you a 'Happy New Year’, I hope that you enjoyed a well earned break.

Could I ask you please to have a look at the attached correspondence and Horizon print-outs sent in by subpostmaster John
Margarson at Queen's Ferry Road Post Office. You will see that he is querying a transaction of a £600 POCA withdrawal.
You will see that the horizon system failed midway through the transaction before ultimately indicating that recovery had
been successful and instructing "pay customer £600". The subpostmaster made the payment as instructed on the system but
has now experienced a shortage which he believes that transaction has contributed to. He has also enclosed the report that
shows a zero amount against 'withdraw limit’ but indicating £600 paid.

You will note that the customer is not a particularly regular customer and I can see his point entirely about the suggested
approach to her.

Could you ensure that the debt recovery process is blocked while this is investigated please Andy.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Regards
Marilyn

Marilyn Stoddart

Assistant General Secretary
Evelyn House

22 Windlesham Gardens

Shoreham-by-Sea
West Sussex
BN3 5SAZ

BEEBE DEERE EIEIO IIIA IAAI Roval Mail Group Limited registered in
England and Wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received

this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
Pert rte T TT ttt i treet TTT TET Tet Tene C EE EE LLL eee
