NFSP00000712
NFSP00000712

Message

From:
Sent:
To:

Sharon Merryweather!

cc:
lan Park ¢

Lynda Willoughby!
Subject: Court Case

Dear Colleague
As you may be aware, the judgement in the first trial of the group litigation Bates vs Post Office Ltd has been delivered.

The NFSP has not seen the full judgement document, but based on early reports, Post Office Ltd (PO) has lost the
majority — if not all — the material points of the trial. Certainly, the judge has been highly critical of PO’s actions and
behaviour, including the witness statements given by PO representatives during the trial.

The early reports also indicate that the judge is critical of the NFSP’s independence from PO. We will of course have a
better understanding of these criticisms once we have read the judgement in detail — but it is important to remember
that the NFSP was not involved in the trial and was neither invited to provide evidence nor called as a witness.

My view as CEO is that this is a time for considered deliberation, rather than knee-jerk reaction — but we will be seeking
legal advice about the judge’s specific criticisms of the NFSP.

If you are contacted about the trial verdict by a member of the press or by any other third party (including members) —
please do not provide any form of comment. Instead, please direct the enquiry to Peter Hall, Head of Policy and

Research on_ lor peter.half

PO’s statement on the trial verdict can be found here: https://www.mynewsdesk.com/uk/post-office/news/post-office-
response-to-judgment-in-the-first-trial-of-group-litigation-order-362232

Yours sincerely

Calum Greenhow

Calum Greenhow

Chief Executive Officer
The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ
NFSP00000712
NFSP00000712

W: www.nisp.org.uk

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the addressee only. If you have received
it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the sender and then delete this message. Please do not copy it,
disclose its contents to any other person or use it for any purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been scanned for software viruses. We
cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus
checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company number 9771284)
