NFSP00001468
NFSP00001468

From: Catriona Watt?

Sent: Fri 04/10/2024 1:44:16 PM (UTC)

To: Ruth Buckley-SalmonfGROC~—~—~—SSCS

Subject: FW: Unauthorised Stock Adjustments by Area Managers [IMAN-MATTERS.FID3857692]

Catriona Watt

Partner

Anderson Strathern

From: Calum Greenhow <Calum.Greenhow!
Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2023 11:
To: Tracy Marshall <tracy.marshall
Ce: Shaun Kerrison <shaun.kerrisoni
Subject: Unauthorised Stock Adjustments by Area Managers

Tracy,

It has come to my attention that PO personnel are visiting Postmasters, including audits (Putney
PO), where Area Managers/Auditors are entering stock values onto Horizon without either the
consultation or agreement with the Postmaster. In one recent case, involving Dervaig Post
Office, the Postmaster wasn't even present, as the Area Manager turning up unannounced.
What is more concerning is that there is a current investigation on going in relation to these
stamps, which has not been concluded, to our understanding.

If these facts are correct, then the NFSP would like to know who has authorised this policy
within PO and why it has not been discussed with the NFSP in advance?

If an investigation has taken place and there is a requirement for an adjustment to be made to
the branch accounts, this should be done via a Transaction Correction, not an Area Manager or
Auditor, adding the information to Horizon. This would suggest a different non-agreed policy is
being implemented by PO and this causes us concern as this could be construed as a
manipulation of figures by PO personnel, which brings us close to activities that are being
investigated by the Horizon Inquiry.

It is on this basis, that I would like to meet with you to discuss this further.
Yours,

Calum
NFSP00001468
NFSP00001468

<Outlook- Calum Greenhow

cid_image0.png>
image’-png Chief Executive Officer

The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

E: calum.greenhow GRO i
W: www.nfsp.org.uk
<Qutlook- <Outlook- <Outlook-

cid_image0.png>cid_image0.png>cid_imageO.png>

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the
addressee only. If you have received it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the
sender and then delete this message. Please do not copy it, disclose its contents to any other person or
use it for any purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been
scanned for software viruses. We cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software
viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England,
company number 9771284)
