NFSP00000153
NFSP00000153

CIRCULATION: NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

mj. 200519 7 PC NW06 01.

30th November 2000

CIRCULATION: NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Kevin DAVIS + Patx Heastoan © Kere Davis

Dear Executive Officer,

HORIZON — GIRO DAILY REPORTS.

I have recently received a number of reports about ghost entries on Giro Daily
Reports. I have been in continual discussion with PONU, firstly to identify the exact
problem, which offices were affected and how it can be rectified.

I am advised that it only affects CSR+ offices and only where a shared stock unit is
used. The problem will be fixed by means of a software drop in December. In the
meantime a message broadcast should have been made to all CSR+ offices today.
Attached is a copy of the draft message for your information. The text in italic at the
beginning of the message will not be included in the broadcast.

I trust you will find this information useful in responding to any queries you received
from members,

Yours sincerely

GRO

KEVIN DAVIS
Assistant General Secreta’

A helping hand for SubPostmastess... every mleere?
NFSP00000153
NFSP00000153

$0711 ‘00 13:31 FAX!

P 'TURGOOSE Moor

FAQ Kevia Davis
Connets by 12.45 if ek aU poss. bh

Post Office Network - Message Broadcast Service Emergency Cascade

Reference number: MBS005
Date; 29/41/2000

The following characters must noi be used: pound sterling character (£), single quote ('), double quotes (“), colon (:),
brackets 0, graater than (2) and smaller than (S),

Title (up to 18 characters including spaces) Giro Daily Reports
Message (up to 1,670 characters including spaces, helpline detatls, date and message reference number)

Problem with Girobank Daily Reports in outlets using shared stack units only.
Message Reference Number MBSODS 29/11/2000

There have been occasions where Girobank transactions entered on to CSR+ Horizon terminals may not
be visible on the office copy and the Horizon Daily Records (G9901 / G9902MAs). The transaction

will however be included in the grand total value and volume reported to the Cash Account. In addition, i
the individual tofals on one or more. Horizon Daily Records may be wrong. This fault is due to be fixed i
inDecember. I {

In order to avoid pase emor notices, Please Now the instructions below until further advised:

After printing the Horizon Daily Records”
. check that a transactions details from tie documents on hend actually appear.

}

Ifany ansaction.detais are missing: : t

+ do not select cut-off

add up the volume and value of all cutries (including fees) printed on every Horizon Daily Record.
Compare these with each of the printed totals

fall totals are correct;
* correct the error in the usual way, by entering the transaction on to the system and printing the
reports again.

If the totals are incorrect:
+ io not make an attempt to correct the error
e ring the Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) immediately on

Target outlets for cascade (insert one or more outlet types or the word ‘national’ or supply names and FAD codes as a
separate Excel file for other selection e.g. product specific) AT] CSR+ offices

Relevant helpline details for outlew with querles) Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) an/¢

Priority (inserthigh’ or ‘tow’ meaning, respectively, ‘open immediately’ o ‘open as soon as possible’) High

Retention period (10 to 37 days) 37

