NFSP00001463
NFSP00001463

Postmasters in CWU Page 2 of 4
cwu

View your membership details HERE
Latest News
A minute's silence __

Site Web Enter search term Search
I Postmasters in CWU

5
° Like I fg

Postmasters in CWU

The Communication Workers Union - The Choice of Postmasters

> CWU TV Matters I CWU The
Choice for Postmasters

Play video ve

The time is right to join the CWU and make a change, ensuring a better future for all!

We understand concerns of Postmasters as Post Office

The CHU wil moke sure you ore heard. The cw wit} Ltd Is pushing for greater numbers of the "Locals"
enable you to speak with stronger ard louder woke. I model. It is clear that the way Post Offices operate is
Silly Hayos, CAML gonaral sooratory changing, however, the voice of the Postmaster has

not been heard in this regard. By joining the CWU, we

can change this and make a difference together.

The new "Local" operating model:

Is aimed at those size Branches that can least afford to do without the Core Payment.

Has no enhanced Transaction Payments.

Requires extended trading hours therefore increasing staffing costs and risk against attack,

Has only been tested in communities where no PO has existed for some time.

Requires equipment that becomes the responsibility of the Operator for maintenance.

Has not been tested or evaluated for success in a conversion of an existing service. I

The government's proposals are not in the interests of anyone whe cores
about the Post Office services in the UK. {tis our view thot i ls Gime that those:
who do care & provide these services aitgn owt Interests, This ts the moment
when we have to come together.

‘Dave Ward, GWU dopuly gonoral secrolary (Postal)

In addition there has been:

@ No testing of the model
for sustainability of
income for the
operator.

* No option to revert from the Local model; therefore closure of the service becomes a real threat.

@ No research with customer groups about sharing service at the same till as the retail business.

@ No research about the potential for devaluing the PO Brand.

remain unknown.

I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Contract details remain shrouded in secrecy; therefore other potential liabilities around the model

This means:

http://www.cwu.org/postmasters,html 03/10/2011
NFSP00001463
NFSP00001463

‘I Postmasters in CWU Page 3 of 4

© Core tier payments are under threat with a move to variable pay, thus putting your business at risk and
making it unsustainable. This puts your livelihood at jeopardy.

We want to campaign to CW will give all Postmosters security, dignity and free voice; a truly

save our communities from democratic organisation that consults, listens and works jn the best interest
the threat of diminishing of alt its members, At less than half the price of NFSP full membership, not
services from Post Office only Its a no-brainer but our fast chance te take controt of our destiny.

Nippy Singh, chairman, CWU postmasters & agents acction

"Locals".

Without consulting you, the organisation representing Postmasters is supporting the changes above. Clearly this
is not in your best interests.

We think your interests are best placed in the CWU. We have industrial influence across POL and Royal Mail and
our aim is to seek a more equitable and commonsense approach towards the proposals for restructuring the
Network.

We want you to join the CWU now so we can tackle these issues together and build a sustainable future for you
and your business.

The CWU: What we can do [js At the end of the day t am sick of the spin, the lack of democtacy and lock
for you of consultancy. We reaily need a representative body that has the strength
f; to represent ts, The new Postinasters section of the CWU will glve us that
We are part of the Post : representation.
Bank Coalition (which Sandra Tizzard, Postmaster, Bridgwater

includes Federation of
Small Businesses, Nef, Unite, National Pensioners' Convention and Countryside Alliance); whose sole aim
is to influence Government to Increase revenue at Post Offices - the NFSP refused to part of this
coalition.

© We understand your issues and concerns with regard to the changes in the Post Office Network,

We are a campaigning organisation, with a proven track record in influencing Government.

@ We have industrial strength with a long standing presence across the entire Royal Mail group including
POL.

© We provide:
© Representation at disciplinaries or grievances
© Information on health and safety at work
0 Free legal advice - personal injury compensation claims and employment tribunal applications and
special discounted rates on personal legal matters e.g. conveyancing etc.
‘© Support in deating with any proposed contract changes
o Free will-writing_service and discounted motor, home and travel insurance.
o Free death benefit scheme

All this for just £7.82 p.m - less than half the cost of your full NFSP membership (£ 16.37 p.m)

The CWU Is a democratic union, with elected leaders, which has created its own Postmaster/Mistress and agents
national branch. The Postmasters will have a big voice within the CWU - they will have their own autonomy.

With over 200,000 members

Pastmasters need a place where they can express their views. Come across I @Cross the country in postal,
& join us. Bigger Is better and together we can make a difference. logistics and communications
Mark Baker, vice chairman, CWU pastmasters & agents section industries including Crown Post

Office workers, the CWU has

strength in numbers and is a union that stands up to POL and the Government.
Join us and help us realise a strong future for our members!
For more information on why you should join the CWU read the Postmaster In CWU leaflet.

The CWU - the choice for Postmasters!

Find us on

Facebook

CWU, 150 The Broadway, Wimbledon, SW19 1RX Tel

1 Fax:/ / Text

http://www.cwu.org/postmasters.html 03/10/2011
NFSP00001463
NFSP00001463

‘I Postmasters in CWU Page 4 of 4
Relay: 1800102089717200 / Email: in et
Labour® ()

¢ Facebook wen
© Twitter

© Accessibility
© Site map
© Privacy
Contact

http://www.cwu.org/postmasters, html 03/10/2011
