NFSP00000332

NFSP00000332
20:22 @oi2zo1s
krona: Daas,
To Kevin Lenihan Date : 18 May 2000 I GRO i?

From Steve Gibbs
Network Policy & Transformation Manager

CC: DonGrey
Graham Shervington

Subject : Polling problems
Kevin,

Lunderstand you are leading on the polling problems there have been with
Pathway,

This issue was raised yesterday at the NFSP Conference and Colin Baker
(General Secretary of the NFSP) asked me to urgently find out some
information on the matter so that he could report back to conference. I spoke
to Graham Shervington who was extremely helpful and informed me that:

e There have been polling problems.

e There were around 40 offices that had not been polled for more than a
week. (I understand there are 60 offices involved).

¢ The issue had been escalated up to Director level in Pathway.

* There were problems with offices switching the kit off, but this only
affected polling for 1 day.

° Pathway had been asked, as a matter of urgency, to investigate these
polling problems (longer than 7 days) and that the problem was due to
gateway hardware or software problems.

* Pathway had resolved half of the problems and were expecting to resolve
the rest by the end of the week.

° In future Pathway will report any offices not polled in more than 2 days.

The Federation are extremely concerned as to how our clients and our
customers view us due to the above problem, which is a natural concern.
They would like to see, and I agree with them ;

* Acommunication to all outlets advising them to log the issue with NBSC if
it re-occurs.

e Pro-active management of the client.

* Pro-active action to the customers affected, with a goodwill gesture (gift
voucher or book of stamps).

NFSP00000332
NFSP00000332

8/05 ‘00 20:23 SB. (013/013

Iraised the above at the Horizon Evaluation Review Forum today and I was
informed that you were dealing with the matter, hence the note. It was

mentioned that part of the plan you were putting together took into account
the client issues.

After the meeting (this afternoon) I received a phone call from Colin Baker
and he tipped me off that the DTI representative at the Conference had
teported back the problems with polling and that Alan Johnson, Minister for
Competitiveness at the DTI (and responsible for the Post Office) has asked for
a copy of the transcript of this part of the conference.

Can you let me know so that I can go back to Colin and re-assure him :

¢ That the problems will be resolved by the end of this week

¢ That we are pro-actively managing clients and looking to set up processes
with them to avoid this situation in future.

* That we will contact the 60 offices involved and establish from them
customers affected and then write to them (with a goodwill gesture), Iam
sure the Customer Care teams in Territories will take this on board for you.

¢ That there will be a wider communication of the issue and what outlets
need to do if they are faced with a customer who has been cut off, got a red
bill etc.

The Federation are re-emphasising the message to their members and branch
secretaries that the equipment needs to be left on.

Steve Gibbs
,--Network Policy & Transformation Manager

GRO I

