NFSP00001475

NFSP00001475
From: Calum Greenhov,
Sent: Fri 18/10/2024 9:27:21 AM (UTC)
To: Catriona Wat
Subject: Fw: Horizon data integrity and end-to-end discrepancy management process - external

assessment

Catriona,
Conversation with Chrysanthy, below

Calum
Calum Greenhow

Chief Executive Officer

The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ.

W: www.nfsp.org.uk

NFSP00001475
NFSP00001475

#LOVEYOUR
LOCAL 98% of UK post offices are privately owned with

POSTOFFICE postmasters being self-employed investors in
their own small business.

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the addressee
only. If you have received it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the sender and then
delete this message. Please do not copy it, disclose its contents to any other person or use it for any
purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been scanned for software
viruses. We cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses and would advise you to
carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company number
9771284)

From: Calum Greenhow
Sent: Thursday, October 17, 2024 10:00 AM
To: Chrysanthy Pispinis ¢ GRO i
Subject: Re: Horizon data integrity and end-to-end discrepancy management process - external assessment

Chrysanthy,

Accenture, naturally pops into mind but let me have a broader think.

The review needs to cover the software, hardware and telecommunications along with processes within Fujitsu
and PO so that we have a full picture of what is termed “Horizon”.

Yours,

Calum
Calum Greenhow

Chief Executive Officer

The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

“GRO

NFSP00001475
NFSP00001475

W: www.nfsp.org.uk

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the addressee
only. If you have received it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the sender and then
delete this message. Please do not copy it, disclose its contents to any other person or use it for any purpose.
Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been scanned for
software viruses. We cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses and
would advise you to carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company
number 9771284)

_..GRO_

On 16 Oct 2024, at 13:03, Chrysanthy Pispinis 4 +} wrote:

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

Hi Calum,

We haven't appointed someone yet — working through route to market / procurement options. If you
have someone in mind, let me know.

Best,

cP

From: Calum Greenhow GRO :
Sent: Wednesday, Octob
To: Chrysanthy Pispinis
Subject: Re: Horizon data integrity and end-to-end discrepancy management process - external
assessment

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening
attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Chrysanthy,

Can I ask who will be carrying out the audit of Horizon?
NFSP00001475
NFSP00001475

Yours,

Calum
\ Calum Greenhow

Chief Executive Officer

The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

W: www.nfsp.org.uk

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the
addressee only. If you have received it in error please inform us immediately by email responding to the
sender and then delete this message. Please do not copy it, disclose its contents to any other person or
use it for any purpose. Thank you for your cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been
scanned for software viruses. We cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software
viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privac'

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England,
company number 9771284)

On 15 Oct 2024, at 18:55, Chrysanthy Pispinis._.
wrote:

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

Hi Calum,

As signalled previously by Neil, and again by Andy earlier today, we’re keen to progress
this piece of work.

We would like to involve Postmasters, not just in the scoping exercise, but also in the
NFSP00001475
NFSP00001475

assessment itself (thank you for corralling your Advocacy team). To that effect, we’ve
pulled together the attached draft Terms of Reference (there is a much more technically
detailed document behind this, JFYI).

I would value your perspectives on our draft please, in particular around focusing this work
on the areas that matter most to Postmasters (we also want to get the balance right
between scope and timescales/ urgency).

Happy to chat through if easier — just let me know and I’ll get us some time.

Best wishes,
Chrysanthy

Chrysanthy Pispinis
Chief of Staff

3" Floor
100 Wood Street
London, EC2V 7ER

GRO_

<image001.png>

! work flexibly — so whilst it suits me to email outside normal working hours, I do not expect
a response outside your own.

FEES ESSE SECO G SISSIES GCE OOIE SISSIES GEESE OSES SIEGE I EK

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If
you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute
the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
100 Wood Street, London, EC2V 7ER.

FOSS ESSE GSES OEE SES EEE ES ESS EES a ino rar dar actor

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do

this can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy

<Data integrity and discrepancy management Audit - DRAFT ToR v5.1 for Postmaster
Input.docx>

2A C24 29 2 2 FR RR FR 2K 2 FAR 2K 2 FAR AR of RR a oe aa

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.
NFSP00001475
NFSP00001475

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 100
Wood Street, London, EC2V 7ER.

2 RR RR RR A RR RR A RRR FO RR A ARR I AO BRR AOR RA CO RGR AS aR aa

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this
