POL00006523
POL00006523

Message

From: Jane MacLeodi,,....

Sent: 10/05/2018 12:

To: Rodric Williams © Andrew Parsons [¢
Subject: Fwd: In Strict Confidence: Briefing to fact-check

Attachments: 2018 05 10 Horizon Litigation - Facts of the Case.docx

On a quick read this is a highly dangerous document - written by a non-lawyer, and therefore without any protections of
confidentiality or privilege, and underpins all our concerns regarding briefings to UKGI/ BEIS.

Your early views would be very welcome however:

- I propose that i flag to Paula that the summary has arrived and that we are concerned as to the loss of privilege.

- I suggest that one of you call Elizabeth O’Neill and / or Helen Lambert with the same view.

- I suggest that we do not respond with a ‘fact check’ as I don’t think we want to be seen to have in any way endorsed
any of the statements in the summary.

- we need to address this at the Board briefing on Tuesday.

Thoughts?
Jane
Jane MacLeod

Group Director Legal, Risk & Governance
Post Office
-

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
Sent: Thursday, May 10, 2018 9:52 pm

Subject: In Strict Confidence: Briefing to fact-check
To: Jane MacLeod <—-
Cc: Callard, Richard - UKGI
Eli .

Rodric Williams ¢_
-, Cooper, Tom - UKGI <i
Lambert, Helen - UKGI <f

O'Neill,
Patrick Bourke

Jane/Rodric,

I believe you are aware that BEIS Permanent Secretary Alex Chisholm has asked us for a full written briefing on the
Horizon Litigation asap. In the attached, we have set out the facts of the case, including relevant background, based on
our understanding of information provided to us by POL over the years since the issue first arose. Of course, we'll also
flag to Alex that the Protocol is being finalised and will be submitted to him in due course.

Please can you check this briefing for factual accuracy and either (i) confirm that it is accurate or (ii) correct the
inaccuracies. (Note: it’s just a fact-checking exercise, so we’re not looking for opinion and only require amendments if
there are factual inaccuracies). Please can you provide this by close of play this Tuesday.(We’ll submit to Alex asap
after the subcommittee, in case any new facts emerge that need to be added to the briefing — if so, grateful if you could
flag these to us too).

Regards,

POL-0017828
POL00006523
POL00006523

Stephen

Stephen ClarkelPost Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments
Corporate finance and governance in government.

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

stephen.clarket”

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

2A I A 2221 2K 2 RF 1 0 RF 1 0 RK 0 28 1 0 0 0 RR AS

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2A I FCF RRR FIC OR O10 OR FOF 0 R100 OR CCDS 0 OR CEG GO

POL-0017828
