POLO0110441
POL00110441

Message

From: Tom Wechsler
on behalf of I Tom Wechsle!
Sent: 13/06/2016 12:
To: Paula Vennel
ce: Avene Regan I
Subject: 1:1 with Jane
Paula

You have your regular 121 with Jane. In advance, she has sent through the agenda below and commentary.

On contract management, you will recall that you prompte: to place a number of his people on the IACCM
training following Jane's invitation. I’ve asked for an update but Jane may have more. This is generally a good initiative
where we need to improve our capability (on which note, it is a development area I would like to address, potentially in
a future round of the course).

lam aware that the head(s) of legal recruitment / Deputy General Counsel is progressing and Jane will provide an
update (we will also cover in the recruitment update that I have commissioned).

As you are aware, the Sparrow litigation group has now met and agreed ways of working. Jane will update you on this
and Tim’s review. Going forward, this is the regular way I which we will keep you informed as there is a need to keep
written material to a minimum and to protect what there is with legal privilege. I will of course let you know of any
significant developments as they happen.

On strategy and communication, I think it is important that colleagues are clear about what they are asking for. Jane’s
feedback and challenge may be fair in any event it is clearly what people feel which is important. However, I think the

reality is not that people don’t know the strategy but rather they want to understand the detail of implementation. If

that is correct then we need GE colleagues to support Mark in hitting the target that will address colleagues’ concerns

and engage them going forward.

Jane has sent an update on her Q1 objectives. All seems in order and I am sympathetic to Jane’s hesitancy around
establishing a group compliance function and recruiting to head it up. Feedback from other recent recruitments suggest
this level of change / uncertainty can be a hindrance to early retention. However, is there also a risk of losing more time
than necessary? Roles change and if honest that it is an evolving picture in recruitment it may be that it is beneficial to
identify people capable of flexing sufficiently to organisational dynamics. It will take a while to pin down all the detail of
how this role may develop so it is worth keeping under review at least when there is sufficient (rather than perfect)
information to proceed.

Other than that, you may what to cover the FOI issue Jane raised this morning in a little more detail and particularly
issues around procurement risk.

Tom

From: Jane MacLeod
Sent: 10 June 2016 13:01
To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Avene Regan
Subject: 1:1 on Monday

POL-0111335
POLO0110441
POL00110441

Paula
I have the following points for Monday. Please let me know if there is anything else you would like to discuss?

1. Contract Management Framework
e IACCM training has initiated — we have 25 people enrolled across FD in the first cohort
e Obligations mapping — this is the work that the ARC expressed concerned about at the May meeting. My
proposal is that we identify the 20 most material contracts and require each contract owner to confirm by
[end August] that in relation to each such contract they have mapped all obligations and have a documented
process to demonstrate:
° obligations on Post Office
obligations on Supplier/Client
o. frequency of obligations, and
© processes by which performance of obligations are monitored (including MI to demonstrate

performance (both quantitative and qualitative) of obligations.

This work will need to be done by the contract owners and I suspect will not be well received given the amount
on at the moment, so I will need your support on this. Further, we should then ensure that he performance
data around these contracts is captured as part of the monthly performance reports.

2. Corporate Services Restructures — status
Restructures are currently underway in Risk & Assurance, and Legal. I will update you on issues arising from
these, and the expected timeframes.

3. Sparrow/Litigation/Chairman’s Review
¢ We met with Tony Robinson QC last night, and among other things discussed whether the work underway to
complete the Chairman’s review should continue. His view was that it shouldn’t. I have already flagged this
to Tim and will brief you on the rationale and consequences in our meeting.

4. Communication of Strategy
¢ During various engagement meetings with my wider CS team, concern has been raised as to the lack of
visibility of the forward strategy and what that means. Unfortunately, while ‘simpler to run/better for
customers/ great to work for’ strapline is understood at a high level, there is a concern about how this is
being delivered. I know Mark is working on the communication plan for the strategy, but I think it would be
helpful if we could provide (at a high level) reassurance that we are working on a wider strategy and what
the timetable for development and then communication will be.

5. Objectives — see below for brief summary against Q1 objectives. I assume we will agree Q2 objectives at our July
meeting?

e Establishment of group compliance function:
Role profile developed and benchmarked, however I am reluctant to proceed with this role until there is
greater clarity on the future plans for sales of (in particular) FS products in branches as this will
fundamentally affect the shape of the role.

Manage AML compliance audit and progress remediation plans (Q1-3)
On track, although we are struggling with resource to undertake the risk assessment. We are looking at

alternate resourcing options and the cost of these.

¢ Scope impact & develop implementation plan for new Data Protection Regulations
Underway

POL-0111335
Jane

POLO0110441
POL00110441

Scope impact & develop implementation plan for Network/ Information Security Directives
Underway

Review Cost initiatives and develop plans to implement
The P2 reports show that Corporate services is well within budgets for both staff and non-staff
costs. Further work is ongoing to develop and improve MI, as well as progressing initiatives.

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number:

POL-0111335
