Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

9.4 Magistrates’ and Crown Court
Procedures

Version 1.0 Final
May 2011

Review Date: May 2013

Ray Pratt

Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Security

Mobex fo AEB AR

POL00104872
POL00104872
POL00104872

POL00104872

Contents

Key Accountabilities 3
1. Introduction 4
2. Getting the Case to the Magistrates’ Court 4
3. Actions to be Undertaken Before the First Hearing in a 5
Magistrate’s Court

4. Hearings in the Magistrates’ Court 5
5. Newton Hearings 7
6. Committed to the Crown Court for Trial 7
7. The Trial Process 8
8. Guide to Giving Professional Evidence 9
9. General 10
Change Control 12

Glossary 13
POL00104872

POL00104872
Key Accountabilities
Who is What do I have toIWhen do I have I How do I do
accountable? I do? _ I

to do this?

this?

All members
of Royal Mail
Security

with these
procedures

Ensure you comply I Ongoing

As detailed
within these
procedures

1 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ « crown c:

art Procedures- RM Vi.0 ~ Pa
POL00104872
POL00104872

Magistrates’ and Crown Court Procedures

1.1

Introduction

These procedures detail in general terms how Magistrates’ and Crown
Courts operate in respect of adult offenders and how Royal Mail Group
(RMG) Ltd, Criminal Law Team (CLT), prosecute adult offenders and
suspected offenders in England and Wales. There are separate rules in
respect of the prosecution of offenders under the age of 18 and advice
on these rules can be sought from the CLT if required. In Scotland
prosecutions are conducted by the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal
Service (COPFS) and in Northern Ireland the Public Prosecution Service
(PPS).

1.1.1 Advice on how Criminal Courts operate in Scotland can be found
on the COPFS website by following this link; Home - Crown Office
and Procurator Fiscal Service

1.1.2 Advice on how Criminal Courts operate in Northern Ireland can be
found on the PPS website by following this link; Home - Public
Prosecution Service Northern Ireland

2. Getting the case to the Magistrates’ Court

2.1

All adult criminal cases in England and Wales commence proceedings in
the Magistrates Court. There are two ways to get a case before the
Magistrates’ Court. The first is for the Police to charge the suspect
with an offence(s) following their arrest. The second is to obtain
“summons” from a Magistrates’ Court. A summons is a written order
directing the defendant to attend a Magistrates’ Court at a certain
time and date to answer a criminal charge(s).

Police Charging Suspects. Following a person’s arrest and subsequent

interview under caution the Investigator in the Case (IIC) should

discuss the future conduct of the investigation with the Custody

Officer. The Custody Officer is responsible for the final decision and

has the following options available. The suspect may be;

2.2.1 Charged with a criminal offence(s) and remanded in custody to
attend a Magistrates’ Court at the next hearing.

2.2.2 Charged with a criminal offence(s) and bailed on either
“conditional” or “unconditional” bail to appear at a Magistrates’
Court, normally within a few days. For a defendant to be remanded
in custody or granted conditional bail the Custody Officer must
have substantial grounds to believe that the defendant may;

a) Fail to surrender to bail. The defendant’s domestic/personal
circumstances may influence this or they may have indicated they
intend to abscond.

b) Obstruct the course of justice and/or interfere with witnesses.
Has the defendant threatened to interfere with witnesses (or has
a history of such behaviour) or will they hinder the recovery of
property?

c) Commit offences on bail. Is it thought that the defendant will
commit further offence(s) whilst on bail?

d) Be at risk of harm. Is there a threat to the defendant or are
they suicidal, have a drug habit or mental disorder etc? Special
consideration should be given to the welfare of young persons.

If the IIC knows of any such issues they should make the Custody

Officer aware.

2.2.3 Released on police bail to return to the police station at a
particular time and date;

2.2.4 Released from custody and informed the case may proceed by
“obtaining summons”;

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ & Crown Court Procedures~ RM V1.0 - Page 4 of 16
POL00104872
POL00104872

2.2.5 Released from custody and informed that no further action will
be taken.

2.3 1f, because of the available evidence, the Custody Officer decides that
either of the courses of actions detailed in 2.2.1 or 2.2.2 above are
appropriate, the IIC should make contact, (out of hours if necessary)
with the CLT, in order that advice can be sought on the appropriate

The out of hours CLT contact number is

GRO In addition the Investigator must request that the case is not
“ESFETEEM’ to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) as it is preferred that
the Royal Mail CLT will prosecute. To facilitate this it is the normal
practice for Investigators to sign the charge sheet and retain the CPS

copy.

2.4 Proceeding by Summons. If the suspect is not charged by the Police and
it is thought that there is a case to answer then the CLT will advise
if there is sufficient evidence to prosecute and whether, in their
view, the suspect offender should be prosecuted. If appropriate they
will also prepare a “Schedule of Charges”. The investigation file
along with the CLT advice will then be forwarded to the relevant
Business Unit Decision Maker who will decide if it is in the public
interest to prosecute. Further details on this can be found in P&S 9.2
Prosecution Decision Making Process.

2.5 Obtaining Summons. If the decision is taken to prosecute, the
Prosecution Support Office (PSO) will make an application to the
appropriate Magistrates’ Court for summonses for each of the charges
advised by the CLT. When they are received by the PSO they will be
served on the defendant by means of Special Delivery. If the summonses
do not get delivered or they are not collected from the Delivery Office
then the PSO will notify the IIC in the case who should collect them
from the Delivery Office and serve them by hand.

3 Actions to be Undertaken Before the First Hearing in a Magistrates’ Court

3.11In order to ensure that cases can be dealt with expeditiously at the

Magistrates’ Court Investigators must ensure that the CLT have the

necessary information and documents to enable the case to progress at

the first hearing. This is particularly so if a guilty plea is
anticipated. Investigators must therefore ensure that the following
information and completed documentation are supplied to the CLT in good
time before the first hearing.

3.1.1 Advance Information. The CLT are required to serve “Advance
Information” on both the Magistrates’ Court and the defence.
Advance information details the facts of the case and is normally
prepared by the CLT from the suspect offender case file, where one
is available. However in RMG Ltd cases, where the Police have
charged a suspect with an offence(s) and the Investigator has not
had time to submit a suspect offender case file, the Investigator
must ensure that the CLT are provided with a written report
detailing the facts of the case.

3.1.2 Financial Loss and Recovery Information Form GS103. Investigators
must ensure that the GS103 is completed in sufficient substantive
detail to allow the prosecutor (this will either be the CLT or
“Agents” instructed by CLT to prosecute on behalf of RMG Ltd), to
make informed applications in respect of compensation and costs. If
the case proceeds to Magistrates’ Court by means of summons then
PSO will forward the GS103 to the Investigator two weeks prior to
the first hearing. This must be returned to the PSO within seven
days in order that the PSO can forward the appropriate request for
compensation, along with investigation costs to the prosecutor. If

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ & Crown Court Procedures~ RM V1.0 ~ Page 5 of 16
POL00104872
POL00104872

however the case proceeds directly to the Magistrates’ Court,
following a police charge, then the Investigator must ensure that
the information and the investigation costs (available from the
PSO) are submitted directly to the CLT, copying any such
information to the PSO. Further information on completing the
GS103 can be found in P&S 9.6 Recovery of Property Obtained
Dishonestly, Compensation, Costs and Final Disposal of Case
Exhibits.

3.1.3 Offences Taken into Consideration Form GS018. Investigators must
supply the CLT with an electronic copy of a completed Offences
Taken into Consideration form GS018 with details of any other
offences in the case, which are not the subject of formal charges.

3.1.4 Antecedents Form GS033 and Previous Convictions. Finally,
Investigators must submit to the CLT a completed Antecedents form
GS033 and ensure that the PSO has provided the prosecutor with
printouts of the defendants’ previous convictions and cautions from
the Police National Computer (PNC).

Hearings in the Magistrates Court

Magistrates’ Court. Hearings in a Magistrates’ Court are normally
before 3 Magistrates (but it can be 2), or by a single District Judge.
The presiding Magistrates’ or District Judge are commonly referred to
as the “Bench”. Magistrates and District Judges are always assisted by
a professional legal adviser who is referred to as the Justices’ Clerk.
It is their responsibility to ensure that correct procedures are
adhered to and that the Bench is properly directed as to the law and
their powers. (The roll of the Justices’ Clerk is far more significant
where Magistrates are presiding as they are not legally trained,
whereas District Judges are.)

Offences Triable Either Way. Criminal Offences in England and Wales are

categorised as either;

4.2.1 Summary Only Offence. These are criminal offences which are only
triable in the Magistrates’ Court. These are the least serious
offences. An example of a “summary only” offence is the Postal
Services Act (PSA) 2000 offence under Section 84, Interfering with
the Mail: General. This is the “interference” offence which deals
with offenders who are not employed by a postal operator. The
maximum sentence for the offence is 6 months imprisonment and a
level 5 fine.

4.2.2 Indictable Only Offence. These are criminal offences which are
triable only in the Crown Court. These are the most serious
offences such as murder.

4.2.3 Either Way Offence. These are indictable offences which may be
heard in either the Magistrates’ or Crown Court. The majority of
offences investigated by RM Investigators are triable either way.
These include the following offences;

Act Section Offence
Postal Services Act Section Interfering with the Mail:
2000 83 Postal Operators, (Intentional
Delay and Opening)
Theft Act 1968 Section Theft
1
Section I False Accounting
17
Fraud Act 2006 Section Fraud by False Representation
2
Section Fraud by Failing to Disclose
3

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ & Crown Court Procedures~ RM V1.0 ~ Page 6 of 16
POL00104872

POL00104872

Section Fraud by Abuse of Position

4
Proceeds of Crime Section Money Laundering by Concealing
Act 2002 327 etc

Section Money Laundering by Making

328 Arrangements

Section Money Laundering by

329 Acquisition, Use or Possession
Criminal Damage Act Section Damage or Destroying Property
1971 1

4.3 Plea before Venue and Mode of Trial. If a defendant has been charged or
summoneds with an offence triable either way an early plea may be taken
at the first hearing.

4.4 Guilty Plea. If guilty pleas are made by the defendant and the
significant facts in the case are agreed by prosecution and defence,
(if not see Newton Hearings at section 5 below) then the Bench will
consider the appropriate venue for sentence. This normally depends on
the seriousness of the offence as the sentencing powers at the
Magistrates’ Court are;

4.4.1 To maximum of six months imprisonment and a fine of £5,000 for
one offence, or;

4.4.2 To a maximum of 1 year imprisonment if the defendant is
convicted of two or more offences.

Should the bench feel that they have insufficient powers to sentence

the offender appropriately then they can send the case to Crown Court

for sentence, (see paragraph 4.6 below). If it is agreed that the case
can be dealt with in the Magistrates’ Court then they will move to
sentence.

4.5 Not Guilty Plea or No Plea entered. If a not guilty plea or no plea is
entered the Bench will consider if the appropriate venue to hear the
case is in the Magistrates’ Court or the Crown Court. The yardstick is
whether the Bench think that they have sufficient powers to deal with
the case in accordance with their sentencing powers detailed in 4.4.1
and 4.4.2 above. If not arrangements will be made to commit the
defendant to the Crown Court. It is worthy of note that the Bench can
agree to hear the case in the Magistrates’ Court on the caveat that if,
after hearing the full circumstances of the case, they feel the matter
is more serious than initially thought, they can send the defendant to
the Crown Court for sentencing, (again see Paragraph 4.6 below) .

4.6 Committed to Crown Court for Sentence. If the offender pleads guilty or
is found guilty and the case is committed to the Crown Court for
sentence then the Investigator should ensure that they have discussed
with the prosecutor the service of the GS018 Offences Taken into
Consideration form on the offender. In normal circumstances the
Prosecutor will have sufficient documentation at this stage to deal
with the sentencing hearing in the Crown Court. However, the
Investigator should be prepared to deal with any requests from the
Prosecutor for further information.

4.7 Mode of Trial. If a not guilty plea or no plea is entered and the Bench
have decided that the Magistrates’ Court is the appropriate venue for
the Trial then the defendant is given the opportunity to elect the Mode
of Trial. That is to say does the defendant wish to be tried in the
Magistrates’ Court by the Magistrates’ or the District Judge, or do
they want to be tried in a Crown Court before a Judge and Jury of 12
peers.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ & Crown Court Procedures~ RM V1.0 ~ Page 7 of 16
POL00104872
POL00104872

4.8 Elects Trial in either a Magistrates’ or Crown Court. If the defendant
elects trial in either the Magistrates’ or Crown Court then normally
the case will be adjourned in order that the prosecution can submit;
4.8.1 Trial papers in the event of a trial in the Magistrates’ Court,

or
4.8.2 Committal papers in the event of trial in the Crown Court. (See
section 6 below).
The make up of trial papers and committal papers is exactly the same.
Procedures & Standards 9.5 Committal and Trial Papers and Processes
fully detail the requirements of such papers. Investigators should
note, however, that in some circumstances the Magistrates may set the
trial date before trial papers have been prepared on the understanding
that the prosecution can apply to vacate the fixed date(s) should
prosecution witnesses not be available to attend court and give
evidence.

4.9 Trial in the Magistrates’ Court. If the trial date has not been
previously fixed in accordance with Paragraph 4.8 above and having
allowed time for the preparation of the trial papers, there will be a
hearing in the Magistrates’ Court to decide the date of trial and which
witnesses will be required to attend. The Investigator must ensure that
the Witness Non-Availability form GS010 is updated to reflect the dates
and reasons why witnesses in the case will not be available to attend
Court. The PSO can assist the Investigator in obtaining the witnesses
dates of non-availability but it remains the responsibility of the
Investigator to ensure it is completed.

4.10 When the trial date is fixed the PSO will write to the witnesses who
are required to attend to inform them of the location, date and time
that they will be required. The PSO will also forward to the witnesses
a Witness in Court Form GS042. This form gives witnesses information
about how courts work. Investigators should make contact with the
witnesses who are required to attend court prior to the hearing to
ensure that they are able to get to court on the relevant date.

4.11 Trials in Magistrates’ Court. The actual trial processes in the
Magistrates’ Court are the same as in the Crown Court with the
exception that the verdict is arrived at by the Bench and not a jury.
Trial processes are described in Section 6 below.

5. Newton Hearings

5.1 Put simply, a Newton Hearing takes place following a guilty plea where
there is a factual dispute between the prosecution and defence versions
of the case, which are so different that it affects the appropriate
sentence. A court hearing must be arranged (and this can be in either
the Magistrates’ Court or the Crown Court) to hear evidence on the
disputed points. The onus is on the defence to make it clear which
facts that they dispute. For example, in RMG Ltd cases the defendant
may be disputing how many postal packets or how much money they stole.

5.2 The Newton Hearing is similar in form to a mini-trial. The prosecution
is first required to call evidence in relation to the matters in
dispute, and the defence will then call evidence to support its version
of the facts. The burden of proof lies upon the prosecution, which must
prove its assertions of fact beyond reasonable doubt.

5.3 If the defendant declines to call evidence, the court is entitled to
reject the mitigation and sentence on the prosecution’s version of
events.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ & Crown Court Procedures~ RM V1.0

POL00104872
POL00104872

5.4 If a case goes to a Newton Hearing then the CLT will advise on which
evidence they wish to rely on to prove the prosecution case and advise
the Investigator accordingly.

6. Committed to the Crown Court for Trial

6.1 This section deals with cases where the defendant pleads not guilty
or offers no plea and has requested Crown Court as the mode of trial.
In such cases the Magistrates’ Court will grant an adjournment in order
for time to be given for the preparation of “Committal Papers”. For
full details on the preparation of committal papers see Procedures and
Standards 9.5 Committal & Summary Trial Papers & Processes. The next
hearing in the Magistrates’ Court is known as the “Committal Hearing”.
This is where the case will be committed to the Crown Court for trial
At this hearing the prosecutor should be in possession of the original
statements in order that they can be lodged with the Court. In addition
the prosecution must comply with any directions given by the
Magistrates’ Court in respect of the committal.

6.2 Plea and Case Management Hearing. Normally the first hearing in the
Crown Court will be a Plea and Case Management Hearing (PCMH). If the
defendant has not yet entered a plea then they must expect a plea to be
taken. If this cannot be taken for any reason they must expect to give
an indication of plea. If a not guilty plea is given or anticipated
then the real issues in the case should be decided upon. This will
include which evidence is agreed and which is not and as such which
witnesses’ attendance will be required at Court. The Court will also
give directions as to the future conduct of the case and could set a
date for the trial.

6.3 Guilty Pleas at the PCMH. If the defendant pleads guilty at the PCMH
the case can move to sentence. Accordingly Investigators must ensure
that the prosecutor is in possession of an up to date completed Other
Offences Taken into Consideration form GS018, an Antecedents form GS033
and full details of any previous convictions or cautions of the
offender.

6.4 Dates. Courts have great difficulty in accurately estimating how long
particular trials will take. This is quite understandable as a
defendant may change their mind and plead guilty on the first morning,
or at any time during the trial. Additionally it is difficult to
accurately estimate how long the jury will take to arrive at their
verdict. Accordingly, and to make best use of Crown Court resources, a
case may be listed as either “warned” or “fixed”.

6.4.1 Warned List. This means that all parties are warned that the
case may be heard at any time over a period of the following three
weeks . When on the warned list all parties may be advised to
attend the court complex at a particular time and date. This may be
because the case has been allocated a particular courtroom when the
trial can commence or it may be that the case has been allocated as
a “floater”. This means that a courtroom will be allocated as soon
as one is available. Normally the CLT receive a message from the
court on an afternoon stating that the case is listed for the next
day. In such circumstances Investigators will have to contact
their witnesses at short notice to ensure their attendance.

6.4.2 Fixed List. This means that all the witnesses have to attend the
court complex at a particular time and date. Again in some cases
the trial will have been allocated to start in a particular
courtroom, in other cases it may be designated as a “floater”.
Again, as in the paragraph above a courtroom will be allocated as
soon as one is available.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ & Crown Court Procedures~ RM V1.0

POL00104872
POL00104872
7.

7.21

POL00104872
POL00104872

The Trial Process

Trials in the Magistrates’ and Crown Court follow basically the same
processes. The main difference however, as stated above, in the Crown
Court the case is before a Judge and jury and in the Magistrates’ Court
the case is before the Magistrates or a District Judge.

The Jury are “Sworn In”. The first thing to happen in a Crown Court
trial is that the jury are “sworn in”. This is when they swear to
listen carefully to the case and arrive at a verdict based on the
evidence that they hear. They are also informed what is expected of
them during the trial.

The Prosecution Case. The prosecution then present their case. This can
be by either reading out witness’s statements and producing the
evidence referred to in those statements or by calling witnesses in
person to give their evidence. Prosecution witnesses are generally not
allowed to hear other prosecution witness’s evidence before they have
given their own evidence. Occasionally however the Court will allow the
IIC to be the Exhibits Officer in Court and as a consequence they may
well hear other prosecution witnesses before giving their evidence.

Swearing an Oath or Affirming. When it is time for a witnesses to give

their evidence they will be called by the Court Usher and directed to

the witness box. The Usher will establish whether the witness wishes to

either; swear an oath (making a promise to their God to tell the

truth), or affirm (promising to tell the truth without reference to

God) .

7.4.1 Swearing an Oath. The witnesses places their right hand on their
religious text and states;
“I swear (or the person taking the oath may promise) by Almighty
God (or the person may name a God recognised by his or her
religion) that the evidence I shall give shall be the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth”.

7.4.2 Affirming. The witness will say, “I solemnly and sincerely
declare and affirm that the evidence I shall give shall be the
truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth”

Giving Evidence. When witnesses give evidence their evidence is broken

down into three stages as follows;

7.5.1 Examination-in-Chief. This is when the witness giving evidence
is questioned by the lawyer for their side of the trial e.g. when
Investigators give evidence as a prosecution witness their
“examination-in-chief” is when they are being questioned by the
lawyer representing RMG Ltd. Similarly, a defendant who gives
evidence would be asked questions initially by the defence lawyer
and that would be their “examination-in-chief”.

7.5.2  Cross-Examination After the examination in chief the lawyer
representing the other side questions the witness about the
evidence given. This is called cross-examination.

7.5.3  Re-Examination After cross-examination their own lawyer can ask
a witness further questions. This is called re-examination and is
not to be confused with the cross-examination referred to above.
Re-examination is further questions put by the lawyer representing
your own side, cross- examination is questions by the lawyer for
the other side. In addition, if the Magistrates or Judge have
questions they may be put to the witness at this stage.

After you have given evidence you may be told you are released. This

means that you can leave the Court. Sometimes you might have to stay

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magist mt V1.0 ~ Page 11 of 16

POL00104872
POL00104872

after giving evidence. This can happen when something new has come up
while you were giving your evidence.

The Defence Case. After all the prosecution evidence has been given in
the case it is the turn for the defence to give their evidence.
Sometimes the defence, after hearing all the prosecution evidence make
an application to the Judge that there is no case to answer as they
feel the prosecution have not proved the case beyond reasonable doubt.
This is rare in RMG Ltd cases as careful consideration will have been
given to the strength of the evidence before the case comes before the
Court. The defence then go through the process of introducing their
evidence and calling their witnesses, who are examined as in paragraph
7.5 above.

Summing Up. When the defence has presented their case the prosecution
are given the opportunity to “sum up” their evidence. Summing up
reminds the jury of the prosecution evidence they have heard. Following
the prosecution the defence sum up. Finally the Judge sums up the
prominent evidence that has been heard and directs the jury on the law
that they must apply.

The Verdict. The Jury are then invited to retire to arrive at a
verdict. For a jury to arrive at a verdict, whether that is guilty or
not guilty, all twelve of the jury have to agree. This is known as a
unanimous verdict. If they cannot all agree a verdict then the Judge
can give a direction that the Court will accept a majority verdict. In
a majority verdict at least ten of the twelve members of the jury have
to agree the verdict. If the Jury cannot agree a verdict then this is
known as a hung jury. In such cases the Judge will require the
prosecution to come to a decision as to whether they want a re-trial or
whether a not guilty verdict should be entered.

7.10 The Sentence. If a defendant is found guilty by the jury then the

judge will move to sentence. The Judge can sentence immediately or
adjourn the case for pre-sentence reports prior to sentencing.

Guide to giving Professional Evidence

8.1 The following is a guide on giving professional evidence. Investigators

should;

8.1.1Be suitably dressed to create a good impression to the Court.

8.1.2Be confident and look confident. This can be achieved by having
thoroughly in mind the matters about which they are going to give
evidence.

8.1.3Have a good understanding of relevant Codes of Practice.

8.1.4 Always refresh their memory of the evidence they are due to give.
Before their appearance in Court Investigators should refresh
their memory from their witness statement. (The IIC should have a
copy of the witness statements of all the prosecution witnesses
giving evidence. All witnesses should be invited to read their
statement before giving evidence). Although there are exceptions,
generally speaking a witness cannot read their evidence from their
witness statement whilst giving evidence.

8.1.5 Understand when they will be able to refer to items of evidence.
During the process of giving evidence witnesses will produce items
of evidence as detailed in their witness statements. Once these
items of evidence have been formally produced in evidence then
Investigators may ask to refer to them.

8.1.6 Understand when they can refer to notes made. Witnesses are
normally allowed to refer to notes made at the time of events or
whilst the events to which the notes refer were fresh in their

mt V1.0 ~ Page 12 of 16

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ ¢ Crown Court Proce
POL00104872
POL00104872

memory. This includes such things as notebook entries or other
rough notes. However the Investigator must ask permission of the
Court before referring to such notes.

8.1.7 Relate their evidence in ordinary language. This should be from
their own knowledge of what was seen, heard etc., confining
themselves to the facts and avoiding any reference to personal
opinions or beliefs.

8.1.8Give their evidence in a clear and loud voice in a logical
sequence of events.

8.1.9Not be afraid to say they don’t know the answer to a question.
Investigators should not attempt to offer what they think to be
the required answer.

8.1.10 Be frank, if they cannot remember then they should say so. Do
not be drawn into agreeing with propositions put to them in cross-
examination unless able to do so with truth and accuracy.

8.1.11 Listen carefully to every question. Making sure they understand
it before replying.

8.1.12 Never lose their temper. This is regardless of how offensive
they consider the question to be.

8.1.13 Speak in a clear and accurate manner, addressing their replies
toward the Jury or presiding Magistrates.

8.1.14 Give evidence fairly and impartially. Whether this is in favour
or against the accused.

8.1.15 Be careful to request advice if questioned about Confidential
Sources or CHIS. Investigators should ensure that they do not
reveal the identity of confidential sources (registered on the
Intelligence Source Register or Covert Human Intelligence Sources
without first requesting to seek legal advice from the prosecutor.

9. General

9.1 Investigators Attendance at Court. The IIC must attend all hearings in
the Crown Court and any trial or Newton hearing in the Magistrates
Court, unless excused by the CLT. In addition they must attend any
other hearing if their attendance is requested by the CLT.

9.2 Addressing the Court. The following table describes how Magistrates
and Judges should be addressed.

Magistrates Courts can be presided over by: Correct Address in
Court:

Magistrates Sir, Madam or Your

Normally sitting in threes. Worship

District Judge Sir or Madam

Will normally sit alone and deal with the more
difficult cases.

Crown Courts can be presided over by: Correct Address in
Court:
Recorder Your Honour

This is normally a part time Judge who is
experienced lawyer and has the powers of a
Circuit Judge. They generally sit as a Judge
between 15 and 30 days a year and wear a black
gown and wig. They tend to deal with the least
serious matters in Crown Court.

Circuit Judge Your Honour
These judges are sometimes known as “purple”
judges on account of their dress robes.

High Court Judge My Lord or My Lady
These judges are sometimes known as “red”

Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ & Crown Court Proce:

POL00104872
POL00104872

judges again on account of their dress robes.
These will hear the more serious matters in
the Crown Court

9.3 Technical equipment and Interpreters etc. Investigators must ensure
that if technical equipment is needed to play back CCTV footage, or an
interpreter is required to translate, (in Wales the prosecution need to
establish if the trial is to be heard in Welsh or English before the
case started), or witnesses have special care needs then such
arrangements must be put into place before the trial starts.

9.4 Voire-Dire. This is Latin meaning in effect a “trial within a trial”.
Normally this is a discussion about a point of law during a trial at
which the jury are not present. An example would be regarding the
admissibility of an interview where the defence alleged that the
interview had been oppressive. The matter would be heard in the absence
of the jury and might involve witnesses being called to give their
evidence in the normal way, except it would only be in front of the
Judge, not the jury. The Judge would then give his decision on the
admissibility and if ruled it was admissible the evidence would then be
heard again in front of the jury. This can mean that you give evidence
in front of the Judge and later the same day repeat the evidence with a
jury present.

9.5 Witness Expenses. The IIC must ensure after witnesses have given
evidence the deal with Witnesses Expenses in accordance with Procedures
and Standards 5.4.3 Appendix 3 to P&S 5.4 Witness Expenses.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magist mt V1.0 ~ Page 14 of 16

POL00104872
POL00104872

Change Control

Final

1.0

Ray Pratt

Michael F Matthews
May 2011

Internal

Authorisation

Security Ray Pratt May 2011

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via V1 May 2011
Security Sharepoint

Documentation History

Vel
Final
May 2011
May 2011

Document Change History

v1 Document Produced

Glossary

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ s Crown Court Procedures- RM V1.0 - Page 15 of 16
POL00104872
POL00104872

tbbr : r Te _Meaning
RMG Ltd Royal Mail Group Ltd
CLT Criminal Law Team
COPFS Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service
PPS Public Prosecution Service
ric Investigator in the Case
CPS Crown Prosecution Service
PSO Prosecution Support Office
PNC Police National Computer
PSA 2000 Postal Services Act 2000
CHIS Covert Human Intelligence Source
PCMH Plea and Case Management Hearing
cctv Closed Circuit Television

Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews
Royal Mail Security
6A Eccleston st
LONDON

SW1W SLT

Postline:
STD:
E mail

© Royal Mail 2011 - 9.4 Magistrates’ s Crown Court Procedures- RM V1.0 - Page 16 of 16
