POL00116445

POL00116445

From: Mark R Davies[f”
Sent: Fri 11/04/2014
To: Mark Davies{_
Subject: Fwd: JA response

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells +
Date: 8 April 2014 0

, Belinda Crowe

, Neil Hayward

Subject: JA response

Dear all, Mark and I have reviewed the JA response. Whilst we need to be clear in our challenges
to some of James' requests, we also need to be careful that we don't alienate him as we are
considering our forward options.

Could you read the note below and feed in any views to me and Mark asap. (Mark pls see
changes: para 4 ref to TH, para 5 ref to Andrew Bridgen and also change to final para re
proposed time of call, to give us time to digest the output of the S/C.)

Suggested amends or nil reply by 10am pls?

Thx Paula

Thank you for your letter of March 26. My apologies for the delay in
responding. You will appreciate that you raised some issues which it was
important for me to think through in detail before coming back to you.

I would like to suggest that we schedule a telephone call to discuss some
of the points which emerged in your letter, and in the email sent to MPs
following our meeting in Portcullis House. (I must confess to being
slightly surprised by the email, which I believe — unusually — was not
shared with us in advance?)

To address some of the points you have raised: I would like to reiterate
my support for a final report on the Mediation Scheme, even if it is, as
you suggest, in generic terms, once the process has been completed.

I must however be clear in my firm view that to produce an interim
report would have the potential to damage the integrity of the Scheme,
and more particularly would not be in the interests of applicants given
the imperative to allow due process to take its course. (As I emphasised
at the meeting in Portcullis House, this is a point that continues to be
strongly made to all members of the Working Group by its independent
Chair.)

To turn to the question of when we should next meet with MPs, I was
very grateful for the point you made at the March meeting when you
said in closing (in response to the comment by Andrew Bridgen MP - 'no
point if there is nothing to discuss’) that although desirable, a meeting in
July might not be possible. I can confirm that it will be extremely
unlikely we will be able to hold a meeting on that timescale as the
Scheme will still be in operation and we would not be able to comment
any further than we were able to last month. It would be useful to
discuss the handling of this point with you.

In terms of further cases being raised, whether historical or current, I would be
grateful if they could be sent to the Post Office for my attention. I will ensure that
although they will not be able to enter the Scheme they will be thoroughly
investigated.

As you know the processes which lie behind the scheme are extremely
thorough. Evidence is being rigorously assessed by all involved,
particularly the Chair, as indeed it should be. We are examining how it
might be possible to accelerate the process, but I know you will
appreciate the fine balance required in such matters so that we are fair
and consider all those with an interest in any decisions we take about the
Scheme.

I know you also appreciate how seriously the Post Office Board, led by
Alice and myself, is taking this process. A further conversation in the run
up to our next Board discussion at the end of this month, might I think
help to address some of the issues you have raised.

Sent from my iPad

POL00116445
POL00116445

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON

EC1V 9HQ.
