POL00447890

SPM Business Design
Authority

Outputs Pack

3rd May 2024
POL00447890
POL00447890

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Agenda Items for Today

Attendance Check

Decisions for Communication Horizon Issues Judgement (HU) Problem Statements
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Attendance Check

Minimum attendees

POL00447890
POL00447890

Representation from

Programme Leadership &
Final decision-making authority

Commercial
Network/Retail
Architecture

NBIT Head of Technical Integration

NBIT Head of Commercial Product
Delivery
NBIT Head of Branch Management
Delivery

NBIT Head of Core Systems

Attendee

Kelly Goodwin /
Andrew Kingham

Jo Paramour
Martin Edwards
Samuel Jeyakumar
Ei Bell

Kate Kay

Luke Bailey

Graham Bevan

Delegate

Lee Hosford

Barbara Brannon

Bruno Vinel

Praveen Bhujade

Kate Kay

Luke Pritchard-Woollett

Claire Hurrell

Richard Carter

Attendees

Andrew Kingham

Jo Paramour

Steve Fox

Samuel Jeyakumar

Elli Bell

Kate Kay

Luke Bailey

Graham Bevan

Decisions for
Communication

POL00447890
POL00447890

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL scope.
+ Agreed to update the impacted NBIT area for the ‘Voucher Payout’ item

HI Problem Statements Actions

+ Scope & Requirements tea

rom ‘Banking’ to ‘Bill Pay’

Matthew Go-Olivar) to complete due diligence exercise on HU Problem Statements anc

outputs with ort as required
+ Scope & Req

is comple

ppropriate sup
rements team (@Emily Robins

n) to bring HJ items back to BDA for communication once due diligence

Background / Context:

The Inquiry Assurance Lead for the SPM Programme recently shared a list of problem statements that were historically agreed via the Horizon Design Review Forum (HDRF) to be
delivered on NBIT, rather than any changes being made to Horizon.

These problem statements were brought to BDA on 16/04/24 for communication to confirm their inclusion into SPM scope. The purpose of this was to ensur there was a formal
governance record of these items being included in scope and to ensure it was formally communicated to teams to include the requirements into backlogs. However, during the session, it
was raised that further action was required before these could be brought to BDA and as such, the pack was withdrawn.

Since then, the Scope & Requirements team have confirmed with Simon Oldnall and Andy Kingham that the list of ‘defer to NBIT’ problem statements taken to BDA on 16/04/24 remains
valid, but that due diligence needs to be completed against the full suite of HDRF outputs to ensure any other relevant requirements raised in this forum are also absorbed.

“Defer to NBIT’ HIJ Requirements:

Since these problem statements have been raised via the Hl), they will be automatically accepted into SPM scope subject to review and if it is confirmed they are not already addressed
outside of SPM scope.

The Scope & Requirements team have worked with NBIT Commercial and Back Office teams to review the problem statements, align which are in scope versus not in scope, and identify
next steps where required.

The HU problem statements have been grouped as below.

EOS Dereripuor

Will be addressed by an alternative NBIT solution
B In scope for NBIT, pending addition to relevant backlog(s)
c Will be addressed by an alternative non-NBIT/SPM solution

D Pending further discovery
POL00447890
POL00447890

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Decisions for Communication Acknowledged all HIJ Problem Statements in Group A
Group A: Will be addressed by an alternative NBIT solution

These problem statements are in scope for NBIT and included in the Back Office as confirmed with Michelle Stainsby:

Impacted NBIT

Item Problem Statement HDRF Date
Area

be resolved on N

Branch Accounting - 9 S
times Trading Period Currently there is no message to warn the Postmaster that they are approaching the
process-No —_9-threshold limit or preventions to stop them continuing once they reach N/A
Prevention to Cross. it.
the Limit

Confirmed with Michelle Stainsby there is no 9 TP threshold on
NBIT.

* Users will be reminded to complete a TP via Task Manager so
should not forget.

Ifa branch is more than 9 Trading Periods(TPs) behind, they are unable to complete
‘the required amount of TPs to return to up to date as they can’t complete more than 9 * Confirmed with Michelle Stainsby there is no 9 TP threshold

Branch Accounting - 9.

Back office times Trading Period a within a 62-day window otherwise the system crash and requires a new FAD code at i on NBIT.
i * Users will be reminded to complete a TP via Task Manager so
should not forget
+ Confirmed with Michelle Stainsby on NBIT we do not have shared
ee : : stock units, so no declarations are required. We have stock counts
Trading Period! Stamp Declaration al require the postmaster to manually count and often result in ge A gs Ba en ls satis
Balance Period __miscount and discrepancies. Due to the volume and frequency of counts mistakes 01/02/2022 :
See ee counted, they can be recounted as a single line count or a full stock
Se eee count if user prefers and be amended within the same balance
period.
: The button to add an extra two digits onto the deposit amount is directly next to the + Confirmed with Luke Pritchard-Woollett the "00" button is not
Devices 00" Button Teo Close Fer button used to confirm amount (though an extra confirmation step has been 15/02/2022 _used on NBIT, so this feedback is not relevant for the journeys and
foEnter Button sdded here, mitigating the impact of this somewhat). therefore has no NBIT impact.
AllPayments & When a basket is abandoned, the transactions are lost if there are no recoverable Confirmed with Michelle Stainsby and Phil Manning that this

Counter Terminal Complex Basket - Lost transactions. We need to make sure these transactions are stored and availablefor 01/03/2022 _ requirement will be met by the Event Logging Capability for Branch
Transactions. —_reporting purposes and available to the branch for information. Management, which is covered under BM-11778.

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Decisions for Communication
Group B: In scope for NBIT, pending addition to relevant backlog(s)

Agreed to update impacted NBIT area for Voucher

POL00447890

POL00447890

Acknowledged all HU Problem Statements in Group B.

‘ayout item from ‘Banking’ to ‘Bill Pay’- Updated

These requirements will automatically be absorbed into the Commercial Products backlog as agreed by Kate Kay, Barry Johns and Luke Pritchard-Woollett:

Wlapecdtiels Item Problem Statement HDRF Date Next Steps
Horizon currently recommends currency options that are outside of the sellable range,
Pre-Order Purchase pal - 3:
ee ase however it is only when the customer chooses an unsellable option that the postmaster is
Currency = Outside POM a 21/12/2021
Saliahio Rane Notified that the transaction cannot be completed, This can lead to delays, poor customer
satanic Rande experience and potential loss of sales. (Linked to PS0067)
Horizon does not automatically update when a customer places a new currency order and
Click & Collect- instead, Postmasters have to periodically press the "Pending Order" button. This can lead
Travel Money _Postmasters Not Made to counter clerks unknowingly selling currency too much currency in branch, meaning that 21/12/2021
‘Aware of New Orders there not a sufficient level to fulfil the click and collect orders. This can lead to poor
customer experience and possible loss of sales for Postmasters.
Click & Collect. 4 Postmaster can offer partial fulfilment of a click and collect order (minimum £400) in + Commercial Product Owner to add to backlog and prioritise in relation
lect - isa ‘ ‘ slide anckets
the even complete fulfilment is unavailable. However, if the stock levels are less than the to items in existing backlog
Branches Cannot {1 21/12/2021
: = click and collect order, the Postmaster must refuse to sell any currency and suggest : i
Partially Fulfil an Order z i + Scope & Requirements team to work with Change Impact Co-
alternative options. (Linked to PS0068) e Teese
Ordinator to validate impact to other areas
+ If during discovery, itis confirmed these requirements are not needed
5 __ Currently a wide range of special service labels are stocked and need to be individually or will be addressed in an alternative way, the requirements will be
Male ee aa scanned dependent on the service selected by the customer. Origen! brought back to BDA for a communication to descope
‘Stocking of Priority
This requires the branch to stock this labels which might not be required as often and the
tabels possibility for counter clerk/Postmaster to select a wrong label for the service selected
Goanant Passport Services- When want to process applications click Applications Successful - EG Adult £85.00 - Will
severe: Special Delivery then ask if prepaid and then ask if the customer want £5.00 Passport Office special 29/03/2022
Services & Licences . i
delivery return
Voucher Payout Postmaster always pay out cash instead of Top up as voucher payment for e.g. Energy
Postmaster Pay Out Top-up. This causes accounting issues for the branch. Customer given a voucher Sane

Bill Pay

Cash in Place of Eneray (hardship) to top up their energy. The Postmaster gives the customer the cash the fuel is
Top Up still not topped up, but the customer has gained cash.

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Decisions for Communication
Group C: Will be addressed by an alternative non-NBIT/SPM solution

Problem Statement

Impacted Area

HDRF Date

POL00447890

POL00447890

Acknowledged all HIJ Problem Statements in Group C

How will it be resolved?

‘An order cannot be amended once it’s been placed, often leading to duplicate orders
Order Stock - Cannot be Some value branches were moved to fortnightly from weekly, this means that orders

All ordering is completed via Branch Hub and not via the Branch Back

= ; ‘ 26/04/2022 Office or Counter Terminal. However, a link to Branch Hub will be
‘Amended in Horizon sit on Galaxy until the correct week and the branch are unable to amend the order j ;
even when the actual delivery date is still 2 weeks away provide on bau) Cheng BO. watcha covered unde) aMotez
‘All ordering is completed via Branch Hub and not via the Branch Back
Order Stock or Cash - Currently there is no standardised method across order stock, cash, coins, currency. Office or Counter Terminal. However, a link to Branch Hub will be
No Automated Advice Postmasters have requested that the method to order stock be brought in line with how 26/04/2022 _ provided on both CT and BO, which is covered under BM-157. Predictive
for Stock Ordering Cash and Currency are ordered Ordering will be managed by Supply Chain. However, NBIT will introduce
a better stock file control, which will enable better productive ordering.
Back Office
Oe ‘Al ordering is completed via Branch Hub and not via the Branch Back
Order Stock — Cannot PE yrrently there is no way to track orders/ order status once they have been made 26/04/2022 Office or Counter Terminal. However, a link to Branch Hub will be
Tracked Once Made provided on both CT and BO, which is covered under BM-157.
der Stock-No There is no monitoring or tracking mechanism in place and so no control / no validation All ordering is completed via Branch Hub and not via the Branch Back
Monitorina/Tracking In checks are in place over the stock volumes entered by the Postmaster /Counter clerk in 26/04/2022 _Office or Counter Terminal. However, a link to Branch Hub will be
Place the branch provided on both CT and BO, which is covered under BM-157.
; one eee All ordering is completed via Branch Hub and not via the Branch Back
OrderStock- Currently they order 5 days in advance of their delivery date. We are looking at giving : .
4 : TAL GAFERE O eHES Ve Ghd BAC RHEUaHTES On ea oat 26/04/2022 Office or Counter Terminal. However, a link to Branch Hub will be

provided on both CT and BO, which is covered under BM-157.

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

POL00447890
POL00447890

Decisions for Communication Acknowledged all HJ Problem Statements in Group D

Group D: Pending further discovery

These requirements require further discovery, before we can confirm whether they are in NBIT scope or addressed by an alterna tive solution. These will be brough back to a following

BDA for confirmation, once further discovery is complete:

Mheetalt Item Problem Statement HDRF Date

: Currently there is no monitoring for branches completing multiple TPs in a small
Branch Accounting - 9 b ‘ =
timeframe. This could indicate the need for training or an early warning to prevent the NIA

times Trading Period .ostmaster crossing the 9 TP threshold. (Linked Problem Statements PS0007,
process - No Monitoring PS0009).

Next Steps

Scope & Requirements team have engaged Alison Clark & Dawn Quick to
confirm assumption that central network monitoring team will keep track
of this.

imited +119 branches are categorized into five groups. This means branches cannot be properly bendeose

a 4 ; 5
oe 'Sation ut into groups based on the volume of transaction they do for a particular product

Back Office

Scope & Requirements team have engaged Cheryl Wingfield to confirm if
this requirement will be addressed by APOP replacement.

itis unclear to the Postmaster if they have completed all the reports required, especially
for Trading Periods. Monthly balancing requires 3 extra reports to be completed which are
Trading Period/Balance "®t listed on the balancing screen. This can prevent postmasters from completing their
Tadine Paved ea ate a Onckeanit monthly processes in full and cause confusion. The 3 extra reports for monthly balancing
ee Resta, to be included in the balancing screen with a reference note against them to annotate 01/02/2022
Required Reports are [0 De Included I
ee ‘trading period! reports.
Se 1. Trading Statement
2. Postage Labels
3. Suspense Account

Scope & Requirements team to obtain written confirmation from Davyd
Nash, Barry Johns and Compliance that the Postage Label Report is not
part of business requirements for Mails and therefore is not required for
the TP process

