POL00000168
POL00000168

POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 3

TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE POST OFFICE
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Approved July 2016
Purpose
1. The purpose of the Risk & Compliance Committee (“RCC” or the “Committee”) is to support the
Group Executive (GE) in fulfilling their responsibilities in the effective oversight of risk
management, internal control and assurance, and compliance in the Company.

Composition and Terms of Office

2. The Committee shall serve as a standing committee of the GE. It shall consist of all members
of the GE.

3. I The quorum shall be two members which will be deemed competent to exercise all or any of
the authorities and powers vested in or exercisable by the committee.

4. I The Committee shall meet at least six times a year and otherwise as required.

5. The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from anyone in the
organisation in order to perform its duties including calling anyone to the meeting to be
questioned as required.

6. IThe Committee is authorised to obtain outside legal or other professional advice on any matter
within its terms of reference.

7. I The Head of Risk and Assurance, the Senior Audit Manager and the Chief of Staff (or those
holding positions with responsibility for such roles, howsoever named) will be permanent
invitees.

8. I The Committee shall report to the GE on its proceedings on all matters within its purpose and
responsibilities highlighting significant risk and compliance matters for their attention.

9. The Committee shall report to the Board and Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee as
requested.

10. The Committee shall input into the Post Office annual reporting as appropriate.
Meetings
11. Any member of the committee may convene a meeting.

12. Meetings may be held in person or by telephone or other electronic means so long as all
participants can contribute to the meeting simultaneously.

13. Notice of each meeting shall be given to all those entitled to participate at least 2 working days
before the meeting.

14. Meetings shall be planned in accordance with key reporting and financial planning dates.

POL00000168
POL00000168

POST OFFICE PAGE 2 OF 3

Other Governance Responsibilities

15.

The Committee will

a. Review and update its terms of reference annually.

b. Conduct an annual review of its own performance to ensure it is operating effectively
and recommend any changes it considers necessary to GE for approval.

Risk Management Framework

16. The Committee will:

17.

a. Review the effectiveness of the risk management framework and maintain oversight
of the development and implementation of the components of the risk management
framework.

b. Maintain oversight of the current risk exposures of Post Office and advise on future
risk strategy.

c. Review the identification and effective management of current key risks and identified
mitigating actions and regular reviews of emerging risks.

d. Consider and review areas of risk, which should include, but is not limited to, sufficient
coverage of:

i. strategic risk,

ii. major change initiative risk,
iii. operational risk,
iv. financial risk, and

v. legal and regulatory risks, and
vi. reputational risk,

plus more specifically,

vii. people risk,
viii. fraud risk,
ix. technology risk and cyber security,
x. risk relating to the investment strategy and funding requirements of existing
and new pensions schemes, and
xi. conduct risks relating to the financial services businesses operated by both Post
Office Limited and its subsidiaries and joint ventures.

e. Receive and review risk reports from the following management Sub-Committees:

i. Transformation
ii. Information Security
iii. Security
iv. Business Continuity (once formed)

The Committee will receive and review the draft annual risk management plan for onward

reporting to the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.

18. The Committee will receive and review the draft annual internal audit plan for onward
reporting to the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.

POL00000168
POL00000168

POST OFFICE PAGE 3 OF 3

Internal controls and assurance
19. The Committee will:

a. Consider and review the adequacy of the Company's internal controls and make
recommendations for the improvement of the Company’s internal controls, processes
and systems.

b. Monitor the implementation of key recommendations and management action plans.

c. Review the adequacy of policy governance and recommend changes.

Fraud, Theft and Ethics
20. The Committee will:

a. Review with management their fraud assessment, detection measures and their
investigation of illegal acts, as appropriate.

b. Review any summary of frauds, thefts and other irregularities of any size.

c. Review with the internal auditors the results of any review of the compliance with the
Company’s codes of ethical conduct and similar policies including whistleblowing.

Compliance

21. The Committee will monitor compliance with legal and regulatory obligations, including any
significant breaches.

