POLO00098604
POL00098604

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth GI!”

on behalf of

Sent:

To: Simon Baker!

Subject: RE: Horizon Disconnection

Attachments: Disconnected Session Recovery Scenario.doc

Simon,
James is correct in that such messages don’t always occur following a comms failure.

However if the comms failure occurs when trying to settle a basket (as was the case for SROO1), then messages are
displayed and require acknowledging. In James’ original note (attached), this is shown on Page 7.

My analysis at the time shows that this screen was displayed twice. The first time the user selected Retry, and the
second time the user selected Cancel. This was then followed by the printing of the receipts as shown on the following
page. Note that messages would have been displayed regarding the printing, but I’m not sure whether these would
need to be acknowledged.

Regards

Goreth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

wy Please consider the envirenment - do you really need to print this ary

From: Simon Baker!
Sent: 18 June 2013 1
To: Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: FW: Horizon Disconnection

0

Gareth

Cast your mind back to SROO1. After reading our response, the sub postmaster and Second Sight are now trying to make
the argument that we reversed the transactions without sub postmaster acknowledgement.

POL-0098187
POLO00098604
POL00098604

I would like to say that the sub postmaster was presented with a message, giving him the option to retry or cancel AND
that that screen would have stayed until he responded .Can you confirm that this is the case. ~ from James note that
message doesn’t always appear.

Regards, Simon

Sent: 13 June 2013 09:07
To: Simon Baker
Subject: RE: Horizon Disconnection

Simon,

if you lose comms, HNG continues to operate as normally until it reaches a point where it needs to read/write data to
the data centre ~ typically this is when clearing the customer basket at the end of the session. In this circumstance, a
message will be displayed to informing of a loss of connection, and the system will automatically log out. You cannot log
in again until the connectivity is restored. When it is, and the user logs on, a recovery message is displayed, and a
recovery receipt is automatically produced.

Looking at the second scenario that we storyboarded, the receipt looks as follows;

Post Grice Led.
Gar BRERIPE gaa: 197206

Granbury
61 Hantuich Read
Wrenbury

fase
cu BEY

orien
(bine

Recnvery Successful.
Systen Correction

UAT REG Mo. 8
Sete of Issue: #

i
SESSION: 2-

PE Reta 5.00 75.00-
Terni Ove 10 CUSTOMER 75.00
FRoy custoner 5.08
tah re tusronce tt
BALAN a

Please retain for future reference

Thank You

For recoverable transactions, there may be a prompt to confirm transaction details if the system is unsure of the
transaction outcome. For unrecoverable transactions (such as the BT Bill), the system may know some of the
transaction details (ie. Quantity and Value) if an online interaction (such as the banking withdrawal} occurred

POL-0098187
POLO00098604
POL00098604

subsequent to it. But full details of the transaction (ie. Customer reference number) may have been lost as non-
recoverable transactions are not fully recorded at the data-centre until the end of the customer session. Therefore,
transactions that are known of, but not fully recorded are reversed, as per the correction receipt above. {t is then up to
the clerk to re-input the reversed transaction.

I've looked at the advice provided by HNG online Help, and it is a bit vague ~ it doesn’t explicitly mention that the clerk
needs to re-input data;

http://iplatform-sp.intranet.point/sites/ HNGonline/HNG%20online/HNG_ Help/other/equip_and_admin/rec/index.htm

However, this process is covered in 7 pages of detail under the Fallback section of online help;

http://iplatform-sp.intranet.point/sites/ HNGonline/HNG%20online/HNG_Help/other/equip_and_admin/fall/index.htm

Hope this helps
James

James Brett 1 Senior Test Manager

Floor, BRAGI, Bracknell RGI2 8SN.

From: Simon Baker

Sent: 12 June 2013 16:29

To: James Brett

Subject: Horizon Disconnection

James
Following up from the work you did a while ago on horizon disconnection, I have a further question.

When the branch loses contact with the data centre a disconnection message pops up, asking whether the sub
postmaster wants to retry or cancel the transaction.

Do you know if this message stays on the screen until the sub postmaster responds to that message? Or does it
automatically disconnect if there is no response after a period of time?

Regards, Simon

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance

0 Fi

Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

@postofficenews

POL-0098187
POLO00098604
POL00098604

JOH IORI IORI IO IIIB IO BOO III IO IOI III ISO III IIIA IIAII AE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U.
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

POL-0098187
