POL00162786
POL00162786

From: Callard Richard \(ShEx\}_
Sent: Fri 20/11/2015 9:05:31 AM (UTC)
To: Mark R Davie:

Ce: Thompson Laura \(Shareholder Executive\)f”
Bourkef”

Subject: RE: JFSA website announcement

Patrick

Seriously though, do you know how many legal firms they have had — would be good to take the line with ministers

that this is yet another sabre rattle, and that once legal firms get in to the evidence they pull away.
R

From: Mark R Davies [mailto:

Sent: 20 November 2015 08:35°°7--
To: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Cc: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive); Patrick Bourke
Subject: Re: JFSA website announcement

Indeed - and others before them

Mark Davies

Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Post Office Ltd

Mobile:

From my iPhone and therefore possibly in transit so please forgive spellin;
On 20 Nov 2015, at 08:32, Callard Richard (ShE:

Oh joy, normal service resuming then!

This is not saying that they have launched a class action though is it, they are just “preparing”. And what

happened to the other solicitors they signed up — it wasn’t Freeths.
R

From: Mark R Davies [mailto:
Sent: 20 November 2015 0!
To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Patrick Bourke
Subject: Fwd: JFSA website announcement

Hi Laura
To see below; not unexpected. We will update you.

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Post Office Ltd

POL00162786
POL00162786

From my iPhone and therefore possibly in transit so please forgive spelling mistakes or brevity!
Begin forwarded message:

From: Melanie Corfield {
Date: 19 November 2015

odric Williams
site announcement

Here it is. This definitely went up this evening because I checked their website around 6pm
today and there was nothing then......

November 2015

JFSA prepares for Group
Litigation against Post Office

Post Office’s corporate blindness, and denial of
what we know to be the truth about how it has
abused Subpostmasters over the years with its
Horizon system, has now left JFSA and its
membership no other option but to seek redress
though the courts.

To that end, JFSA has been working for the last few months with a legal team comprising
of FREETHS Solicitors and HENDERSON Barristers Chambers to prepare a civil litigation
action through the High Court for compensation/damages against Post Office Limited.

A significant number of people have now signed up with the legal team, who have already
undertaken considerable work on our case, and have a very positive view on the prospects
of success. So if you were a Subpostmaster at any time from 2000 when the Post Office
brought in Horizon and you suffered inexplicable or mysterious losses, or had your contract
suspended or terminated for no fault of your own, you should consider contacting
FREETHS.

Even if you have previously made an agreement with Post Office about your case, we are
led to believe it may well be worthwhile discussing your position with FREETHS.

For further information about how to join the group action against Post Office Limited and
to obtain an application form, please contact James Hartley at FREETHS on
or send an email to james.hartley -

riminal Review Commission Ri
As we have previously publicised on the website, the CCRC are looking into over 20 cases
where Subpostmasters have been prosecuted by Post Office Limited. Recently we have
become aware of more cases that are to be sent to the CCRC and if you were ever
POL00162786
POL00162786

prosecuted by Post Office Limited, with relation to inexplicable or mysterious losses
associated with Horizon, we would suggest you submit an application to the CCRC to have
your case reviewed.

You can find a very basic application form, which is really only a way to introduce yourself
to the CCRC, on their website, http://www.ccre.gov.uk/making-application/ or you can
download it from our Documents page. Just fill in the basic details at this time and the
CCRC will appoint a case manager who will contact you for further information.

IMPORTANT - when you send the form in, make sure you write Subpostmaster Case at
the top of the form to ensure it goes to the correct team.

In response to recent requests, we have reprinted below the information about how to find
out what records Post Office holds about you, which was first published in association with
the doomed Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme. The address and phone
number has been updated to reflect the move from Old Street.

Data Protection Act — Subject Access Request

You may recall that prior to all the investigations it was suggested that everyone should
submit a Subject Access Request to Post Office to obtain copies of what information they
held about you. If you never got around to doing this we would suggest you do so now,
also even if you had in the past submitted a request, you might consider submitting another
one.

Post Office is meant to have investigated your case, you may even have had their report
and ‘evidence’, but how do you know that the ‘evidence’ they decided to provide is all that
they unearthed? Was Post Office selective with the documents it provided as ‘evidence’?
Do you trust that Post Office would include all the documents that it holds on you?

If not, then submitting a Subject Access Request under the Data Protection Act would
ensure that Post Office has to state exactly what it holds on you at this time, in case in the
future it is found that Post Office withheld information that would have been beneficial to
you.

How mi ject A Ri
The following information about how to apply is from the Post Office website:-

You can request details of all the personal information we hold about you by contacting our
Information Rights Team. They will send you an application form which you should
complete and return. The charge for this service is £10 for each request. You can contact
the team by writing to: Information Rights Team, 1st Floor, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Email: fok
Telephone:

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

POL00162786
POL00162786

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
