POL00094195
POL00094195

Person Searches
1. Hide few items on person (don’t tell them)
2. Ask for volunteer to conduct a search (roleplay mode)

3. Discuss volunteers search (and retrieve items if not found

jacket on chair!)

4. Demonstrate search technique;
¢ Health & Safety at all times (support officer, distance, standing astride suspect)
¢ Legal rights and relevant POL forms

© Where to conduct (CO — private room, Article 8 HRA — right to respect for private
and family life ... even though he has consented to a search, there is an ongoing
consideration for Human Rights in relation to how the search is conducted).

¢ ‘Have you got anything on you that you shouldn’t have?”

© ‘Can you empty your pockets and place all items on the table’ (what do we think of
the search so far ... he is doing the searching, he’s doing all the work, not me)

© From my point of view he should not have anything else about his person — anything
I may find now makes me suspicious that he is trying to hide it.

© ‘Canyou also turn out your pockets please’
¢ Top to bottom
FRONT
What if he was wearing a hat (baseball cap, woolly hat ask him to remove it)

© Are there any situations where I wouldn’t ask him to remove headgear or ask him to
leave it on (seikh/turban or Jewish/scull cap) ... Article 9 of HRA - Freedom of
thought, conscience and religion

© Collar (any irregularities or things out of the ordinary)

¢ Arms (handout may say ‘pat’ but you should really ‘fee!’) - any irregularities or things
out of the ordinary ... if so, it may warrant further investigation

© If he was wearing a coat is there anything I could ask him to do (ask him to remove it
.. after he’s emptied the contents) — you will be able to search most items of
clothing but a thick coat could easily conceal something that can’t be felt

© Torso (back of hand — why — what looks better from a professional point of view -
less intimate/suggestive/intimidating and makes the person feel a lot more
comfortable - can still feel if anything has been hidden)

POL00094195
POL00094195

Fs
,
‘

N

POL00094195
POL00094195

What if he has pockets (hoody for example) — should I put my hands in?
Trouser pockets (back of hand)

Legs (feel)

Socks, shoes (ask to remove ~ outer garment)

BACK

Back (back of hands)

Trouser pockets (back of hand)

Legs (feel)

Ask the person to run their thumbs around the top of their trousers (an additional
check to ensure he isn’t hiding anything there or has anything tucked in there)

Now satisfied that person has nothing on him, next step is to search personal
belongings

Is there any item of his personal belongings where he could potentially have hidden
something (wallet)

How am I going to search his wallet (can ask him to pick it up and show you ... open
compartments and zips) ... I’m avoiding any allegations that I’ve taken anything as
V’'m not touching the wallet ... but you can examine it yourself (more thorough and
removes any possibility of being duped)

POL00094195
POL00094195

vw”
’

&,
%

