From: The Rt, Hon, James Arbuthnot, MP.

HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA 0AA

20 May 2014

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office

148 Old Street
London EC1V 9HQ

Thank you for your letter of 14 May. I appreciate all of what you say I although continue to
be worried about the time it is taking for the case reviews to appear, particularly as I know
that case reviews are only the beginning of the mediation process. I am rather taken aback
by the fact that only one review has been completed thus far. This does not mean that I
view the process with scepticism. It does, however, mean that you and I are going to have
to work hard to ensure that the more restive members of our group are reassured
throughout the process.

To this end, I wonder if you might give some thought to what I might convey to MPs
regarding the proposed July meeting? I want to send them some news. Might you let me
know your thoughts on this? I can certainly report that only one case review has been
finished, and that the report we all believed Second Sight were preparing for late March has
yet to appear, but I would like to offer them something by way of an explanation as to why
things are taking so long. Might you draft something for me to consider circulating? I would
be most grateful if you could help in this matter. .

You raise the matter of Alan Bates writing to the Minister. The Minister has done quite the
correct thing by telling him that she has no operational jurisdiction over the Working Group,
and by letting both you and Sir Anthony know that he had been in touch with her.

Alan is a thoroughly good man, and must be facing some rather hefty pressure from
individuals to have their cases resolved swiftly, so I am inclined to forgive him but the
question remains: why did he not feel he could approach either Sir Anthony or you directly
with his concerns? Do you know why this might be? I wonder whether it might be worth the
three of us — you, me, and Alan — meeting to clear the air?

I have written to him expressing my own concerns about his taking the tack he has and
stating that I would not want to see the Working Group and its process placed in any
jeopardy, but often a face-to-face meeting is a much better way of sorting things out.

Let me know what you think,

Telephone: 020 7219.4649 Email: arbuthnotj@parliament.uk We! : www jamesarbuthnot.con

POL00100695

685

“oa

