POL00098887
POL00098887

Message

From: Alice Perkins}.
onbehalfof Alice Perkins}.

Sent: 02/07/2013 08:01:44
To: Paula Vennells!__
Subject: Re: Latest on SS

Thanks Paula. I am looking forward to seeing you too.

I see we have 2 hours. Fine by me but if you need to shorten it in the circs, I would completely
understand.

2 thoughts on this subject.

Do you need a refresh of media training? At any rate, someone should put you through your paces on the
issues (I think incidentally, you will do this very well but it will be hostile - a different experience
from hitherto). Also do we need to bring in a PR company eg Brunswick to help us handle Monday and the
aftermath - absolutely not an implied criticism of Mark, just wanting us to have the best resources on
the case.

Finally, I do think we need to think very carefully about who is there for us on Monday. At_the very
least we must have someone to take a note and I still lean towards having our own (silent) lawyer there.
See you later.

Alice

----- original Message.
From: Paula Vennells i.
Sent: Monday, July 01, 2013 10:07 PM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Latest on ss

Hi Alice, I’m looking forward to catching up properly tomorrow. I thought the Board were generous in
their patience tonight over the SS discussion. It is helpful to know that they are supportive of the need
to be robust. That said, I thought Alasdair's intervention was good - it is why we haven't been
completely heavy handed yet. We can discuss nuances and next steps tomorrow.

I caught up with susan this evening after we finished. she had finished her meeting with ss and wade of
the view that they do now understand the risk of being caught up in something bigger and more sensitive.
she is hoping their report should be more balanced, should say they have found no evidence of systemic
Horizon (computer) issues but will confirm shortcomings in support processes and systems, and that Post
office has already identified and corrected a number of these. I hope when they speak to James tomorrow
that they will confirm all this. They will also want to say their work is not finished and therefore
still not conclusive.

Not a final position by any means nor one that controls what they might say rather than write but
sounding slightly better.

Rest assured there will be a thorough lessons learnt exercise, which if you are comfortable, I'd like to
suggest reports to the ARC. As you said tonight, we need to get through this first though.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Sr eer arg er eo eo deg sr era ra dea drs ae ara aera eae ate

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0098470
