POL00031010

POL00031010

Investigation Policy Page I
Appendix 16

INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION POLICY

1. PURPOSE
The aim of this policy is to set out the criteria against which Consignia investigates crimes and suspect
crimes committed against the Businesses and also define when actions proceed under criminal law.

2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES
Security Managers

3. POLICY

3.1 INTRODUCTION
Consignia’s business and reputation depend on the integrity of its employees and its procedures. It has
rules and processes designed to enable it to meet its obligations to protect the items and resources
entrusted to it and, where crimes or suspected crimes are committed against these, its policy is to
investigate them and take appropriate action.

3.2 REPORTING OFFENCES
Crimes or suspect crimes against the following must be reported to the Security and Investigation
Services or the appropriate Business Security and Investigation Unit, for investigation or liaison with
the police:
© Consignia’s property, cash and revenue
Its employees in the course of business
¢ Mail in course of transmission by post
Customers whilst their transaction documents are in the custody or control of Consignia e.g.

pensions and allowance books, TV Licences.
e Organisations or individuals by misuse of Consignia services e.g. fraudulent mail redirection or PO
Box used for unlawful purposes.

¢ The relevant procedures may be found in Consignia Standards and Operating Protocols.

3.3 Each case will be dealt with on merit and action taken (if any), will be in accordance with the
disciplinary code of the business.
Where evidence of a crimes committed by a Consignia employee against Consignia or its customer is
established, the offending employee may also be dealt with in accordance with criminal law. The
prosecution guidelines of the business will be used in making any decision to proceed under criminal
law, in consultation with SIS and the Legal Services Criminal Law Division where appropriate.

3.4 INTERFACE WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
The main Consignia interface with other agencies e.g. police, customs, Interpol, DWP etc., is SIS.
There are occasions where a SIS investigator or an investigator within a Business Unit will necessarily
hand an offender into Police custody. In these cases the decision to instigate prosecution is made by
SIS.

Policy Title Investigation and Prosecution

Version: 2.0

Date

June 2002
POL00031010

POL00031010

Investigation Policy Page 2
Appendix 16
INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION POLICY
4, Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version — Type Policy No.
41
5. Document details
5.1 Author : Law & Legislation Programme Manager
5.2 I Owner: Head of Corporate Security Programme
5.3 Audience: Security Community
5.4 Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,

5.5 Effective from :

4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ
July 2002

5.6 Review date : July 2003

5.7 Last updated June 2002

6. Assurance Details:

61 Name: Garth McC: ‘Rob G Wilson
6.2 Business Unit: Service Delivery/SIS/Legal Ser S

6.3 Assurance Date: June 2002

7 Final Review

7.1 I Approved by Paul A Booth

7.2 I Documented (Hard Copy)

YES/NO Location:

7.3 “ (Electronic) YES/NO Location:
Policy Title Investigation and Prosecution
Version: 2.0

Date: June 2002
