POL00399587
POL00399587

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

POLB 16(7")
POLB 16/43 - 16/52

POST OFFICE LIMITED
(Company no. 2154540)
(the ‘Company’)

Minutes of a Board meeting held at 9.30am on 25 July 2016
at 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Present:

Tim Parker Chairman

Richard Callard Non-Executive Director

Tim Franklin Non-Executive Director
Virginia Holmes Non-Executive Director

Ken McCall Senior Independent Director
Carla Stent Non-Executive Director
Paula Vennells Chief Executive

Alisdair Cameron Chief Financial Officer

In Attendance:

Alwen Lyons Company Secretary
Rob Houghton Chief Information Officer (Minute POLB 16/47)
Nick Kennett Director of Financial Services (Minute POLB 16/48)
Martin Kearsley Banking Director (Minute POLB 16/48)
Apologies: None

POLB 16/43 INTRODUCTION

(a)

The Chairman noted that a quorum was present and opened the
meeting.

(b) Each Director confirmed that they had no conflicts of interest in
relation to the business to be considered at the meeting.
POLB 16/44 MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS

INCLUDING STATUS REPORT

(a)

(b)

(c)

POL Board minutes, 25 July 2016

Minutes

The minutes of the meeting of the Board meeting held on 24" May
2016 and the Extraordinary meetings held on 29" June and 11"
July 2016 were approved as accurate records and the Chairman
was authorised to sign them.

The minutes of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee
meeting held on 17th March 2016 were noted.

The minutes of the Post Office Advisory Council meeting held on
the 6" July 2016 were noted.
POL00399587
POL00399587

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(d) The notes of the Board Away Day on 29" and 30" June 2016
were noted.

Status Report
(e) The Board noted the Status Report dated 18" July 2016.

POLB 16/45 CEO REPORT
CEO Report

(a) The CEO introduced the CEO Report, focusing on the following
key points:

(b) Period 3 results. The results remain on track, but there are risks
for the rest of the year, driven by the effects of BREXIT, lower
interest rates and continuing world events. Uncertainly in foreign
exchange markets, has meant that FRES has introduced cost
contingencies into their plan.

(c) Industrial Relations. The CWU has embarked on a campaign to
highlight the Directly Managed conversion programme, the Supply
Chain changes and the pension proposal, including a ‘battle bus’
travelling between sites collecting signatures for a letter which has
been sent to the Secretary of State. The campaign is built on the
premise that the Post Office is in crisis which has led to the
changes. The CEO explained that despite continued meetings the
CWU were likely to hold a ballot for industrial action and call a
strike at the end of August.

(d) The CFO explained that although IRIS was still in consultation it
was progressing well, with 67% of staff taking part in an exercise
to establish the appetite for voluntary redundancy should the
proposal go ahead. External Customers had not yet been served
notice, but to date there was no evidence that they were
withdrawing from contracts earlier than expected.

(e) I The Unite union had agreed a pay deal for junior and middle
managers, although they continue to challenge the proposal for
changes to the DB pension.

(fy Pensions. The Pension Trustee has sent a series of questions to
the Business to clarify the recommendation to close the DB
pension scheme in March 2017, and to ensure that the analysis
and Business Plan presented is robust. The next Trustee Meeting
will be held in September.

(g) 3" Party Fraud. The CFO explained the background to the fraud
which had taken place over the last 18 months, the detail of which
would be discussed at the ARC. The Chairman stressed that the
ARC would need to be satisfied that controls were now in place.
The CFO promised that the lessons learned from the incident

POL Board minutes, 25 July 2016 2
POL00399587
POL00399587

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

would be brought back to the ARC in September.

(h) Transformation Report. The Board noted the red status of the
Back Office IT transition. The CFO explained the timing issues
and the context of wider Back Office change.

(i) The Board noted the CEO report and the Transformation Report.

POLB 16/46 FINANCIAL REPORT

(a) The CFO introduced the Financial Performance Report for Period
3, June 2016, and reiterated the emerging risks which the CEO
had highlighted. An example being the predicted interest rate cut
which could cost the Business £5m pa in POca interest.

(b) I The Board recognised the opportunities in the re-mortgage
ACTION: CFO market and asked the CFO to ensure that pressure was kept
on the FS targets.

(c) The CFO explained the movement in cash flow driven by the
additional £265m prefunded cash in the network as a contingency
ahead of IRIS. Tighter cash flow forecasting controls were now in
place which had led to a reduction of c.£40m in future borrowing
requirements.

) The Board discussed the scorecard, and the measure of internal
senior manager appointments. The CEO supported the intention
of the measure but stressed that some specialist areas, where the
Business needed to strengthen its capability, would continue to
require external recruitment. The Board asked if the external
recruitment would put pressure on the staff costs budget but were
reassured that this would not be the case as in most cases the
new recruits would be replacing interim appointments. The Board
recognised that the measure could be helpful for management but

(e) did not consider it a primary measure on the scorecard.

The Board noted the financial performance report.
POLB 16/47 TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY

(a) The Chairman welcomed Rob Houghton, CIO, to the meeting.

(b) The CIO introduced the Technology Strategy for January 2017,
highlighting the three areas on which he was focusing: improving
IT functionality; reducing cost; and enabling the wider Business
strategy. The CIO explained the immediate need to improve the
performance of IT by greater visibility of live performance an
understanding of the risks and an improvement in controls.

(c) The Board discussed the operating model and asked the CIO his

opinion on the outsourced model and the service provided by the
suppliers. The CIO believed that some control had been lost by

POL Board minutes, 25 July 2016 3
POL00399587
POL00399587

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

outsourcing and would like to bring back in house control of IT
security, architecture and delivery. The CFO explained that the
ATOS integrator contract was due for renewal next year, which
would give an opportunity to change. The Board asked for more
clarity on the commoditised areas which remain outsourced, and
the areas which require more control and should be insourced.

The CIO recognised that the £104m cost base was too high and

(d) that he would be looking for opportunities to reduce the cost but
explained that there was little leverage in the existing contracts
and any changes would be difficult to negotiate. However there
were areas where specifications could be changed to reduce the
cost and the ongoing cost base. The Board would welcome a
business case which invested money upfront to reduce future
cash flows.

(©) The Board recognised the size and complexity of the Fujitsu (FJ)
contract and believed that this should be an area of focus. The
CFO agreed and explained that he and the ClO were escalating
conversations within FJ to look at the speed of change and the
run costs. The CFO reminded the Board of the procurement risk
discussed during the Trinity process and the lack of flexibility
around the FJ contract which needed to be carefully managed.
iW) The Board discussed the digital developments and the need to
focus on business propositions which deliver value. There was
agreement that the core digital proposition and customer journeys
needed to improve before the Business should consider My Post
Office and cross sell activity. It was acknowledged that the
Business had delivered some good FS growth through the online
channel.

9) The Board asked the CIO to update the principles highlighted
in the paper to ensure they were business focussed; based on
reducing costs; were clear on security; and improving

ACTION ClO customer journeys.

(h) The CIO agreed to present a paper on IT security and IT risk
ACTION: CIO appetite to the ARC.

The CIO explained his plan to work to closer 6 month time
horizons. The Board asked the CIO to come to the Board
every 6 months to ensure they are updated on the progress
ACTION: CoSec/CIO
The CIO recognised that his team was currently under strength
but gave assurance that good progress was being made to
(i) introduce new people and strengthen the capability.

POL Board minutes, 25 July 2016 4
POL00399587
POL00399587

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(k) The Board supported the direction set out in the Technology
Strategy document, requesting an update on IT security (at the
ARC), and a further strategy update in January 2017.

() The CIO left the meeting.

POLB 16/48 BANKING FRAMEWORK

(a) The Chairman welcomed Nick Kennett, Group Director of
Financial Services, and Martin Kearsley, Banking Director, to the
meeting.

(b)

Nick Kennett explained the progress to date and updated the
report by announcing that Lloyds Bank had now returned a signed
letter and that he was confident that HSBC were about to the
same. The Head of the Retail Bank at RBS had also given his
internal sign off. Nick Kennett assured the Board that the set of
terms and services applied to all participants and that the side
letter gave the Post Office no additional liabilities.

(c)

The Board congratulated the team for the work and asked them to

ensure effective communications at the appropriate time. The

CEO would also mention the progress to The Minister at their
(d) meeting.

The Board approved that the Banking Framework be established,
operating from 1% January 2017 and delegated authority to the
CEO (or in her absence, the CFO) to:

* approve:

(i) the pro forma Framework contract to be entered into with

each bank that wishes to become part of the Banking

Services Framework; and

(ii) any Side Letters relating to the Framework contracts with

each such bank;

e in particular, approve the entry into the Framework
contract and Side Letter between Post Office and the
banks whose projected commission to Post Office exceeds
£5.0 million per annum (anticipated to be HSBC,
Santander, Barclays and Lloyds) as well as other banks
that wish to join the Banking Services Framework; and

« authorise the execution of each of those Framework
Contracts and Side Letters by Post Office Limited in
accordance with Post Office Limited’s normal signing

(e) processes.

Martin Kearsley left the meeting.
POLB 16/49 PROJECT PEREGRINE
(a) Nick Kennett presented the Project Peregrine negotiation

mandate as set out in the paper circulated to the Board. He
explained the areas which Bank of Ireland (Bol) would want from

POL Board minutes, 25 July 2016 5
POL00399587
POL00399587

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

the negotiation along with those which were important for Post
Office. Nick Kennett clarified that Post Office would not seek to
fenegotiate the complete FSJVA but make amendments as
required to reflect an agreed position with Bol; as a result the
change of control and termination and exit clauses would remain
unchanged. Nick Kennett added, however, that Bol would
potentially seek to make changes to those provisions.

(b) The Board recognised that the value of FRES would likely be the
most contentious issue in the negotiation but that is critical for
Post Office to achieve a significant increase in value from the
business.

(c)
Nick Kennett was asked to ensure that Bol understood the
importance to Post Office of getting the right value from FRES in
return for changes to the banking contract, especially extending
the term beyond 2023.

(d)
The Board noted that a failure to reach an acceptable outcome to
both Parties would likely result in the relationship with Bol
stagnating and Post Office generating lower income through to
2023. Nick Kennett reiterated the potential implications set out in
the documents shared with the Board at the June strategy away

(e) day.

The Board supported the approach. The Chairman and CEO
offered to meet with their Bol counterparts to initiate the
negotiation.

POLB 16/50 UPDATE FROM BOARD COMMITTEES (VERBAL)

(a) Audit Risk and Compliance Commitee
The Chairman of the ARC updated the meeting on the areas
which the ARC had discussed including the Horizon outage and
the fraud which had delayed the signing of the Annual Report
and Accounts (ARA). It was hoped that the ARA could be signed
at the ARC meeting following the Board, after feedback from EY
on their additional work. Lessons learned from both issues
would be presented at the September ARC.

(b) Remuneration Committee
The Chairman of the RemCo updated the meeting and
explained that the 2016/17 STiP conditions had been agreed by
the Minister but were still awaiting Treasury sign off. The
recalibration of the LTiP for 2016/17 and agreement for 2018/19
still needed to be done.

The Chairman of the Remco stressed the need for rigour in the
accuracy of the 2016/17 final EBITDAS outturn as this would
drive the LTIP and STiP bonuses paid and asked whether the
external auditors be asked to sign off the fact that the bonuses
had been earned.

It was agreed that the CFO would prepare a RemCo paper on

POL Board minutes, 25 July 2016 6
POL00399587
POL00399587

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

ACTION: CFO this issue.

POLB 16/51 ANY OTHER BUSINESS

(a) Health & Safety
The Board noted the current safety and wellbeing performance
and risk reduction opportunities. The Board asked for more
ACTION: CEO detail at the next meeting on the fire risk highlighted in the
report. The CEO promised to update the Board by email in the
interim.

(b) Sealings
The Directors resolved that the affixing of the Common Seal of the
Company to the documents numbered 1422 to 1431 inclusive in
the seal register was confirmed.

(c) Confirmation of 2017 Board and Committee dates
The Board confirmed the Board and Committee dates for
2017, with the exception of May 30" which would be changed.
Board dinners would be held on the evening preceding the

ACTION: CoSec Board in January, March, May, July, September and
November.
POLB 16/52 CLOSE

(a) There being no further business, the Chairman declared the
meeting close.

POL Board minutes, 25 July 2016 7
