POL00294440
POL00294440

=
De I fe) I tte e STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL

HNG-X: Review of Assur ae’>Sources

/~

Emerging findings at 29/05.
~\

Deloitte Ref: Board Summary v3
SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE
POL00294440
POL00294440

Executive Summary

Context

POL is committed to ensuring and demonstrating that the current Horizon system (“HNG-X”) is robust and operates.
with integrity, within an appropriate control framework. Since its implementation in 2009/10, POL has
commissioned or has received an increasing number of pieces of work relating to HNG-X to provide comfort over
the design and operation of such key controls.

In the context of helping POL to assess responses to recent allegations made by sub-postmasters, Deloitte has
been recently appointed to consider whether this assuraice work appropriately covers key risks relating to the
HNG-X processing environment and raise suggestions far potential improvements in the assurance provision.

Our work was performed in the context of activities we see in other, similar organis c bas well as guidance
offered by recognised, best practise control frameworks (that published by The ~ ‘tree of Sponsoring
Organisations of the Treadway Commission — the “COSO framework”). \

\

Our work is near completion and thus this summary outlines our emere” onclusions XK La? April 2014, Our
final report, containing additional detail as well as recommendation~ ext steps, will be\ssued in early May.

Overall Comments

‘ye HNG-X processing environment.

A significant amount of work has been performed relair’ “~.key risks &

Of note, the provision relating to HNG-X’s general co\ Brn, aks at Fujitsu adopts best practises, where
the risk assessment and control framework have beer, ‘3! _av._AS fully and independently assured undera
recognised assurance standard (ISAE 340?> “

Significant work has also been perfor” L ing / areas 0, ey risk too, though not structured under a formalised
tisk assessment nor independenth” Toe 7

Subject to the provision of documental ‘ge by POL to support information gathered in interviews,
governance controls over” sage _aigns toexpected practises.

Furthermore, in are” Sore spa )sks (including responses to reported errors), extensive and detaled
documentation has be. ‘ucer Aechnically competent professionals, familiar with the system, at Fujitsu.
These documents includ. “fs of the key designand operating features of the HNG-X system in more
specific context, and thus Co Significant, though unstructured (in the context of a formalised risk assessment
and control framework), information relating to contrds that response to these specific risks within HNG-X

Our main recommendation for potential improvement in the assurance provision would be for POL to extend the
formal risk and control framework, already in place forgeneral controls, to also embrace key risks and controlsin
project and specific risk areas. This exercise would provide a fully encompassing, more “cohesive” risk andcontrol
framework for the HNG-X processing environment, and give a platform from which POL can deliver efficient and
sustainable comfort that key processing environment rsks are being managed on an ongoing basis.

Such an enhanced, cohesive approach would also enable POL to formally optimise the design of the control
framework against POL’s emerging risk appetite definitions and take forwards our more detailed suggestiors for
improvement (below). For example, the need for POL to formalise its response to the ISAE 3402 “End User Control
Considerations”.

DRAFT FINDINGS.
STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE.
POL00294440
POL00294440

Key Emerging Findings

We structured our work around 3 main areas of risk and have aligned our more detailed, emerging findings to
these:

Project Change Risks:

Project Change Risks relate to very significant IT changes that require formal project governance structures, which
are governed and controlled outside of day to day system operating procedures. Controls which mitigate these
risks are often referred to as “Project Controls”. Our wark focussed on the implementation of HNG-X in 2009/10.

Subject to the provision of evidence to support verbal assertions made by POL, the design and operation of project
governance and control procedures for the HNG-X implementation appears comparable to what we see at other
organisations and what we would expect, though no independent assurance has been provided in this area.

Assurance over project change risks could be further strengthened through both gre~ “ndependent scrutiny
during project activities and through post-implementation assessments. We alsor fat such significant change
projects are an opportunity to efficiently capture and create the control and as~ ameworks for Specific
Risks (see below), and to help clarify descriptions ofcontrols and their opti : atin, changes are live.

\

IT Environment Risks: L

IT Environment Risks relate to the policies and procedures wn, 7 _/the day to day running of the system,
such as security management, change control management ana. perations management. Controls which
mitigate these risks are often referred to as “General. Computer “s”, Our work focussed on assurance
provided over Fujitsu’s activities in these areas. / ~ \ >

Formally structured and independent assurance wor, \Dow “Ad relating to these risks, in excess of the
benchmark we typically see in non-outsourced IT envi ep «x_4line with benchmarks for an outsourced IT
processing environment such as HNG-X.

ened by more formally responding to “end user
3402 report and suggesting some refinements to the
here. in certain, potentially ambiguous, areas (examples are

POL’s assurance over key risks in thi” Ac /be stre\
control considerations”, referencer” tie’ A
narratives within the ISAE 3402 to i

noted below). ; ~ >

S

Specific Risks: a

Specific Risks relate. granular or unique mdters, specific to and as applied to POL’s HNG-X
processing environmern, 2 inherent features within the application design, required end user activities
and application enforced 8 Controls which mitgate these risks are often referred to as “Inherent System
Controls’, “End User Contro.._/“Application Embedded Controls” and “Process Controls’. Our work focussed on
the interfaces with other systems (DVLA) and the preservation of HNG-X audit trail (Audit Store).

Substantial work has been performed over risks in ths area, delivered largely by Fujitsu, in particular in areas
where reported issues have occurred in system processing Fujitsu have produced extensive and detailed
documentation relating to the key design and operating features of the HNG-X system, using technically competent
professionals, familiar with the system.

In order to provide greater comfort that this work addresses all key risks, this area would benefit from beng
managed through a formal risk assessment and control framework, as the IT Environment risks are above. Our
work relating to both the DVLA interface and the Audit Store, found that whilst the level of understanding
demonstrated through documentation was excellent, and key controls, such as the use of ‘tamper proof IT
infrastructure are highlighted, evidenced based, independent work to verify these key control features and
attestations has not been performed.

DRAFT FINDINGS.
STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE.
POL00294440
POL00294440

Such an exercise would also enable a more automated and thus efficient control design to be considered (for
example, more automated controls and further proactive monitoring / alerting to key risk events).

Other matters:

We observed that the risk appetite of POL is yet to be defined, though we understand that an exercise is underway
with the ARC to achieve this. We consider this to be an important exercise for POL to perform, as it will help
underpin and better optimise the design of your control and assurance landscape (above) in the future.

We also note that POL’s use of Internal Audit could be extended to support the provision of further comfort over
specific risk areas. Internal Audit have covered some aspects of these risk in parallel with their work on IT
Environment risks, for example, the operation of interfaces to POL SAP, but there is opportunity for this to be
extended — for example, system interfaces to Credence and controls relating to adjustment postings.

S

Sources of Assurance Reviewed

Sources of assurance from the following organisationshave been identified an” ared in our work:

\

e Fujitsu, who designed, built and now operate HNG-X. _
\ . \
dorks, includ. _ at of HNG-X.

e Bureau Veritas, who perform ISO 27001 certification over Fujitsu’
¢ Information Risk Management (IRM) who accredit HNG-X to P” enter ° 4 Industry Data Security Standards.

e Ernst & Young, who produce an ISAE 3402 service auditor h_ fe HNG-X processing environment.

¢ Internal audit, who perform risk based reviews within POL.

Footnote: Examples of ISAE 3402 Clarifié, YR

Clarifying certain text in the ISAE 3402 report will help’ Vv ern ambiguity for its interpretation. For
example: — \ /

e clarify data sources for samplino~ Z for} Joacont , esting);

* improve alignment to POL pok Vv a: requirement for unique usernames);

e state sample sizes used (eg: ton Sunderstanhdng of the frequency of the control activity); and

° verify that all controls ar~ ~d toe ‘\(eg: control test 6.5 in section 7 appears to have relied on verbal
assertions from Fuji c \ \ 7

DRAFT FINDINGS.
STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE.
Other than as stated below, this docii~ént is confidential and prepared solely for your informationand that of other
beneficiaries of our advice listed in our engagemert letter. Therefore you should not, refer to or useour name or
this document for any other purpose, disclose themor refer to them in any prospectus or other document, or make
them available or communicate them to any other paty. If this document contains details of an arrangement that
could result in a tax or National Insurance saving,no such conditions of confidentiality apply to thedetails of that
arrangement (for example, for the purpose of discussion with tax authorities). In any event, no otherparty is
entitled to rely on our document for any purpose whatsoever and thus we accept no liability to any otter party who
is shown or gains access to this document.

Deloitte LLP is a limited liability partnership regstered in England and Wales with registered numberOC303675
and its registered office at 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom

Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (‘DTTL"), a UK private
company limited by guarantee, whose member firms ae legally separate and independent entities, Pleasesee

www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed descriptionof the legal structure of DTTL and its member firms.

STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE.

POL00294440
POL00294440
