POL00270909
POL00270909

From: Watson, Richard - UKGIf,__
Sent: Wed 17/04/2019 10:05:36 AM (UTC)
To: Alisdair Cameronfi

Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI}

Subject: RE: Joiningup

Attachment: UKGI Group Litigation Protocol (FINAL 11.06.18).pdf
Thanks Al
Alan

I’m not sure how much background you have about UKGI and our role/interest but you will see from the attached that
in June 2018 we agreed an Information Sharing Protocol with POL in relation to this Group litigation.

The key issue for us at the moment is the common issues appeal. We had understood that the deadline for seeking
permission to appeal from the trial judge was 16" May and were keen to ensure that Ministers were briefed about
that application and POL’s strategy for the appeal before it was made. We now understand that there is pressure from
the legal team to go direct to the Court of Appeal for permission, and to do so quickly. The advice seems to be that
there is an advantage in having both appeals (recusal and common issues) heard together, though I’m not sure
whether that is something POL would be expressly asking the Court of Appeal to order. I can certainly see that the
Court of Appeal might decide of their own motion that the appeals should be heard together and note that when the
application for permission to appeal the recusal judgment was lodged they were told that POL are considering an
appeal from the common issues judgement and that the court may wish to co-ordinate the management of the two
appeals.

Ministers are aware of the fact that your firm are being brought in to provide additional advice to the POL board and I
am keen that they are sighted on issues and strategy around any appeal from the common issues judgment,
preferably before any application for permission is made.

I appreciate that you will have a lot to get up to speed on but I would certainly find it helpful to have a discussion
about our role and information sharing when you have a convenient moment. We could either do that over the phone
or I would be very happy to come to your offices. I can make myself available anytime today or tomorrow if you had a

free slot. If not perhaps you can suggest a convenient date/time.

I have read the merits opinions from POL’s counsel, read the judgments in the case, was in court for the opening and
closing arguments for the Common issues trial and attended the recusal hearing.

I look forward to hearing from you
Kind regards
Richard

Richard Watson IGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

ISW1H OET

W: https://www.ukgi.org.uk/
POL00270909
POL00270909

From: Alisdair Cameron [,
Sent: 17 April 2019 09:23
To: Watts, Alan ¢_
Cc: Watson, Richa
Subject: Joining up

Alan, Richard, just joining you up so we keep our shareholder’s legal team up to date and able to engage.
Kind regards and thanks Al

Alisdair Cameron
Interim Chief Executive

OFFICE

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

FESS ISS EISI SES RIE SSIS SSS SSRIS SIS EISI SESS SRIE SaaS noir iar indir

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FESO IESE OEE OSES OISEEIOOSES OSES SFEI SOE OSES SGI I Ir

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
POL00270909
POL00270909

and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.
