POL00266941
POL00266941

From: Andrew Parsons}
Sent: Tue 05/03/2019 11:53:48 AM (UTC)

To: David. Barke
lawl...

Defence Legal (Chris

GRO __I Newsome Pete

Ce: “} Jonathan Gribbenf ~~ GRO “4

Subject: Opening Subs [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Attachment: _DOC_154592654(1)_Cs Subs (AP 5 March) - Qs for Fu.DOCX
Attachment: Horizon Issues Trial - Post Office Opening Submissions.pdf
Attachment: Cs' Written Opening for Horizon Issues Trial .pdf

All
Thanks for your time this morning.

Please find attached the opening submissions. We'd be grateful for FJ's comments on all of Cs submissions and, in
particular, we would be grateful for comments on the points flagged in the attached Word document.

Thanks
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

» GRO

Stay informed:

sign up to our e-alerts

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com

BOND
DICKINSON v fin]

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this
this e-mail and any at ot rodric.williamg

on, distribution, publication or copying
Privacy Poliey on our website

nail and any attachments is confidential and may b
ments, If you

please notify andrew.parsorf

f this Communication or attachments is prohibited andi

ithorised
use, dissem

-d to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
‘age which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU

where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or
consultant who is of equivalent standi

g. Our VAT registration number is GB1233

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing services
in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world, Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor can bind
or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited does
notices for further details.

ot practice law. Plea sww.vomblebonddickinson.com:

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
