POL00145108

POL00145108
From: Parsons, AndrewI GRO i
Sent: Wed 03/07/2013 10:43:11 AM (UTC)
To: Rodric Williams”
Cec: Gaisford, Rosie_ ~~ a
Subject: RE: Report: Lepton - Strictly Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - Not for Wider
Circulation
Rodric

I've reviewed this. Please feel free to give me a call whenever is good for you.
Headlines:

e This report DOES relate to a live Spot Review. It is Spot Review 1. The transaction questioned in the report
is exactly the same transaction considered under SR1.

¢ —SR1 is about Horizon automatically reversing and correcting transactions when there is a power or comms
failure.

« SR1 is probably our most robust SR response so I'm comfortable that this report doesn't undermine our SR
response.

e However, the report does raise the fact that the transaction data available to POL (known as the "ARQ report"
— not sure what that is?) does not properly describe the true sequence of events when there is an automated
transaction reversal due to a comms/power failure.

e Inthe data available to POL, this type of automated reversal could be mistaken as a user generated reversal
by an SPMR. In turn, this could cause evidential/credibility issues in court proceedings.

e However, Fujitsu can access the raw Horizon data to provide clarity on these issues.

e The proposed solution in the report is for the data directly available to POL to be improved so to clearly show
the difference between SPMR reversals and automated reversals. This seems sensible.

e The ease/cost of delivering this change is unknown. It looks like it will probably need support from Fujitsu.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Direct}
Mobile!
Fax: I

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Rodric Williams [mailto:rodric.williams@_
Sent: 03 July 2013 09:53

To: Parsons, Andrew

Subject: Fw: Report: Lepton - Strictly Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - Not for Wider Circulation
POL00145108
POL00145108

Andy - cam you pls take a look at this so you can give me an overview on the phone some time today.

Thanks Rod

From: Dave Posnett

Sent: Tuesday, July 02, 2013 04:19 PM

To: Rodric Williams

Subject: FW: Report: Lepton - Strictly Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - Not for Wider Circulation

Rodric,
Any response to the email below yet?

Regards,

Dave Posnett I Accredited Financial Investigator

From: Dave Posnett

Sent: 14 June 2013 10:23

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: John M Scott; Dave Pardoe; Elaine Spencer; Helen Rose

Subject: Report: Lepton - Strictly Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - Not for Wider Circulation

Rodric,

Please find associated a report from our Fraud Analyst, Helen Rose, in respect of Lepton SPSO. This
office doesn’t feature as part of our 2"’ Sight Spot Reviews, but the subject matter is Horizon (and indeed
Credence) related. Could I ask that you consider the report and feed any comments back, as it could be a
potential issue at some stage.

In summary, the specifics concern a ‘system reversal’ of a transaction following a system failure. This is
normal practice, but the Horizon logs (and Credence logs) indicate that the reversal is an ‘existing reversal’,
implying that the reversal was manually entered by the clerk/Subpostmaster.

I think there’s a remote possibility that this could be a problem in terms of using the data for
evidence/prosecution purposes, but nevertheless it is still a possibility. Myself or Helen are happy to talk
through anything that requires explanation.

Regards,

Dave Posnett I Accredited Financial Investigator

Security Team, 2" Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old St, London, EC1V 9HQ
POL00145108
POL00145108

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this em:

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may b ly privil
tachments. If you are not rodric.williams@postoffice.co.uk, ple a a
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

ed and protected by law. codricavillianns! nly is authorised to
GRO

access this e-mail and any a jossible and delete any

e notify andre:

Any files at
which may be

cd to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage

ised by sofiware viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment,

Content of this email which does not relate to the official busin

ss of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 31
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equi

d liability parte
. Where a list of mem
alent standing. Our VAT

ship registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our re
names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a
tration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
