POL00417100
POL00417100

, Page 1 of 4

Diane Martey

From: Mark Burley

Sent: 22 July 2010 11:55

To: Mike Young; Sue Huggins

Ce: Nick Beal; Philippa J Wright; Michele Graves; Mike Moores
Subject: RE: Urgent channel 4 horizon isssue

Mike / Sue

I have added some specific comments against the questions from David Smith below
and would also note the following:

1. The point about the system being designed to retain integrity even when it
fails is important as we could never claim, the system does not fail.

2. I am aware of 3 court cases - Cleveleys (Subpostmistress dismissed in 2001 -
not long after Horizon introduced) (we settled out of court £187.5k as the
expert for the SPMR produced a report which showed how Horizon could have
caused the error. This could have been refuted with the audit trail but for
some reason, this wasn’t used / requested by our experts). Castleton where we
presented a copy of the audit log to the Subpostmasters solicitor who
promptly agreed there was no substance to the SPMR’s claim and advised him to
settle the debt. The solicitor was sacked by the Subpostmaster who proceeded
to court, lost the case and liability of £300k but declared himself bankrupt.
The judge decided there was “no flaw” in the Horizon system and “the logic of
the system is correct” and “the conclusion is inescapable that the Horizon
system was working properly in all material aspects”. Alderley edge - _£45k
shortage (at audit) but judge dismissed case as unable to prove exact amount.
However judge did not deem an investigation of the system was necessary
(primarily it would appear as he deemed it would be costly and therefore not
a good use of taxpayers money).

3. None of the Subpostmasters dismissed for discrepancies have - to my knowledge
~ produced any hard evidence. However in the past POL hasn’t always tabled
the evidence from the audit logs.

4. There are examples of human error discrepancies being ‘rectified’ several
months / years later.

5. Computer Weekly ran an article in 2009 and another more recently picking up
on the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (a group of Subpostmasters who are
becoming more vocal about their claims that horizon has caused faults)

6. S4C ran a programme on the issue in 2009 (although I have not managed to see
this)

7. There has been several flag cases over the years

8. There is a website - www.jfsa.org.uk - which has a lot of info and some
cases. I think it would be useful to examine the cases and check up our
position as we should be able to identify some of the actual people involved

from the history on the case files.

9. I believe that the Group have a solicitor engaged who is working on a no win
no fee basis (however I cannot substantiate this). I also believe there is an

22/07/2010

POL00417100
POL00417100

POL00417100
POL00417100

* Page 2 of 4

expert working with them who has requested information under the ‘Freedom of
Information (FOI) Act’. Again, I do not have any specifics on this.

10.My view - 3 reasons for shortage - Subpostmaster has hands in till; one of
assistants has hands in till or (in most cases of a discrepancy) there is a
human accounting error - some of which may be picked up over time.

Sorry there is a lot (especially with the extra bits below in red) - hope it helps.
Happy to get involved in any other aspect, e.g. to help with point ‘8’ above.

Mark Burley

Head of Projects (IT)
Banner St Wing

148 Old St

London

EC1V 9HQ

From: Mike Young

Sent: 22 July 2010 09:08

To: Mark Burley

Subject: FW: Urgent channel 4 horizon isssue

Mark

FYI
Mike

Mike Young

Chief Technology & Services Officer
148 Old St, London, EC1V 9HQ

i Mob
Original Message-
From: David ¥ Smith
Sent: 21 July 2010 19:04

To: Mike Young; Sue Huggins; Mike Moores
Subject: Urgent channel 4 horizon isssue

All

Further to yesterdays complaint around horizon from oliver and a parliamentary
question to ed davey from priti patel on the same issue we have today been notified
tha c4 will run a news item on the same issue. This may be all the same group of
people and may also just be a function of the new roll out. However.....

Sue Huggins will lead our response via Mary to the specific request. But I want an
internal investigation under Mike Moores lead please over the next week on the
following.

How robust is horizon?

Horizon is very robust against our Business rules but like any computer system it
relies on accuracy of entry from the user although where possible controls are put
im place to remove / reduce the risk of error. For example, if a transaction can
only be sold in multiples of £5, then the system will not allow an entry of say £6.
Additionally like any computer system, it can fail, e.g. in the event of a power
cut. However the system is designed to retain integrity even when it fails. One of

22/07/2010

POL00417100
POL00417100

oy

POL00417100
POL00417100

. Page 3 of 4

the key controls here is to allocate every transaction with a unique incrementing
sequence number.

Once data is captured, data is replicated across all counters in a branch (a single
counter position branch has two disc drives) and to the Fujitsu Data centre where
it is again copied. Horizon does this once the ‘basket is settled’. The system uses
standard double entry book keeping, i.e. for every transaction, there is a
corresponding entry against a method of payment.

In the Data Centre, a copy of the data is posted to the Audit file where it is
retained for 7 years. Data in the audit file is sealed with a ‘checksum’ which is
held separately to ensure that it has not been tampered with or corrupted.

Although the transactions are not committed until the ‘basket’ is settled, special
xules apply to any transactions in the basket which have effectively already been
committed such as banking and Automated Payment transactions. Again these are
designed to maintain integrity.

Is it possible to mispost misallocate cash to the detriment of the Subpostmaster

It is possible to enter an incorrect value that ultimately results in a discrepancy
when the Subpostmaster completes their accounts. For example, entering a bank
deposit as £100 instead of £10 will result in the Subpostmaster recording a £90
loss (all other things being equal). As mentioned above, controls are put in place
where possible to reduce or remove the likelihood of this. In some cases, an error
like this will at some point be recovered but this depends on the type of
transaction and potentially the integrity of the customer, i.e. with the banking
deposit example, unless the customer declares the error, there is little likelihood
of it being discovered and the Subpostmaster would be liable. An error of this type
is no different to bank systems.

In summary the system will post the transaction as indicated by the Subpostmaster
when manual input is required.

Where the transaction is fully automated, there is no evidence to suggest it could
ever be misallocated. In theory it is impossible therefore (providing the
Subpostmaster follows the instructions on the screen)

Is there any difference between horizon and hngx.

There are some significant difference in where data is stored (HNGx stores no data
at the counters) but the principles around integrity remain in place as does the
audit log. Importantly, when a branch migrates to HNGx it will have 2 audit logs -
one for Horizon and a separate one for Horizon.

When hngx froze during the early trials is there any evidence that this caused
misallocations?

There is no evidence this caused misallocations. However there is some evidence
that branches may have had discrepancies as a result of not following the system
prompts / instructions. Had they followed the instructions accurately, no branch
should have had a discrepancy from a freeze. HNGx has been built as Horizon; namely
to retain integrity even in the event of failure.

How do we treat discrepancies. Is there any exceptional circumstance applied where
we don't seek recovery of funds prosecution etc. I.E are we heavy handed and
disproportionate in our response.

How many subs have we terminated on this basis in the last ten years

22/07/2010

POL00417100

POL00417100

POL00417100

of feilvee. ® As atin -

POL00417100
“* Page 4 of 4
4 ayeling dyed (wah
How many have we prosecuted. What is our success rate? @& maak: ,
ett
What external audit verifications have been made of horizon and hngx aan S
/

There have been a number of reviews of both systems by Gartner and other technology II
companies. I am not aware of one that explicitly focussed on integrity. However in
addition testing of both systems has been extremely vigilant - over 25,000 separate
and unique tests (many of which were run more than once) run over 18 months using

approximately 8,000 mandays. ue, zn en-h
arn an-tIne I Rows
vr

How difficult is it to rectify human errors to rebalance the till?

Ranges from very easy to not possible without external intervention. t
What training does each user receive to use the system.

Originally users on Horizon received an extensive training course at the end of
which they had to take a test which until they passed they would not be able to use
the system (although almost impossible to enforce).

For HNGx, the majority of transactions and back office functions have not changed —
the main changes are the User Interface and to a degree the Postal Services
(although users have deemed this easier). We provide extensive pre go-live
materials including web-site; training manuals, etc and then supplement this with
an in-branch migration support on the day of and the day after migration. The
Migration support will take the Subpostmaster through key areas and address any
concerns. We have been measuring satisfaction with the training and support
provided for HNGx and the following summarises the results to date (i.e. from start
of pilot):

* 91% were happy they had the support needed during migration and that the
training enabled them to adequately prepare for HNG

There is a facebook group of protestors online. What are they saying and what are
we doing to ensure this does not harm the business?

Suggest we need input from lynn keith woollard rod and leslie as a minimum.
Thanks

Dave

K<— nite fenepal «

wwf wn ‘a

6.4) oh be GM ceva
Ce mpete (te)

22/07/2010

POL00417100
POL00417100

- Eh Thea

wists

fokrve typ ln

chad.-sun beanie a = ld
OA
- alg Ll 7? Kova

Pen
NX Vue
forte
7
— Tere):
71 Shed

/reabt Lupe Gently 7

Ryuiles I
a,
\90 2 270d “-

POL00417100

POL00417100

Page 1 of 1

Mike Granville

From: Barbara Bennett on behalf of Sue Huggins
Sent: 23 July 2010 16:15

To: Mike Granville

Subject: FW: C4

From: Paul Budd

Sent: 23 July 2010 15:06

To: Sue Huggins; David Y Smith
Cc: Sarah J Womack

Subject: C4

Sue, Dave

Here’s the current draft of the C4 response. Realistically, we won’t all of this as an on screen
statement. Mary’s view is to insist on paragraph 1 as the statement as it addresses the most emotive
element of the story. We’ll provide the remainder to C4 making clear it can be drawn on, and quoted
in addition to, but not instead of, the opening paragraph.

Regards

Paul

Virtually all the UK’s 12,000 Post Office branches operate entirely professionally, using the Horizon
system, without any accounting discrepancies and without accumulating debts, and it is clearly in the
interests of both our customers and the vast majority of subpostmasters that in the very few instances
where there is evidence that the finances of a branch are not properly managed or where money has
gone missing, Post Office Ltd must fully investigate, and take necessary action, including legal action in
the last resort. The decision to proceed to prosecution is not taken lightly and in every case where
action has been taken no court has found sufficient evidence to believe the Horizon system’s integrity
to be deficient.

The Horizon system has been in place for ten years and handles up to 750 transactions every second
and all subpostmasters have access to full training and ongoing support and are able to raise any
concerns over transactions or accounting to Post Office Ltd who will always help and investigate.

We are continuing to upgrade the system to make sure it meets the growing demands of the financial
services products provided by today’s Post Offices. Whilst implementing changes will inevitably have
caused some inconvenience, it has not in any way affected the integrity of the system, which is
fundamentally more accurate and less open to abuse than the old fashioned paper based systems it
replaced.

23/07/2010 " a

POL00417100
POL00417100

