POL00116245

POL00116245

From: David Oliver!

Sent: Mon 27/01/2014

To: Paula Vennellsi “GRO
Ce:

Theresa Iles _

Subject: Further briefing for tomorrow
Attachment: Agenda Post Office meeting with James Arbuthnot, 28 Jan 2014.docx
Attachment: Further Arbuthnot Briefing 27012014.doc

Alice, Paula,

Please find attached is further briefing from Chris following a phone call from lan Henderson.

Also attached a draft agenda that James has sent through after seeing ours, I suggest we ask to take business
improvement first at the start of the meeting as this sets the tone for our wider engagement.

There are some further bullet points below setting out a proposed response to the past cases issue:

* Cartwright King have reviewed past cases in line with a process that has been by endorsed by leading
Counsel.

© 325 individuals cases were reviewed to see if any issues arising out of the Second Sight review ought to be
disclosed to the defence in accordance with our duties as a prosecutor.

¢ Further disclosure was provided in 21 cases.

© It is up to the defence in cases where disclosure has been provided to review the material and take any
appropriate action in the interests of their client.

¢ Thus far no convicted defendant has sought the leave of the Court of Appeal to challenge his conviction; this
may of course change.

* Post Office is still confident that we have not seen an unsafe conviction. We continue to keep this matter
under constant review as the Second Sight work and Post Office’s own investigations into the complaints
continue.

¢ All 147 applications (including those with a criminal conviction) are being overseen by a former Criminal
Court of Appeal Judge Sir Anthony Hooper.

Regards

David

David Oliver

Programme Manager
Initial Complaii
David.oliver?
Mob

Scheme

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
POL00116245
POL00116245

must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
