POL00139739
POL00139739

Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting: 02 October 2013
Attendees:
Team/Function

Legal

Financial Services Centre (FSC)

Security

Communications

Network

Information Technology & Change (IT&C)

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

4A_27495085_1

Attendees

Rodric Williams (RW)

Jaranil Singh (JS)

Martin Smith of Cartwright King (CK)

Rod Ismay (RI)

Dave Posnett (DP)

Rob King (RK)

Gayle Peacock (GP)

Nick Beal (NB)

Steve Beddoe (SB)

Kendra Dickinson (KD)
POL00139739
POL00139739

Issue

Issues/Comments/Next steps

Prestbury

Discs have arrived. Helen Rose will be asked to review them. Early
indication seems to indicate the branch did declare a discrepancy

on the day stated.

ATM Gluing Case

The details of the visits made by the engineer cannot be obtained.
A process needs to be in place going forward where this MI can
be provided. GP mentioned a wider issue of suppliers in general
not providing information to the business about which branches

have been visited.

Rhigos Branch GP — Angela to meet with Colin and talk to the SPM. The case has
not yet been through the business process and therefore will not
qualify for mediation. To conclude internal process — to be kept
open.

ATM Not discussed specifically on the call but the banking team have
been made aware.

Post & Go Leeds branch is now balancing.

All branches balance differently. Wincor file goes into Horizon

and becomes part of balance. Process issue to ensure consistency.

Visit to Durham has taken place. Again, they were using the old
instructions for balancing. This would be resolved with the new
version of ATMs but a communication will be used to ensure

branches with older machines are using the correct instructions.

Leave action open until investigations finished

Appears to be an Operator issue rather than Horizon.

Belfast Refresh

No update

SB has provided RW and GP with an e-mailing outlining dates.

4A_27495085_1
POL00139739
POL00139739

Nelson

GP has provided the discs to Helen Rose.

SB to obtain FJ response with regard to technical points identified.

Point made on the call about the importance of written

documentation with this case.

GP made the point that the Horizon issues had already been dealt

with and those should not have been raised at the visit.

Cheques

RI up-dated that there is about £20k of un-assigned cheques and
the team are working to find the branches which have been

sending them in.

Pontycymer

Field Advisors have been sent out and the same approach will be

used as Nelson if need be..

New Issues Iden

Name

Area Issues/Observations/Comments

DP

The appeals of North Connelly and Moy were mentioned. With
the case of Moy, the branch suffered a £22k loss and the
paperwork provided seems to indicate that the Trading Period
Report has a different number printed on it compared to the TP

number on Horizon. Dave to send to Andy Winn to have a look at.

Darren James-King case at Heugh was also mentioned.

GP

are citing Horizon issues.

Two new branches identified on log which will need to be passed

to Steve Beddoe to investigate - Woodham and Charnley. Both

NB

No Issues

4A_27495085_1
POL00139739
POL00139739

SB No Issues
KH on behalf of No Issues
AP

RW

KD No Issues
JS No Issues
Action Points

1. Prestbury —- GP to ask Helen Rose to review data

2. ATM gluing case — Rob King to set up process in the interim with BOI to obtain engineer visit

information going forward.

3. Rhigos — Internal process to be completed. Update further in due course.

4. ATM

5. Post & Go — SB to update further once investigations have finished within the 3 branches.

6. Nelson - GP has disk of data — to speak to Helen to decipher data

7. Nelson - SB to obtain FJ response with regard to technical points identified.

8. Pontycymer — SB to carry out further checks. Matter to be updated following further review.

4A_27495085_1
