POL00022663
POL00022663

Message

From: Jane MacLeo

on behalf of — Jane MacLeor

Sent: 28/07/2016 13

To: Paula Vennells }

ce: Avene Regan i
Subject: Postmaster Litigation-

Attachments: RE: Sparrow update CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LITIGATION PRIVILEGE; Extracts from BD response to Freeths
(28-7-2016) re Defects in Horizon.docx

Paula, Al

Remote access wording

Attached for your information is the extract addressing the issues alleged in relation to Horizon, as set out in the final
version of the response to Freeths. The wording has been approved by the Steering Group, Fujitsu and Tony Robinson
QC. The response letter is now ready to send and we expect to be able to send it later this afternoon, subject to any
comments you may have.

The key wording is the following:

1.7.4 “Administrator access to databases. Database and server access and edit permission is provided,
within strict controls (including logging user access), to a small, controlled number of specialist Fujitsu (not
Post Office) administrators. As far as we are currently aware, privileged administrator access has not
been used to alter branch transaction data. We are seeking further assurance from Fujitsu on this point.”

We arrived at this version after much discussion. Rob flagged it to Al yesterday and my explanation as to the rationale
for including it is attached.

I will liaise with Comms to ensure we have the necessary responses available should we have any media coverage. I will
shortly send through suggested wording to go to the Board.

Expanded claimants group

You should also be aware that Freeths advised us late yesterday that they now have nearly 200 current and former
postmasters as claimants in the action, and they have provided details of the additional claimants. We are reviewing
that list to get a better understanding of the make-up of that group, however it makes no difference at this stage to our
response.

Kind regards,
Jane

e Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile numbers

POL-0019142
