POL00165914

POL00165914

Stated Original Message-----

From: Enquiry Enquiry (Enquiry Unit and Night Duty Office Mailboxes)
Sent: 14 December 2009 14:08

To: ShE Briefing

Subject: FW: [FindYourMP] post office limited

Dear Colleague
Is this something you can help with?

Regards

Arthur
BIS Enquiry Unit

[mailtol,
Sent: 14 December 2009 1:
To: Enquiry Enquiry (Enquiry Unit and Night Duty Office Mailboxes)
Subject: FW: [FindYourMP] post office limited

Reference : T22589/9

I believe that the matt: ised in this e-mail from
lcastleton.castleton¢. are the responsibility of the Department
for Business Innovation and Skills, and I am therefore transferring it
to you for reply.

In the event this.matter..isnnt.for. YAM, please return it immediately to
public.enquiries RO

In doing so it would be helpful if you could indicate where you believe
it should be sent for reply.

ies about this e-mail, please contact the Transfers

>>>>>>>>>> Forwarded e-mail: >>>>>>>>>

ooo Original Message-----

From: lee castleton via FindYourMP
Sent: 13 December 2009 16:58

To: JOHNSON, Alan (MP)

Subject: [FindYourMP] post office limited

You are receiving this message from the Find Your MP service at
http://findyourmp.parliament.uk. To comment on this service or amend
your details, contact the Information Office: hcinfoj___

Replies to this email will be sent to the sender's address and not to
the Find Your MP service.

The message was sent with the following sender details:

Name: lee castleton

POL-0161358

POL00165914
POL00165914

Address:

This postcode is not in Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle.

The message was sent with the following text:
Dear Rt Hon Alan Johnson,

To Alan Johnson MP

I am writing to you to raise a few issues and ask for your help with
some questions.

I am a former Sub Post Master, who lost a civil case against the Post
Office. I was found liable to repay monies, because of my contract,
that I believe never existed. I have, of course, since this loss,
researched the Post Office, its practices with respect to Sub Post
Masters and the amount of people having to repay large amounts of
monies, where little or no proof existed. I have enclosed two articles
from Computer weekly Magazine, along with an article from Accountancy
Age Magazine and some documented proof. I also have a copy of a BBC
Wales T.V programme, outlining the issues of which I can send you a copy
if you would like.

My greatest concern is that I have reported this, along with supporting
documents, to my local Police. This was by no means easily done.
Firstly, I went to my local Police station, where the gentleman at the
desk endeavored to explain to me that, I cannot just report such a
crime, but he screens people for the Police, and my concerns did not
meet the criteria which allowed me to actually see a Police Officer. I,
as you can imagine, was annoyed. I then wrote to the Chief Inspector of
Humberside and a WDC( Wendy Breeze), was dispatched to see me. She
explained that it was not something that she could deal with, and I was
told she would pass it to her DS. I had to telephone him to get any
feed back with my complaint and he explained he had telephoned his
colleagues at the Post Office and he did not feel it was worthy of
investigation. I again pressed the subject and he passed me to his DI.

DI Peter Francis came to visit, where I again explained the nature of my
complaint. He explained that he would look into the case and after
several months he sent me copies of e-mails to explain why no
department could or would investigate the subject. This absolutely
baffled me.

I decided to contact those people directly to find out why.

B.I.S. :- E-mail enclosed.

S.F.O :- E-mail enclosed.

F.S.A :- Not regulated by F.S.A.

Post Comm :- Only regulate Postal Service.

But what I find very disturbing, is the fact that a government owned
Company can openly commit fraud.

The S.F.O. :- Michelle Hanley, has spoken to me directly on a number of
occasions, and she has explained that it is not a case for the S.F.O.,
because they deal with completed fraud cases and with the documents
available it is not too complicated for the Police to deal with and both
herself, and her manager, feel the Police should investigate.

Therefore, this leads me to two questions for you Sir.

POL-0161358
POL00165914
POL00165914

.This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have

1.) Who or whom regulated Post Office Counters business and how do I
contact them?

2.) Who or whom do I need to contact to report this fraud by Post

Office Ltd. Could I please have their contact details and then
hopefully this can continue.

Yours sincerely,

lee castleton

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it from your
system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted.
This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted
for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.

JESSE IS EIS SI SEIS IOSD IFO EIOSIISIISEIOSISEISEIIS IE IO IOTIOEI CIO IOI II IO IIIT
This email and any files transmitted with it are private and intended
solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are
addressed. .

If you have received this email in error please return it to the address
it came from telling them it is not for you and then delete it from your
system.

This email message has been swept for computer viruses. .

JESSIE SSI ISIS SISISISIIIISISIIISISII SIE IIEIIISEISIS SITS SISSIES III

The original of this email was scanned for viruses by the Government Secure
Intranet virus scanning service supplied by Cable&Wireless in partnership
with MessageLabs. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) On leaving the
GSi this email was certified virus free.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or
xecorded for legal purposes.

-—— Message from "Buck Rosemary \(ShEx\)":

14:59:58 -0000 — a
To: "Buck Rosemary \(ShEx\)"____.......... GRO _—-----}

Subject: FW: Post Office Horizon IT System

in Mon, 14 Dec 2009

From: Enquiry Enquiry (Enquiry Unit and Night Duty Office Mailboxes)
Sent: 20 October 2009 14:01

To: Buck Rosemary (ShEx)

Subject: FW:Post Office Horizon IT System

Dear Rosemary

POL-0161358
POL00165914
POL00165914

Is this something you can help with?

We have searched the BIS website but cannot find the information that
the customer is looking for. Your <mailto:people@
> record indicates that you may be able to provide the information to
the customer.

If you are able to answer this enquiry please reply to the enquirer
directly, if this enquiry is not for you to answer please reply to the
enquiry email address letting us know.

Many thanks,

Adrian Jacobs

I Correspondence and Enquiry Unit

From: lee castleton (
Sent: 17 October 2009 09:36

To: Enquiry Enquiry (Enquiry Unit and Night Duty Office Mailboxes)
Subject:

Dear Sir/Madam,

I am writing to you to ask for help. I have
enclosed various articles that have been printed over the last six
months. There is also a BBC TV program with reference to the subject
which I would be more than happy to send to you if you so wish.

The subject to which all of these refer is the post
office and its accounts package for the counter services called Horizon.
I along with many others believe this software is not fit for purpose. I
believe the software makes serious mistakes in logging transactions and
the post office deny that this is the case.

I feel that it now high time that the post office is
taken to task by either yourselves or the government by forcing a review
and an independent audit of the Horizon system. An independent audit I
believe has never taken place and I think that with the proposed
extension of services it is imperative that this is completed and any
changes required are implemented to safe guard the network for the
future.

Yours Faithfully

This email was received from the INTERNET and scanned by the Government
Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by CablesWireless in
partnership with MessageLabs. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In
case of problems, please call your organisation's IT Helpdesk.
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or
recorded for legal purposes.

-— Message from "Buck Rosemary \(ShEx\)" <. ‘on Tue, 15 Dec 2009

09:07:51 -0000 — ~
To: "Buck Rosemary \(ShEx\)" <.
Subject: FW: Post Office Horizon IT System

POL-0161358
rr ETS ESTES EE ESS ESTEE SESE SE ESS PEE

POL00165914
POL00165914

From: Buck Rosemary (ShEx)

Sent: 21 October 2009 10:44
leastleton G H
Subject: RE: Post Office Horizon IT system

Dear Mr Castleton

Thank you for your e-mail. Under the Government's postal sector reforms
introduced in 2001, Royal Mail (which includes Post Office Ltd) has been
given greater commercial freedom, as the management and unions
themselves requested, and Government has assumed an arm's length role as
a shareholder in a public limited company. Subject to agreeing its
strategic plan with us, the Board can structure the business as it
decides best to meet the challenges of market development and changing
customer needs.

The issues you have raised concerning the Horizon system are operational
matters for Post Office Ltd and not for Government and should be pursued
with the company.

Yours sincerely
Rosemary Buck

Shareholder Executive
Royal Mail and Postal Services team

Sent: 17 October 2009 09:36
To: Enquiry Enquiry (Enquiry Unit and Night Duty Office

Mailboxes) -
Subject:

Dear Sir/Madam,

I am writing to you to ask for help. I
have enclosed various articles that have been printed over the last six
months. There is also a BBC TV program with reference to the subject
which I would be more than happy to send to you if you so wish.

The subject to which all of these refer is
the post office and its accounts package for the counter services called
Horizon. I along with many others believe this software is not fit for
purpose. I believe the software makes serious mistakes in logging
transactions and the post office deny that this is the case.

I feel that it now high time that the post
office is taken to task by either yourselves or the government by
forcing a review and an independent audit of the Horizon system. An
independent audit I believe has never taken place and I think that with
the proposed extension of services it is imperative that this is
completed and any changes required are implemented to safe guard the
network for the future.

Yours Faithfully

This email was received from the INTERNET and scanned by the
Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Cable&Wireless

POL-0161358
POL00165914
POL00165914

in partnership with MessageLabs. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.)
In case of problems, please call your organisation's IT Helpdesk.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged,
monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

>>>> Post office - IT concerns.pdf attachment was removed from this email <<<<
>>>> Horizon rob and kate.jpg attachment was removed from this email <<<<

>>>> main article.doc attachment was removed from this email <<<<

POL-0161358
