POL00116576
POL00116576

From: Mark R Daviesé_ GRO “yy
Sent:
To:

Ce: David Oliver!
Subject: RE: Sparrow s/c

I agree with this.

Mark

Mark Davies I Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

1® Floor, Banner Wing, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

mark.r.daviesi_

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 27 May 2014 16:10

To: Paula Vennells; Mark R Davies; Chris Aujard; Martin Edwards
Cc: David Oliver ed Alwen Lyons; Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: Sparrow s/c

Paula

I agree, we should have another NED there. Neil may be a good choice. Delaying the meeting would mean that we
have reduced time for implementing any change this side of recess (if such a decision were made). Also, the Board
didn’t want any cases mediated until the SC decided the way forward (although, as discussed, the SC thought it would
be useful to get a few cases through the Scheme to use as examples for the Minister). If the WG decides a case
suitable for mediation there is little PO can do except decline to mediate — this means it is important for the SC to
make a decision before PO finds itself in that position.

So I think we should press ahead with the SC in w/c 2 June if we can, invite another NED (possibly Neil) and try to get a
decision, even if it is for minimum change.

The alternative would be to continue to mediate cases where appropriate to do so (would we need to revert to the
Board?) and get an SC meeting in with Alasdair when we can.

Please note I am away w/c 9 June. But that should not make any difference if we do go for that week — David will be
here.

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
POL00116576
POL00116576

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 27 May 2014 09:24

To: Belinda Crowe; Mark R Davies; Chris Aujard; Martin Edwards
Cc: David Oliveri Alwen Lyons

Subject: Fwd: Sparrow s/c

Dear all, a note from Alice below which highlights a couple of points she would expect us to cover in the
discussion around options. Could you make sure we do.

On Alasdair and dates, do you have a view? If we push the meeting date back presumably that is unhelpful.
We could suggest another NED eg., Neil.

Thoughts back to Alwen pls by return then she and I will decide how we progress with Alice.

Thx Paula

Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:

From: Alice Perkins <
Date: 27 May 2014 09:17:49 BST.
To: L -

m

'paula.vennellg
Ce: "jorja.prestor
Subject: Re: Sparrow s/c

Thanks Alwen. Please could Jorja send me his address?

On this, I am really loath to go ahead without him. This should be a pretty critical meeting and while
Richard will make a good contribution, I do really want A there to give a different perspective. I would
prefer to wait till we can include him. We could for example do something in the early afternoon on the
first day at Warren House? But of course, if that is just not practical from a business perspective, you
need to let me know.

I had a conversation last week with Paula about this and I believe there was an idea of having a meeting
with me about it next Monday. If that is what is wanted, we need to get the time into my diary which is
now starting to fill up.

On the substance, in addition to the points Paula and I discussed and especially the need to work up
what we could say were we to change tack, and to understand how vulnerable we might be legally if we
took that route, I think we need to explore again the option of what we could do within the current TOR
of the Scheme to reduce costs including SS's costs. Ans as part of any option, we need to be clear about
how we describe changes to our procedures to ensure that we do not make ourselves vulnerable in
relation to the past.

All the best

Alice

j
‘d Time

; Alice Perkins

From: Alwen Lyons
Sent: Monday, May
POL00116576

POL00116576

Thought you both like to know

Thanks
Alwen
Alwen Lyons

Company Secretary

Sent from Blackberry

From: Alasdair Marnoch [!.
Sent: Monday, May 26, 2014 08:31 PM Coordinated Universal Time

To: Alwen Lyons
Subject: Sparrow s/c

Alwen

IRRELEVANT _
I'm going to be in Scotland for a few days an

to be w/c 2nd June but not sure when. So rather than try and arrange to suit me I suggest you
press ahead without me and I will join if I can.

Thanks for your message -

Best

Alasdair

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

SORIA ISI ISO IO III ISO IIIS ABI III IIIA DI ADI SSIS ISIS OSS OSS SOS OS SSIS SSIA.

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com
