POLO0109892
POL00109892

Message

From: Avene O'Farrell: GRO.

on behalf of — Avene O'Farrell

Sent: 20/01/2015 17:1

To: Belinda Crowe! Alisdair Camerot
ce: ChrisAujardi GRO _} Gavin Lamberti,
Subject: RE: Meeting with Finance Team

Sensitivity: Company Confidential

Hi Belinda,

Paula is happy with this and if is content with the timings you propose if they suit our needs.
Thanks,

Avene

Avene O’Farrell I Executive Assistant to Paula Vennelis, Chief Executive

avene.ofarrell¢

postoffice.co.uk
@postotficenews

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 20 January 2015 16:36

To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Chris Aujard; Gavin Lambert; Avene O'Farrell
Subject: FW: Meeting with Finance Team

Importance: High

Sensitivity: Confidential

Paula

Second Sight have been pressing for a meeting to discuss ‘suspense accounts’. There is something of a history to this
matter and Chris and I met with Al fast night and agreed an approach whereby we provide written information for
second Sight next week and then Al and his team meet with second Sight the following week — the day before the Select
Committee meeting.

Chris and Al wanted to confirm with you that you were content with this approach. This subject is one of Second Sight’s
pet issues and they may raise the fact that we are not meeting with them as quickly as they would like at the Select
Committee. They have been pressing us for a lot of information in advance of the Committee, suggesting that our
failure (or non-compliance as they have put it) to provide any information they request is something they will raise with
the Committee .

Happy to grab a word if helpful but Chris would like to send this to lan tonight if possible.

POL-0111104
POLO0109892
POL00109892

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HO.

Fro!

Sent: 20 January 2015 14:33

To: Chris Aujard; Alisdair Cameron

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Mark R Davies
Subject: FW: Meeting with Finance Team
Importance: High

Sensitivity: Confidential

Both,
We discussed yesterday the meeting with Second Sight to discuss suspense accounts.

Below is a draft email for Chris to send to Second Sight in response to lan’s email below. If you are content you
suggested that this approach is cleared with Paula first:

Dear lan,

Thanks for your email. I have discussed this with my Finance colleagues as I agreed last week. Alisdair Cameron, Post
Office's Chief Financial Officer will be happy to meet with you along with members of his team from the Finance Service
Centre. As I explained, Alisdair joined Post Office at the beginning of this month and wants to bring himself fully up to
speed on this matter before meeting you so that he is fully equipped to answer your questions.

{ suggest therefore that we provide the written answers/information when we send over the other information we are
providing at the beginning of next week and arrange a meeting with Alisdair at the beginning of the following week
when you have had an opportunity to consider the written information. Alisdair has said he could be available Monday
2 February. Would that date work for you and Ron?

Regards
Chris

Belinda Crowe

LONDON,
} Postline!_

From: Ian Henderson,
Sent: 19 January 2015 17:06
To: Chris Aujard

POL-0111104
POLO0109892
POL00109892

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Tom Wechsler; riw) GRO I
Subject: Meeting with Finance Team ~~~ ~
Sensitivity: Confidential

Chris
At last week’s face-to-face meeting you agreed to arrange a meeting with representatives from the POL
finance team in order to discuss the Part 2 questions relation to the POL Suspense Account, together with the

provision of the data requested.

Belinda also said she would try to find a previously prepared document summarising the Suspense Account
transactions in advance of any meeting.

You were hoping to arrange the meeting for Tuesday or Wednesday of this week.

I would be grateful for an update on this. I confirm that Ron and I are available on both Tuesday and
Wednesday this week.

I look forward to hearing from you.

with best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

website: http: //advancedforensics.com

LinkedIn: http://linkedin. com/in/forensicgod

Twitter: http: //twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at
rand delete the email and any attachments.

POL-0111104
