POL00333330

PL/L0/0Z-2enlWWOD eoue!dWoD % YS

POL00333330
Pa
Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting g
POL Boardroom, 1* Floor, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ 2
20" January 2014, 13.30pm - 15.30pm
Committee To Attend
Chris Aujard (Chair) Dave Mason
Paula Vennells Julie George
Chris Day Georgina Blair
Alwen Lyons Jonathan Hill
Rob Bolton
Apologies:
Agenda Item Purpose Timings Papers Owner
1. I Top 10 Business Risks .
i) Overview of top 10 risks endswse eparoach 13.30-14.30 I Paper One (Appendices 1 — 5) Dave Mason
ii) Focus session on selected risk — FS Mis-selling 60 minutes paper Twol ) Jonathan Hill
aper Two(a)
2. I Risk Management Strategy "
i) Risk Plans Receive update I 44.30- 14.45 I Paper Three (Appendix 6) Dave Mason
ii) Risk Management Update 15 minutes
3. I Stewardship P
i) Risk Events and Near Misses Review one aoe “eins, Paper Four Dave Mason
ii) Assurance Activity Paper Five
iii) Compliance Reports No compliance reports this time
4. I Business Policy Approvals and Framework Approve policies
i) Statutory Policy Framework ae vrorse 15.00-15.20 I Paper Six (Appendix 7) Dave Mason
ii) Policy Approvals approach 20 minutes Anti-Bribery Policy Georgina Blair
PP’ Acceptable Use Policy Julie George
External Data Protection Policy Julie George
Data Sharing Policy Julie George
5. I Committee minutes & matters arising Agree minutes
i) Agree updated meeting minutes of 23" October ang review action 15.20-15.25 I Paper Seven - Minutes & Actions All
ii) Review matters arising from 23” October updates 5 minutes Paper Eight — Action 1552 Update
6. I Meeting A.0.B ;
15.25-15.30 I Verbal update to be provided at
) NMO) 5 minutes meeting Dave Mason

6LJOL
POL00333330
POL00333330

1. Top 10 Business Risks

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Overview of EXCO risks

1. Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to:

1.1 Update the committee on the approach being taken and progress in documenting
the key risks identified by ExCo and presented to the Board.

e This agenda item is intended to be the vehicle through which the Risk and
Compliance (R&C) function provides the committee with assurance that
these risks are being effectively managed.

¢ As the first paper of this type, it is written with the intention of gathering
the committee’s feedback on how the data should be presented in the
future. The R&C function expects an on-going dialogue with the
committee in this area.

1.2 Seek endorsement from the committee of the “BowTie” approach and
methodology summarised in the following section.

2. Approach

24 ExCo has identified key risks and the associated impacts and controls which
require senior management attention. After the initial analysis by ExCo the risk
management function has worked with the risk owners and subject matter
experts to further refine the causes, controls and consequences associated with
each of the risks.

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 1 of 11
20" January 2014

2 0f 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

1, Top 10 Business Risks

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

2.2 Weare initially using the risk centred ‘bow tie’ approach as implemented in many
other firms, including both financial services and the public sector:-

. It identifies the relationships between outcomes, causes and consequences;

. The method requires us to specify the outcomes we need to avoid as well as
identifying trigger points for such events;

. Controls show what processes we have in place to prevent the causes and
mitigate the consequences; and

. We can then identify the actions we need to take to improve control and the

measures we need to ensure they are operating effectively.

Risk Measures

Actions to improve controls

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 2 of 11
20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 3 of 79
1, Top 10 Business Risks

40f 79

POL00333330
POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

3. Key Risk Status Summary

The initial development of the “bow ties” has, by necessity, been led by the R&C function.
Due to the timing of the effort and the seasonal demands on resources, it has sometimes
been a challenge getting the appropriate level of engagement from relevant managers.

Reflecting this, and the varying levels of maturity of existing risk management processes,
the first pass analysis of causes, consequences and controls is not yet in place for the

majority of the risks. We plan to complete this activity before the next committee meeting.

The following agenda item 1.ii presents the completed analysis of the Financial Services
(FS) mis-selling risk. This is our best example of “what good might look like”.

The status of the bow tie analysis for each risk is summarised in the table below. Even
where noted as complete, each element will be continually refined as understanding
increases. Where the draft “bow tie” is available and has been agreed with appropriate
stakeholders, it has been included as an appendix.

following IT transformation

eal coal Owner \dentified identified Identified ‘Identified in place
'Alegations relating to the integrity ofthe Cite ba aed season
Horizon system
Failure to deliver top line growth in line with. Martin George ve
reser Nok Kennet WnProgress —InProgress Planned Planned 1
fied ‘model falls to deliver requisite cost Cis Day InProgress InProgress Planned Planned
Inadequate people capability or capacity to
\deliver transformation change and the Fay Healey Complete Complete InProgtess. In Progtess In Progress 2
‘strategic plan
a KevinGilland Complete Complete. InProgress In Progiess.-——~Planned ‘
programme
‘Strike action within supply chain could damage
Sean KevinGilland Complete Complete InProgress-—InProgress. Planned 4
Delivering poor customer outcomes through 2
Financial Serves mi-seling Nick Kennett Complete Complete Complete «Complete In Progress
‘The security & integrity of PO data cannot be
Peel Lesley Sewell Complete. Complete «Complete. =—=——Planned Planned 6
(Cybersecurity Lesley Sewell Complete. Complete Complete. © Planned Planned
POL cannot operate or deliver services

Lesley Sewell Complete Complete InProgress-—InProgress.-——~Planned

Causes Consequences Controls Control Measures Action Plans Appendix

The following section (4) provides more detail for all the risks, including an agreed view of
the current management of each risk.

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 3 of 11

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

1. Top 10 Business Risks

4

POL00333330

POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

Key Risk Status

For each risk we have included:-

The ExCo Owner of the risk,

A view of the current state of the management of the risk, agreed by the Risk Owner,
and

The current status of the Bow Tie analysis.

Note: the risk of delivering poor customer outcomes through Financial Services mis-selling
is not detailed here as it is the subject of a “deep dive” in the next agenda item (1.ii).

41

Allegations relating to the integrity of the Horizon system

ExCo Owner: Chris Aujard

There is a risk that the allegations relating to the integrity of the Horizon system, if not
contained, could raise wider questions over the robustness of our core systems and our
ability to operate, damaging (amongst other matters) current partnerships, new areas of
expansion and public and government confidence.

Current State

This risk has been re-classified as an issue as the allegations have been made. It
will be followed up as such.

Two programmes, Sparrow and Business Improvement, have been initiated to
address the impact, containment and root cause of the issue.

The R&C team will work with the programme teams to build on initial root cause
analysis; this will be mapped against the programme scope to verify that the right
actions are being taken to mitigate the risk of future occurrence of this issue.

Sparrow has established governance in place including proactive risk and issue
management, with blockers to issue resolution escalated through to the
programme board. Risks, Assumptions, Issues and Dependencies (RAID)
workshops are held monthly by the programme team and attended by the Risk
Business Partner.

The Business Improvement Programme governance model is being revised
following agreement to the Terms of Reference.

Bow Tie Status

As this has been determined to be an issue, no Bow Tie document is being
produced

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 4 of 11

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

5 of 79
1. Top 10 Business Risks

POL00333330

POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

Failure to deliver top line growth in line with strategic plans

ExCo Owner: Martin George & Nick Kennett

Lack of growth in both Financial Services (FS) and across the Commercial portfolio
would have a detrimental impact on delivery of the strategic plan. Non delivery of growth
targets will reduce the appeal of the franchise model impacting Network Transformation.
There is an immediate threat that long term growth targets could become unachievable if
we do not respond quickly to competitors.

Current State

Financial Services

Many of the risks inherent in the growth plan are already covered individually
within the FS risk register, with owners and controls. However further work is
required to develop these risks as well as the assessment of the state of the
controls including the use of risk indicators (as for FS mis-selling). Overall the FS
growth risk is assessed as ‘amber’ because it is at an early stage and a number
of key enabling projects whilst planned for and ‘in progress’ still need to be
delivered.

An initial draft FS growth risk bow tie is being developed. However, this needs to
be refined and reconciled with the MI that is already available from different parts
of the business e.g. from Project Status updates.

Commercial

Growth across the Commercial portfolio has hit a number of set-backs —
predominantly the failure of Royal Mail to swiftly address the pricing model which
led to the “shoe-box” issue and Gov. Services failing to materialise in line with
anticipation. Further issues such as the migration issues of fixed line telecoms
services have not helped but despite this, the development and launch of the
new mobile telecoms service is still on target. The introduction of new project
boards to help identify and mitigate emerging project risks should help eliminate
any future slippage to strategic projects in development to help grow the
business. However, existing MI does require evaluating to assess its
effectiveness in monitoring both preventive and detective in order to ensure that
swift action to mitigate any risk events takes place (Appendix 1).

Bow Tie Status

Identification of causes and consequences is in progress, control and control
measures definition is planned.

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 5 of 11

6 of 79

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
1, Top 10 Business Risks

POL00333330

POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

Operating Model fails to deliver requisite cost savings

ExCo Owner: Chris Day

Reduction of costs and sustained cost management are imperative if we are to generate
the level of profitability required to make Post Office commercially sustainable. A multi-
faceted programme of transformation coupled with challenging growth targets can
conflict with a cost reduction programme.

Current State
There are two significant strands to the delivery of requisite cost savings:-

e Improved efficiency within the current operating model. A number of
sustainable cost reduction initiatives have been identified, the majority of
which are governed through standard business performance
management. Those that are on hold, for various reasons, are governed
by the cost management task force.

e Strategic cost reduction and business transformation programme. This is
a new programme currently in the planning phase, focussing on building
the team and preparation for the tender process due to commence in
March 2014.

Of the two strands, the strategic cost reduction and business transformation
programme carries the most risk and will receive a greater focus by risk
management. Governance controls are being established and programme
delivery risks are in the process of being identified. Due to the significance and
breadth of the programme a full risk workshop with relevant subject matter
experts will be facilitated by the Risk and Compliance function (Date TBC). The
output of the workshop will be a full identification of the possible casual factors,
likely consequences and mitigating controls. Additionally the Risk Business
Partner aligned to the Finance directorate will attend regular risk and issue
discussions once set up.

Bow Tie Status

Identification of causes and consequences is in progress, control and control
measure definition is planned.

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 6 of 11

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

7 of 79
1. Top 10 Business Risks

POL00333330

POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

Inadequate people capability or capacity to deliver transformational change
and the strategic plan

ExCo Owner: Fay Healey

The capability of our people is critical to successful delivery of all facets of the strategy.
There is a risk that we cannot retain, recruit and effectively performance manage our
people to the level of capability required within the necessary timeframe. Additionally, as
we continue to grow our capability there is a risk that the pool of existing talent is
oversubscribed increasing pressure and reducing their effectiveness.

Current State

Initial identification of causes and mitigating controls is complete (Appendix 2).
This activity has highlighted the breadth of the risk as well as the significant
contribution to other key risks such as failure to deliver top line growth. The risk
will continue to be monitored and may need to be expanded, particularly relating
to agents. This will be reviewed further following the appointment of the Group
People Director.

Good progress has already been made in identifying key control gaps and
initiating development activity, including ten Learning and Development (L&D)
workstreams, to address these gaps.

Work is underway to build on existing metrics once complete this MI will
contribute to the build of appropriate Key Risk Indicators (KRI’s) and Key Control
Indicators (KCI's)

Whilst ownership of creating the right framework and tools sits firmly within HR,
mitigation of the risk is dependent upon all managers across the organisation.
The risk is universal and must be acknowledged and owned throughout the
organisation.

Bow Tie Status
Identification of causes and consequences is complete, controls and control

measures definition is in progress and the development of remedial action plans
is in progress.

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 7 of 11

8 of 79

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
1. Top 10 Business Risks

POL00333330

POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

Non-delivery of Network Transformation Programme

ExCo Owner: Kevin Gilliland

Failure to deliver network transformation in a timely fashion would result in a non-viable
business model requiring additional subsidy from the Government or closure of
branches, neither of which are sustainable options. There is an immediate risk that if we
do not manage current and prospective partners and stakeholders effectively, we may
find that we cannot secure the retail partners we need to secure the future of our
network.

Current State

As a result of the recent announcement regarding changes to network strategy,
the Network Transformation (NT) Programme is in the process of conducting a
thorough review of all risks on its risk register. A number of the previous risks
were associated with the voluntary nature of the programme and these are now
being removed. New risks exist as a result of the new strategy and the top risks
have already been reported and shared with ExCo via the NT Programme Board
(Appendix 3). There is substantial management information available for the
programme and existing metrics are being reviewed to ensure they align to the
revised risks.

Review of this risk has highlighted the breadth of the risk, dependencies on other
risks such as inadequate people capability and its significant contribution to other
key risks such as failure to deliver top line growth and failure to deliver cost
savings. Please note that the Risk, as raised by ExCo, relates to the Network
Transformation Programme only and does not cover the Crown Transformation
Programme

Bow Tie Status
Identification of causes and consequences is complete, controls and control

measures definition is in progress and the development of remedial action plans
is planned.

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 8 of 11

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

9 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

Top 10 Business Risks

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

46 Strike action within supply chain could damage ability to distribute cash to
network (IR/CWU)

ExCo Owner: Kevin Gilliland

Whilst there are multiple controls, and back up plans, in place to mitigate the risk of a
breakdown in cash distribution there is a risk that these will be insufficient to deal with a
with continued strike action. The impact of branches not receiving the cash they need to
serve our most vulnerable customers would be detrimental to the Post Office reputation.

Current State

Initial identification of main causes and mitigating controls is complete (Appendix
4). This activity has highlighted that if this risk materialised it would significantly
contribute to other risks, such as the risk of failure to deliver top line growth in
line with strategic plans.

Good progress has already been made in identifying key control gaps and
initiating mitigation activity; the latter has resulted in a temporary cessation of
strikes. Some of the mitigating actions, in particular the contingency planning,
have also been successfully tested in the short term during recent industrial
action.

This risk will continue to be monitored and the metrics reviewed.
Bow Tie Status
Identification of causes and consequences is complete, controls and control

measures definition is in progress and the development of remedial action plans
is planned

47 Delivering poor customer outcomes through FS mis-selling

ExCo Owner: Nick Kennett

The rate and pace of change in the Financial Services Area, Financial Services has a
demanding growth agenda that will require more sales to be generated through a variety
of channels particularly in insurance. This includes a number of new projects, product
developments and pilots. There is a risk of regulatory failure and client dis-satisfaction
through mis-selling by staff or agents

Current State and Bow Tie Status
This risk will be covered in detail in the next agenda item (1.ii).

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 9 of 11
20" January 2014

10 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
1. Top 10 Business Risks

POL00333330

POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

48 The security and integrity of Post Office data cannot be maintained.
49 Cybersecurity

ExCo Owner Lesley Sewell

Currently the risk analysis covers both risks together. The next iteration will identify
internal and external threats, causes, controls and consequences to allow separate
analysis of the two risks.

The integrity and security of Post Office data is reliant on a complex network of
interrelated processes and controls. The number of potential threats, particularly of
external attacks through the internet, is rapidly increasing.

Current State

The identification of causes, consequences and high level mitigating controls is
complete (Appendix 5). Generally, controls are in place to address the causes
identified although many are constrained by the limited resources available to the
Information Security function. The PCI DSS and ISO 27001 certifications support
this conclusion; albeit they have been successfully attained or retained through
acceptance by third parties that plans exist to address the resultant risk to the
organisation. Some other control gaps have already been identified and
escalated.

Effectiveness measures are in place for the majority of controls but the detailed
review and identification of Key Control Indicators and Key Risk Indicators would
best be done after the implementation of the Service Integrator / Service Desk
(SISD) programme as currently there are a number of unknown factors which will
need to be assessed.

Bow Tie Status
Identification of causes and consequences and the definition of controls are

complete, the development of control measures and remedial action plans are
planned.

Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 10 of 11

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

11 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

1. Top 10 Business Risks

12 of 79

Strictly Confidential PAPER ONE

4.10 POL cannot operate or deliver services following IT Transformation
ExCo Owner Lesley Sewell

The IT Transformation is critical to the delivery of the overall transformation programme
and will completely restructure and realign the IT supplier network, introducing ATOS as
the service integrator. The various contractual relationships, the multiple components of
the programme and the pervasive nature of the changes create a complex and changing
risk landscape.

Current State

An initial identification of the causes, consequences and mitigating controls of the
IT Transformation risk has been completed. (Further review by programme
management is underway) The risk as identified by ExCo refers to the business
as usual state after the programme has completed, the review has focussed on
the current controls within the programme. Further work will be required to cover
post implementation causes and controls in the new environment

Existing controls have been identified that address the potential causes of the
principal risk, centred around programme oversight and contract management
supported by those to be in place in the retained environment. The programme
management process provides multiple performance measures which will be
reviewed to ensure they provide adequate measures of control effectiveness.
Bow Tie Status

Identification of causes and consequences is complete, the development of

controls and control measures is near completion and the development of
remedial action plans is planned.

5. Action
The committee is asked to:-
5.1 Endorse the bow tie approach and methodology identified in this paper, and

5.2 Provide feedback on the content and structure of this section for future

committees.
Dave Mason
20" January 2014
Overview of ExCo Risks Dave Mason Page 11 of 11

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
PL/L0/0z-BenIWWOD souElIdwod »g ¥sSIY

6LJO€L

COMMERCIAL BOW TIE : PAPER ONE APPENDIX 1

Product ——," ———,
Product tesions/: Workforce Plans (in
Teams under > ————] New — 8
resourced products a
delayed
Sales figures not
met
Trading Board and
Don't meet Market research/ ‘Transformation Growth Target
customers Focus Groups Doard resorts not met
needs reports
BranchiA > cust
ustomers go
=a Branch Sales decline Customers
Sales = _
——
7 i Failure of
Marketing Marketing not Campaign Review Marketing feedback Marketing
strategy delivered Prior to launch reports weer
)
>) c )
Dial Mule oP not pb aan Fal to achieve Reliant on od Castor
sere delivered iano Growth Targets tactical systems ae
J \S J
POL 7 ( >)
Malls pricing relationship Mir Aebica Mails prices not Mails customer
not under POL with Royal Mail at Mails Board Reports 7 Churn to
with Royal competitive 0
control Mail all levels competitor
" products.
Change of Gov. Active Stakeholder No New Gow. —~
Strategy on No Gov. RFT's ‘Communications services
Deo Plan delivered.
J jaw! Services! POL no longer
Pipeline report —— FOos
Change of Key Engagment with peice a Relationship with
Gov. Personnel Gov. at all levels & Gov. Changes
VT ‘i #
cr >)
key cause Control Hazard Consequence
L

POL00333330
POL00333330

sysiy ssoulsng OL dol “L
POL00333330
POL00333330

1, Top 10 Business Risks

PEOPLE CAPABILITY BOW TIE: PAPER ONE APPENDIX 2
Piepecrenaninre ido

- sone wm nama pon
> a
7 cna
Saaeemera
a OE
Ps a
<= a
Sheree ;
ae =
a
oa
=
aaa ee
= =
en rn
a pon ond
c
= ——)
a =
= po)
FS
vt meen z=
= on
= ny
=, aa
=
—
=
= a
=
=
= ee
nae
aaa
ama
= ol
a eames =

14 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

NETWORK TRANSFORMATION BOW TIE : PAPER ONE APPENDIX 3

PL/LO/0Z-senIWWOD 20

6L4JOGL

Causes Preventative controls Event

M179 Cannot find
[replacements for Local
leavers

‘National and local
‘communication
‘campaigns to support
replacements

integrated replacement
strategy - strategic
approach to convenience
retailers

M83 Operators are
unconvinced of the
feasibility of Large L

IM181 There may be
flood of appeals against
retail survey decision;

IM 180 Public opinion
mobilised against
replacements

implementation

Closely supported trials of
Large Locals with
strategic partners

‘apply objective and
consistent criteria for
‘models and full scenario-
based Financial
Assessment

(Stakeholders aligned front
(inc NESP and BIS)

‘National and local
communication campaigns

Enhanced leavers’
‘compensation and exit
hardship fund

Clear processes in place to
ensure that replacement
service is equal to or better
than existing service

Resourcing plans built across
organisation in full alignment
with Implementation plan

Non-delivery of Network
‘Transformation Programme

Dectective controls

Weekly highlight
report monitors
umber and type of

Consequences

Non-viable business
model

Closure of branches

Daily monitoring of

progress against

targets via morning
ll

Reduced income
growth

Status updates
provided to ExCo on a
weekly basis

Inability to secure
retail partners

Reduced income
growth

Loss of credibility of
leadership

sysiy sseuisng 0} dol “I
6250 91

Fe
8
°
g
$
3
rs
g
NX
Ss
S
=

STRIKE ACTION BOW TIE : PAPER ONE APPENDIX 4

Causes

Preventative controls

Union demands at oat I
strategic direction of
becoming commercially
sustainable business

Clear communication with CWU-
grade employees to position the
true state of the business

}Poor communication/
engagement with unions

‘On-going discussion with CWU.
leaders with cross business
representation

Reach 2012 union pay
agreement

Inadequate contingency plan;

Deployment of detailed and
comprehensive contingency
plans

Strike action within supply

chain could damage ability to
distribute cash to the network

Dectective controls

Consequences

Flexible planning cash
reporting system
managed by Inventory
Team

Unable to meet
customer needs (esp
most vulnerable
customers)

Reputational damage

Inability to secure
retail partners

Loss of credibility of
leadership

POL00333330
POL00333330

sysiy sseuisng 0} dol “I
POL00333330
POL00333330

1. Top 10 Business Risks

DATA SECURITY BOW TIE : PAPER ONE APPENDIX 5

baa —
Uunavallabilty of

Creal Services infrastructure

Failure to ms Unable to service
business service client or partner

a I ls needs

buildings and
critical

ity
incident and
enetration/vulner
ability testing ana

Unauthorised
Informa

through frau
modification o pepe tce es
Poli ae aca as unreliable

including Business cial

i Team IS nsactions

publicity

Loss through fraud.
Systems perceived

responsibilities not
fulfilled

NOTES

(1) Supplier data identification exercise delayed due to resource constraints

{2) Audit action on improvement of Access rights review and approval - outstanding due to lack of clarification of ownership on Identity and
Access Management/Business Process Ownership

{3) Additional headcount requested

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 17 of 79
1, Top 10 Business Risks

FS MIS-SELLING BOW TIE - PAPER TWO

POL00333330
POL00333330

Mystery
Shopping
Staff Capability 7 including

Training and

mits on

The risk of
delivering

product [sls
listribution customer

structure

outcomes
through FS
Changes to mis-selling

POL proj
approval

Executive Summ ary-RI:
(KRI)December

Significant complaifts
Financial Promotiogs
Life & Over 50s carfellation rates

Savings Cancelatiohs
Credit Card Usage
ey Mi

Limits on staff acti
Social Media monithring of voice of

BE Beoevounun

CUStOMEr

Significant
complaints
M

Tr
Monitoring
of
cancellations

Compliance
monitoring

Customer
complaint: nificant
mpens-

ation costs

With-

Financial

Business
Model
under
mined

Control Improvement Actions

Supervision needs to ensure that the regulatory aspects of selling and advising that are trained out to Financial Specialists,
Mortgage Specialists and other staff ‘stick, become embedded and are not lost over time.

For those incentive schemes that are agreed the business need to ensure that local governance is in place to ensure
regular review of the effectiveness of the schemes in driving the right behaviours.

18 of 79

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330

POL00333330

1. Top 10 Business Risks

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

19 of 79
624002

PL/L0/0Z-2enlWWOD eoue!dWoD % YS

Managing FS Mis-Selling Risk
Post Office, together with the Bank of Ireland (UK) (“Bol”), has a
coordinated, 3 lines of defence approach to managing our conduct risk,
which is focused on helping to prevent our customers from buying
products that do not meet their needs.

15 Line Product Teams (Bol and 3% part Product Teams
product providers) FS Risk
Capability Development Managers _ Sales Strategy
Marketing & PR Teams

2™4 Line Risk & Compliance Corporate Risk & Compliance
Financial Promotions
3" Line Audit Audit

Customers can buy our products in branch, online, via contact centres
or by mail, depending on the product(s) they want. Each channel
involves different risks for mis-selling.

POL00333330
POL00333330

sysiy ssauisng 0} dol “I

90 8 4SIY

veydul

UWOD &

an

pl/Loloz-3

6140 1Z

ar wn

Key challenges today

Financial Specialists:
MMR requirements:
FS sales in agency:

Incentive schemes:

Financial promotions:

Pace of change:

training, deployment and supervision

training and supervision of Mortgage Specialists
ensuring compliance and effective monitoring
development and deployment across channels
maintaining compliant marketing and PR across
all media including new media channels (e.g.,
Twitter)

ensuring we have the capacity & capability to

train, deploy and monitor new products/services

POL00333330
POL00333330

doy "I

6240 2%

PL/LO/OZ-SenIWWOD soue!IdWoD 2 ¥SIY

POL00333330

POL00333330

FS mis-selling Risk “Bow-Tie”

product

/distribution
structure

not reflected in
practice

Flaws in
product design

Incentive
Schemes

scanning

approval

approval

advice non
compliant
post MMR

given not in
customer
interest

i

compliant

pping
including
VMS

‘Customer

complaints I significant
compensat
ion costs

NeW The risk of

business file delivering nancial
checks ’

Sai POL
Services ss
oor .
P E Business fm srowth
customer b Model fim obiectives
cancellations ances not
outcomes /usage achieved

through FS
mis-selling

review and
technical
sign off

Ordered to
cease
service

luding
fines and

individual
censure

sysiy ssouisng OL do. “I
PL/LO/OZ-SenIWWOD soue!IdWoD 2 ¥SIY

6150 €Z

POL00333330

FS mis-selling risk monitoring summary :
aan tre

(KRI)December

Key performance indicators This month's performance
Video Recorded Mystery Shopping of recorded mystery shops received in the last period were rated red
Customer validation calls of post-sale customer calls made in the last period confirmed compliance requirements were met

Complaints process knowledge of branch staff questioned in the last period could not explain how a customer could make a complaint

Staff product knowledge of product knowledge questions asked in the last period were answered incorrectly

‘Significant complaints of branch sales resulted in upheld significant complaints

Financial Promotions Of branches reviewed in the last 3 months met compliance standards in relation to advertising and promotions
Life & Over 50s cancellation rates of policies cancelled within the first 3 months

Savings Cancellations of savings products sold in-branch were cancelled by customers within the cooling-of period
Credit Card Usage of the credit cards sold in branch between three and nine months ago have never been used
Limits on staff activity MI Of branch staff questioned in the last month were unfamiliar with the limits on their in branch activity

Social Media monitoring of voice of
customer
BOl branch audits

Control Improvement Actions

Supervision needs to ensure that the regulatory aspects of selling and advising that are trained out to Financial Specialists,
Mortgage Specialists and other staff ‘stick, become embedded and are not lost over time.

For those incentive schemes that are agreed the business need to ensure that local governance is in place to ensure
regular review of the effectiveness of the schemes in driving the right behaviours.

6250 bz

Bd} IWIWIOD BoUeIdWOD g YSIY

pL/Lo/oz:

Risk Monitoring Outcomes

There have been no significant crystallised mis-selling risk events in the previous
quarter.

The majority of mis-selling KRIs are green, life, Life and over 50s cancellation rates
are flagged as ‘amber’ but as context the industry average cancellation rate sits at
about 20% for these types of products.

Video mystery shops of Financial Specialists continue to demonstrate poor
compliance scores. Every mystery shop is reviewed and Financial Specialists are
given coaching and feedback from line managers. A wider response plan to improve
compliance is in place, but our supervision needs to ensure that the regulatory
aspects of selling and advising that are trained out to Financial Specialists,
Mortgages Specialists and other staff ‘stick’ and become embedded and are not lost
over time.

Mortgage market review - For the first time Post Office will be advising clients in the
near future, there is increased advice and mis-selling risk. Compensating controls
are being built into the new processes but until these controls are demonstrated to
be effective there is uncertainty of outcome.

POL00333330
POL00333330

Bd} IWIWIOD BoUeIdWOD g YSIY

pL/Lo/oz:

6149 Sz

Risk Monitoring Outcomes (cont.)

New Incentive Schemes have been built with compliance gateways in place to ensure
that the right behaviours are encouraged. However, a number of these have been
held up by union objection including those for Financial Specialists. For those
incentive schemes that are agreed the business needs to ensure that local
governance is in place to ensure regular review of the effectiveness of the schemes
in driving the right behaviours.

Rate and volume of change - Financial Services has a demanding growth agenda
that will require more sales to be generated through a variety of channels. This
includes a number of new projects, product developments and pilots, as well as work
to enhance distribution channels and customer journeys at a time where the
regulatory environment has become more demanding.

The new supervisory structure for Financial Specialists and Mortgage Specialists and
oversight needs to bed in.

POL00333330
POL00333330

POL00333330
POL00333330

2. Risk Management Strategy

Strictly Confidential PAPER THREE

RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Risk Management Strategy

41. Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to update the Committee on:

1.1 progress against the risk plan
1.2 the Risk & Compliance team restructure and progress with directorate
engagement

2. Background

The risk and compliance team is in the final stages of restructuring.

3. Risk Plan Update

At its last meeting the POL board was presented with details of Exco’s view of the current top ten
risks faced by the company (the so-called 6 +4 risks). Since that meeting:

e The terms of reference and membership of the Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC) has
been reviewed in order to sharpen the committee's focus on practical, rather than abstract,
tisk matters. Expressly in-scope now is the monitoring of the top (ten) risks, the ongoing
development of the groups risk culture, the assessment of significant risk events and the
stewardship of the organisation’s risk and policy frameworks. The committee membership
now also expressly incudes the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and it is envisaged that
formal reports from the committee will now be a standing agenda item at future Exco
meetings.

« The Risk & Compliance team has been working with the risk owners to produce a more
detailed analysis of each of their main risks, identifying both the key causes and the
mitigating controls. This work will be reviewed at the January RCC (due to be held the day
before the board meeting). In addition the committee will at that meeting undertake a
(thematic) ‘deep dive’ into the risks of poor customer outcomes arising through mis-selling
of FS products, the work for which is near completion;

e The Risk & Compliance team has held a 2 day workshop to prepare the 2014/2015 risk
management plan. This will be presented to the March Risk & Compliance Committee;

« Meetings have been held with each of the ExCo members to discuss possible “quick
wins” which could be used to accelerate the changes necessary to embed a culture of risk
management - a paper is in the process of being drafted summarising the actions identified
at those meetings; and

e Internal Audit has been brought into the General Counsel area to promote the ongoing links
between the second and third lines of defence.

Risk Management Strategy David Mason Page 1 of 3
20th January 2014

26 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

2. Risk Management Strategy

Strictly Confidential PAPER THREE

4. Risk Management Update
4.1 Restructure of the risk team

Recruitment of all current business partner roles is now finalised with two new recruits
already in post. A new Business Risk and Assurance Manager joined on 3rd December. A
new business partner for Information Technology & Change (IT&C) will start work on 10"
February 2014. This will bring the Risk Management function up to full strength. The current
Risk & Compliance team structure is shown below:

Risk Management Strategy David Mason Page 2 of 3
20th January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 27 of 79
2. Risk Management Strategy

28 of 79

POL00333330

POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER THREE

4.2 Directorate Engagement

Good progress has been made with the risk management strategy to the end of
Quarter 3;

ExCo have met on two occasions to discuss the strategic risks to the
organisation;

The business partners have held risk workshops in six directorates and risk
maps and profiles have been populated. In some directorates risk maps and
profiles are in a more advanced state and good practice is being demonstrated;

In others areas, eg Network & Sales and HR, risks have been identified and
assessments are due to be carried out;

In general, business partners meet with directorates on a monthly basis with on-
going meetings to discuss risk with individual team members;

Further workshops are planned in Communications, Strategy and the Corporate
Services directorates during January and February to identify and assess their
risks; and

IT&C have identified their current risks and are updating with the help of a local
co-ordinator. Assessment is continually considered in the light of the new
Service Integrator and Service Desk (SISD) and organisational arrangements. A
new IT&C business partner will join on 10" February and risk meetings should
then be on a more frequent and continual basis.

Further details are shown in Appendix 6.

Recommendations

The committee is asked to note:

5.1. The progress against the risk plan
5.2 The Risk & Compliance team re-structure and progress with directorates

Dave Mason
20" January 2014

Risk Management Strategy David Mason Page 3 of 3

20th January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
dwog g ysRy

Fe
8
°
g
$
3
rs
g
NX
Ss
S
=

649 62

POL00333330

POL00333330
x
PROGRESS ON THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN: PAPER THREE APPENDIX 6 fa
How often is the Risk Map and profile IHow many risk meetings held ‘Any planned meetings with the directorate =
Areas Business Partner (BP) RiskMap _Risk Profile updated with the directorate SLT and BP_ SLT Fj
Communications Nancy Not yet done - due 26th Jan 1Ilead team meeting 26th Jan g
Commercial Nancy yes yes Monthly 7 per month since September yes - ongoing monthly 121s with lead team g
ExCo Dave/Layla yes yes Quarterly 2 ®
Finance layla Yes ‘Yes Quarterly Meeting planned w/c 13 January 2014 a
4 per month approx 121s monthly with each of the leadership é
Financial Services _Paul yes yes Monthly team
Human Resources Layla Yes WIP - will change in line with strategy Monthly with key SLT members _I Quarterly with the whole Team
IT & Change ‘starting 10th Feb yes yes bi-monthly 2IMeeting in Jan 2014
1 with whole lead team; 6 catch-ups INext review at January SLT meeting
with individuals
Network & Sales Georgina yes wip Monthly
Operational Security Layla Yes wip Monthly. BP attends Sec Gov. Forum 1IMeeting planned w/c 13th January 2014
Risk & Compliance Layla
Strategy Layla/Nancy ‘wip w/shop booked for 20/1/14
Legal ‘Layla Planned for Feb - potentially a feed to overall risk profile
General Counsel Layla

POL00333330
POL00333330

3. Stewardship

Strictly Confidential PAPER FOUR

RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Risk Events and Near Misses

1. Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to:

1.1 Advise the committee of the implications of internal or external incidents, events
and near misses potentially impacting the risk profile of the organisation as a
whole and the actions under way to remediate.

1.2 Make further recommendations to reduce the impact of similar events in the
future.

1.3 Future versions will contain/show expected or actual loss for each event/near
miss.

2. Internal

21 Outlook Mailing list misuse

On the 6" of December 2013, an employee from the Royal Mail Group issued an
email to the entire Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited in error. This mail
was the catalyst for subsequent replies to the entire distribution list from multiple
staff. This caused an increasing amount of pressure on the servers until the
email was critically impacted with a large volume of messages queuing to be
processed.

The Business Protection Team was invoked to manage the event from a Post
Office perspective. Royal Mail, Post Office and its IT suppliers worked in
partnership to resolve the issue, remove the email groups and restore the email
service. This was completed on the same business day. Staff were then able to
delete the mails and resume normal business.

The lessons learned are currently underway at the moment for preventative
controls. From a corrective perspective, the email groups have been removed
that will reduce the likelihood of another event.

2.2 Power supply back-up failures - Dearne House

On the 5" of December a power surge caused the Dearne House office to lose
power. While the site should have a generator provision to ensure power to the
site, the generator itself was impacted by the power surge and failed to initiate.
This primarily impacted call centre and IT functions at the site (NBSC and the
Service Desk).

The local recovery team and managers invoked contingency arrangements and
calls were routed to Doxford which resulted in a queue and reduced service level.

Risk Events and Near Misses Dave Mason Page 1 of 5
20" January 2014

30 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

3. Stewardship

Strictly Confidential PAPER FOUR

The power was restored some hours later on the same day and normal business
resumed.

The lessons learned is currently underway as to why the generator failed and to
understand what preventative options can be deployed i.e. appropriate
maintenance and Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS). However there are on-
going work streams that will reduce the impacts and likelihood of further events:

e Due to separation and transformation, Business Continuity is currently
deploying the capability to recover key processes at an external facility i.e.
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC). This is due for implementation by
the end of February and will provide the call centre functions with recovery
capability at an alternative location if Dearne House is impacted. Business
Continuity is also completing an effective Business Continuity Plan for the
site that will ensure the managers have a roadmap to recover critical
activities during any Business Continuity event.

« The current facilities contract is under review due to separation, the Project
Manager has been engaged to ensure the appropriate maintenance and
testing of critical infrastructure i.e. generators and UPS.

e Power resilience will be added to the agenda of the next Business Continuity
Steering Group for discussion

2.3 Swindon Power Surge

On the weekend of the 7/8" December a power surge impacted the Swindon
site. Power resilience was not effective and as a result the Swindon Warehouse
Control System and Galaxy ordering system were impacted on the 9" of
December. As the systems were being recovered a number of issues occurred
that impacted the capability for full resumption.

The Business Protection Team and Service Desk were invoked to manage the
event. Contingency processes were deployed to complete critical work at
Swindon. Systems were restored to a business as usual state on the 13" of
December and work resumed to manage the backlog of activities and current
work.

Lessons learned are currently underway to understand why the power resilience
failed and what preventative options can be deployed. The following additional
actions are also being completed:

e Power resilience has been added to the agenda of the next Business
Continuity Steering Group for discussion.

e The current facilities contract is under review due to separation, the Project
Manager has been engaged to ensure the appropriate maintenance and
testing of critical infrastructure i.e. generators and UPS

Risk Events and Near Misses Dave Mason Page 2 of 5
20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 31 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

3. Stewardship

Strictly Confidential PAPER FOUR

2.4 Travel Insurance

The underwriter for travel insurance products changed from Ageas to Axa from 1
January 2014. There have been a number of web site and other errors detected
whilst making these changes. Business checks failed to pick up that email
quotations and the Policy Summary PDFs on the website continued to refer to
Ageas, this was corrected in the live environment on 2 January. There was no
customer detriment as the terms and conditions of the policies remained identical
and the rest of the customer journey (payment and fulfilment) remained accurate
and referred to Axa.

Prices also changed on 1% January 2014. Post publication and distribution
branch brochures were found to contain a price error significantly over stating the
cost of one of the policy options (within Annual Multi trip cover). Over 400,000
brochures need to be withdrawn and replaced from branches as a result, at an
expected cost of 55k.

The Travel team believe that POL is not liable for these costs and will be
pursuing Aon/Axa for these as they were responsible for signing off the technical
pricing information in the brochures, but neither firm has currently admitted
liability.

Lessons learned work is being undertaken by the Regulatory Business Partner,
FS, the Project Team and Digital Marketing.

2.5 Social Media misuse

Twitter -@Postofficenews posted a tweet relating to financial services that was
non-compliant with the rigorous requirements set out by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) and had not been through the Financial Services marketing sign
off process. This was picked up by the FCA who in turn made BOI aware. On this
occasion the FCA didn't initiate compliance breach procedures. Communications
-who run the @postofficenews twitter account were made aware of the
compliance requirements, however a number of other non-compliant tweets did
still get posted (but have since been taken down.)

In 2013 alone, there have been many high profile investigations of regulatory
breaches that have resulted in huge fines:
Energy

e SSE were fined £10.5million for mis-selling

e Scottish Power were fined £8.5 million for misleading customers
Financial Services

¢ Swinton Group were fined £7.38 million for mis-selling add on Insurance

e Axa were fined £1.8 million for mis-selling ISA's
Telephony

¢ TimeTalk were fined £60,000 for mis-selling

e Talk Talk were fine £750,000 for making silent calls to their customers
Mail

e Royal Mail have been warned that they must improve delivery times or

face fines.

Lessons learnt: There is now a work stream in place to agree use of social media

Risk Events and Near Misses Dave Mason Page 3 of 5
20" January 2014

32 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

3. Stewardship

Strictly Confidential PAPER FOUR

and appropriate controls. Until these have been agreed informed monitoring of
@postoffice and @postofficenews is being carried out by Regulatory Risk and
any non-compliant tweets asked to be taken down.

3. External

3.1 FCA enforcement notice and £28m fine against Lloyds Banking Group for
serious sales incentives failures - Dec 2013.

This notice raises again the importance and focus the FCA has currently on
incentive schemes to ensure that these drive customer focussed and compliant
behaviours in sales staff. In Lloyds, case advisors continued to be rewarded for
non-compliant behaviours and poor advice. The Lloyds scheme as described, by
the FCA, was very aggressive in that, for example, staff could be demoted or
face salary reductions if they did not hit sales targets.

Nevertheless Lloyds senior management, who would have been fully informed of
the FCA’s regulatory approach, were re-assured that controls were in place to
mitigate risk including the use of a ‘risk gateway’, to ensure advisors were
compliant before receiving a bonus.

The recent re-launched and other proposed POL incentive schemes for sales
staff do not contain the most aggressive features of the Lloyds schemes.

3.2 Barclays Fine for record retention failure —- Dec 2103

Barclays Plc has been fined $3.75 million (£2.28 million) by a U.S. regulator over
its alleged decade-long failure to properly keep electronic records, emails and
instant messages.

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said that from 2002 to April 2012,
Barclays failed to preserve order data, trade confirmations, account records and
other information in a format that prevented their alteration or erasure, known as
"Write-Once, Read-Many".

Whilst the Post Office has data retention policies and standards they do not
specifically cover emails or instant messages.

Risk Events and Near Misses Dave Mason Page 4 of 5
20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 33 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

3. Stewardship

Strictly Confidential PAPER FOUR

4. Recommendations
The Committee is asked to:
41 Note the implications of internal or external incidents, events and near misses
potentially impacting the risk profile of the organisation as a whole and the
actions under way to remediate.

4.2 Agree the further recommendations below to reduce the impact of similar
events in the future:

e Lloyds Incentive Scheme

Review the performance of the Post Office incentive schemes closely to ensure
that they drive the appropriate behaviours in our customer facing staff and that
we have appropriate governance to review their performance.

¢ Barclays Fine

Discuss the retention of emails and instant messages with our regulators and
business partners and ensure Post Office data retention policy and practice

reflects current requirements.

43 Note that future versions will contain/show expected or actual loss for each
event/ near miss.

Dave Mason
20" January 2014

Risk Events and Near Misses Dave Mason Page 5 of 5
20" January 2014

34 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
3. Stewardship

1. Purpose

POL00333330
POL00333330

Strictly Confidential PAPER FIVE

RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Assurance Activity Update

The purpose of this paper is to:

1.1 Provide the Risk and Compliance Committee with an update on assurance
activity that is planned, in progress, or already completed.
1.2 Ask the committee to endorse the proposed Xanadu and Mortgage Market
Review assurance activity
1.3 Identify the outstanding issues and remedial actions from Rainbow
2. Assurance Activity
2.1 Rainbow

Following the Rainbow incident Deloitte were commissioned in January 2013 to provide an
assessment of the Information Security operating model within Post Office and its contrast
with similar organisations. Following on from the Deloitte report the actions and
recommendations were incorporated into a project called Buffalo.

The Buffalo project delivered a new Information Security staffing structure and Information
Security policies and procedures were reviewed and developed.

Status

The outputs from the Buffalo project have now been incorporated into business as usual,
The remaining issues from the Deloitte report are:

Information Security resources —The Group is still under resourced this is being
noted as a risk

An appropriate Information Security Risk & Compliance tool needs to be purchased
and implemented.

Data discovery exercises have been delayed due to lack of resource within the
Information Security team

2.2 Governance

A review of the governance of the ExCo sub-committees has been completed and a draft
report is being prepared for the General Counsel.

Status
A full update will be provided to the next Risk & Compliance Committee meeting in March
2014.

Assurance Activity Update Dave Mason Page 1 of 2

20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 35 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

3. Stewardship

Strictly Confidential PAPER FIVE

2.3 Mortgage Market Review

As part of a regulatory review of the mortgage market following the financial crisis the
FSA/FCA has tightened the rules in a number of areas including assessment of affordability
and the requirement for face to face and interactive dialogue with customers to be on an
advice basis only from 26 April 2014. A major project is in place for POL/BOI to become
compliant with the revised requirements. This involves a significant recruitment, training
and monitoring plan for advisors alongside improved infrastructure and controls. The
current project plans are graded ‘green’ overall and as on track to deliver the revised
requirements compliantly.

Status

It has been agreed with BOI that we will jointly produce a piece of assurance work by the
end of March to review whether the plans are on track and to highlight any significant risks
prior to the regulatory deadline.

2.4 Xanadu
Following the fixed telephony migration an assurance review is planned which will provide
an assessment of the end-to-end process for identifying and implementing the new
supplier. The aim of the review is to learn lessons that can be applied to any future
migration of service within the Post Office portfolio.
Status
The review is due to commence in January 2014 and terms of reference have been agreed
and initial data gathering has commenced. The review will be completed in February 2014,
the final report will be produced in March 2014 which will be reported to the
Risk & Compliance Committee.

3. Recommendations
The committee is asked to :

e Note the update and status of assurance activity

e Endorse the proposed assurance activity to be completed for Xanadu and the Mortgage
Market Review

« Consider the outstanding issues from Rainbow and any remedial actions

Dave Mason
20" January 2014

Assurance Activity Update Dave Mason Page 2 of 2
20" January 2014

36 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Strictly Confidential PAPER SIX

RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Statutory Policy Framework

1. Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to update the committee on the work planned to review the
regulatory framework and to also seek approval of a number of business policies as part of the
agreed policy governance process

2. Regulatory Framework

A regulatory framework was produced in February 2013 that identified regulation applicable to
Post Office together with any associated policies and policy owners.

The framework now needs to be re-visited to confirm that the identified policies are still in place
and have been subject to a review if required. Work is now underway to review the regulatory
framework to:

e Confirm the existence of appropriate policies

e Ensure that policy owners are identified and agreed

e Ensure all policies have been subject to review as required

e Ensure all policies are captured within the new policy governance process

Progress reports will be provided to the Risk & Compliance Committee and once completed an
updated regulatory framework will be produced. The current regulatory framework is attached
as Appendix 7.

3. Business Policy Approvals

As part of the policy governance process all business policy documents should be submitted to
the R&CC for final approval. The following business policies are therefore submitted to the
January R&CC meeting for approval:

Anti-Bribery Policy

Acceptable Use Policy
External Data Protection Policy
Data Sharing Policy

It has been confirmed that the policies have been signed off at a senior level within the relevant
directorate. The policies are supplied separately for information

Statutory Policy Framework Dave Mason Page 1 of 2
20" January 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 37 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Strictly Confidential PAPER SIX
4. Recommendations

The Risk & Compliance Committee is asked to:
« note the regulatory framework update and agree the planned activity in this area

«review and approve the policies submitted for approval and determine whether they
need to be referred to ExCo for final endorsement or simply noted as approved by the

R&CC
Dave Mason
20" January 2014
Statutory Policy Framework Dave Mason Page 2 of 2

20" January 2014

38 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
PL/LO/OZ-SenIWWOD soue!IdWoD 2 ¥SIY

614° 6E

POL00333330
POL00333330

REGULATORY FRAMEWORK - PAPER SIX APPENDDX7

FS

2

2

&

Fi

Fa

g

8

— ——s ar = = = = eS — ee 2

[aw'spramrnstone [tetramer facot ate ii ay nee fear from pect g

Eeesinetneines [terete pean ues fe cs fence Fe ne Gj

realy caer 3 ke Somer 2

iene ne al >

3

a z fare — pa paramere SaaS — RE — aT oa 3

as see [rom 8

g

B

a

2

8

a

a

FI

esas pear i ed aS aaimeeaial FI

2

rane ne 3 —$p TS TT ee ela Fl

Pinan “ >
Faar za aa oar Eas] Saar TAT pameamnaar
Sebel =f SEE cideemaed ase aaa pam =a

624° Ob

PL/LO/OZ-SenIWWOD soue!IdWoD 2 ¥SIY

POL00333330
POL00333330

yuomauies4 pue sjenouddy Aoljog ssouisng “y

fe = aera SU aaLlaamaal
Saaene —for TT Sao SO —=

PL/LO/OZ-SenIWWOD soue!IdWoD 2 ¥SIY

6140 be

POL00333330
POL00333330

FS
Fa
g
&
3
3
ET — ae er 8
[emma 8
2
2
cl
g
>
Fa
3
a cn a a 3
i g
pron st veto 00 os
= &
ee =— reso a Sa 2
SS — =a 3
a a a i 5
Famer ——— — — F}
feowna tment 2
=
bearer — fesse ra = Jaa FA
ee fe Pat oaawe a ra
SS TT — =r ee ar
ae — a —
[eset ac a lemma pow fom Petcare — — free eon
Fest ea TRS [E Ee VTA ow f= Pat copra panama —
~ Ea a = faa
SS sane a
ns ee a a el sata po [=
— — a re =
Smeronrnery sourcing ete ~ Z
Tagaytay a [emonte mala Fe pow pe penta rade eT — a
= eas

624° 2b

PL/LO/OZ-SenIWWOD soue!IdWoD 2 ¥SIY

POL00333330
POL00333330

yuomauies4 pue sjenouddy Aoljog ssouisng “y
4. Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Post Office

Anti-Bribery Policy

POL00333330

POL00333330

The purpose of this Policy is to set standards of behaviour that minimise the risk of bribery for
Post Office. The principles underpinning this Policy are the same in every country in which we
operate, regardless of business sector, local customs and practices. Anyone who is employed by,
or performs services for, or on behalf of, Post Office anywhere in the world in any capacity
{including contractors, agents and operators, and their assistants) is bound by this Policy.

Version History

Version Number Date Editor Status
ot 16/12/13 Georgina Blair Draft
02 31/12/13 Georgina Blair Draft
03 08/01/14 Georgina Blair Draft
04 09/01/14 Georgina Blair Draft
1.0 16/01/14 Rob Bolton Final
Anti-Bribery Policy Version 1.0 Final
Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

Page 1 of 6

43 of 79
POL00333330

POL00333330
4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework
Version History
Date Version Updated by Change summary
Document Location
The latest version of this document can be found in the Post Office SharePoint Policy Library
For Sign-off - This document has been approved by the following people:
Name Title - Department Date of Sign off
David Mason Head of Risk Governance 13/01/2014
Chris Aujard General Counsel 16/01/2014
For Information - This document will be distributed to the following people:
Name Title - Department
This policy will be reviewed annually. Next review date January 2015.
Anti-Bribery Policy Version 1.0 Final Page 2 of 6

44 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330

POL00333330
4. Business Policy Approvals and Framework
Contents
1. Purpose 4
2. Scope and definitions 4
3. Governing principles 4
4. Business dealings and contacts 4
5. Reporting concerns 5
6. Roles and responsibilities ey
7. Risk 5
8. Contact 5
Appendix (A) Gifts and Hospitality Approvals Procedure 6
Anti-Bribery Policy Version 1.0 Final Page 3 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 45 of 79
POL00333330

POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

46 of 79

1.

N

w

ad

Purpose

The purpose of this Policy is to set standards of behaviour that minimise the risk of bribery for
Post Office. The principles underpinning this Policy are the same in every country in which we
operate, regardless of business sector, local customs and practices.

Business partners are expected to act ethically and may be required to comply with this Policy in
all their dealings with or for Post Office.

Scope and definitions

This policy applies to anyone who is employed by, or performs services for, or on behalf of, Post
Office anywhere in the world in any capacity (including agents, operators and contractors).

A bribe is any advantage (financial or non-financial) which is promised, offered or given and is
intended to induce improper performance (even if ineffective). /mproper performance means
carrying out a function or activity in breach of an expectation of good faith, impartiality or trust.

Governing principles

Post Office has a zero tolerance policy on bribery. Anybody employed by or performing services
for or on behalf of Post Office

must never promise, offer or give a bribe

must never request or accept a bribe.

No employee will suffer demotion, penalty or other adverse consequences for refusing to pay or
receive bribes or for reporting the suspicion that bribes may have been offered or accepted to
Post Office, even if the refusal may result in Post Office losing business

All employees must adhere to the standards contained within Post Office’s Gifts and Hospitality
Approvals Procedure and the Conflicts of Interest Policy.

Any breach of this Policy, or any procedure implementing it, will be treated as a very serious
matter by the company and may result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment
and reporting to the appropriate authorities.

Business dealings and contacts

All dealings with public officials or private individuals and enterprises must be open and
transparent and conducted in a proper and appropriate way. This will ensure that no bribery or
corruption takes place, and will also avoid any appearance or suggestion of improper activity.

Post Office only works with business partners who have been approved as required by Post
Office's risk-based due diligence processes. Such third parties must agree contractually to comply
with this Policy or have an equivalent Policy in place.

Contractors must be asked to ensure that any subcontractor will comply with the principles set
out in this Policy and so on throughout any supply chain.

Anti-Bribery Policy Version 1.0 Final Page 4 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330

POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Any remuneration payable to agents, operators, contractors or other business partners acting on
behalf of Post Office must be appropriate for the services carried out (which is to be determined
objectively as far as possible). All payments must be paid through bona fide channels, must not
be made in cash and must never be made through off-shore accounts.

Reporting concerns
Any Post Office employee with any knowledge of or suspicions that bribery or corruption has

taken place or may do so, anywhere within (or related to) Post Office, must immediately report
their concerns to

. their line manager in the first instance;

. the Risk & Compliance team if the line manager cannot be contacted or cannot resolve
the query; or

. the external Speak Up line in complete confidence (Tel:

All reports of suspected bribery must be passed to the Risk and Compliance team to log.

6. Roles and responsibilities

All Post Office employees are responsible for complying with this Policy and with the Gifts and
Hospitality approvals procedure at Appendix A.

The Risk and Compliance team maintains a register of gifts and hospitality, and of suspected
incidents of bribery, and this is reviewed regularly and an annual summary provided to the Risk
and Compliance Committee and to the Post Office Board.

Any serious incidents of bribery will be escalated by the Head of Risk Governance to the Chairman
of the Audit and Risk Committee.

7. Risk

Post Office has zero tolerance for bribery and all processes and procedures are designed to
minimise the risk of bribery occurring. A risk assessment has been completed and the areas of
the business at highest risk of bribery have been identified as Commercial, Procurement and the
branch network. This policy is designed to target those areas but also applies throughout the rest
of the business.

8. Contact

For further information about this policy contact the Risk and Compliance team on

Anti-Bribery Policy Version 1.0 Final Page 5 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

47 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Appendix A

Post Office Limited Gifts and Hospitality Approvals Procedure

Gifts

No gift should be offered or accepted if it is intended to induce improper behaviour. In general
the giving and receiving of gifts is not permitted with the exception of low value promotional
items costing under £25 each, such as pens, calendars, diaries, notepads and paperweights.

e Ina situation where refusal to give or accept a gift would cause embarrassment or offence, such
as when giving or receiving a gift from an overseas postal administration in an official capacity as
a representative of Post Office, the gift must not appear lavish or extravagant and should not cost
more than £200.

e Before giving any gift costing more than £25, written approv:
manager and forwarded to the Risk & Compliance team at

e If you receive a gift worth more than £25 you must notify

forward the details to the Risk & Compliance team at)
e The Risk & Compliance team will maintain a Register of

Hospitality

Hospitality may only be given and accepted where it has a clear and demonstrable link with a
legitimate business purpose, e.g. an organised event or a meal at which business is to be
discussed. In relation to offers of hospitality, numbers on both sides should be limited to those
whose presence is necessary to progress the business in hand. The giving and receiving of
hospitality and entertainment is subject to the following rules:

¢ You must obtain prior permission from your line manager before accepting or giving hospitality.

¢ The hospitality must be reasonable (not lavish or extravagant), proportionate to its purpose and
must ordinarily be below £100 per person in value.

¢ You must send details of all hospitality offered and accepted, including details of the host business

(if not Post Office Limited), the number of people attending and the businesses they represent (if

Post Office Limited is the host), with details of the location of the hospitality and the cost per

person, along with written approval from your line manager, to the Risk & Compliance team at

¢ The Risk & Compliance team will maintain a Register of all Hospitality given and received.

You must beware of accepting any hospitality and entertainment which might compromise your
performance of official business, or which might reasonably appear to have improperly influenced
a business decision. Any attempt at entrapment, blackmail, or any suggestion that preferential
treatment or divulgence of confidential information is expected in return for hospitality and
entertainment, must be reported to your line manager and the Risk & Compliance team.

Anti-Bribery Policy Version 1.0 Final Page 6 of 6

48 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330

POL00333330
4. Business Policy Approvals and Framework
INTERNAL
®
Information Security and Assurance Group
1SO3 - Acceptable Use Policy
Document Control
Overview
clo Head of Information
Security
10" Jan 2014 10" Jan 2014
nnually or major
change
Revision History
13 10/01/2014 Moyn Uddin Minor revision to include section 5.9.
12 30/05/2013 Duncan Godfrey Updates with comments from stakeholders.
Issued for ISPRC.
44 22/04/2013 Mark Pearce Consistency corrections
1.0 03/04/2013 Duncan Godfrey Updated with external review comments
from Post Office Legal department. For
approval.
04 13/02/2013 Duncan Godfrey Minor formatting and grammar changes.
Ready for approval by ISPRC.
03 28/12/2012 Mark Pearce Review.
0.2 27/12/2012 Duncan Godfrey New IS policy. Added comments from Mark
Pearce and Dave King
01 21/12/2012 Duncan Godfrey Reformatted from original HR release
INTERNAL 1

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 49 of 79
4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

50 of 79

INTERNAL

1 Purpose and Statement

The purpose of this policy is to present what is acceptable use of Post Office
Information Systems.

All employees of Post Office are responsible for using Post Office information resources
responsibly and securely. The resources are primarily provided to support business
activities.

This policy does not form part of employees’ contracts and may be amended at any
time.

2 Goals

The goals of this policy are to:

e¢ Communicate what is acceptable behaviour when using Post Office Information
Systems.

e Communicate the repercussions for failing to follow this policy.

e Manage the impact of the risks associated with inappropriate use of Post Office
Information Systems, including: confidentiality breaches, legal claims,
reputational damage, and adverse impact to the availability and/or integrity of
Post Office Information Systems and loss of revenue.

3 Scope

The policy applies to all Post Office employees, agents, contractors, suppliers and
consultants of Post Office.

4 Roles and Responsibilities
4.1 Information Security and Assurance Group

The Information Security and Assurance Group (ISAG) will review this policy at least
annually and update accordingly to reflect changes to business objectives or risks.

4.2 Users

It is the responsibility of each user irrespective of their terms of employment or
engagement to adhere to this policy.

All managers are directly responsible for implementing Post Office policies within their
business areas and for their staff's adherence to them.

INTERNAL

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

POL00333330
POL00333330
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

INTERNAL

5 Policy Statement

The use of Post Office Information Systems is governed by relevant Information
Security and company policies. It is the responsibility of each user to comply with
these policies at all times.

5.1 General System Use

Post Office Information Systems and all the information contained within are the
property of Post Office. Users are provided access to these systems for appropriate
business use only.

Users may only use resources for which they have authorisation. Users may only
access systems via their individual accounts and must not use another individual’s
colleague's account to access Post Office Information Systems.

Users are individually responsible for the resources assigned to them and are
accountable to Post Office for the use of such resources.

It is the responsibility of the user to protect their passwords or any other credentials.
Do not write down, display or disclose your user identity or password, or any other
access code to any other individual.

Non-Post Office owned devices must not be directly connected to Post Office
Information Systems (see S16 Mobile Device Policy).

5.2 Misuse of Post Office Resources

Users must not intentionally attempt to alter the configuration of any Post Office
Information System or interfere with any security control (for example anti-virus or
patching updates). Users must not conduct any monitoring of Post Office Information
Systems unless this has been defined as part of their role and the necessary impact
assessments have been undertaken.

Users must not take any actions to anonymise their use of Post Office Information
Systems.

Users shall not conduct any illegal or malicious activities using Post Office Information
Systems. This includes installing any tools that could support such an activity.

5.3 Email and Instant Messaging Acceptable Use
Email and Instant Messaging (IM) are tools for conducting Post Office business and
shall not be used for any other non-Post Office related business activity. All emails and

IMs are archived and retained as permanent records and are subject to disclosure to
outside parties including regulatory and legal authorities.

INTERNAL 3

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 51 of 79
4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

52 of 79

INTERNAL

Users must not forward business information from business email accounts to their
private non-Post Office accounts. All business emails remain the property of Post
Office and must only be accessed via authorised channels.

The Email or IM facilities specifically must not be used for:

e Sending any message that others could consider indecent, offensive,
threatening, insulting or derogatory

e Sending any messages that could be considered as bullying or harassing other
employees, Post Office customers or any other third party;

e Sending a false and/or defamatory statement about any person or
organisation;

e Sending discriminatory material;

e Distributing, disseminating or storing images, video, text or other materials that
might be considered indecent, pornographic, obscene or illegal

© Creating or distributing chain letters or unsolicited advertisements (SPAM)

«Any other material that is likely to create any liability (whether criminal or civil,
whether for you or us).

Any conduct listed above is likely to be seen as gross misconduct and investigated
under our disciplinary procedure. Any such action will be treated very seriously and is
likely to lead to the summary dismissal of the user concerned (where the user is an
employee) or termination of the user's contract (where the user is not an employee).

Only Post Office approved IM facilities shall be used for business messaging..
5.4 Web Acceptable Use

Access to the web has been provide to support business activities and must primarily
be used for this purpose. A certain amount of personal use is permitted (see section
5.8) but users must not:

e Access any content relating to: gambling, illegal drugs, pornography, criminal
skills, hate speech or any other indecent, obscene or offensive material

e Send offensive, bullying, harassing or discriminatory material or material which
is derogatory to others

e Post or otherwise transmit false or derogatory material

e Access any material which infringes copyright

« Access any material that is likely to create any liability (whether criminal or civil,
whether for you or Post Office).

Any conduct listed above is likely to be seen as gross misconduct and investigated
under our disciplinary procedure. Any such action will be treated very seriously and is
likely to lead to the summary dismissal of the user concerned (where the user is an
employee) or termination of the user's contract (where the user is not an employee).
All web access is monitored and archived; this record will be audited for compliance
with this policy.

INTERNAL

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

POL00333330
POL00333330
POL00333330

POL00333330
4. Business Policy Approvals and Framework
INTERNAL
5.5 Use of external file storage and synchronisation services
External unauthorised file storage services (such as Dropbox, Skydrive and
Googledrive, Box etc.) must not be used for storing Post Office information..
5.6 Authorised Software and Copyright Material
Users may only use the software provided to them by the Post Office IT service. No
unauthorised software is permitted on Post Office Information Systems.
All users must comply with all intellectual property laws including copyright law. Any
material which has a copyright must not be used on Post Office Post Office Information
Systems without the correct licence. This includes: videos, audio files and any protected
documents (such as restricted PDFs).
5.7 Use of social media
Post Office recognises that many of our people enjoy using social networking sites in
their own time. Comments we publish on these sites may reach a surprisingly wide
audience, and so we must all protect our brand and avoid doing anything that might
bring the reputation of Post Office into disrepute.
Everyone must be aware that information gained about Post Office as a result of your
work for the business must never be discussed or shared on social media sites.
5.8 Personal use of Post Office resources
While Post Office Information Systems are intended for business use only, our policy
does allow for reasonable and occasional personal use. Any personal use must be kept
to a minimum and should not interfere with an employee's business responsibilities
and the resources they are using.
Personal use remains a privilege and activity conducted on Post Office Information
Systems is still owned by the Post Office®. The Post Office is not responsible for the
recovery of any non-business data on Post Office Information Systems and this data
may be deleted at any time.
5.9 Use of Non-Post Office Equipment and Resources
Non-Post Office equipment (e.g. laptops, tablets, smartphones etc.) and or resources
such as email systems (e.g. external consultancy email system, Gmail, Outlook.com
(Hotmail), Yahoo Mail etc.) must not be used for Post Office business purposes, this
includes forwarding Post Office information to non-Post Office email systems.
5.10 Reporting Incidents
It is the responsibility of the User to report any security incident or suspicious activity
to the IT Service Desk. Advice can be sought from the ISAG.
INTERNAL 5

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 53 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

INTERNAL

5.11 Monitoring

Post Office Information Systems will be monitored and audited for compliance with this
policy. Monitoring is only carried out to the extent permitted or as required by law and
as necessary and justifiable for business purposes.

Where we have a reasonable suspicion that Post Office Information Systems have
been used improperly, in breach of the law, or if we need to assist the legal authorities
or are otherwise required to do so by law, we will extend this monitoring to the
content of specific electronic transactions. Only authorised individuals can undertake
this activity through the Disclosure and Access to Employee Information - the “P6é
process”.

If an employee is concerned about personal privacy, they are advised not to use Post

Office Information Systems and equipment for personal correspondence or to store
personally sensitive or confidential information.

6 Exceptions
As per the standard policy process, a policy exception must be applied for by contacting
the ISAG. These exceptions will be challenged and reviewed by the ISAG on an annual

basis. Evidence must be retained for both the exception and the annual review.

7 Violations

Any failure to comply with this policy will be seen as a violation of the policy and may be
dealt with as set out under Enforcement below.

8 Enforcement

The ISAG will regularly assess for compliance against this policy. Additionally, all Post
Office people have a responsibility to report any concerns that there may have been a
violation of the policy. Any violation of this policy will be investigated and is likely to be
dealt with under our disciplinary procedures. In particular, any serious breach of this
policy is likely to be seen as gross misconduct and could lead to the summary dismissal
of the user (where the user is an employee) or termination of the user's contract
(where the user is not an employee).

9 References
This document has the following references:

1S16 Mobile Device Policy

INTERNAL 6

54 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

INTERNAL

APPENDIX A: Glossary

Acceptable Use

The rules on the use of Post Office Information Systems in a way
which protects the reputation of Post Office and the integrity of its
Information Systems and equipment.

Instant Messaging

A system for real-time electronic messaging on the Internet or

(IM) over networks. The approved Instant Messaging tool in Post Office
is Microsoft Office Communicator.

Post Office Broadly defined and includes but is not limited to: computer

Information networks, Internet facilities, Instant Messaging systems, tablets,

Systems laptops, desktops, Personal Digital Assistants (PDA), podcasts,

forums, blogs, message boards, social communication websites,
newsgroups, remote access facilities and all communications
through such systems.

INTERNAL

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

POL00333330
POL00333330

55 of 79
4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

EXTERNAL DATA PROTECTION POLICY

Document Control

clo Head of
Information

Security
01 Feb 2014

December 2013 02/12/2013
December 2014

1. Overview

2. Revision History

v1 Sep 2013 I Jacqueline Initial Draft
Gazey
v2 Dec 2013 I Michael Hall I Minor corrections and version history added

Data Protection Policy

56 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

POL00333330
POL00333330
POL00333330

POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Contents

WOVANRWNE

10 Policy Review ..
Appendix (i) Supporting Information

Introduction
Purpose .
Scope.
Status of this policy.
Responsibility for complianc
Governing principles...
Accountability ..
Post Office’s Privacy Governance Structure .
Further advice

Requests for access to personal information
Responsibilities of Post Office Representatives
Training ...
Risk assessments and audits
Other Post Office standards, policies and procedures relating to data protection

Data Protection Policy

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

57 of 79
4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

58 of 79

Post Office Limited
External Data Protection Policy

1 Introduction

The processing and protection of personal information is of paramount importance to Post
Office Limited (Post Office) in order to safeguard its reputation as one of the countries most
trusted brands.

This Policy documents our approach and commitment to managing the personal information in
our care, whether provided to us directly by our customers or by our business partners, in a
manner compatible with our and our business partners’ obligations to comply with the Data
Protection Act 1998. It sets out Post Office's mandatory expectations of all those persons who
have access to personal information held by Post Office on how to handle such personal
information.

Adherence to this policy and associated standards is a mandatory requirement for all Post
Office Representatives). Failure to comply with this policy may affect our reputation and cause
our business partners not to trust our ability to manage the personal information which we
hold. Compliance with this policy is essential to maintaining the confidence in our brand and

our service.

2 Purpose

This Policy is aimed at all Post Office Representatives that handle personal information

The purpose of this policy is to outline the manner in which Post Office should process
personal information. It sets out Post Office’s expectations of its employees, sub-postmasters,
agents, contractors, consultants, suppliers, partners and other contracted third parties (Post
Office Representatives) when processing personal information entrusted to Post Office, in
meeting its governing principles (set out below in section 6) relating to the use of personal
information across Post Office, whether the information relates to Post Office Representatives,
customers or other individuals.

3 Scope

This policy addresses all processing of personal information by Post Office Representatives
whether this is information we hold directly on our customers or information we hold on
behalf of our business partners.

Personal information includes all information, whether processed in electronic or structured
paper form, relating to a living individual who can be identified from that information.

Processing of personal information includes the collection, use, processing, transmitting,
disclosure or storage and retention of personal information. Post Office, its suppliers and
contracted third must adopt procedures necessary to comply with this policy.

Data Protection Policy

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

POL00333330
POL00333330
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

4 Status of this policy

This policy has been approved by the Post Office Board. It is managed and maintained on
behalf of the Board and the Executive Team by Post Office’s Privacy Team.

5 Responsibility for compliance

Post Office handles personal information on its own behalf as well as that of its business
partners. The controller of the information is the party who is legally responsible for
complying with the Data Protection Act 1998.

Post Office is the controller of personal information relating to individuals such as its
employees, customers and prospective customers. In some cases this responsibility for
customer information is shared with our Joint Venture partners who are the providers of the
products and services we offer.

Where Post Office handles personal information on behalf of its business partners as a Data
Processor, such as our Front Office of Government proposition, the compliance requirements
will be dictated to Post Office by the appropriate Data Controller.

6 Governing principles

Personal information must always be handled by Post Office Representatives in accordance
with the obligations placed on us by the Data Protection Act 1998 whether directly or through
contract. This means that personal information must be:

© processed fairly and lawfully

* processed solely for the purposes it was collected for or where Post Office processes
personal information on their behalf as instructed to Post Office by our business
partners

kept relevant, accurate and, where necessary, up to date

«Retained only for as long as it is necessary for the purposes it was collected, or as
instructed by our business partners

* Processed in accordance with the rights granted to individuals by the Act
©. The right to access personal information about the individual

o The right to demand the data controller cease processing likely to cause
unwarranted damage or distress

o. The right to stop direct marketing

o Rights in respect of fully automated decisions that significantly affect the
individual

o Right to claim compensation for damage (or damage or distress) caused by a
failure to comply with the Data Protection Act.

© be kept secure against unauthorised or unlawful access and against accidental loss,
destruction or damage by using appropriate technical and organisational measures —
this includes the following:

Data Protection Policy

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 59 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

© the processing of personal information should not be outsourced to agents or
processors of Post Office without proper controls and contract clauses in place
as established by Post Office’s Privacy Manager (and the permission of the
relevant business partner, where necessary).

© personal information should not be disclosed to any 3" parties without
consideration to the privacy and confidentiality commitment we have or
where Post Office processes personal information on behalf of its business
partners, the prior consent of that relevant business partner where required.

© Managed in accordance with Post Office’s policies and procedures and where
Post Office is a Data Processor, with any specific instructions provided to Post
Office by the relevant Data Controller business partner.

© Not transferred overseas without additional controls being adopted to protect the
rights and freedoms of the individuals as agreed with Post Office’s Privacy Manager or
where Post Office processes personal information on behalf of its business partners
the prior consent of the relevant business partner where required

7 Accountability

Each member of the Executive Committee is responsible for compliance within their area of
responsibility. Post Office’s Privacy Team has responsibility for supporting the delivery of this
policy and monitoring compliance with it. However, each Post Office Representative has
responsibility for ensuring that they adhere to the policy.

Any Post Office Representative who considers that this policy has not been followed should
raise this matter with the Privacy Team.

8 Post Office’s Privacy Governance Structure

9 Further advice

Further advice may be obtained from your Post Office’s Privacy Team who can be contacted by
email at dataprotectior{ GRO

10 Policy Review

This policy is scheduled for review December 2014.

Data Protection Policy

60 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Appendix (i) Supporting Information
Requests for access to personal information

Any individual is entitled to make a subject access request for details of personal information
held about them. Where Post Office receives such requests for personal information
belonging to our business partners, the process for meeting such a request sits with that
business partner and Post Office will handle such requests in accordance with the instructions
from our business partner.

Responsibilities of Post Office Representatives

If any Post Office Representative has access to or uses personal information about other
people (e.g. customer or employee personal information) he or she must comply with this
policy and the requirements set out in all other Post Office data protection standards, policies
and procedures (see below).

Each Post Office Representative is responsible for ensuring that any personal information
which he or she accesses or uses is kept securely and not disclosed in any way to any
unauthorised third party.

Training

Where appropriate, training will be provided to Post Office Representatives on data protection
issues and the handing of our business partner’s personal information. Where required by our
business partner to deliver specific training, such as the business partners own data protection
training, Post Office will ensure that appropriate staff receive such training.

Risk assessments and audits

Periodic data protection risk assessments and audits may be carried out to assess compliance
with this policy and data protection laws.

Other Post Office standards, policies and procedures relating to data protection

. Post Office Data Protection Policy (Internal)
. Code of Business Standards

. Conduct Code

° Information Security Policy & Guidance

Data Protection Policy

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 61 of 79
4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

62 of 79

Data Protection — Data Sharing Policy

Document Control

1. Overview

Head of
Information
Security

01 Feb 2014
December 2013 02/12/2013

December 2014

2. Revision History

va Sep 2013 I Jacqueline Initial Draft
Gazey
v2 Nov 2013 I Ole Christensen I Draft with corrections
v3 Dec 2013 I Michael Hall __I Minor corrections and version history added
Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

POL00333330
POL00333330
4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Contents

Introduction
Background ..

Data Sharing...

8.
Appendix (i): Obligations on Recipient Organisations ..

Appendix (ii): Recipient Organisations...

Limitations on use of the data

Obligation to ensure proportionality

Obligations on the parties in respect of data quality .

Rights of the individual ..

Security ..

Overseas Transfers...

Data Sharing using Data Protection Act 1998 exemptions...

Status of this Policy....

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14

POL00333330
POL00333330

63 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Introduction

This Policy sets out Post Office’s approach to sharing information with 3” party organisations
(Recipient Organisations) and where that shared data is personal information ensures this is shared
in compliance with obligations under the Data Protection Act 1998. Post Office will share
information in connection with:

© The Prevention & detection of crime and prosecution of offenders
The prevention and recovery of any loss to Post Office or one of its business partners
© National Security matters

© Anti-Money Laundering

© The protection and safety of missing or vulnerable people

Any sharing by Post Office of information to 3 party organisations will be subject to considerations
of sensitivity, confidentiality, privacy, ownership and copyright. In becoming a recipient of Post
Office information, 3" party organisations agree to process that information in line with this Policy.

Post Office information consists of personal information and business sensitive information —
together referred to in this policy as “Shared Data”

Background

The Data Protection Act 1998 covers the processing of personal information and establishes rules to
protect individuals in respect of the security and use of their personal information.

Post Office shares information with a number of 3” party organisations in its endeavours to protect
its business, staff, customers, other individuals and its associates.

Data Sharing

Data sharing involves the disclosure of information from one or more organisations to a third party
organisation or organisations. Specifically for Post Office, data sharing can take the form of:

*® a systematic disclosure of information collected by Post Office to its key contacts on a
regular basis such as text blasts and reports

Post Office and other organisations pooling information and making it available to each
other for a common purpose

* exceptional, one-off disclosures of personal data by Post Office in unexpected or emergency
situations

© exceptional, one-off requests by 3” party organisations, such as solicitors, for information
held by Post Office

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

64 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Scope

This Policy covers all Post Office departments and 3 party organisations that share Post Office
personal information and business data for the purposes highlighted in section 1 below.

For the purposes of this Policy, personal information is considered to be any information that relates
to a living individual who can be identified directly from the information, or from the information
and other information, which is in the possession of, or is likely to come into the possession of, Post
Office or the recipient organisation. This includes any expression of opinion about the individual(s)
and any indication of the intentions of the Post Office or any other organisation in respect of the
individual(s).

Responsibility

It is the responsibility of the signatories to this Policy to ensure it is followed in respect of the
processing of shared data.

Policy.

1. Limitations on use of the data
Post Office will share information for the following purposes:
The Prevention & detection of crime and prosecution of offenders

© The prevention, investigation and recovery of any loss to Post Office or one of its business
partners

© National Security matters
© Anti-Money Laundering
The protection and safety of missing or vulnerable people

By accepting shared data from Post Office, 3 party recipients agree to limit their use of the shared
data to these purposes only.

Where the shared data is sensitive personal information relating to:
¢ health information,
racial or ethnic origin,
religious or other similar belief,
¢ trade union membership,
e sexual orientation or
© offences or proceedings for an offence

the 3" party recipient understands that the information may only be processed for:

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 65 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

the prevention and detection of crime where such processing is in the significant public
interest where such processing must necessarily be carried out without the explicit consent
of the individual;

© meeting obligations placed on the organisations by way of S68 of the Serious Crime Act
2007";

© any legal proceedings (including prospective legal proceedings).

© The protection and safety of missing or vulnerable people where the processing is in the vital
interest of the individual (or another person) in the case where consent is not available;

For shared data coming in to Post Office from one of its business partners, the same restrictions will

apply.

Where a recipient of Post Office shared data wish to use the information for other purposes, Post

Office’s prior permission should be sought on a case-by-case basis.

2. Obligation to ensure proportionality

Post Office recognises that it is likely to be reasonable and necessary to share data in its aim to
protect its staff, customers and business. Post Office will ensure that the nature of the data it shares
is proportional to the above aims and will not share identifiable personal information when other
methods that respect individuals’ rights to privacy are viable.

3. Obligations on the parties in respect of data quality

Post Office will only share data where it is satisfied that the information is relevant to the purpose of
the sharing and, to the best of our knowledge, accurate.

Where there is a requirement to keep shared data up to date on an on-going basis, the 3 party
recipient must make provisions for updates to the data on a case-by-case basis or agree its update
requirements with Post Office through a bespoke data sharing arrangement

Post Office recognises that there is a requirement for information to be retained only as long as it is
necessary for the purposes outlined in section 1. All recipients of Post Office shared data should
have a documented retention policy outlining its intentions in respect of the archiving and
destruction of this information once it has served its purpose.

4. Rights of the individual

The Data Protection Act gives rights to individuals in respect of the processing of their personal
information and those key to a data sharing initiative are:

«Right of access to information;

© Right to demand an organisation cease processing personal information about them on the
grounds that it will cause (unwarranted) damage or distress;

* Please note - S68 of the Serious Crime Act makes it an offence to further disclose information covered by this
obligation.

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

¢ Right to object to any fully automated decisions that significantly affect the individual;

e Right to claim compensation for any damage or damage and distress caused through a
breach of the Act.

In accepting personal information from Post Office, the recipient organisations accept that they will
be responsible for handling any requests they receive directly from individuals in compliance with
the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998 and will adopt suitable procedures to react to
individuals exercising their rights.

5. Security

Post Office takes the security of shared data very seriously. It will ensure that any information it
shares with recipient organisations is transferred in a manner that protects the information, such
protection being appropriate to the nature of the information and any resultant harm that could
come from inappropriate disclosure, loss or destruction to that information.

Recipient organisations must ensure that shared data they receive from Post Office is adequately
protected by:

© Adopting an Information Security Policy that recognises the controls required to protect this
information

© Taking physical, technical and organisation security measures to protect the information

© Providing training to staff that have access to this information on the importance of keeping
the information secure

© Checking the reliability of staff that are granted access to the information through formal
vetting procedures appropriate to the nature of the data the staff member can see.

The recipient organisation agrees to advise Post Office immediately if, as the recipient of

information, your contact information changes, your role changes or the need for sharing Post Office

information stops or changes

6. Overseas Transfers

Post Office’s written permission is required where Post Office shared data, disclosed to a recipient
organisation that is likely to hold or allow access to the data from overseas locations. Such
permission may be refused after considering the nature of the data, purpose of the processing and
Post Office’s obligations under the Data Protection Act 1998

7. Data Sharing using Data Protection Act 1998 exemptions

Where Post Office is approached by a 3 party organisation that is making a request for Post Office’s
Personal Information that may fall within the scope of an exemption within the Data Protection Act
1998, these requests will be considered on a case by case basis.

Post Office will apply the same considerations when using these exemptions to request other
organisations for personal information.

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 67 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

8. Status of this Policy

This policy has been approved by the Post Office Executive Committee and is managed and
maintained on their behalf by Post Office’s Data Protection and Privacy Team.

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

68 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Appendix (i): Obligations on Recipient Organisations

In accepting shared data from Post Office, the recipient organisation understands that it must:
a) Comply with its own obligations under the current and future Data Protection and Privacy
legislation in respect of the processing of any personal data being disclosed or shared.

b) Only use the shared data for the purposes established in this Policy and not to use it for any
other purpose without the prior written consent of Post Office.

c) Adopt adequate technical and organisational security measures to protect the shared data
from unauthorised or unlawful processing and accidental loss, destruction or damage.

d) Advise Post Office immediately if, as the recipient of information, the contact information
changes, recipients role changes or the need for sharing Post Office shared data stops or
changes

e) Ensure the reliability of staff that have access to the shared data and agree that only those
individuals that have a genuine business need to see that data will have access to it.

f) Only retain the shared data while there is a business need to process it and securely destroy
the data in line with a documented retention schedule, as required by this Policy.

g) With regard to shared data that is personal information, respect the rights granted to
individuals under the Data Protection Act 1998, adopting procedures to react to individuals
exercising their rights in order to comply with the requirements of the Act.

h) Take appropriate steps to maintain the quality of the shared data.

i) Not transfer shared data outside the European Economic Area without Post Office’s prior
written permission as outlined in section 6 of this Policy.

j) The recipient of shared data understand that Post Office Limited is subject to the Freedom
of Information Act 2000 and as such this Policy and information about those organisation
that share data may be subject to disclosure under this Act.

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 69 of 79
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Appendix (ii): Recipient Organisations

Post Office will share information with organisations, such as those that fall into the following
categories:

© Lawenforcement agencies

© Government bodies and agencies

¢ Public authorities

© Post Office product providers, for example the Bank of Ireland

© Post Office business Associates, for example Transport for London.
Financial Services institutions, for example High Street Banks

© Sub-Post Masters

© Royal Mail

© Credit reference and fraud prevention agencies

¢ Financial Conduct Authority

e Legal advisors

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

70 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

4, Business Policy Approvals and Framework

Name of Organisation:

Nominated Signatory Name:

In accepting personal information from Post Office, the recipient organisation named above understands that

it must:
a) Comply with its own obligations under the current and future Data Protection and Privacy legislation
in respect of the processing of any personal data being disclosed or shared.

b) Only use the shared data for the purposes established in this Policy and not to use it for any other
purpose without the prior written consent of Post Office.

©) Adopt adequate technical and organisational security measures to protect the shared data from
unauthorised or unlawful processing and accidental loss, destruction or damage.

d) Advise Post Office immediately if, as the recipient of information, the contact information changes,
recipients role changes or the need for sharing Post Office shared data stops or changes

e) Ensure the reliability of staff that have access to the shared data and agree that only those individuals
that have a genuine business need to see that data will have access to it.

f) Only retain the shared data while there is a business need to process it and securely destroy the data
in line with a documented retention schedule, as required by this Policy.

8) With regard to shared data that is personal information, respect the rights granted to individuals
under the Data Protection Act 1998, adopting procedures to react to individuals exercising their rights
in order to comply with the requirements of the Act.

h) Take appropriate steps to maintain the quality of the shared data.

i) Not transfer shared data outside the European Economic Area without Post Office’s prior written
permission as outlined in section 6 of this Policy.

j) The recipient of shared data understand that Post Office Limited is subject to the Freedom of
Information Act 2000 and as such this Policy and information about those organisation that share
data may be subject to disclosure under this Act

I acknowledge receipt of Post Office’s Data Sharing Policy V1 and agree to process Post Office information

in accordance with the standards recorded in this Policy.
Signed:

Dated:

Data sharing Policy V3 FINAL PUBLIC

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 71 of 79
POL00333330

POL00333330
5. Committee Meetings and matters arising
Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential PAPER SEVEN
Risk and Compliance Committee (R&CC) Reference: R&CC/MIN/OCT13
Date: bfacreiiai Boardroom, 148 Old Street, Time: 0930 - 1130
Attending:
Lesley Sewell Chief Information Officer Member
Chris Day Chief Financial Officer Member
Alwen Lyons Company Secretary Member
Dave Mason Head of Risk & Compliance Chair
Malcolm Zack Head of Internal Audit Report
Piers Virik SPMO. Report
Mark Pearce Senior Risk Manager Report
Sara Hollingsbee Best Practice Procurement Manager Report
Peter Emmanuel Money Laundering Reporting Officer Report
Liz Doherty Assurance Advisor Secretariat
Apologies:
Susan Barton Strategy Director Member
Susan Crichton HR & Corporate Services Director Member

Agenda Item 4

Discussion

The chair welcomed the Company Secretary to her first meeting as a committee member. Apologies had been
received from Susan Barton and Susan Crichton.

The minutes of the last meeting had been circulated and were accepted as an accurate record by those present.
The actions from the previous meeting were discussed and it was confirmed that with the exception of action
1552 all had been completed and closed.

Decisions

Minutes of the previous meeting were agreed and previous actions completed with the exception of 1552.
Actions

Ref Action Lead

1552 Compile a comprehensive list of the key information security risks and Julie George/Lesley
(carried identify which are important to be addressed and the resultant gaps. Skill Sewell

forward gaps to be identified.

Agenda Item 2

Discussion
There had been no changes to the ExCo risk map since the last meeting other than the ATM rating risk was now
identified as an issue. The ownership of the risk relating to the non-compliance with procurement rules was
discussed together with the consequences of non-compliance.

The committee discussed the risk movements identified on the directorate risk map and agreed that the detail
and quality of reasons being identified by risk owners required improvement to enable better understanding

How transformation board risks are presented to the committee in future was discussed but no decision was
reached. This to be discussed and agreed outside of the meeting by the SPMO and the Head of Risk &
Compliance

Decisions

The committee accepted the risk reports but identified there was a need to improve the quality of the narrative
supporting risk movements identified in future reports.

Presentation of transformation board risks to be agreed by the SPMO & Head of Risk & Compliance

72 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330

POL00333330
5. Committee Meetings and matters arising
Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential PAPER SEVEN
Actions
Ref Action Lead
1554 Presentation of transformation board risks to future R&CC meetings to be Dave Mason / Piers
discussed and agreed Virik

Agenda Item 3

Discussion

The internal controls report was discussed and the committee asked about the process for improving those
marked amber and how the effectiveness of identified controls was to be tested. It was suggested that the
effectiveness of internal controls should rest initially with each director as the person accountable for activity
within their directorate

It was also explained that Risk &Compliance business partners would be working with directorates to identify
controls in place and suggest new controls and actions to achieve improvement were appropriate. The
effectiveness of controls would be assured through examination of supporting management information and data
with action plans developed to address any gaps and improvements.

Decisions
The committee agreed and endorsed the approach to internal controls monitoring

Actions

Ref I Action I Lead
None

Agenda Item 4

Discussion

The committee discussed the business issues log and it was agreed that any future key issues updates be
supported by an explanatory paper and the issue owner should be invited to attend the meeting

Decisions

Future issues updates be supported by an explanatory paper and issue owners invited to attend future meetings

Actions

Ref I Action I Lead
None

Agenda Item 5

Discussion

The committee reviewed the papers that had been submitted for approval.
Both papers were approved

« Disclosure &access to employee information policy
* Authority to requisition, procure and pay policy

Ownership of consultations and an approval process for their sign off has been agreed with the Communications
Directorate. This is being documented and once completed will be communicated to product pillars.

Decisions

Disclosure & access to employee information policy approved

Authority to requisition, procure and pay policy approved

Actions

Ref I Action I Lead
None

Agenda Item 6

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 73 of 79
POL00333330

POL00333330
5. Committee Meetings and matters arising
Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential PAPER SEVEN
[Papers for Endorsement

Discussion
The committee reviewed the papers that had been submitted for endorsement prior to the meeting.

The Money Laundering Reporting Officer's update informed the committee of actions taken as a result of an
independent review which looked at POL’s vulnerability to AML through products and cash services.

The money laundering product risk assessment paper was discussed and agreed with the proviso that the MLRO
re-issue the appendix and provide the committee with a roadmap of actions and timescales by email

Decisions

Both papers were endorsed with a recommendation that the MLRO re-issue the appendix and a roadmap of
actions and timescales by email

Actions
I Ref Action Lead
1555 Re-issue by email the appendix from the risk assessment paper together MLRO
with a roadmap of actions and timescales for deliver
Discussion

An updated R&CC terms of reference was submitted to members prior to the meeting. A proposal to hold
monthly meetings was rejected and it was suggested that 6-8 meetings a year was more appropriate. The
committee asked for a tracked change copy to be circulated and a request for further comments to be submitted
via e mail.

Decisions

The terms of reference to be reviewed further.

Actions
Ref Action Lead
1556 A copy of tracked changes for terms of reference for R&CC to be circulated I Rob Bolton
to members and further changes to be agreed by e mail
Liz Doherty

Risk & Assurance Adviser

74 of 79 Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14
POL00333330
POL00333330

5. Committee Meetings and matters arising

Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential PAPER SEVEN

Action Summary and Updates

Ref Action _ Lead Update

1552. Compile a comprehensive list of Julie Action completed.
the key information security risks I George/Lesley I Update provided via separate paper included with
and identify which are important Sewell circulated meeting papers.
to be addressed and the
resultant gaps. Skill gaps to be
identified

1554 Presentation of transformation Dave Mason/ I Action closed.
board risks to future R&CC Piers Virik This has been discussed and transformation board
meetings to be discussed and risks to be captured within the business risk reporting
agreed to the R&CC going forward

1555 Re-issue by email the appendix MLRO Action carried forward.
from the risk assessment paper Further work is currently being performed in this area
together with a roadmap of and progressing through the investment committee is
actions and timescales for being explored.
delivery

1556 I A copy of tracked changes for Rob Bolton Action closed.
terms of reference for R&CC to Copy of tracked changes version circulated as per
be circulated to members and the October meeting action however terms of
further changes to be agreed by reference have now been further reviewed and new
e mail version produced which will be circulated by email for

approval

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 75 of 79
6240 92

PL/L0/0Z-2enlWWOD eoue!dWoD % YS

Risk & Compliance Committee PAPER EIGHT
The purpose of this paper is to provide the committee with an update on an action from a previous meeting in October 2013

Compile a comprehensive list of the key information security risks and
identify which are important to be addressed and the resultant gaps. Any
skills gaps to also be identified

1552 Julie George / Lesley Sewell

Consolidated Version

The Information Security and Assurance Group (ISAG), to meet its increasing responsibilities for Corporate Information Security and
Assurance including Cyber Security and wider business support, require additional headcount. In addition to corporate responsibilities ISAG
are responsible for the on-going Information Security due diligence of suppliers and partners to ensure that they protect Post Office
information that is in their care. Currently the headcount is supplemented by 5 contractors (3 of which cover the main programmes of
Transformation, Separation and Transition), where possible these Contractors are also utilised within BAU activities since there no other
Information Security skills outside of ISAG within Post Office. Below is a summary table of the risk that ISAG permanent staffing shortfall
creates, aside from the financial implication of the contractor overhead. The shortfall detailed on the next two tables equates to 6 FTE against
the published organisation headcount shortfall of 4 (as referred to in the final perspective below).

Where possible Contractors will be replaced by full time employees providing a substantial saving to Post Office.
The comparison of Contractors versus Full time employees

5 Contractors = (Average £850 per day x 22 days per month over 1 year) = £1,122,000
5 Full time Employees = (Average £110,000 per year inclusive of package) = £550,000

Savings £572,000 per year.

Description Information Risk Register Role Required

1.5 ISA Technical Assurance

Information unavailability due to
Manager

IT service disruption or lack of Covering 6 Risks

system availability
0.25 ISA Senior Risk

Information integrity and .
—_ Covering 9 risks manager and 0.5 ISA
confidentiality exposure Compliance Manager

0.5 ISA Senior Risk

Insufficient Information Security manager, 1 ISA Compliance

involvement in wider internal

. . covering 5 risks manager and 1 ISA
Practices, projects and Technical Assurance
programmes Manager

0.25 ISA Senior Risk
Manager and 1 ISA
Compliance Manager

Failure to conform to information
security standards and covering 3 risks
compliance

POL00333330
POL00333330

10D °S

Bulsue siojew pue sBUNEEW\ 2
PL/L0/0Z-2enlWWOD eoue!dWoD % YS

6140 LL

More Detailed Version

Consolidated Risk

Areas of Risk — Cause and Concern

ISAG Response

Staffing Shortfall

Category
Information « Communications interference 10 Penetration Tests and Vulnerability Scans 1.5 FTE Technical
unavailability due to ITI ¢ Degradation of critical services undertaken annually against a projection of 30 to Assurance Managers
service disruption or « External misuse and abuse cover all main third parties. Whilst we do not
jack of system «Insecure external communications undertake the testing ourselves there is liaison
availability «Loss or unavailability of premises or work with our suppliers as well as scoping work
IT infrastructure to ensure risks are managed appropriately

« Malicious software
Information integrity « Incorrect Application Processing 10 Security Reviews of significant third-parties 0.25 FTE Senior Risk
jand confidentiality « Inappropriate Information Leakage undertaken, but at least 20 further secondary Manager
jexposure e Human Error and tertiary suppliers and smaller third parties 0.5 FTE Compliance

¢ Internal misuse and abuse not reviewed. Manager

« Repudiation of user action Review of Post Office and third party Staff on

* Social engineering internal systems only performed for privileged

+ Theft or loss of media ——

« Unauthorised logical access
Insufficient InformationI « Inadequate third party management I ISAG is involved as : 0.5 FTE Senior Risk
‘Security involvement Ie Unauthorised hardware or software ¢ Design Authority in contractual wording Manager
in wider internal « Unauthorised physical access ‘inclusion of ‘House Position’ 1 FTE Compliance
practices « Inadequate change management Licencing reviews Manager

e Inadequate security awareness Physical security initiatives 1 FTE Technical

IT changes Assurance

training(that is performed outside of
ISAG)

Inadequate security incident
management

Security incidents

Maintaining the security awareness
programme

however gaps in coverage are apparent

Manager/Security
Architect

Failure to conform to
Information Security
standards and
jcompliance

Non-compliance to:

« 18027001
« PCIDSS
«© ISAE3402
« LASSIS

Third party audit and
questionnaire response

Post Office manages and undertakes the
contractually obligated compliance and
certification activities but it is more reactive than
proactive due to the increasing size of Post
Office, the diversity of the business and
intrusiveness of third party approaches

0.25 FTE Senior Risk
Manager

1 FTE Compliance
Manager

POL00333330
POL00333330

10D °S

Bulsue siojew pue sBUNEEW\ 2
6240 82

PL/LO/0Z-BenlWWOD eoue!dWoD * 4ST

Gaps viewed from Risk, Compliance and Technical Assurance perspective

Description

Cause

Consequence

Management of
Information Risks

There was clear direction from the Buffalo exercise, Deloitte
Information Security assessment review report, Internal
Audit report and the PCI DSS audit the there is a significant
shortfall in the way that information risks are managed. At
present the area is only resourced as an interim position to
cope with these activities and 1 associated extra ISA Senior
Risk Manager is defined in Target Operating Model as
announced on 17" Oct. There is also the growth issue of
Cyber Threats which increases risk via Post Office
online/digital services

This will result in ISAG team’s inability to manage the
new Target Operating Model defined information risk
activities as they current stand. The Deloitte report
stipulated “Senior Management do not have a
comprehensive view on the information security risk
environment” and to “plan what actions the organisation
must take to reduce risk and enable Post Office to
manage and monitor the threats they face effectively and
proactively”. The consequence of failure to attend to risks
will invoke contractual and compliance penalties and
sanctions

\Third Parties
Information Security
governance

There was clear direction from the Buffalo exercise, Deloitte
IS report and more importantly for on-going certification; the
PCI DSS audit the there is a shortfall in the way that major
third-parties are managed for assurance of their security
response. Currently, there are 12 suppliers in this category,
but significant others remain outside. Additionally, we need
to further explore the second tier suppliers as well as
complete the security review scheduled. At present the area
is under resourced to cope with these activities and 1
associated extra Compliance Manager as defined Target
Operating Model as announced on 17" Oct

This will result in ISAG team’s inability to manage the
new Target Operating Model defined compliance
activities as they current stand. Furthermore both the new
versions of both 1S027001:2013 and PCI DSS v3 both
stipulate more requirements around the governance of
third parties. The consequence of failure to attend to
compliance will invoke contractual and compliance
penalties and sanctions

Information Security
\Technical Assurance

There was clear direction from the Buffalo exercise, Deloitte
IS report and the PC! DSS audit the there is a shortfall in the
way that information security technical assurance is
maintained. At present the area is under resourced to cope
with these activities and 2 associated extra Technical
Assurance Managers as defined Target Operating Model as
announced on 17" Oct

This will result in ISAG team’s inability to manage the
new Target Operating Model defined technical assurance
activities as they current stand. Currently the
management and review of vulnerability assessments,
penetration testing, project technical involvement, as well
as the security incident management response is under-
resourced. The consequence of failure to attend to
technical assurance will invoke contractual and
compliance penalties and sanctions

POL00333330
POL00333330

POL00333330
POL00333330

Supplementary Documents

Post Office Ltd

Risk & Compliance Committee
20 January 2014

Location:
Boardroom, 148 Old Street, London, England, EC1V 9HQ, United Kingdom

ATTENDANCE LIST

ATTENDEES SIGNATURE
Alwen, Lyons

Aujard, Chris

Chris, Day

Martin, Edwards

Paula, Vennells

Risk & Compliance Committee-20/01/14 79 of 79
