POL00447937
POL00447937

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

POST OFFICE JOB DESCRIPTION

Job Title Senior Investigations Manager

Grade: TBC (3A?)

Post Reports to: Head of Central Investigations Unit
Division: Central Investigations Unit

Business Unit: Legal, Compliance and Governance
Budget Accountability: _ Case costs including IT and Legal c£100k
Number of Direct / One

Indirect Reports:

Location: Homebased

Fit & Proper NO

Requirements

Unique Position Per SF org structure (added after evaluation)
Number:

Purpose of the role

To conduct the highest risk, most complex, or sensitive investigations, managing internal and external SMEs
where necessary and to coach, mentor, oversee, and quality assure investigations conducted in other teams
across Post Office to ensure skills transfer, adherence to best practice, and standardization of approach.
Stakeholder management is key to this role, managing the relationship on a case-by-case basis between CIU and
Postmasters, their staff, POL teams, senior managers, GE, and Board as well as external partners.

Where does this role fit in within Post Office?

The JOB —_ 1x Investigator (2a)
1x other Senior
lead of CIS Investigations Manager

Speak Up, Triage &
Assessments team (1x 3a,
1x 2a, 2x 2b)

Principal accountabilities

e Investigations: responsible for conducting the highest risk, most complex, or sensitive investigations in
Post Office, managing internal and external SMEs where necessary. Ensuring that the cases are delivered
fairly, effectively and efficiently. The findings from investigations will be presented in comprehensive and
accurate written and verbal reports by the role holder to senior management in Legal and other
departments, to GE members, and on occasion to Board.
POL00447937
POL00447937

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

* Cost effectiveness: this role is responsible for the legal, IT, expert or other costs relating to their
investigations. The role holder is accountable for delivery of cases demonstrating value for money.

¢ Oversight: this role is responsible for coaching and mentoring business-based investigators to ensure skills
are transferred to frontline teams. On occasion, the role holder will oversee investigations conducted by
these other teams ensuring compliance with any specific legislative, regulatory or contractual
requirements including all Group policies.

e Training: the role holder will develop, deploy and embed training for investigators and managers in the
business-based teams ensuring the application of minimum standards and protocols. Foster, promote,
and deliver a culture of continuous improvement.

¢ Stakeholder management: the role holder will have geographical responsibility for relationship
management on behalf of Post Office investigations and CIU specifically in either England & Wales or
Scotland & Northern Ireland. The role holder will develop and maintain senior stakeholders in the
relevant law enforcement and prosecution authorities to facilitate their adoption of Post Office cases in
line with the relevant policies and strategies. They will also manage stakeholders in Post Office at senior
levels (Director) on a regular basis to facilitate the application of the Post Office’s investigation strategies
as well as more frequently at an operational team level.

* Coach, mentor, and develop the Investigator direct report, including overseeing new employee on-
boarding and providing career development planning and opportunities.

e Empower employees to take responsibility for their role, objectives and own development. Delegate
responsibility and expect accountability and regular feedback.

Knowledge, experience and skills

e Essential: 15+ years investigation experience in one or more of in-house corporate conduct investigation
teams, regulatory bodies, law enforcement, or other public service body performing similar functions.

e Essential: Experience of investigating serious misconduct allegations, dishonesty offences, and process failings
to identify root causes and lessons learned.

e Essential: Experience of complex report writing and presentation of findings/evidence to senior staff and at
court.

e Essential: Experience of complex investigative planning; large-scale evidence review strategies; use of
technology assisted review; interviewing of witnesses, victims and suspects; managing contractors/suppliers;

working with external counsel.

e Essential: experience of working with colleagues at all levels of an organisation, effectively interacting with
the most junior to most senior colleagues.

«Essential: experience of interagency or interbody collaborative working, representing an organisation with
others in order to influence and achieve organisational objectives.

¢ Desirable: Legal, HR, or investigative qualification/membership.

Key Working Relationships
POL00447937
POL00447937

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Delete - Provide a summary of key working relationships that are fundamental to the role
and outside of immediate tea

Who? When? To achieve what?

Head of CIU Daily Taking tasking, reporting upwards, consulting and
providing input to strategic and _ tactical
developments on cases and the operation of the

function
Other Senior Daily Working in partnership developing process,
Investigations procedures, QA approaches, etc. Supporting each
Manager other on case work as needed.
Speak Up/Triage/ I Daily Discussing triage of cases, providing advice on
Assessments Team investigative approaches, and receiving cases.

Participating in the identification of trends and
contributing to strategic assessment work.

CIU Investigator Daily Tasking, I overseeing, supporting, coaching,
direct report mentoring, and assessing the direct report in the
conduct of cases and delivery of training to other
teams’ staff.
Senior leaders, GE, As required, likely I Providing written and oral reports on
Board to be monthly for I investigations. Laying out facts, reliability of
Senior leaders evidence, impact, and implications together with
recommended courses of action. Providing advice.
Senior external Weekly Managing Post Office Investigations’ relationships
stakeholders with senior law enforcement, senior public

prosecutors, counsel, suppliers, partner agencies in
order to deliver Post Office’s objectives.

