POLOO099656
POL00099656

Message

From:

on behalf of

Sent:

To:

ce:

Subject: FW: Post Office investigations

Attachments: Mediation Pack - Application Form.docx; ATTO0001.htm; Mediation Pack.pdf; ATT00002.htm; Initial Complaint
Review and Mediation Scheme cover letter.pdf; ATTOO003.htm

ARBUTHNOT, James

30/09/2013

Hi Andy,
Thanks for your earlier email, and 1 will get you the list tomorrow.

In the meantime, Jack Hands, who runs Karen Lumley MP’s office, has been in touch, as Ms Lumley wants to
discuss an individual constituent case. I have copied him in on this email, and I wonder if I can leave you to
get in touch with Jack to take this on, please?

With kind regards
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, M
House of Commons
London SW1A GAA

Website: www jamesarbuthnot.com

6a}

From: HANDS, Jack

Sent: 30 September 2013 13:13

To: ARBUTHNOT, James

Subject: FW: Post Office investigations

Dear James,

Karen would like to meet with the Post Office to discuss an individual case. Would it be possible to send me the e-mail of
the best person to contact?

Best wishes,

Jack

From: "ARBUTHNOT, James"!
Subject: Post Office investigations

Dear Colleague,
When we met in July about this matter, it was thought that the results of the current

investigations would be presented in October. I am writing to let you know that we will now be
waiting for a little while longer but for the very best reason, in my view. I would like to propose

POL-0099239
POLOO099656
POL00099656

a meeting sometime in January, which will bring us up to speed with how investigations are
proceeding, how the internal review of processes at the Post Office is going, and perhaps have
some comments offered by the chairman of the working party.

Throughout the summer, the Post Office has convened a working group to develop and
implement an independent mediation process by which all cases — existing and new — can be
investigated. The working party comprises members of the Justice for SubPostmasters Alliance,
independent investigators Second Sight, and members of the Post Office staff. It is meeting
weekly and an independent chairman is to be appointed shortly.

The Post Office is also conducting an internal review of its working processes, in part prompted
by our raising constituents’ cases with it. The findings of the case investigations and reports from
the working party are feeding into this review to ensure that required improvements are being
identified and addressed.

The mediation scheme is now open to all SubPostmasters who have a complaint. They must
apply to have their cases investigated. In some instances, investigation will not be possible
because, for example, cases are too old and the relevant data has not been retained. The scheme
remains open until Monday 18 November 2013. It offers aggrieved SubPostmasters the very best
chance to have their cases reviewed independently, and their views heard to try to resolve their
concems. They may leave the scheme at any time, and their legal rights will remain in full force,
whether or not they choose to enter the scheme. The Post Office has, I believe, already written to
you with information about this scheme. I attach the relevant documents, and would be happy to
direct any inquiries about the scheme you may have to the relevant people at the Post Office.

What this means is that your constituent, whose case is already being looked into, has the
opportunity to have his or her case investigated thoroughly, independently, and fairly. The
scheme may also refer cases to an independent mediator to help the parties try to find a
resolution to any specific concerns.

While I acknowledge that we have all been waiting for satisfaction for our constituents, I also
acknowledge that the Post Office has been, throughout, conscientious in working to arrive at a
transparent and fair means by which it can offer SubPostmasters a just, independent, and
dispassionate review of their case. It has cancelled trials where it deemed fit, and I know of two
colleagues whose constituents are extremely relieved to hear they are no longer going to trial. I
would hope you might join me in the belief that this mediation process is the very best chance
your constituent has to see his or her case reviewed, and the best chance too of seeing a new Post
Office working to its best capabilities with better practices than ever.

The Post Office also stands ready to meet with you individually to discuss its approach if you
would find this helpful.

I do hope this is helpful, and will be in touch when a date is set for the next meeting.
Yours ever,

James

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP
House of Commons
London SW1A 0AA

POL-0099239
POLOO099656
POL00099656

Website: www.jamesarbuthnot.com<http://www.jamesarbuthnot.com/>

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify
the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage
caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.

POL-0099239
