POL00021130
POL00021130

M068 — Doc 025

Karen Arnold

To: Gary Blackbum/e/POSTOFFICE@” GRO

02/07/2009 09:35

Southall/e/POSTOFFICE{”

ce:
Breeden/e/POSTOFFICE:

Subject: Hogsthorpe 200202

Gary

Further to our conversation last week regarding the losses at Hogsthorpe, the spmr, David Hedges (who likes
to be known as Tom) has contacted the NBSC to establish what the bau/correct process is for suspending a
session of Smartpost. Tom tells me that the NBSC said it was okay to use either of the methods he describes,
as a reminder I have copied information below in respect of what described to me last week.

Tom said that he does a lot of postage and customers come in leave their items of mail and a blank cheque, so
they don’t have to wait. He then processes the items in between serving other customers. Previously he
would have several items on the sales stack, items for which labels had been printed and if a customer came in
he would suspend the session, from the Smartpost screen and serve other customers before going back and
swapping back into the suspended session. This would take him straight back to the Smartpost screen, but
when he initially suspended the session it would take a long time, as it also did when he swapped to go back
into the suspended session. Around the time the losses started he changed how he suspended the session.
Items in the sales stack and in Smartpost, when a customer came in he started going back to serve customer,
suspending the session from there, would serve other customers and then swap to go back into the suspended
session, by doing it this way it took him back to the serve customer screen and both the suspending of the
session and returning back into the suspended session was far quicker this way, than how he did it previously.

Tom also spoke to HSH yesterday about this and also the losses which he believes have started since he
changed his procedures, ref E-1318562. I understand from Tom that a visit has now been arranged for today
to swap the central processor. Once this swap out has been completed can you tell me whether any
investigation is carried out with the old processor.

As I mentioned last week if losses continue then I could end up with a conduct case. If this does happen then
the spmr will have the opportunity of attending an interview, in which I am sure he will raise what he believes
is an issue with Smarpost suspended session contributing to losses at the branch. At this point it will have to
be investigated, I therefore feel it would be beneficial to do this now and would appreciate your help with this.

I have cc'd David Southall in as I am on annual leave from tomorrow and do not return until 22.07.09, David
will be covering any urgent matters in my area during my absence.
POL00021130
POL00021130

M068 — Doc 025

Thanks

Regards

Karen

Karen Arnold
Contract Manager - North Central England

Post Office Ltd - Network

Second Floor, The Markets Crown Office, 6 - 16 New York Street, Leeds, LS2 7DZ

@  karen.arnol¢

