POL00316805
POL00316805

From: Lesley J Sewell[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LESLEY.J.SEWELL]
Sent: Mon 08/06/2015 9:53:40 AM (UTC)
To: Mark R Davies{”
Subject: FW: Panorama
fyi

Lesley Sewell
Chief Information Officer & Operations
Director

Post Office Ltd
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ

From: Bell Gavin [mailto:
Sent: 08 June 2015 10:4
To: Melanie Corfield; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Shaw Nigel; Newsome Pete; Goulden Graham
Subject: Panorama

Melanie, Angela
Following the email trail below I understand the preparations for the Panorama programme are quite progressed.

Is there any more support you need from Fujitsu to prepare for this programme, building on the responses we have
previously provided?

Would you be able to share the briefing/ current areas of questioning Panorama have shared with Post Office as the
phrasing of the example provided could be seen as divisive?

Can you also provide the final version of the Second Sight report and your response to that document?

Pete Newsome remains our lead in supporting you in relation to this activity and please contact him or myself if you
need anything further.

Kind Regards

Gavin
POL00316805
POL00316805

Gavin Bell
Director of Delivery Private Sector
Business & Application Services

Fujitsu
Mob: {
Email

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Sh

ter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with &T.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu. World Tour 2015 “dlsas

London

Centric Innovation > Register
today

From: Goulden Graham

Sent: 08 June 2015 08:45

To: Berry Neil

Cc: Bell Gavin; Newsome Pete; Vasey Clark; Millen James
Subject: FW: Panorama

Neil,

Neil, as discussed this is the note from the Post Office press office. You will see the Post Office have a briefing
tomorrow then possibly a filmed interview on 17 June. I will ask them to provide an update after the Tuesday briefing
and pass this on.

Meantime our line, at the request of the Post Office, is to not comment and pass any calls onto them.

Regards
Graham

From: Melanie Corfield [mailto!
Sent: 05 June 2015 15:32

To: Goulden Graham

Ce: Millen James

Subject: Panorama

Hi Graham
l’ve hear this afternoon that there was a filming going outside your offices in Bracknell - BBC filming with an old
Royal Mail bike - I expect this will be part of the Panorama programme.
POL00316805
POL00316805

The programme is still scheduled for 22/6. We are holding an on the record briefing with two of their reporters on
Tuesday June 9 and we are likely to go ahead with a filmed interview with them on the 17°.

We've had some indication of lines of questioning, but I think we will get far more of a sense of this on Tuesday so will
update you after that. The current areas of questioning do include, for example, whether we trust what FJ has told us
about remote access. I suspect this will be a key area for the programme, given that it can be made to look
sensational (despite the fact that it is a complete red herring).

Let me know if you want more info —I’ll keep you updated as this moves forward.
Best wishes

Mel Corfield
Communications Team
Mobil

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U.
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
