POL00104777

POL00104777

Investigation Policy Page 1

CASEWORK MANAGEMENT (ENGLAND & WALES)

1. PURPOSE

The aim of this policy is to ensure that adequate controls are in place to maintain
standards throughout investigation processes.

2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES

Security Managers

3. POLICY

3.1 REPORTING STANDARDS

Policy Title
Version
Date

Industrial Tribunals have criticised the practice of refusing to disclose investigation reports
to interviewees on the grounds of privilege. As a consequence, it is now business
policy to release investigation reports to the subjects of those investigations during the
disciplinary process. It is therefore essential that consistent standards are applied by all
staff in the Security Community when compiling investigation reports to comply with
business requirements whilst avoiding unauthorised disclosure of sensitive material.

As a consequence of this criticism there is now a necessity for Security Managers to
prepare two reports, both of which are to be included within the case file. One report
be clearly marked
egal Services. The second report is to be marked
addressed ‘For the attention of the Discipline Manager’. This is
known as the Conduct report.

Conduct reports should detail the facts of the case, including admissions and denials,
and only contain allegations against an individual that can by supported by the evidence
collected during the course of the enquiry. Care should be taken not to express
unsubstantiated personal opinions, which might unfairly influence subsequent disciplinary
action.

Reports addressed to Legal Services must contain the same information as the Conduct
Report and also include the following:

* Accusations, suspicions or opinions which are unsubstantiated but nevertheless need
to be considered by Legal Services

* Allegations or suspicions directed against individuals not yet questioned

* Information or opinions concerning the reliability of witnesses

* Disciplinary findings against witnesses

* Personal details of informants

« CRO numbers

Casework Management
4.0
October 2002

POL00104777

POL00104777

Investigation Policy Page 2

CASEWORK MANAGEMENT (ENGLAND & WALES)

The

Policy Title
Version
Date

A copy of the Conduct report and a summary or transcript of the interview will be
submitted to the relevant discipline manager who will release a copy of the report to
the individual concerned during the conduct procedure in accordance with the business
conduct code. To preserve the integrity of the decision making process, reports will be
sent directly to the decision making manager concerned. This will be done by the
Prosecution Support Office.

The Prosecution Support Office will ensure that all investigation reports are vetted for
content before copies are supplied for disciplinary purposes.

In England and Wales, Legal Services will decide what information will be disclosed to
the Defence in compliance with the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996.

If during the course of an enquiry, failures in security or operational procedures are
identified which may or may not be directly connected with the offence/s under
investigation, full detail must be included within the report to Legal Services. If
necessary, any urgent remedial action can be notified to the appropriate operational
manager verbally. If a report is either requested or deemed necessary then this must
be out with the Investigation file. Legal Services must be notified of any
communication between the Security Manager and the operation.

The issue of dealing with information concerning procedural failures is a difficult one.
Some major procedural weaknesses, if they become public knowledge, may have an
effect on ss. They may assi commit offences against
iness, undermine a prosecution case, bring o L s into disrepute, or harm
relations with major customers. Unless the offender states that he is aware that
accounting weaknesses exist and that he took advantage of them, it is important not to
volunteer that option to the offender during interview. The usual duties of disclosure
under the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996 still apply.

When reporting the outcome of an enquiry, sufficient details should be provided for an
offender record to be made in respect of persons:—

- who have admitted offences

- who have been charged with an offence

- against whom a summons or warrant for arrest has been issued
- who resign to escape dismissal

- who are debarred for criminal reasons

procedure for reporting criminal offences to Police is detailed at Appendix 15.

Investigation reports should be marked
cases where the honesty of a member of staff may be in question and an appropriate
privacy marking should be used in all Children and Young Persons cases.

Casework Management
4.0
October 2002

POL00104777

POL00104777

Investigation Policy Page 3

CASEWORK MANAGEMENT (ENGLAND & WALES)

The standard preamble for investigation reports is set out at APPENDIX 6.

3.2 PROSECUTION CASEWORK

(a)

(b)

Policy Title
Version
Date

Details of evidential requirements, casework preparation and submission timescales are
set out in the Prosecution Guidelines

To maintain standards and ensure consistency, official forms should always be used in
preference to locally produced forms and proformas.

Casework should always be presented in standard SIS-supplied file jackets, with ‘Urgent
Today’ label CS104 attached.

Reports, including any preliminary incident reports, should be single sided and placed in
the file in date order with each page numbered consecutively in pencil at the top right

comer.

Typed tape summaries and statements should be paged in immediately following the
main investigation report in the order in which the interviews are conducted.

Legal Services will not recommend prosecution in respect of offenders who have not

been suspended from duty or dismissed therefore a copy of the disciplinary papers

should be placed in the file or forwarded separately to Legal Services immediately they

are available.

Enclosure envelopes should be used to enclose the following supporting documents:—
Appendix A

Copy Statements and, where appropriate, copies of original exhibits +

Appendices B, C etc.

Personnel Printouts

Friend forms

Search records

Antecedents

NPA Forms

Disclosure forms

Interview copy tape

Copy investigation reports - (3)

Copy Tape Summaries/NOI - (1)
Committal Bundles (if for Crown Court)
Copies of summons/indictments/Counsel’s advice as appropriate

Casework Management
4.0
October 2002

POL00104777

POL00104777

Investigation Policy Page 4

CASEWORK MANAGEMENT (ENGLAND & WALES)

Copies of any exhibits produced during the interview should also be enclosed in the
file.

An encompassing Privacy Marking should be applied to the file cover and relevant
markings to any subsequent sensitive enclosures.

All original exhibits must be retained securely by the officer in the case and provisions
must be in place to allow another officer access to those exhibits in unforeseen
circumstances.

3.3 CASEWORK MANAGEMENT

Policy Title
Version
Date

In the interests of fairness and in compliance with the Attorney General’s guidelines it
is essential that every case where an employee is given into custody or suspended
from duty must be dealt with urgently at all stages. This enables the separate
questions of prosecution and dismissal/disciplinary action to be resolved with minimal
delay.

To reduce the risk of files becoming lost/mislaid a central register of casework should
be maintained which logs all movement of all papers. Each investigator should maintain
an individual record of investigations for which he/she is responsible and regular
supervisory checks should be made of this record to ensure accuracy.

Prosecution cases should be regularly monitored for compliance with timescales laid
down in the Prosecution Guidelines.

A central record of offenders and action taken against them must be maintained by
each S & I unit.

All o our employees who are dismissed for criminal activity must be debarred from
future employment it af I and a copy of the debarment notice
must be supplied to SIS Vetting Section.

To ensure compliance with Data Protection Legislation investigation files should not be
circulated for information purposes, accounting action etc. These matters should be
dealt with by separate proformas.

Team Leaders should ensure all avenues of enquiry have been exhausted and all
outstanding matters have been completed in each case before an investigation is closed
and the papers filed.

Any procedural failures in the investigation or prosecution processes should be thoroughly
investigated and suitable action taken by reviewing working methods and the provision of
additional training where required. Any failures considered to be due to weaknesses in
existing S&l Standards should be referred to the Investigation Policy Manager at SIS

Casework Management
4.0
October 2002

POL00104777

POL00104777
Investigation Policy Page 5
CASEWORK MANAGEMENT (ENGLAND & WALES)
Corporate Security.
* The aspects to be covered in the final report on prosecution are detailed in Appendix
4,
. Priority Services must be used for the transmission of all files due to the sensitive
nature of information contained within. The only exception is internal mail.
* Cases and all related exhibits should be securely retained as follows:~
1. Flag or cases that attracted special interest, i.e. media/POSTCOMM 8
YEARS.
2. Cases that resulted in appeals or complaints "
3. All offender cases S
YEARS:
4. Unresolved cases of major loss/incident "
Cases where a member of our ff has come under suspicion
of dishonesty but guilt has not been proved " "
5. A series of systematic offences against 0 where the
offender/suspected offender is an outsider "
6. All other cases 3 YEARS
3.4 POLICE (PROPERTY) ACT 1897
* Many inquiries relating to any r property that has been stolen, are undertaken by
Police who are, of course, fully aware of the provisions of Sections 24 and 28 of the
Theft Act 1968. Investigators should do what they can to ensure that the opportunity
to recover official property in Police prosecution cases is not lost by default - e.g.
through the absence of a Business applicant or through inadequate liaison arrangements
with the Police force concerned.
© Applications for recovery of property obtained dishonestly where the property is in the
hands of the Police can be made under the Police (Property) Act 1897. Legal
Services must be informed if an action is contemplated. It is important to remember
that time is of the essence for making such applications because there is a six month
time limitation period from the time that the matter of complaint became due for
commencing proceedings in the Magistrates’ Court under the 1897 Act. In addition,
there is a separate six month time limitation period from the date of an order under
the 1897 Act for a person to commence legal proceedings against any person in
possession of property delivered by virtue of an order for recovery of the property
under the 1897 Act.

Policy Title
Version
Date

Casework Management
4.0
October 2002

POL00104777

POL00104777
Investigation Policy Page 6
CASEWORK MANAGEMENT (ENGLAND & WALES)
3.5 CRIMINAL BANKRUPTCY
In cases involving large sums of money advice concerning criminal bankruptcy should be
sought from Legal Services
4, Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version —‘ Type Policy
No.
41 Criminal Procedure & HMSO 1996 Act 3.1/3.3
Investigations PO Code of
Practice
4.2 PO Prosecution Guidelines 3.2/3
5. Document details
5.1 Author :
5.2 I Owner : Head of Corporate Security
5.3 I Audience: Security Community
5.4 Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,
4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ
5.5 Effective from : February 2002
5.6 Review date : February 2003
5.7 Last updated : November 2001
6. Assurance Details
6.1 Name: Mike J Heath/Brian Sharkey
6.2 Business Unit: Legal Services/P.O. Ltd.
6.3 Assurance Date: 29 November 2001
7. Final Review
7.1 I Approved by
7.2 Documented (Hard Copy) YES/NO Location:
7.3 “ YES/NO Location:
(Electronic )
Policy Title Casework Management
Version 4.0
Date October 2002
