POL00129337
POL00129337

One to One Meeting Record

Name: Robert Daily
Line Manager: Kevin Ryan
Date of meeting: 09/08/13
One to One period covered:

Celebrate key activities/Understand priorities/Imagine what you need to deliver activities

O

Priorities this month —

Balgreen Rd & Craigpark — POCA cases to be progressed to conclusion.

Winchburgh -— Liaise with Helen Rose to conduct interview.If Helen is not available do not allow
any delay in the progression of the case

Mental Health issues — provide reports to Jarnail re issues in progressing cases.

TORCH - Visits to be conducted by end of August.

Attempted robberies — Visits & phone calls to be made where appropriate.

Scottish Business Resilience Centre (SBRC) — Attend forum with SBRC & Police Scotland re
organised criminals targeting vulnerable people across Scotland with bogus workmen activity.
Security Compliance & Safety (SCS) — Ensure North Team complying with activities required to
progress programme. E.g. Cross Pavement Surveillance & Stripe. Some people have been given an
extension by me due to workload but they have been asked to diarise the patrols.

Police Engagement — Look to develop this over the next few months

How you demonstrate our Directorate Behaviours — Care, Challenge, Commit

Scottish Business Resilience (Crime) Centre (SBRC) — Actively engaged with members of the
Private Financial Sectors and Police Scotland through Physical and Vulnerable Adults at Financial
risk forums. These meeting are designed to minimise risk to our business through sharing best
practice and information.

Security Compliance & Safety (SCS) —Manage the SCS for the North Team organising Stripe
activities and Cross pavement surveillance. Stripe has progressed significantly and has with
significant input from myself developed into a compliance system for all CViT operations.

Solicitors — In full consultation with Jarnail Singh I have secured the services of Brechin Tindall,
Oatts to advise on all casework within Scotland. Advising BTO & Crown Office and Procurator
Fiscal (COPFS) over cases previously submitted in view of the Second Sight report.

Case Review - I have conducted a full casework review taking into consideration the Scottish Legal
system. I have engaged extensively with the aforementioned Solicitors. This consultation has
resulted in a considerably reduced administrative and investigative process bringing POL into line
with the Police and other prosecuting authorities within Scotland. This review commenced by myself
has reduced the time of report submission by minimum of 5 days.

Reward & Recognition Work stream — I have been an active participant in the Work stream
receiving significant recognition from the Work stream leader for my input and efforts.

Financial Investigators — I have long recognised that a Fl is required for Scotland as the Crown
Office has now deemed that Police Scotland Fl’s are no longer to be used as a Debt Collecting
Agency for external business. I have set up and attended an initial meeting with Police Scotland
and Post Office Ltd Fl’s. The meeting discussed how POL can access recovery from POCA
through a complicated legal system.

Lanark PO — I was informed on route to Aberdeen that a fire had destroyed Lanark PO following a
retail burglary. I took charge of the incident engaging with the Subpostmaster, NBSC, Grapevine,
Branch Support, CVIT and Audit though various times of the day to give updates.

Recognition — I have received recognition from personnel within Security & the business for my

121 *Name* *Date*
POL00129337

POL00129337

[endeavours
Progress against objectives Next milestone
On target
Areas for development/Support Activity Plan Progress

required/Time management

Robert requires support to progress I Support to be provided in I Expected delivery on cases by
his cases. Scotland 13" Sept 2013

Clearance has been given for as
many team members as necessary
depending on workload to support
the case you have

Action Points and Line Managers comments

e Case progression — Please utilise team members to progress case. If someone else needs to
take over your physical make the arrangements

e Torch visits to be conducted as agreed

Fraud case update; (cases causing issues delays etc).

Delays have been due to 2.5 weeks annual leave followed closely by’
On return the Second Sight report had been delivered and my cases submitted had been Sent to
Cartwright King (CK). I have been liaising with CK & Brechin Tindal Oatts (BTO) Solicitors re cases
submitted to PF.

This has caused delay in dealing with cases on hand including several historic cases where
Subpostmasters claiming mental health issues have been reported. It has been agreed that reports
regarding these are to be sent to Jarnail.

All other cases now need to be progressed.

Individuals comments

I am concerned that cases are not progressing however my Line Manager has been very supportive
and understanding to the reasons why. He has discussed this with me and is providing support to
help progress these.

I am happy with the start I have made to the year and I am being proactive in the projects I am
involved with.

Kevin has been very supportive since coming into the role as Line Manager and I find I can
approach him with any concerns and have done so. He has been proactive in obtaining support in
Scotland and I thank him for doing so.

121 *Name* *Date*
POL00129337
POL00129337

121 *Name* *Date*
