POL00448537
POL00448537

Voice of the Postmaster

Press Release — Voice of the Postmaster 15.01.24

We deplore the actions on the Post Office in the past and the present and we believe nothing will change and
the only way for Post Office Ltd (POL) to move forward is for a complete overhaul of the organisation, see
below:

1. Justice for previous Postmasters and compensation paid ASAP.

2. Existing Postmasters have not seen a pay increase in real terms since 2015 and they are paying for the
mistakes of the POL management of the past and present, this is unacceptable.

3. The removal of any employees from within POL that were employed during the Horizon Scandal period.
The revelations this week and throughout the Inquiry are not new to Postmaster or employees within
POL. This is common language, and the approach will never change without a complete overhaul.

4. The removal of Nick Read as CEO (he has been in the post for 5 years):

a. and has failed to provide compensation for the victims of the past.

b. failed with the cultural overhaul of POL.

c. failed to remove the CFO who was Vennell’s right hand.

d. failed to remove the CRO who’s conduct has been raised by many within the business and this
common knowledge within the Postmaster community.

e. failed to remove individuals drenched in guilt of the past and anyone involved in the business at
the time of the Horizon scandal, being silent is complicit and failing to act properly to right the
wrongs of the past.

f. Failed to reduce central costs creating and pursued the toxic bonus culture.

g. failed to hold to account the woeful postmaster engagement team, which is merely lip service
and has failed miserably.

5. Postmasters need to be involved in a material way in all levels of POL management, ultimately
accountability for the business executives should be to Postmasters.

6. Allexisting POL staff pay & bonuses must be linked with Network Sustainability & Post Office branch
profitability.

7. There must be an immediate overhaul of current branch remuneration to provide fair pay for the work &
responsibility Postmaster undertake, taking into account the overheads involved and the real cost to
serve.

Some examples of POL management errors which lead to Postmasters paying the bill and no repercussion to
the decision makers are listed below:

Central Costs.
Bonusgate.

ATM rollout.

DMB still not franchised.
Poor commercial terms.
Failure to deliver NBIT.
Payoff and rehire staff.

Noopons

Post office Ltd is living off the goodwill created by Postmasters in their communities. As independent
small businesses we hope you recognise that the previously trusted brand “Post Office” in the heart of
every community is us - the Postmasters NOT Post Office Ltd.

As a matter of urgency, we call on Minister Hollinrake to arrange a face-to-face meeting as soon as
possible. Not only with us, but also with POL Chair Henry Staunton, representatives of UKGI, DBT &
Lorna Gratton.

End of Press Release

