POL00084983
POL00084983

Casework Investigation

Casework Investigation

With the exception of culpability, (i.e. for breach in Security Policy during a
robbery etc.) this process involves recording and tracking all incidents /
discrepancies at Post Office branches that may result in former
subpostmaster debt.

Step 1

Receive ‘Event Capture’ form from the Auditors / Network Field Support
Team. (i.e. Containing discrepancy and branch details). e.g. An audit

discrepancy.

Step 2

Is there a requirement to raise a new case?

Step 3

If no, at step 2 create new record in ‘Incident’ workbook. (i.e. With appropriate

details). A ‘no’ decision is likely when there is no criminal activity.

Step 4

If yes, at step 2, the Security Investigation Team assign an Investigator to the
case.

Step 5

Complete ‘New Case Raised’ form with appropriate details. (i.e. Incident /
branch details).

Step 6

Notify Security Team, Financial Investigation Unit, where discrepancy is

>£20K. Go to step 1, Security and Investigation process flow chart.
Casework Investigation Business Process Documentation
Page 1 of 5

Step 7

Create new record in ‘Incident database’. (i.e. XLS workbook). This is used to
record, monitor and review the lifecycle of all matters raised for investigation.

Details comprise of the following:

Ref No.

Date recorded

Period Date

Branch Name

Branch Code

Post code

Location

Team Leader

Name of Multiple (where applicable)

Name of ‘other’ location involved (where applicable)

Date of Incident

Incident Type

Client Reference where applicable, i.e. Girobank cases, Missing voucher,
P&A Overclaims

Date referred back to client

Brief details

Loss

Named / Users

Outcome

Investigation Case Reference number (if applicable) Comments
Case may have been raised if workload and resource permits (Y/N)

Step 8

Create new case folder in Windows Explorer. (i.e. To store all relevant case
details).

Step 9

The Investigator assigned to case completes ‘Stakeholder Notification’ form.
(i.e. To inform stakeholders which Investigator is assigned to case).

Step 10

Receive ‘Stakeholder Notification’ form and update ‘Casework’ workbook.

Archive documentation in Windows Explorer folder.

Casework Investigation Business Process Documentation
Page 2 of 5

POL00084983
POL00084983
Step 11

Investigator completes ‘Suspect Offender’ form. (i.e. As a result of interview
with offender including a brief summary of admission / denials made at
interview).

Step 12

Update ‘Casework’ workbook. Archive documentation in Windows Explorer
folder.

Step 13

Receive ‘Suspect Offender’ report and ‘Investigation’ reports. There are two
types of ‘Investigation’ reports. (i.e. A personnel and legal report) Also,
acquire ‘Tape Manuscript’ of interview. Subsequently, update ‘Casework’
workbook. Archive documentation in Windows Explorer folder.

Step 14

Receive hard copy case file (i.e. Green folder) from Investigator. (i.e. Hard
copy evidence is required for legal reasons).

Step 15

E-mail ‘Personnel Investigation’ form and ‘Tape Manuscript’ to Contract
Advisor.

Step 16

Update ‘Casework’ workbook. Archive documentation in Windows Explorer
folder.

Step 17

Send hard copy case file (i.e. Green folder) from Investigator (i.e. Hard copy
evidence is required for legal reasons) to Criminal law Team. (Incl. taped
manuscript and Personnel Investigation’ form). Essentially, all hard copy
information is sent to the Criminal law Team.

Casework Investigation Business Process Documentation

Page 3 of 5

POL00084983
POL00084983
POL00084983

POL00084983
Step 18
Update ‘Casework’ workbook. Archive documentation in Windows Explorer
folder.
Step 19
Receive memorandum detailing recommendations (i.e. To prosecute) and
‘Schedule of Charges’ (if applicable) from the Criminal Law Team.
Step 20
Send case details (i.e. Investigation reports, tape manuscript,
recommendations, and ‘Schedule of Charges’) to Senior Security
Investigation Team leader. (i.e. Currently Julian Tubbs).
Step 21
Continue with case?
Step 22
If no, at step 21 notify stakeholders of decision not to proceed. (i.e. Contract
Advisor and Security Investigator).
Step 23
Update ‘Casework’ workbook. Archive documentation in Windows Explorer
folder.
Step 24
If yes, at step 21 notify stakeholders of decision to proceed. (i.e. Contract
Advisor and Security Investigator).
Step 25
Send hard copy case details (i.e. Green folder) to Investigator to acquire
‘Summons’. (i.e. A legal document issued by a Court usually requesting that
the offender attends a Court of law).
Casework Investigation Business Process Documentation

Page 4 of 5
POL00084983
POL00084983

Step 26

Receive ‘Summons’ from Investigator. Verify details with original case
information.

Step 27

Send ‘Summons’ to Group Security for previous criminal conviction check.

Step 28

Receive criminal conviction check at step 27 and notify Investigator of

outcome.

Step 29
Await Court Hearing.
Step 30

Receive ‘Sentence’ details from Criminal Law Team. Also, includes

repayment details.

Step 31

Investigator e-mails ‘Post Office Security’ inbox to close case. (i.e. Notify

stakeholders).

Step 32

Update ‘Casework’ workbook. Archive documentation in Windows Explorer
folder.

Step 33

Receive hard copy case file from Investigator and archive documentation.

ENDS

Casework Investigation Business Process Documentation
Page 5 of 5
