DRAFT REBUTTALS DOCUMENT (September 19 2014): In strictest confidence

POL00306723
POL00306723

Background: Our public stance will be that we will not comment directly on any documents or individual cases that are confidential to
applicants because applicants are assured of confidentiality under the Scheme’s terms of reference.

Rebuttals below are for non-attributable use against allegations that might arise and will be reviewed against the nature of enquiries.

Allegation

Rebuttal (all non-attributable)

comments

P2 Report/ Themes

You are trying to silence any critics

Nonsense. We have invested significant time and money into
thoroughly investigating the concerns of a small number of
sub-postmasters and we have been completely transparent
about this.

The Scheme is being run by a Working Group with an
independent chair. Every case in the Scheme is being
reviewed and applicants are being given as much support as
possible when it comes to making their claim.

We cannot comment
directly on any specific
documents relating to
cases because applicants
are assured confidentiality
under the terms of the
scheme

You are attempting to cut SS out of the Scheme

The Scheme is being run by a Working Group with an
independent chair.

Post Office, Second Sight and the JFSA are members of that
group.

Contracts

Sub-postmasters’ contracts are unfair and
biased in POL’s favour

The terms of the contract are broadly similar to those used in
franchising arrangements across the UK and reflect the basis
on which Post Office and thousands of sub-postmasters have
successfully conducted business for decades. The terms of
the sub-postmaster contract are jointly drawn up by the Post

POL00306723
POL00306723

Office and the National Federation of Sub-postmasters, which
represents the majority - 80% - of our independent agents.

Many sub-postmasters have not signed or been
given a copy of their contract

Sub-postmasters are business people and have the
opportunity to review the contract before signing, as well as
the opportunity to take legal advice if they wish to do so.

Post Office does not provide legal advice before
sub-postmasters sign the contract or even
advise sub-postmasters they should obtain it

Sub-postmasters are independent business people, with a
similar position to franchisees and therefore obtain legal
advice as they see fit on any aspect of running their business.
The majority of Post Offices are run on this ‘agency’ basis,
frequently within another business, such as a shop.

ATMs

ATMs can easily be “out of synch” with Horizon

Post Office has more than 2,000 ATMs at branches
throughout its network, successfully operated by sub-
postmasters and staff.

Both the ATM owner (Bank of Ireland) and POL have records
for ATM transactions and there are robust processes for
reconciliation.

It was easy for sub-postmasters to make
mistakes with ATMs and poor advice was given
by the Helpline

Post Office has more than 2,000 ATMs at branches
throughout its network, successfully operated by sub-
postmasters and staff. This supports the fact that operating
practices for ATMs are clear, understood and work in practice.

ATMs could cause loss of data/ corruption if
affected by power cuts or telecommunications
failure

We are confident that no data is lost or corrupted from
communication failures. The recovery process was process
was reviewed in detail by Second Sight and found to work.

We successfully manage and operate more than 2000 ATMs
throughout our network.
[If asked about power cuts/ telecommunications causing data

POL00306723
POL00306723

loss/ corruption more generally:

After more than two years of investigation, including by
independent forensic accountants, there remains no evidence
of any system-wide flaws in Horizon, including that power or
telecommunications failures cause losses in branches.

The system is designed to ensure that data is protected from
such events].

Post Office has not treated the possibility of
ATM external fraud seriously enough

Sub-postmasters are not liable providing correct procedures
and accounting processes are followed. We treat fraud
extremely seriously and work with our sub-postmasters and
staff to prevent it.

MVLs

Misprinting of Motor Vehicle Licences barcodes
could have caused significant losses for some
Post Offices

This is completely incorrect. The barcode defines overall cost
(not duration) and on scanning the code, Horizon invites
payment at the level so there would be no discrepancy.
There have been no widespread issues at all from any DVLA
misprinting of barcodes.

Lottery

POL did not finally eliminate the possibility of
synchronisation errors re Lottery scratchcards
until February 2012. There were serious and
frequent problems between 2005 and 2010

There have been no issues raised that indicate any problems
caused by the Horizon system.

We've continued to improve procedures to help sub-
postmasters, not because of any problems with the system.
The vast majority of sub-postmasters have been successfully
operating these services for years.

Audit trail/ Investigations

Post Office controls Horizon and back office
systems so sub-postmasters have to pay for
‘losses’ they cannot investigate

Sub-postmasters are enabled with the information they need
to run their accounts, which the overwhelming majority

manage to do successfully. Horizon tracks every transaction
made in a Post Office branch and logs the levels of cash and

POL00306723
POL00306723

stock held. Branches have always had access to line by line
transaction data each day which also includes method of
payment.

Default to seek evidence for false accounting -
not open-minded/ flawed approach/ does not
consider root causes

Post Office investigations are conducted on the facts of each
case.

But false accounting, by its nature, means that Post Office is
prevented from being able to identify and investigate any
transactions that might have caused discrepancies. It hides
any genuine errors.

Sub-postmasters were under pressure to falsely
account

There are no circumstances capable of justifying
committing the criminal offence of rendering a false
account.

If accounts are falsified it becomes impossible to distinguish
between genuine errors and intentionally false entries.

Sub-postmasters had records and diaries taken
from them and not returned when they were
suspended so were unable to prove innocence

Branch records are the property of Post Office and may be
taken away for investigation in the event of a sub-postmaster
being suspended.

In addition, there is no evidence that any sub-postmasters
who have been suspended have been prejudiced by POL
taking their records away for investigation.

This answer will be
revisited on final P2 Reply

Post Office has no incentive to investigate &
correct discrepancies because sub-postmasters
carry the risk and POL & customers benefit from
surpluses

Post Office has every incentive to make sure the system works
as efficiently and smoothly as possibly. We take discrepancies
extremely seriously, whether they result in shortages or
surpluses. Both are investigated and there is a robust
process for correcting errors.

POL deleted files for cases instead of operating
a “litigation hold” policy

Post Office holds information and files for 7 years [which is
normal business practice] where it is legally able to do so.
[Legal to advise: there could be circumstances in which we

4
POL00306723
POL00306723

would hold information, if able to legally do so, for longer for a
specific reason. But if we reasonably conclude that an
enquiry/ issue/ case is completed our policy is to retain for 7
years????]

Training and Support

Sub-postmasters were not trained properly

Thousands of subpostmasters have been successfully
operating Horizon for years having received training from Post
Office. We provide comprehensive training, which we have
continued to improve and which includes classroom and on-
site sessions. We also offer follow-up support and visits.
Nearly half a million [456,202] sub-postmasters and
employees have been using the Horizon system since its
introduction in [2004]. Around 2.5 billion transactions are
successfully processed each year.

Your Helpline gave poor, inaccurate or
contradictory advice to sub-postmasters

Horizon has been used successfully by almost half a million
[456,202] subpostmasters and employees since its
introduction in [2004].

Our Helpline for sub-postmasters, alongside a service for
technical enquiries is available to support them with any
queries. If these are not quickly resolved, further expertise is
available, including visits to Post Offices if necessary.

Horizon system

Subpostmasters’ accounts can be amended in
Horizon without knowledge of sub-postmasters/
staff

This is not and never has been possible.

Sub-postmaster can be held accountable for
shipments of foreign currency/ monies that
never arrived

This is not true. If cash/ foreign currency is not delivered
there is no loss to the subpostmaster.

System generated entries can be made under
sub-postmaster ID which is a design error

This is not true. Transactions are allocated to the user logged
onto the terminal and who takes the action.

5
POL00306723
POL00306723

Sub-postmasters have been bearing losses that
could have been designed out of the system

This is not the case. The vast majority of subpostmasters have
been successfully using Horizon for many years. Post Office
regularly reviews and improves Horizon and makes
enhancements based on user experience and feedback.

Horizon is not fully fit for purpose / there is still
evidence of “bugs” in the system

Horizon is operated by thousands of subpostmasters, the
majority of whom have not had any issue with the system
or the effectiveness of it. There are currently more than
78,000 users of the system and six million transactions
are processed by sub-postmasters and Post Office staff
every working day.

After an investigation spanning more than two years, there
remains no evidence of any system-wide flaws in Horizon.
The individual cases reviewed so far have not given rise to
anything that changes that position.

Mediation

It’s a sham - you are refusing to mediate cases
which SS recommends for mediation

We have invested significant resource for two years, to enable
thorough investigations and reviews and for the mediation
scheme. All the resulting material is being shared with the
applicants in the Scheme.

Every case is different and is being investigated and reviewed
individually on its facts.

We cannot comment on individual cases but we can confirm
that some cases have now been resolved and others are
progressing through mediation.

You allowed criminal cases into the scheme but
you are not mediating them and are essentially
telling people they can go back to the courts -

Every case is different and is being investigated individually
on its facts. We cannot comment on individual cases but we
are not ruling out potential mediation for any cases.

6
POL00306723
POL00306723

for many that is too late

You are refusing to even consider
compensation and in some cases you intend to
still chase disputed debts

We cannot comment on individual cases. The terms of the
Scheme assure applicants of confidentiality.

Every case is different and is being investigated and reviewed
individually on its facts.

Recent FOIs

You are refusing to provide the number of
transaction corrections made every year under
FOI.

Transaction Corrections are primarily to initiate a correction
where a branch has made an error in recording a transaction.
The issues that they are correcting may include an error,
omission or duplication by the user in recording a transaction
value into the system.

Transaction Corrections are primarily about the getting the
bookkeeping right. They do not indicate that money has either
been paid to or from subpostmasters.

[Insert position re confidentiality/ reason for non public
disclosure]

Answer to be adjusted re
latest on FOI enquiry

Cost of Scheme

You haven't included any potential liability costs
in your latest Report and Accounts but you must
be facing significant pay-outs

Post Office Limited prepares its Financial Statements in
accordance with international accounting standards, which set
out a clear definition of what constitutes a liability. Any
potential liabilities for the business are discussed with
external auditors who agree whether they meet the

definition and are required to be recognised in the Financial
Statements for any particular year.

This has also been given in
FOI response

You've spent £xk on SS alone so the cost of this
must so far be into millions of £s of public
money

We cannot discuss costs. [The Scheme must operate on the
basis of keeping case details confidential and it is important
we do not prejudice any possible outcomes]

We need to revisit this
answer (eg will we have to
provide in due course

7
POL00306723
POL00306723

under any FOl). Also we
can underline the
significant time and money
that is being spent
because we have been
committed to such
thorough investigation etc

Post Office closures

You closed some of the Post Offices after
suspending subpostmasters to avoid paying
compensation for their office closure

There is no truth at all in this. Our priority is to maintain
services for our customers and there is a strict code of
practice involving public scrutiny and consultation for changes
to the Post Office network. The network is also governed by
criteria to ensure customers have access to Post Office
services.

