POL00125273
POL00125273

Profile Form

Your Profile

The content that you provide will enable an assessment to be made of your suitability for
appointment to available roles within the new Security function. Should you be unsuccessful in your
application, the information will be used to identify your suitability for other redeployment
opportunities within Post Office.

If you wish to apply for the roles you detailed in your Preference Form, please provide detailed
evidence against the skills and knowledge areas highlighted within the Job Description.

To maximise your opportunities of being appointed into a suitable alternative role, it is strongly
recommended that you provide evidence in all or as many areas as possible.

Once completed, please submit this form to your line manager, with a copy to the SLT
consultation manager and Dave Pardoe.

Full Name: KEVIN JAMES RYAN

Pay Number: 9421

PERSONAL PROFILE

Please provide a brief summary of the personal qualities that you would bring to the role(s) that you
wish to apply for; and your career aspirations (in no more than 50 words).

Over the past 4 years I have developed my skills in the role of Security Manager to a level that I am
approached regularly by other members of the team for advice and assistance. One of my key
qualities is the ability to engage with local and National law enforcement at all levels as well as key
stakeholders.

Other qualities that I bring to the role are that I am approachable and work well both as part of a team
and individually. I can be left to get on with any work with little supervision and produce high levels of
work consistently. I have an excellent knowledge of the Post Office and its procedures as well as the
investigation process required in the role which is invaluable in both the physical and fraud sides of the
role.

POL00125273
POL00125273

RECENT CAREER HISTORY

Please provide details of up to three of your most recent roles within the last 3 years, within or
external to Post Office. Please provide details of your most recent role first and use bullets to list
your responsibilities and achievements. The following template should be used

Company/Department Position Held
Start Date Type of business
End Date

Key Accountabilities (max 10)

Key Achievements (max 5)

Security Manager for Post Office Ltd
Feb 2011 — now
© Conducting Fraud

Investigations/preventions in
accordance with PACE and proceed to
prosecution when appropriate.

e Police Engagement at all levels

© Physical Crime interventions both pre
and post incident managing people and
assets including risk assessments at all
PO sites

e Stakeholder Engagement

e Loss recovery

e  CVIT engagement including physical
inspections and procedural checks

© Involvement in Security Programmes to
reduce risk and loss.

¢ To ensure that the Security Operations
strand is fully engaged in delivering its
overarching aims and goals; namely a
reduction in Network and Supply Chain
losses.

e Maintain casework to defined triggers
& timescales policy with the flexibility
to deal with significant pressure points
as and when they arise

e Adopt a Post Office programme

© Development of Torch programme to
what it is today which is an activity that
involves teams from across the
business and a key crime prevention
activity.

« Adopt a PO success across the country
and the continuation of the police
engagement in order to increase police
take up of the initiative

© Receiving a Divisional Commanders
award from the Serious Crime Division
of GMP for the partnership approach
with regard to CVIT crime. I was the
only non-police officer receiving an
award

¢ Havering Trading Standards initiative —
Working closely with a number of
stakeholders including havering
Council, NFSP, Age Concern, Legal and
Compliance, Network Teams and Essex
Police to run a co-ordinated initiative in
Havering to prevent the targeting of
elderly and vulnerable customers.

¢ Crimestoppers Campaigns — Heavily
involved in the organising of 2
campaigns simultaneously in GMP and
Merseyside. His involved engagement
with the branches used to launch each
campaign, the press, network teams
and the NFSP.

Security Programme Manager Temporarily for
3 months — Team Leader

As above as well as line manager
responsibilities

TRAINING, EDUCATION AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT

Please outline relevant qualifications (held/ongoing) and or training received. You may also wish

to indicate membership of professional bodies. Professional qualifications should be recorded in

all circumstances.
Name of Qualification

Training for the role of
Security Including PACE,
Interview techniques,
statement taking etc

Situational Crime Prevention

A number of various Fraud
Investigation training

Date Achieved

Feb 2011

I Jun3 2012

Various

Institute Name

SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE

This section should be used to provide evidence of your skills and knowledge capabilities. You may

wish to use examples from your most recent roles to demonstrate these.

It is recommended you use bullets to ensure clarity of your evidence.

POL00125273

POL00125273
POL00125273

POL00125273

I wow the customer - Evidence/Examples

Divisional commanders award — Presented by the head of the Serious Crime division at GMP
for the partnership working with GMP and the professional way I assist with operations to
enable them to reduce CVIT crime across GMP. In particular this related to Op Kaya which
was an individual targeting a POL CVIT crew in Oldham. By working together to disrupt the
routes the male was identified and arrested before he could conduct the attack. This male
had no previous CVIT history but thanks to the joint approach any attack was prevented. The
citation for the award referred to my constant availability and quick turnaround of requests
for information and action if appropriate; in particular with regard to ongoing work with
Operation Vanguard in relation to CViT protection. DI Swift said

“Kevin has always been very approachable and the relationship is a fantastic example of
partnership working, he understands the covert nature of our work and despite us only
telling him 'what he needs to know ' and not disclosing any specific police tactics/operations
he is more than happy to assist in any way he can . This pro-active partnership approach has
led to a significant drop in the number of CIT attacks not just on the post office but across the
security industry. The Certificate stated that my skills, commitment, professionalism,
personal pride and expertise resulted in work to the highest standard.

Security Excellence Awards — I have now been put forward by the business for the Security
Manager of the year award at these awards and I am awaiting to see if I have been short
listeeking Trading Standards initiative — This involved obtaining the agreement of a number
of stakeholders and engagement with Law enforcement, Legal and Compliance, Network
Teams, Trading Standards and the NFSP to protect elderly and vulnerable people throughout
the Borough of Havering. I brought all parties together so that it was a co-ordinated launch
in all PO branches attending meetings in Essex with Trading Standards and the NFSP
representatives. This is now being looked at to be rolled out in other areas nationally and
will be presented at the Trading Standards conference in London. David Turner (Havering
Trading Standards) has expressed his gratitude of the hard work put into this initiative.
Police engagement — I attend monthly Vanguard/Guardian meetings in GMP and Merseyside
along with Security Managers from other CVIT carriers discussing and sharing best practice
relating to attacks and investigations. Working together this has reduced CVIT crime across
the North West. I have also become involved with the Serious Crime Division on a number of
occasions ensuring the safety of crews and postmasters. I have also been presented with a
Divisional Commanders Award at a ceremony at Police HQ from the Serious Crime Division
for the partnership working. I was the only civilians awarded at the event. I also have a good
work relationship with local Crime Risk Officers at GMP conducting joint visits following
robberies to see if security can be improved. They regularly contact me directly to discuss
issues/concerns.

Manchester Crime Prevention Panel — Invited to join the panel which aims to reduce crime in
Manchester City Centre in conjunction with Law Enforcement and other businesses across
the city centre. Quarterly meetings take place to launch initiatives and discuss concerns with
GMP.

Xmas campaign at GMP — I arranged for two POL CVIT crew to attend a Press launch at GMP
HQ to be interviewed by members of the press around attacks they had suffered. This was
used by the CVIT industry across the North West to highlight the effects of such events on
the crews.

POL00125273
POL00125273

I know the numbers - Evidence/Examples

e — CVIT Task Force Vehicles — I review and identify each week the areas that task force should
cover within GMP and Merseyside using the latest available data and intelligence received
by liaising with police forces, the depot and Grapevine. This is done to ensure the task
force are allocated to the highest risk areas. The same approach is given to the placement
of tracker i-boxes across Merseyside and Manchester. This has proved effective with
attacks being prevented by the Task Force on a number of occasions. I also discuss weekly
with other Security Managers the requirements of where the Task force vehicles should be
placed nationally.

¢ Divisional Commanders Award — part of this award was due to the reduction in CVIT
attacks across GMP and resulted from working together to ensure high risk deliveries were
protected as well as operations to prevent attacks.

* Security Visits Liverpool-Manchester corridor — I organised a programme of Security Visits
in the North West due to the area between Manchester and Liverpool having the bulk of all
robberies and burglaries in the North. This meant that over a 4 month period all 550
branches in the highlighted area received a call or visit from a Security Manager to ensure
adherence to the correct Security procedures

© Covering Steve’s area —I have recently taken over a 2" area with regard to Physical
security covering Merseyside, Cheshire and North Wales more than doubling the number
of branches within my area and I am actively managing incidents in both areas and
delegating incidents to other team members when necessary to ensure all reports are
submitted to timescale.

«Atm attacks in Wirral - Having had 2-3 attacks on internal ATM’s in the area using the same
method of disabling the final set button I mapped all the branches onto autoroute that had
ATM’s to look for a pattern. Those that had been attacked were along the M53 corridor. I
organised for the team to contact all the ATM branches in the area and gave instruction on
what to look for. I also arranged for temporary fogging kits to be installed in those
branches that did not have them. I also arranged for additional alarm monitoring by
ROMEC. On a couple of occasions tampering with the button was discovered but no further
attacks were made.

POL00125273
POL00125273

I challenge to make us more efficient - Evidence/Examples

Torch -This has now become a programme in its own right rather than a part of the
Robbery/ Programme. Over a period of 2 years I have developed Torch from a series of
visits occurring once a year to a structured approach involving all the major stakeholders
affected by it or who may want to input into the programme. I have held meeting with
Branch Standards, Network Support and the Contracts Team to develop a process whereby
these visits are co-ordinated, targeted and consistent. With the help of Security analysts
and the Branch Standards analysts a database has been developed allowing Security
Managers to load up their findings and with the support of Branch Standards a quicker
response to failures has been arranged. Torch revisits are arranged targeting those
branches with failures previously to ensure that they have adhered to the written
directions sent out. The opportunity will also be provided to Branch Standards and
Contracts Teams to identify branches that they want to see visited.

Torch has now become a business as usual activity involving all stakeholders. The
responsibility for this programme has now moved to someone else to maintain but I
received recognition from my Team Leader who described it in the following way.

“\n my opinion this is the one of the most proactive crime prevention measures available
to secops. Your efforts, as outlined, in developing with stakeholders is a credit to you.
Torch is now a National project of significance and I need to look at how the department
can support fully your continued endeavours and permit you to complete your day job at
the same time”

Adopt a PO — I have now become involved with adopt a Post Office and have been
engaging with Police Forces across the country to try and have this initiative taken up. I
have recently been able to launch Adopt a Post Office across the entire Merseyside Police
area. This has taken a lot of work in getting the buy in from Network Teams and the NFSP
but this has proved fruitful in Merseyside and the initiative is now up and running. Adopt a
Post Office has also gone live in parts of Northern Ireland, Essex, West Midlands and
Manchester. Forces in the North East have now agreed to roll out Adopt a Post office in
Northumberland, North and South Tyneside, Sunderland, Newcastle and Gateshead. I
have also discussed and gained interest from Cheshire and Police Service Scotland.

I-box Tracker installation — I have recently co-ordinated the introduction of tracker boxes
into Manchester Depot. This has involved meeting with Grapevine, GMP and Merseyside
forces to put together response plans following an activation and putting processes in
place to ensure that someone at the depot takes responsibility for ensuring they are
allocated to the right routes and charged consistently to prevent failures. I also made sure
that the details of the boxes allocated to each van were forwarded to Grapevine each
morning and monitored this to ensure accuracy. The introduction went very smoothly
which was highlighted by Andrew Scott meaning that we have quickly increased the
number of boxes at Manchester.

Cases on hand worksheet — whilst acting as team leader the 2" sight report came out and I
was asked to formulate a cases on hand spreadsheet so that Fraud Cases could be
monitored and actions reviewed. This was put together at very short notice prior to what
was to become a case file governance meeting and involved long hours to have it ready in
time. I received recognition from John Scott for the work put in making it fit for purpose.
Delivering torch and cross pavement training to task force drivers — As the role of the Task
Force Driver increases I spent time with two of them delivering training and providing the
necessary paperwork to enable them to feel confident in conducting Torch visits and Cross
Pavement observations.

POL00125273
POL00125273

I work with others - Evidence/Examples

¢ GMP Excellence Awards judging panel—I was invited to take part in the judging panel for the annual awards
that shortlisted the nominations so that the most appropriate nominees were put forward to the Chief
Constable in advance of the awards. I received a letter of thanks from Janet Hadley (Chief Constables
Personal Assistant) for my contribution and attendance at the judging panel.

e Adopt a PO -as above

«¢ Crimestoppers Campaigns — I have recently been heavily involved in the organising of 2 campaigns
simultaneously in GMP and Merseyside. This involved identifying the branches to be used and engaging with
them prior to the campaign. I was also involved in dealing with any press enquiries, ensuring that the local
NFSP reps were aware and invited along to the launch as well as ensuring all Network Teams were also made
aware. This proved to be a successful campaign and has led to the introduction of Adopt a Post Office across
Merseyside.

« NFSP — Full engagement takes place with local and national reps in all aspects of my role including Fraud
cases, Torch Visits, adopt a Post Office or any other initiatives I am involved in.

Stakeholder engagement for Torch — as above

e Urgent CVIT police Op in Midlands — I was contacted by Gordon Grant (who was on Annual Leave) to say that
there was some intelligence about a possible attack that may take place in the NG postcode area the
following day. He provided me with a contact at East Midlands Serious Crime Unit (Dave Cox) who was
organising things. I immediately got in touch with Dave Cox who stated that the threat was, at that time, none
specific but the normal M.O. of the target(s) meant it could take place either during a delivery or soon after a
delivery. He asked for information on routes in the NG area for CVIT deliveries by PO vehicles which were
provided after contacting the depot. He said that he would keep me updated on any potential threat and
would ring me the next morning to discuss. At this point it was not Post Office specific.

Dave Cox contacted me at 10.15 am the next morning and asked the question that if needed how much notice
would be required to close a Post Office and re-direct a CVIT vehicle to a place of safety. After explaining that
we would not want any of our crews involved or any Post Office he clarified that they would be “taken out”
before any such attack occurred. I informed him that I would have to obtain the contact numbers for the PO
and the CVIT vehicle in order to arrange this and asked for 30 minutes notice.

The CVIT vehicle was due at the Post Office (High Road, Beeston) at 11.15 so he told me that he would call me
back at 10.45 with a decision.

At this point a decision was made not to wait but to divert the CVIT vehicle to safety. Dave Cox had no issue
with this and the vehicle was instructed to drive immediately to the nearest Police Station. The vehicle parked
up at Ilkeston Police Station and stayed there until the all clear was given.

At 10.45 am Dave Cox rang to say that the PO should close its doors. I contacted the postmaster and
explained that there was a security alert raised by the police and that he should immediately close the
branch, secure all assets and ensure all customers had left the premises. He was then to ensure that all staff
remained in a secure location until I gave him the all clear. I contacted Dave Cox every 30 minutes to obtain
an update on the operation and he gave me what information he could, This continued until approximately 12
o’clock when I received a call from Dave Cox asking for details of another branch in the NG8 area that he
needed that to close immediately. He stated that the threat against the vehicle had passed as well as High
Road Post Office. The CVIT vehicle was cleared to continue on its route and the PO could re-open.

The other branch turned out to be Ambergate Post Office, NG8. The same procedure was followed at this
branch with the PM asked to quietly close the branch. There was no threat here against CVIT as no deliveries
were due today. I continued to call Dave Cox at 30 minute intervals until approximately 2 pm when he said
that the threat had receded.

Dave Cox suggested that the branch stayed closed for the rest of the day but following further discussions
agreed to provide passing cover to both branches using ARV’s for the rest of the day and beyond. I contacted
the PM and gave him the option to stay closed or re-open as there was police cover being provided. He opted
to re-open and was complimentary of how he had been kept informed. Dave Cox has said that the threat has
probably been disturbed with all of the actions taken. Both postmasters were given advice around following
procedures once they re-opened.

Dave Cox explained that the original threat was generated from analytical intelligence that became stronger
as the operation went on but the threat switched from information about the other branch

This was a fast moving operation in an area that I was not familiar as it was outside of the North Team area
but DI Cox thanked me at the end of this for the response and support given to him and his team throughout
the day.

POL00125273
POL00125273

I deliver results with pace - Evidence/Examples

e NTrisk assessments —I have recently been involved in conducting in-dept risk assessments at a number
of branches within the North West. This was to try and develop a way of increasing the number of
branches going open plan by increasing the levels of security equipment installed. I co-ordinated the
visits seeking assistance from colleagues where required and to a tight timescale and ensuring all reports
had been fully completed before being submitted to the Equipment and NT Teams. This trial involved
meeting with the NT lead team to ensure that there was a full understanding of what was required and
that the assessments were accurate and that any recommendations were included. I received thanks
from Nikki Dummett and the NT team for the professional manner that I conducted the assessments.

Op Pound — Following the discovery of forged £1 coins in the Manchester area I worked closely with
GMP, Lancashire Police and the NCA to track incidents across the North West. I ensured that all branches
where kept informed via text blasts and memo view messages throughout. I assisted in the recovery of
CCTV footage providing copies to local law enforcement which eventually led to the arrest of a male in
Lancashire who was found in possession of a large number of coins. I received thanks from the NCA for
keeping them updated and have continued to update them .

e DNA taggant unit deployment — As part of the robbery programme I was asked to meet with Romec and
Kevin Patnell as well as the company (Selectamark) that had designed the DNA taggant temporary kits to
discuss their use and deployment. While at a meeting at ROMEC I received some intelligence from West
Yorkshire Police about a possible robbery threat at a branch that had been subject to a robbery a few
months earlier. I suggested that we use this branch to trial the kit which was agreed. I then contacted
the police and the branch informing them about the kit and our intention to deploy it at the branch as a
deterrent. I personally delivered the kit to the branch the next morning where I met up with a Romec
engineer and a representative of the company that developed it. I stayed onsite until the installation was
complete offering guidance on the best location for the equipment to be fitted and ensuring that the PM
was happy with using it. I then set about identifying a further 9 branches on a risk basis around the
Merseyside area that could have these units installed. Once identified these branches were forwarded to
the equipment team to arrange installation. Recognition received from Kevin Patnell for the speed at
which this was planned and implemented. This was also covered in the Security Newsletter.

« Adopt a Post Office — This programme has grown enormously over the last 6 months to a point where I
have introduced it force wide in Merseyside and have agreed the same approach in the North East.
Other Forces have introduced it in smaller trial areas with a view to extending it if successful.

© OP KAYA - This refers to a dynamic operation by SOCG responding to intelligence from the GMP FIB to
identify a lone male committing violent armed robberies across GMP. Following a pro-active operation
with my support the subject David Clinton JONES, was identified and observed conducting
reconnaissance of a Post Office cash delivery vehicle in the Oldham area thanks to the alertness of the
crew in spotting him and reporting the vehicle. This led to an operation to ensure the safety of PO
personnel and cash meaning that I had to change routes, liaise with the police and ensure all drops were
covered. Following further observations the subject was arrested by SOCG Officers. A series of searches
resulted in the recovery of three imitation firearms, identifiable clothing used in a series of robberies,
balaclavas, gloves and three stolen vehicles. JONES entered an early Guilty plea and he was sentenced to
5 years custody for Robbery Offences and 2 years custody, to run concurrently, for Firearms Offences.

e  CVIT patrol leading to dismissal — I was asked by the depot manager to perform a patrol with the shift
manager at the depot following route revisions as they were concerned that some of the routes were
not working. We followed one vehicle for almost 6 hours without the crew noticing. A number of serious
failures were highlighted throughout the patrol. Photographs were taken throughout the day and the
crew were debriefed on their return to the depot. Both the driver (resigned) and the escort (dismissed)
have now left the business and this has sent a clear message through the depot that non-conformance to

procedures will be dealt with

POL00125273
POL00125273

I develop myself and others - Evidence/Examples

¢ Team Leader —I covered the Team leader role for almost 3 months on a temporary basis
when Keith left. This came at an exceptionally busy time when the 2" sight report was
published. This resulted in a lot of work being generated around case file governance and
meant regular trips to London at very short notice. I was also tasked with putting together
the case file spreadsheet and adjusting it as and when requested by John Scott. This
resulted in long hours and on regular occasions working late into the night to ensure it was
fit for purpose. I also had to embed two new members of the team into their new roles and
allocate workloads to them. I received recognition from John Scott for the work on the case
file process and from Andy Hayward on my performance in the role and was recognised in
the weekly communications newsletter. I left the role after three months which was a
difficult decision but right for me but I have continued to support the team leader since.

«Manchester Crime Prevention Panel — Invited to join the panel which aims to reduce crime
in Manchester City Centre in conjunction with Law Enforcement and other businesses
across the city centre. Quarterly meetings take place to launch initiatives and discuss
concerns with GMP.

¢ Police Commissioners forum at Essex Police — Attended the forum to increase interest in
Adopt a Post Office and the Trading Standards initiative in Havering.

« Home Office Forum in North east —I have attended a LOCAL PARTNERSHIP WORKING ON
SERIOUS AND ORGANISED CRIME seminar ran by the Home Office in the North East
building up a Network of contacts in the area and will pass this information throughout the
team to enable greater engagement and partnership working

¢ — CVIT folders on sharepoint — As part of the TCG it was suggested that all cash centres and
depots should have their own folder on the sharepoint site to record such things as police
intel, attack reports etc as well as a log of contacts made to local FIB’s to assess the risk to
our sites. I was tasked with putting together such folders and the call log that recorded all
calls to FIB. I completed this for Manchester CVIT depot and forwarded for approval. This
was well received and passed to all Security Managers to replicate for their depots and
cash centres. At the TCG it was stressed that all Security Managers should be following my
process for Manchester with as much contact and details in the log as possible. I have
received recognition from Rob and Andy for putting this together.

POL00125273

POL00125273

PERFORMANCE RATINGS

Most recent Full Year rating Current Mid-Year Rating Previous Full Year rating
(2013/14) (2013/14) (2012/13)
3 4 4

Additional Comments
Please use this area to add any further information you believe supports your profile.

I have now worked for the Post Office for almost 30 years and have worked in Security for nearly 4
years as a Security Manager in the North West. In this time I have built up strong relationships with
Greater Manchester Police and my local CVIT depot and in doing so forged a partnership to combat
CVIT offending as well as Post Office Robberies and Burglaries. The relationship with GMP which
involved bringing police and CVIT crews together for crime briefing sessions making crews less
vulnerable to attack and this activity was cited as a primary reason for a reduction in offending. I
have received a Divisional Commanders Award from the GMP serious crime division who
highlighted this as an example of a successful police and commercial partnership.

Over the past 6 months I have supported the business transformation programme with open plan
offices allaying criticism and concern the police have had with a robust risk assessment
process. This has meant conducting detailed risk assessments on a number of branches in the North
West.

I have also been responsible for the implementation of “Adopt a Post Office” in a number of areas
across the country including the recent launch of the initiative across the Merseyside Police Force
area and will shortly implement this across the North East.

More recently I have been heavily involved in the launch of Crimestoppers campaigns in Liverpool
and Manchester. Again working closely with the charity and local police and this has proved to be a
resounding success.

Fraud investigations are still a major art of the role though PACE interviews are more infrequent
and I continue to progress all cases in a timely manner updating stakeholders at each step.

Individual’s Authorisation
Please enter full name here and ensure the form is sent from your own e-mail account

Kevin James Ryan

Date: 3/10/14

Please submit this form to your SLT consultation manager, with a copy to Dave Pardoe by
Friday 3" October 2014.

