POL00097588

POL00097588

From: The Rt. Hon. James Arbuthnot, M-P.

HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA OAA

7 March 2013

Alice Perkins

Chairman

Post Office Ltd

1° Floor, 148 Old Street
London EC1V 9HQ

Qe Actiee

As you know, I am hosting a meeting on Monday 25 March at 5pm, in Room N at Portcullis
House here at Westminster, about the SubPostmaster / mistress issue. The meeting is to
take the form of an update from Ron Warmington and Ian Henderson of Second Sight on
how their investigations are proceeding. I wonder if you might be free to attend, along with
any of those of your colleagues you deem it is appropriate to invite? I have invited al! MPs
who have constituents who have raised this matter with them, Alan Bates, who heads the
Alliance for Justice for SubPostmasters, and Kay Linnell, who is working with him. I do not
propose inviting media.

Initially I thought that having representatives along from the Post Office might compromise
the appearance of complete independence that MPs are looking for from the Second Sight
investigations, but Ron and Ian have persuaded me that it is essential that the Post Office is
represented, I would very much like you to be there.

They tell me that investigations are proceeding well, and that your ongoing support and
willingness to continue funding their efforts is enormously appreciated. I am writing to MPs
this week letting them know this, so that they are not under any illusion of your
commitment to this process. It is very important that they see this, and I shall do my utmost
to bring it to their attention.

i Website: www.jamesarbuthsot.com

POL00097588

POL00097588

I would like to raise two matters here, and these are things that may need a conversation
between you and me, either in person or by phone if that is easier, before the meeting. In
my discussions with Ron and Ian, I gather that questions have been raised over the
absolute integrity of Horizon, though without their being so fundamental as to say that the
system is not fit for purpose. Since it is a system that remains in current use, there is the
risk that existing SubPostmasters and mistresses may find themselves in exactly the same
position as those whose cases are being investigated. I know that definitive results are not
yet available, but I hope the Post Office would be ready to address this issue.

As I mentioned earlier, I am not inviting media to this meeting. Nevertheless, it would be
expecting too much of MPs, if they were told that there were questions marks over Horizon,
to demand that they keep their constituents in ignorance of a potentially promising
outcome. It would damage the process we are all committed to if the Post Office were not
well prepared with a ready solution to this problem, among others, that could be offered
publicly in this meeting.

Finally, you know as well as I that MPs will want to voice strong defence of their
constituents at this meeting. I will circulate a proposed agenda the week prior to the
meeting, and chair the event, and would hope that this will keep things on track, but I
would like to warn of the possibility that there will be very robust questioning of the Post
Office by MPs on behalf of their constituents. I for my part will want to stress the points
raised in the final paragraph of this letter.

Iam more than happy to take this up with you before the meeting, and in fact it might be
best if we could have a word. I am away during the week 11 March, but a meeting or phone
call the next week might be a very good idea. My office knows your office may seek this,
and will arrange.

I would like to say in conclusion that I am impressed beyond my expectations with not only
how the investigations are proceeding, but of your continuing support. I cannot recall a
more important campaign, nor one where the end result has been so consistently supported
by all parties involved. You have my gratitude and admiration for how the Post Office is
handling this.

Lot

GR

