POL00246005
POL00246005

GRO
12:09 PM (UTC)

Parsons, Andrew,
Sent: Mon 28/11/2016

To:
Ce:
; Lukas, Elise
Subject: RE: Letter to Freeths - legally privileged [BD-4A.FID26896945]
Attachment: _DOC_34439504(3)_Rider re Remote Access.DOCX
All

Please find attached the updated version of the Remote Access section for approval.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner

Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Tin

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Parsons, Andrew

Sent: 28 November 2016 12:41

To: ‘Jane MacLeod’

Cc: Rodric Williams; Mark Underwood1; Patrick Bourke; Rob Houghton; Thomas P Moran; Prime, Amy; Lukas, Elisa
Subject: RE: Letter to Freeths - legally privileged [BD-4A.FID26896945]

All

Please find attached the updated "remote access" wording. The general direction of your comments was to be less
apologetic in tone and less repetitive, both of which we've tried to accommodate in the attached.

The key issue is how far we want to go in accepting that incorrect statements have been made in the past. I believe
that some of the drafting / tone changes are coming out of us not having a settled view on this issue. May I suggest
that we discuss this point at 5pm with Tony and then we can finalise the drafting after that?

Kind regards
POL00246005
POL00246005

Andy

From: Jane MacLeod
Sent: 28 November 2016 07:42
To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Rodric Williams; Mark Underwood1; Patrick Bourke; Rob Houghton; Thomas P Moran; Prime, Amy; Lukas, Elisa
Subject: Re: Letter to Freeths - legally privileged [BD-4A.FID26896945]

Andy

In light of the comments received overnight, is it possible to look at 'just' the remote access wording and re-circulate
that this morning? I would prefer not to circulate the wording from yesterday's draft more widely (Paula, Al, Mark D,
Angela etc)

Could you let me know if this is possible?

Thanks

Jane

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
The Post Office

Sent from my iPad
On 27 Nov 2016, at 09:39, Parsons, Andrew

All

Please find attached a draft Letter to Freeths in response to their last substantive letter (copy also
attached). This incorporates comments from Tony and Rod.

The majority of this letter addresses legal and procedural points. The key substantive area is section 9
on Remote Access (in particular, Rob, I'd be really grateful if you could review this section).

Following feedback from Deloitte, we cannot definitively say that PO (as distinct from FJ) never had the
ability to change Horizon data because Deloitte and the current staff at FU just don't have enough
knowledge of Old Horizon to confirm this. This was a point made in an early draft but it has now been
removed.

We have (I hope) now found a formulation of words that avoids having to overtly throw FJ to the wolves
and avoids any risk of waiving privilege in any documents, but still gives us a fair story to tell. We have
also toned down the admissions of making incorrect statements, though they are still there. I hope this
might make it easier to get this letter cleared through GE and FJ.

We have a call scheduled for 5pm tomorrow with Tony which we can use to run through any comments.
Comments by email before then are also welcomed.

The final version of the letter will be thoroughly proof read before sending so please ignore any typos.

Kind regards
Andy
POL00246005
POL00246005

Andrew Parsons
Partner

Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Tin

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

1 and any attachments is confiden Freeetonly
mail and any attachments. If you :

soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is

The information in this e

is authorised to access this,

prohibited and may be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will

any loss or

Wve been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for
mage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it,

This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered
office is 4 More London Ri e, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a m
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GBI

er of

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

<Letter of Response.pdf>
<_DOC_34430591(1)_Response to Letter of Reply_ 27 November 2016.DOCX>

22 2B FER fA RFR fC 2 FARR C00 FSR C0 Ro RR COR ACO RGR a aa

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FCO RRC ICR ICICI RR ICC IR A ICC oR FCC RoR ICC oR FCS ACCOR oR CCGA CACAO OR oR ACCOR GR A CAC
