POL00105470
POL00105470

{ . Page I of 2

” Glenda C Hansen

From: Alice Perkins f
Sent: 24 February 2012 11:33

To: Paula Vennells; Susan Crichton; Glenda C Hansen
Subject: Fw: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

From: ARBUTHNOT, James :_
Sent: Friday, February 24, 20:
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: RE: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

Dear Alice,

How very kind. Thank you. May I ask you to come to me please? I shall ask my office to be
in touch to arrange this.

tam grateful to you,

Yours ever,
James

From: Alice’Perkin:
Sent: 23 February
To: ARBUTHNOT, James

Subject: Re: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

Dear James,

Thanks for your email below.

Of course, ! would be happy to talk to you about this. I could come to you if
you like or alternatively, you could come to our Head Office and see some of
our new kit In our Model Office as well as talking about this.
“What would you prefer? And what's your diary like?

Yours ever

Alice

Fro} IT, James
Sent: Thursday, February 23, 2012 09:57 AM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Subpostmasters ahd the Post Office

Dear Alice,

You may remember that when we last met at, I think, Ditchley Park I
mentioned the Issue of the Horizon computer system In use In Sub Post
Offices throughout the country, and sald I had a real concern about the way
some of the sub-Post Masters in and outside my constituency had been
treated. I have spoken to Orna Ni Chionna as well about this, and she may
mention it to you,

13/03/2012

POL00105470
POL00105470

POL00105470
POL00105470

Page 2 of 2

May I please come and see you about it? I know it is the position of the Post

Office (supported by the National Federation of Sub Post Masters, though not by

the Communications Workers Union) that there Is nothing wrong with Horizon. I

am deeply sceptical about this, and hope I can persuade you to look afresh at the \
matter, rather than accepting that there should be a closing of ranks round the
computer,

T look forward to hearing from you.
Yours ever,

James

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

www.jamesarbuthnot.com

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify
the sender and delete It from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying Is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage
caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.

UK Parliament Disclaimer:
This e-mail [s confidential to the Intended recipient. If you have received it In error, please notify
the sender and delete it from your system, Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying Is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability Is accepted for any damage
caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.

UK Parliament Disclaimer:
This e-mail ts confidential to the Intended recipient. If you have received tt in error, please notify the sender and
delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted, This e-mall has been
checked for viruses, but no liability Is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mall.

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received It In error, please notify the sender and delete it from
your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying Is not permitted, This‘e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no
liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.

13/03/2012

POL00105470
POL00105470

