POL00021837
POL00021837

Message

From: Patrick Bourke [.

Sent: 08/06/2015 21

To: Rodric Williat Parsons, Andrew [i
f Melanie Corfield

Subject:

NOT FOR NOW (need sleep !) but fyi and for discussion at some point pls.

From: Ron Warmington - 2nd Sight
Sent: 08/06/2015 22:17
To: Patrick Bourke

5 Chris Holyoak
Subject: Re: Media Enquiries

Patrick: we shall expect Post Office to apply some self-restraint in its desire to dismiss as incorrect or inadequately
evidenced any of the findings in our Briefing Report - Part Two. Absent any opportunity for Second Sight to reply (to
Post Office's 'rebuttal' report and to anything said on air in the Panorama programme) we expect time, and the
exposure of both Reports to public scrutiny, to expose any errors that we have made... and also to expose any that Post
Office has made in dismissing our findings. We stand ready to admit to anything that we have got wrong, but we expect
Post Office to do the same.

As you are probably aware, it was our conformance to the prior agreement to minimise - in our Briefing Reports - any
identification of case-level data that reduced the amount of 'evidence' referred to in those Reports. It was
consequently, in my view, most inappropriate that Post Office levelled at Second Sight the criticism that its Briefing
Report - Part Two was as it were light on supportive evidence.

Regards. Ron.

Sent from my iPhone

On 8 Jun 2015, at 15:39, Patrick Bourke <

Dear lan, Ron & Chris

You may or may not be aware that the BBC is considering producing a Panorama documentary on Post
Office, Horizon and the Scheme.

I know that you are already well aware of your Terms of Engagement but I nonetheless take this
opportunity to remind you of the restrictions which apply to all contact with the media under clause 8 of
those Terms in particular, and of the need to respect confidentiality more generally. I should stress that
any breach will be strictly enforced by Post Office.

Kind regards

Yours sincerely

Patrick

Bourke

POL-0018316
POL00021837
POL00021837

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JHB ISO IDI SBI IOI ISO HDI III ISO IAAI SIDI DIA DII ASOD III IIA

SOHO IG SOIC IORI O RII SIDI ODI IID ODI ASAI SOD AIS OASIS AI

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Pere e tree ter etree ret treteetret tte tee treet tciec ter tet ietrer tir)

POL-0018316
