POL00142755
POL00142755

From: Lesley J Sewellf!
Sent: Thur 09/02/2012

5 AM (UTC)

To: Mike Young}.

Ce: Dave Hulbert

Subject: Fw: Horizon Breakdown ‘1st February
Mike

This is Daves response.

There really needs to be s discussion with the branch manager.
L

H

From: Dave Hulbert

Sent: Wednesday, February 08, 2012 10:47 AM
To: Lesley J Sewell

Subject: RE: Horizon Breakdown 1st February

Lesley,

Pervez Kakvi's branch is Barton Road and since September of last year it's logged two calls with the Horizon Service
Desk both for counter printers, which were fixed within the SLA response times. Therefore I believe we are looking at
the service disruption caused by the major incidents we’ve had over the last couple of months; and nothing that
merits close monitoring of Barton Road specifically.

In terms of a response, please have a read of this and see what you think. I’m trying desperately to avoid talking about
the contractual arrangements with Fujitsu as I don’t think this helps.

Pervez,

Thank you for your email. We fully recognise that it’s not good business for our hard working subpostmasters or the
Post Office to be turning customers away, so we are working hard to prevent further issues. Whilst Horizon is
generally a very reliable service, over the last few months it hasn’t been good enough and we are urgently reviewing
how we can improve it. Our focus is on working with Fujitsu to add and improve the controls and monitoring we have
in place.

I'd like to apologise for the recent issues and to reassure you that we are taking action to prevent further disruption to
the service.

Regards
XXX

Dave Hulbert

Senior Service Manager

IT - Post Office Ltd

Dearne House, Cortonwood Drive, Barnsley. $73 OUF
Mobil }

Email

Building a Post Office we can all be proud of

-----Original Message-----

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 05 February 2012 17:02

To: Dave Hulbert

Cc: Mike Young

Subject: FW: Horizon Breakdown 1st February

FYI

Can you look into this and see what happened with this particular branch.

Also what response did we give to the NFSP last week.
Can you also draft an appropriate response.

Thx

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 05 February 2012 04:21 PM

To: Pervez Nakvi; Mike Young

Cc: (NFSP-HQ) George Thomson; Lesley J Sewell
Subject: Re: Horizon Breakdown 1st February

POL00142755
POL00142755

Mike/ Lesley, Pervexpz is a respected SubPostmasters (who also happens to be a magistrate I think - hence the court

references.

I'd be grateful if you would reply. It is very frustrating to receive mails like this. Pervez is right to raise it. It is my
understanding that Horizon is reliable and we are within the tolerances. But if trusted individuals like Pervez are now
not feeling that is the case, are we monitoring the right metrics? And if we think we are, might it be possible for you
to get a direct link to Pervez so that we can monitor accurately what is happening in his branch. (Pervez - it may be
that perception is worse than reality, as any outage is not acceptable to staff and customers; but it is possible that it is

within acceptable tolerances.
Thank you for flagging it.
Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 4 Feb 2012, at 16:47, "Pervez Nakvi" <

POL00142755
POL00142755

> Paula

>

> lam sure you were expecting my email but I have been quite busy in court hence did not get time.

>

> On Wednesday before I left for Court I turned down 7 customers who wanted to withdraw the £600 limit and then
on I was informed by my wife that she and the staff also turned down another 8 during besides the other usual
withdrawals during the period when the Horizon went on its usual mood swings

>

> lam sure there should be a clause in the contract to penalise Horizon for these constant breakdowns, as such these
can be passed on to the subpostmasters to offset their losses and frustration when this happens

>

> By the law of probability, I am sure it will happen again at peak periods especially at Christmas

>

> Thanks and Regards

>

> Pervez Nakvi

>

>
