CURRICULUM VITAE
Personal details: ROBERT. DAILY.

KNOWLEDGE

POL00105143

POL00105143

Currently part of Post Office Investigations team I have the knowledge and skills required for the post, with detailed
Knowledge of Corporate Security investigation policies and standards, Criminal Justice System for area of responsibility,
PACE, RIPA,CPIA and the Data Protection Act. I am also coherent with Crime Risk management and Crime prevention

Principles. I also possess an understanding of Royal Mail letters Collection, Processing and Delivery operations.

SKILLS

Investigations Manager _ Post Office January 2005- To Date

Judgement & Decision

Analytical

2007-2008 The Financial Investigators have recently issued a Financial
Evaluation form. I recently completed and submitted one within timescale
for a case I was involved in. I received a phone call the next day from a
Financial Investigator congratulating me on the information I included. He
further said it was the standard of information they were requiring. I intend
to forward the completed form to my colleagues to assist them in the
relevant information required to progress a Financial Investigation I
recently received a call from member of Strathclyde Police’s Scottish Crime
Drug Enforcement Agency. They were looking to set up a process were
people placed under witness protection could receive a Post Office Card
Account. I contacted a Commercial & Contract Manager within Post Office
Ltd and was given a contact for JP Morgan. I am currently liaising with JP
Morgan and Strathclyde Police to arrange for contact to be made with each
other.

Organisation

2007-2008 I continue to submit all cases within the appropriate timescales. Where further enquiries
are required I have submitted interim reports. These again have been submitted within the
appropriate timescales. As an extra measure I have in place a system where I calendarise all review
dates for cases on my Lotus Notes Calendar. I place a reminder on the calendar and set the alarm to
alert me a report requires submitting for a case. If a case is due for review when I am on annual
leave, I set the alarm for the Friday or earlier prior to my leave. I am now in the process of making
up a crib sheet as a reminder of what to do and the appropriate timescales when a case is received.
Prior to a planned job I complete submit a PORA form. For a recent enquiry I completed and
submitted four PORA forms. Two were for the Subpostmistress and Assistant on the day of the
planned audit. A third one was completed prior to the interview with the assistant at a later date.
The fourth one was completed prior to visiting the Subpostmistress to take a statement.

Leadrership

2007-2008 I recently had an audit arranged for an office, when I received a
phone call from my Line Manager the day prior to it. A higher priority
situation had arisen where £178050.00 of cheques had been reported as
remitted from a Sub Post Office Branch had not been received. All
arrangements were changed so the enquiry could be carried out at this
branch. I liaised with my colleague and we ensured all relevant information
was obtained from the Management system to assist with the enquiry. I
completed and submitted a Post Office Risk Assessment form and ensured
the Stakeholder Notification was completed and forwarded to the relevant
Contracts and Services Manager. I also liaised with the auditors and
Business Development Manager to arrange the time to meet the next day
for the audit. I took ownership of a case from a colleague where it was
alleged an ex Subpostmaster had evacuated a branch, gained entry to the
Post Office area and transacted personal bills without payment. The
suspect had been written to on several occasions inviting him to interview.
As these were ignored it was decided to contact the local police and
arrange to have him arrested under PACE. Along with a colleague I
attended the suspect’s home where he was arrested and transferred to the
Police Station. Prior to the interview I met with the duty Solicitor for
disclosure of evidence. I then interviewed the suspect and arranged for him
to be bailed and to attend at an agreed date for further enquiries to be
carried out. On the agreed date I attended the Police Station where I

informed the suspect he was being released from bail.

EDUCATIONAL ACHEIVEMENTS

Higher English (Gained at night School)

English O Grade

ADDITIONAL RELEVANT QUALIFICATIONS

Biology O Grade

Geography O Grade

NVQ Customer Services 3.

City and Guilds for Recruitment and Interview Techniques
Customer Care
Management Skills
Competent in using Microsoft Word, Excel and Powerpoint. I also hold a full, clean Driving Licence.

WTL Supports Workshop
Telephone Skills

e¢ SKILLS MATRIX

© Whaat specific skills do you have?
© (Please select by double clicking in the box the ones that you use most frequently):

Customer Enquiry handling
Problem solving
Teamworking
Planning/organising
Process improvement
Working with suppliers

range of HR products
Specialist knowledge base:
Recruitment

Learning

eoee

Relations
People Change
Other (please specify below):

Broad knowledge base across a

Advice & Guidance/Employee

DO OKKR WkRRXRXKRR

Pychrometric Testing

Arithmetic O Grade

Presentation Skills

Infinium

EDIS

Lotus Notes
Microsoft Access
Microsoft Excel
Microsoft Project
Microsoft Word

Microsoft Flowcharter
SIRIUS
SAP HR

OOO WkWwWORON

POL00105143
POL00105143
