POL00151730

POL00151730
From: Patrick Bourkef_
Sent:
To:
Subject: RE: Freedom of Information request - Second Sight report - New Freedom of Information

Request

Indeed. If we avoid releasing to anyone under FOI, that would be good — it may just be possible since most interested
parties will get the report as applicants or applicants’ advisers and others may not take it beyond internal review...

Pp

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 28 March 2015 08:33

To: Patrick Bourke

Subject: Fwd: Freedom of Information request - Second Sight report - New Freedom of Information Request

Not that it makes any difference but the request could be from Scott.
B

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

I Postline: 5460 2418

belinda.crowe(

Begin forwarded message:

From: Tom Wechsler!
Date: 27 March 2015 23:28:44 GMT
To: "Parsons, Andrew’

Rodric Williams!

} Melanie Corfield

} Mark R Davies “} Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: Freedom of Information request - Second Sight report - New Freedom of Information
Request

Fear not. In Patrick (and for 2 days Belinda) we have genuine experts in Fol in the team.

At the risk of stating the obvious, they are seeking to get us to release the draft to compare against a
final version that may be amended to actually take account of all our comments when completed. That
will (in their eyes) prove we have “gagged” SS. That is precisely what I would do if I were SS and co.

lam crediting them with too much guile but I believe they are being advised. If I am correct, and on the
basis we can probably only hold on to the drafts vs final for so long, I would “to assist the applicant”
release the lot — drafts, our comments, supporting evidence etc - (at the end of every 20 day period etc)
stating in terms via our response why SS are incompetent.

Tom
POL00151730

POL00151730

From: Parsons, Andre
Sent: 27 March 2015 1
To: Patrick Bourke; Rodric Williams; Tom Wechsler

Cc: Brooks, Victoria

Subject: Re: Freedom of Information request - Second Sight report - New Freedom of Information
Request

Patrick

Is POL going to hand over the report in response to the FO! requests? My initial reaction is not to provide
the report if at all possible (on my limited FO! knowledge I recall some exemption for draft docs?). I think
that resisting disclosure shows Darlington that he cannot circumvent the Scheme processes via FOI.

A
Andrew Parsons

Managing Associate
Bond Dickinson LLP.

From: Patrick Bourke {,
Sent: Friday, March 27, 2015 03:31 PM

To: Rodi I “} Tom Wechsler

Parsons, Andrew
Subject: FW: Freedom of Information request - Second Sight report - New Freedom of Information
Request

To see Steve Darlington’s FOI request for P2.

From: FOITEAM

Sent: 27 March 2015 15:26

To: Patrick Bourke

Cc: Melanie Corfield; Belinda Crowe; Mike Granville; Jane Hill

Subject: FW: Freedom of Information request - Second Sight report - New Freedom of Information
Request

Patrick,

Please find below 3" third request for the Second Sight Report which will be due on the 28
April 2015.

Just for information purposes the other two requests are due as follows:

James Arbuthnot MP - 09 April 2015
Karl Flinders - 13 April 2015

On a further point following your email to Jane McLeod on the management of the latter
two requests, can you let me know if we will be in a position to respond by the 9th? If not
then let me know indicating the Exemptions we are considering to extend under the Public
Interest Test so I can send out an update.
POL00151730
POL00151730

Many thanks,

Kerry Moodie
Information Rights Manager

1st Floor

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London

From: S. Darlington
Sent: 27 March 2015 14:51
To: FOIA

Subject: Freedom of Information request - Second Sight report
Dear Post Office Limited,

Please send me a full copy of the second report into the Post Office Horizon accounting
system, carried out by independent company Second Sight.

Please dont answer by saying 'you do not hold this information’
I already know that you have received your copy
Yours faithfully,

S. Darlington

he wrong address for Freedom of Information requests to Post
lease contact us using this form:
https://www. whatdotheyknow. com/change_request/new?body=post_office

Disclaimer: This message and any reply that you make will be published on the internet.
Our privacy and copyright policies:
https://www.whatdotheyknow.com/help/officers

If you find this service useful as an FOI officer, please ask your web manager to link to us
from your organisation's FOI page.

Je IORI IO IIIS III IID II IIE SII III III IIS II II IOI IIIA IE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.
POL00151730
POL00151730

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law. tom.wechslerf’
is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not tom.wechsler please notify andrew parsonf
soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is

prohibited and may be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus deteetion software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be eaused by software viruses and you should earry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment,

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number
0C317661. Our registered office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX. where a list of members’ names is open to inspection,
We use the term partner to refer toa member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is
GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
