Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

7.4 Interviewing Suspects

Version 1.0 Final
March 2011

Review Date: March 2012

Ray Pratt
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Security

POL00104867
POL00104867
Contents

Key Accountabilities
Introduction
Interviewing General
Planning and Preparation
Engage and Explain
Account

Closure

Evaluation

. Special Considerations
Change Control

Glossary

BIKNeWNHR

POL00104867
POL00104867
POL00104867
POL00104867

Key Accountabilities
Who is What do I have to I When do I have I How do I do
accountable? I do?

to do this?

this?

All members

of Royal Mail I with these

Security

procedures

Ensure you comply I Ongoing

As detailed
within these
procedures

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing

Suspects V1.0 - Page 3 of 15
POL00104867
POL00104867

Interviewing Suspects

1.1

Introduction

A suspect interview is the questioning of a person regarding their
involvement or suspected involvement in a criminal offence with the
aim to obtain facts and evidence in a search for the truth. The
model used to obtain this evidence in a fair and proper manner is
the PEACE model which has been acknowledged as the best practice
model. PEACE stands for;

Planning & Preparation

Engage & Explain

Account

Closure

Evaluation

Planning & Preparation. Planning is the mental process and
preparation is the physical aspect of getting ready for the
interview.

Engage & Explain. Engage is the human element of building a
rapport with the interviewee and explain deals with the
formalities, e.g. legal requirements, interview processes etc.

Account. Is the core of the interview where the suspect has the
opportunity to provide an account/explanation about the matter
under investigation. The interviewer will want to clarify and
summarise the account and challenge any inconsistencies.

Closure. This is the formal interview closure element where the
interviewer will explain what happens next and answer any questions
the suspect may have.

Evaluation. This has three elements, the first is a review of the
information obtained during the interview and how it fits in with
other accounts, secondly a review of the evidence accumulated over
the whole of the investigation, and finally it is where the
interviewer reflects on their own personal performance to identify
improvement opportunities.

Interviewing General

Under Section 67(9) PACE 1984 “Persons other than police officers
who are charged with the duty of investigating offences or charging
offenders shall in the discharge of that duty have regard to any
relevant provision of such a code”. Therefore all suspect
interviews in England and Wales must be conducted in accordance
with PACE 1984 Codes of Practice (CoP), Codes C & E. In Northern
Ireland interviews should be conducted in accordance with PACE (NI)
Order 1989 CoP, which practically mirrors the provisions in England
& Wales. PACE does not apply in Scotland nevertheless the
provisions of PACE should be seen as best practice guidelines.

Quick Reference Guides (QRG). QRG have been produced as aide
memoirs that Investigators may wish to use during suspect
interviews. The QRG cover both interviews on tape and notes of
interview and can be found as Appendices to these P&S as follows;
Appendix 1 - Interviewing Suspects on Tape QRG England &
Wales.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 - Page 4 of 15
2.3

POL00104867
POL00104867

Appendix 2 - Interviewing Suspects on Tape QRG Scotland.
Appendix 3 - Interviewing Suspects on Tape ORG Northern
Ireland.
Appendix 4 - Interviewing Suspects using Notes QRG England
& Wales.
Appendix 5 - Interviewing Suspects using Notes ORG
Scotland.
Appendix
Ireland.
Two trained Investigators shall be present at suspect interviews.
If any additional Investigator/trainee is present and the
interviewee agrees to them remaining they should be inconspicuous
and not take any part in the questioning. They will be required to
identify themselves on tape and explain their role at the
interview.

oa
1

Interviewing Suspects using Notes QRG Northern

Support Investigators (Second Officer). The reason for the
presence of a support Investigator (second officer), apart from
health & safety reasons, is to assist in the effective conduct of
the investigation. The support Investigator would be expected to
intervene if there is a breach of PACE or the rules. They will be
part of the interview process taking notes as appropriate.
Additionally they may ask questions, deal with forms and exhibits
and may be required to attend court to verify the interview
proceedings. Support Investigators can make use of the Support
Investigator Aide Memoir, form GS014, during suspect interviews.

Legal Advice. At all interviews with suspects under caution the
suspect has the right to legal representation and advice. The
suspect is entitled to consult and communicate privately with a
solicitor, whether in person, in writing or by telephone and
suspects must be informed of this right.

Facilitating Legal Advice. The suspect must be informed or reminded

of their right to legal advice at the outset or recommencement of

the interview following a break. In addition they must be informed

that;

2.6.1 The Investigator can provide assistance in contacting a
solicitor if the suspect wishes.

2.6.2 The interview can be delayed while legal advice is
obtained.

Accordingly Investigators can obtain lists of solicitors by

visiting the following internet sites;

2.6.3 England and Wales -

http://www. lawsociety.org.uk/choosingandusing/findasolicitor.law

2.6.4 Northern Ireland -

http://www.nilsc.org.uk/solicitors.asp?on=solicitors

2.6.5 Scotland - http://www.lawscot.org.uk/find/

Or alternatively in Scotland legal advice can be sought from the
Public Defence Solicitors Office on ior through the
Duty Solicitor Scheme by contacting a police station.

Interview rooms. As far as practical suspect interviews should be
conducted in rooms which are adequately heated, lit and ventilated
and the suspect shall not be required to stand. The room should
additionally afford privacy for the suspect and if they are not
under arrest the door must remain unlocked.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 - Page § of 15
2.8

2.9

2.10

2.11

2.12

2.13

POL00104867
POL00104867

Tape recorded interviews. It is ‘Business’ policy that interviews
with suspect offenders are tape recorded, (or recorded using
another recognised recording media such as CD or DVD at police
stations). There will be times when tape recording is not possible
and where hand-written Notes of Interview are an acceptable
alternative. The occasions are set out in paragraph 2.9 below.

Written Notes of Interview. Hand-written Notes of Interview are

acceptable in the following circumstances;

2.9.1 Malfunction of the tape machine where no alternative is
available and the interview cannot reasonably be delayed.

2.9.2 Interviews conducted where the interviewee objects to the
tape recording.

See paragraphs 4.21 and 4.22 below. Authority must be sought to use

Notes of Interview.

Smoking in interview rooms is not allowed. Should an interviewee
ask to smoke, consideration should be given to suspending the
interview and directing the suspect to an area where smoking is
permitted.

Refreshments and breaks. Consideration should be afforded to the
suspect in the provision of food at habitual meal times or at other
times that take account of when an interviewee last had a meal.
Regular drinks should be provided and short refreshment breaks of
at least 15 minutes should be taken at two-hourly intervals.

Sleep. Interviews with suspects should not be conducted when they
would normally be sleeping unless the suspect, and if applicable,
their legal representation and appropriate adult agree.

Special Warnings under the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act
1994, Sections 36 and 37. RM Security Investigators are not able
to issue “Special Warnings” as the power is only conferred on
constables. However, Investigators should be aware of them in case
they believe in arrest cases a Special Warning from a constable is
appropriate. An adverse inference may be drawn by a Jury if, after
due warning from a constable, the suspect fails or refuses to
account for any objects, marks or substances, or marks on such
objects found;

2.13.10n their person;

2.13.2In or on their clothing or footwear;

2.13.3 0therwise in the possession or,

2.13.4In the place they were arrested.

Or the arrested suspect was found at a place at or about the time
the offence is alleged to have been committed, and the suspect
fails or refuses to account for their presence there.

Planning and Preparation

Pre Interview Disclosure. If a legal advisor attends a suspect
interview they will request disclosure of available evidence prior
to the interview commencing. The Investigator should decide at the
planning stage how much to disclose and when. Further information
on pre interview disclosure can be found in Appendix 7 to these
Pés.

Bad Character Evidence. The Criminal Justice Act 2003 introduced
new procedures in respect of the admissibility of Bad Character
evidence. If the defendant’s Bad Character is relevant to the case

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 - Page 6 of 15
4.6

POL00104867
POL00104867

then the courts and juries can be made aware of such character.
Such evidence can be used in the interview to challenge a defence
which is not plausible. Prior to introducing evidence of this
nature into a suspect interview advice should be sought from the
Criminal Law Team (CLT). Further information on Bad Character
Evidence can be found in P&S 5.3 Rules and Continuity of Evidence.

Engage and Explain

Nature of the Enquiry. At the outset of the interview the
Investigator must inform the suspect of the nature of the enquiry
and explain in detail the reasons why they wish to interview them.
This includes detailing the specific offence in simple terms and
explaining why the Investigator wishes to speak to that particular
suspect.

Recording equipment. In England and Wales Investigators should tell
the suspect about the recording process and point out the
illuminated lights on the recording machine which show that the
recording equipment is activated and recording.

Caution. If there are reasonable grounds to suspect a person of a
criminal offence they must be cautioned before any questions or
further questions are put to them about that offence or their
suspected involvement in it.

Explaining the caution. The caution must be administered clearly.
The wording of the caution is different in England and Wales,
Northern Ireland and Scotland. The exact wording is contained in
PACE (if applicable) and replicated in the relevant QRG detailed in
paragraph 2.2 above. After being cautioned a suspect must be asked
if they understand it. If the Investigator has any doubt whether
the suspect understands the caution or not then it should be
explained to them. A suggested explanation is given on the QRG.

If the suspect still appears unsure of the meaning of the caution
Investigators must consider recommending Legal Advice.

Breaks. After any break in the interview, the suspect must be
reminded that they remain under caution. If there is any doubt the
caution should be given in full when the interview resumes.

Arrest Status. Each time a suspect who is not under arrest is
cautioned or reminded that they are under caution they must also be
informed or reminded that they are not under arrest and are free to
leave. A record of this must be made either on tape or in the
notes of interview.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 - Page 7 of 15
POL00104867
POL00104867

4.7 Legal Rights. Prior to commencing or recommencing an interview
under caution a suspect must have their legal rights explained to
them. If the suspect is not under arrest this is done by
completing the Legal Rights form, (GS001, GSOC1(S) or GSOC1(NI) as
appropriate). It is at the discretion of the Investigator whether
the form is initially completed at the outset of a taped interview
with the tape machine running or, to encourage a free flowing
conversational management style interview, completed prior to
turning the tape machine on. If this second option is chosen
Investigators must ensure that all the legal rights are reiterated
in full on tape. Should the suspect be under arrest they will be
offered their legal rights by the Police custody staff. Again the
appropriate legal rights should be reiterated at the commencement
or recommencement of the interview.

4.8 Declining Legal Advice. Should the suspect waive their right to
legal advice in England, Wales and Northern Ireland the
Investigator should ask them if there is any reason why they don’t
want legal advice and a record made of any reason given. Once it
is clear that a suspect does not want to speak with a solicitor in
person or on the telephone they should cease to be asked their
reasons. A suspect is not obliged to give reasons for declining
legal advice and should not be pressed to do so.

4.9 Declines Legal Advice because they cannot afford it. If a suspect
indicates that they do not want legal advice because they cannot
afford to pay for it then they should be reminded that that a
solicitor will give them advice regarding legal aid. If they still
decline legal advice in England, Wales and Northern Ireland the
suspect should be informed that publicly funded legal advice is
available under the Defence Solicitor Scheme, if the interview is
conducted at a Police Station, with the suspect attending
voluntarily, not being under arrest. In Scotland they should be
informed that publically funded legal advice may be avai
through the Public Defence Solicitor’s Office (PDSO) on {
i r if the PDSO does not operate in that particular area then
arrangements can be made with the local police to see if the Duty
Solicitor can be contacted.

4.10 Continuing Right. The suspect should be informed that if they do
not exercise their right to legal advice at the outset of the
interview they can change their mind at any stage during it. This
point must be reiterated if the suspect indicates that they do not
think they need legal advice. If during the course of the
interview, the suspect indicates in any way that they may need
help, or they want or need legal advice, or are considering using a
solicitor, or specifically asks for a solicitor then no further
questions must be asked until the matter of the suspect receiving
legal advice has been addressed. No Investigator should at any
time, do or say anything with the intention of dissuading the
suspect from obtaining legal advice.

4.11 If the solicitor that the suspect has nominated or selected from a
list;
4.11.1 Cannot be contacted;
4.11.2 Has previously indicated that they do not wish to be
contacted or,
4.11.3 Has been contacted but declined to attend.
of 15

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 - Page 8
POL00104867
POL00104867

Then Investigators should offer to assist the suspect in obtaining
another solicitor. If the suspect declines the offer of consulting
with another solicitor the suspect should be treated the same as in
paragraph 4.8 and 4.9 above. If they still decline the offer the
reason should be recorded in the relevant section of Part 1 of the
Gs002, or in Scotland the GS002(S). Additionally in these
circumstances the interview may only commence or recommence if a
Senior Investigation Manager (SIM) has given authority for the
interview to continue without legal advice. When such
authorisation is given the Investigator must record full details of
the authority, including the name of the SIM in both the authority
form and the interview record. Following the interview the GS002
or GS002(S) should be forwarded to the authorising SIM, to
retrospectively complete Part 2 and return to the Investigator. If
in police custody advice should be sought from the Custody Officer.

4.12 If a suspect who initially wanted legal advice subsequently

changes their mind the Investigator must;

4.12.1Ensure that the suspect is advised of the availability of
the Defence Solicitor scheme if they attend a police station
voluntarily, or in Scotland they may qualify for publicly
funded legal advice through the PDSO or through the Duty
Solicitor scheme as appropriate. If they still wish to
continue without legal advice they should be asked their
reasons and must agree in writing that they do not want legal
advice. Again the relevant section of Part 1 on the GS002 or
GS002(S) should be completed.

4.12.2Authority must then be obtained from a SIM to commence or
recommence the interview without legal advice.

The SIM is obliged to inquire as to the reason why the suspect has

changed their mind before authorising a continuation of the

interview. When such authorisation is given the Investigator must

record full details of the authority including the name of the

authorising SIM on the relevant GS002 or GS002(S) and in the

interview record. Again, following the interview the GS002 or

GS002(S) should be forwarded to the authorising SIM, to complete

Part 2, and return to the Investigator. Again if in police custody

advice should be sought from the Custody Officer.

4.13A solicitor may give advice over the telephone. In these
circumstances the Investigator should confirm that the suspect is
happy with the advice they have been given and are content to be
interviewed without their solicitor being present.

4.14 Information on dealing with defence solicitors and complaints by
suspects can be found in Appendix 7 to these P&S.

4.15 Friends. Every member of RMG Ltd staff and every Post Office Ltd
agent or agent’s assistant, interviewed by an RM Security
Investigator, for whatever purpose, must be offered the presence of
a friend at interview. It should be made clear to suspects that
the offer of a friend is an additional right, not a replacement of
the right to have a solicitor present. The suspect has the right
to take up the offer at any stage of the interview.

4.16 Acceptable Friends. If the offer of a friend is accepted, the
person to be interviewed should be asked to nominate a friend. It
should be carefully explained that friends are defined as follows;

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 - Page 9 of 15
POL00104867
POL00104867

4.16.1A friend invited to attend an investigation interview must
be aged 18 years or over and;

4.16.2Cannot be someone involved in the inquiry and;

4.16.3They must be an employee (for Post Office Ltd agents and
agents assistants this may be extended to include other
agents or agent’s assistants) who may be the local union
representative or an official of the recognised union.

4.17 The response to the friend offer should be recorded on the GS003 by
the suspect. If a friend attends the interview they should be
asked to read and sign form GS003 agreeing to the conditions
imposed on them.

4.18 Investigators should exercise discretion as to how long any enquiry
may properly be delayed in order to secure the attendance of a
friend. If it is clear that the enquiry will not be adversely
affected, all reasonable latitude should be allowed. However, if
the Investigator believes the expected delay to be unreasonable the
suspect should be asked if they want another friend who is more
readily available.

4.19 Prior to conducting searches if a friend is present the suspect
should be asked if they want them to remain. If no friend has been
present the suspect should be asked if they want one specifically
to attend the search(es). When an interview recommences after a
break the suspect should be reminded of their right to have a
friend present.

4.20 The friend rule does not apply where a person is in custody at a
police station.

4.21 Suspect objects to the interview being tape recorded. If the
suspect objects to the interview being taped the Investigator can
continue on tape, if they feel this best serves the interest of the
investigation, (they may well have to justify this decision at any
subsequent court proceedings) or they may record the objections,
turn the tape machine off and continue by way of Notes of
Interview.

4.22 Authority to use Notes of Interview. Should the circumstances
detailed in paragraph 4.8 be applicable then authority should be
sought from a SIM to proceed by way of written notes of interview.
A record of reason and the authority should be made in both the
SIM’s and the Investigator’s notebook. Should the interview be
conducted within a police station then authorisation of the custody
officer is required.

5. Account

5.1 Principles of Investigative Interviewing. When interviewing
suspects (or witnesses) there are established principles that
interviewers should observe (Home Office Circular 22/1992 refers);

Principle I The role of the Investigative Interviewer is to obtain
1 accurate and reliable information in order to discover
the truth about the matters under investigation.
Principle I Investigative interviews should be approached with an
2 open mind. Information obtained from the person who is
being interviewed should always be tested against what
the interviewing officer already knows or what can

ail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 ~ Page 10 of 15
POL00104867
POL00104867

reasonably be established.
Principle I When questioning anyone an Investigator must act fairly
3 in the circumstances of each individual case.
Principle I The interviewer is not bound to accept the first answer
4 given. Questioning is not unfair merely because it is
persistent.
Principle I Even when a suspect exercises the right of silence,
5 Investigators still have the right to put questions.
Principle I When conducting an interview, Interviewers are free to
6 ask questions in order to establish the truth.
Principle I Vulnerable people must be treated with particular
7 consideration at all times.
Comments made outside interviews. Investigators must make a

written record of any significant statements or comments, including
unsolicited comments made by a suspected person, which are outside
the context of an interview but which might be relevant to the
offence. Details of such significant statements should be recorded
in the Investigator’s notebook, dated, timed and signed by the
maker. The suspect should be given opportunity to read the notes
and invited to certify them as a correct record, or indicate any
respects which they consider them to be inaccurate. Any refusal to
sign the notes should be recorded. Significant statements and
comments should be referred to on tape or in the notes of
interview, when the interview commences.

During an interview any items of evidence shown to the suspect must
be described and be given an item identifying mark, usually the
initials of the person first producing the item followed by a
number, e.g. AB/1. If the exhibit consists of multiple items (e.g.
documents, postal packets) and the Investigator subsequently refers
to a specific item from within that exhibit, this document/postal
packet should be allocated a reference number that links it to the
original, e.g. AB/la, AB/1b etc.

Suspect wishes to tell the Investigator about other matters. If the
suspect indicates they want to tell the Investigator about matters
not directly connected with the offence and they are unwilling for
these matters to be audio recorded or recoded in the notes of
interview the suspect should be given the opportunity to tell the
Investigator at the end of the formal interview.

Closure

Ending the Questioning. The interview or further interview of a
person about a suspected criminal offence must cease when the
Investigator in charge is satisfied that all the questions they
consider relevant to obtaining accurate and reliable information
about the offence have been put to the suspect and/or sufficient
evidence exists to prove the offence. At the end of the questioning
interviewees must be given the opportunity to add to or clarify
anything that has been said.

Second caution England, Wales and Northern Ireland. If the
Investigator in charge of the investigation reasonably believes
that there is sufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect
of conviction for the offence they should inform the interviewee
that they may be prosecuted and caution them. In England and Wales
the caution is; “You do not have to say anything. But it may harm

POL00104867
POL00104867

your defence if you do not mention now something which you later
xely on in court. Anything you do say may be given in evidence”.
The second caution for Northern Ireland is on the relevant QRG.

At the end of a tape recorded interview Investigators must hand to
the suspect a form GS019, Notice to Person Whose Interview Has Been
Tape Recorded, or the Police equivalent. The notice explains what
will happen to the tapes and how the suspect or their solicitor can
obtain copies should the suspect be charged with an offence or
informed that they will be prosecuted. There are different forms
GS019 for Scotland and Northern Ireland. If a suspect is charged
at a police station they should also be handed a Notice to Persons
Charged or Summonsed form GS044.

Evaluation

All Investigators should conduct an evaluation following a suspect

interview. Specifically they would want to:

7.1.1 Review the information obtained during the interview and
consider how it fits with other accounts.

7.1.2 Review the evidence accumulated during the whole
investigation with a view to deciding what further enquiries
are necessary.

7.1.3 Reflect upon their performance during the interview to identify
improvement opportunities.

Special Considerations

Juveniles and their Appropriate Adults. In England, Wales and
Northern Ireland a juvenile is a person who has not reached their
17% birthday. In Scotland a juvenile is a person who has not
attained the age of 16. All juveniles must have an appropriate
adult present at suspect interviews. All appropriate adults must
be given a form GS001A “A Guide for Appropriate Adults” prior to
interview. For further information on Juveniles and their
Appropriate Adults see Appendix 8 to these P&s.

Royal Mail Group Young Persons. Investigators are reminded that
employees who have not reached their 18th birthday are given
special consideration when they are to be approached in order to be
invited to attend an Interview. The detailed process can be found
in the Criminal Investigation Procedures & Standards (P&S) 7.1
Suspect Approach and Arrest Procedures. In addition they should be
afforded the Juvenile “Duty of Care” provisions detailed in Section
4, of Appendix 8, Juveniles & Appropriate Adults, to these P&S.

Interpreters. In order to establish effective communication in
suspect interviews it may be necessary to obtain the services of an
interpreter. Interpreters may be required for both sign & foreign
languages and for suspect and/or the appropriate adult. Further
information on Interpreters can be found in Appendix 9 to these
P&s.

Blind Suspects or persons unable to read. If the suspect is blind,
seriously visually impaired or unable to read, the Investigator
shall make sure that a solicitor, friend, relative, appropriate
adult or any person likely to take an interest in them and not
involved in the investigation is available to help check any
documentation. When anything requires written consent or signing
the person assisting may be asked to sign instead.

ail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 ~ Page 12 of 15
8.5

POL00104867
POL00104867

Investigators should seek advice from a SIM or the CLT before any

interview commences where;

8.5.1 A suspect appears to have a mental disorder or be otherwise
mentally vulnerable. A suspect appears to have a medical
condition that may require a medical assessment.

8.5.2 A suspect appears to be under the influence of alcohol or
drugs.

8.5.3 A suspect is on sick leave.

If an interviewee is on regular medication and they have it with

them at interview they should be allowed to administer it.

Investigators should attempt to identify the prescribed dose or at

least be aware of the amount of medication taken.

Partner of Suspect. The questioning of a partner in order to
obtain information that may adversely affect the other partner in
the relationship lends itself to criticism, but it is recognised
that it must be left to Investigators to use their discretion
according to the circumstances of each case. Before taking this
action Investigators must seek advice from the CLT.

UK Border Agency. At certain Offices of Exchange postal packets
are examined for customs purposes by UK Border Agency staff. If
such staff are suspected of theft from the post or other offences
against RMG then they must not be interviewed by RM Security
Investigators. The matter must be reported urgently to a Senior UK
Border Agency Officer and a course of action agreed.

Interviewing suspects in prison. Should Investigators wish to
interview suspects in prison then the authority of the Prison
Governor will have to be granted. The process to be followed can be
found in Appendix 10 to these P&S.

@ Royal Mail 2011 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects V1.0 - Page 13 of 15
POL00104867
POL00104867

Change Control

Final

1.0

Ray Pratt

Michael F Matthews
March 2011
Internal

Authorisation

at
March 2011

Security Ray Pratt

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via vi March 2011
Security Sharepoint

Documentation History

V.l
Final

Document Change History

v1 Document Prepared in RM Layout

11 - 7.4 Interviewing Suspects Vi.0 —

POL00104867
POL00104867

Glossary

cLT Criminal Law Team
PDSO Public Defence Solicitors Office
SIM Senior Investigation Manager

Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews
Royal Mail

Postline: i
500: I GRO I
Email: mick.£.matthewst

