POL00227400
POL00227400

Confidential

Second Sight Support Services
Third Party Assurance Review
Annex A

Site Visit Overview

Attendees: Claire Davies (Post Office Certified ISA Auditor)
Ron Warmington (Director: Second Sight Support Services)
lan Henderson (Director: Second Sight Support Services)

Site Visited:  Tythe Farm (Private Residence)
Date: 24 Jun 2014
Executive Summary

Second Sight Support Services (SS) are not aligned to an international information security
standard; however they appeared to demonstrate sound best practice by incorporating
information security into their working environment. There is work to be done on the method of
communicating information, particularly between applicants and SS. Whilst these could be
implemented without too much difficulty or resource, it is accepted that most of the information
has already been collected by SS and therefore the risk of compromise between the applicant
and SS in reduced.

During the review, five non-conformities were identified and four security weaknesses; these are
detailed in Annex A to this report. When considering impact to the business and likelihood of a
non-conformity or security weakness being exploited by a threat agent, SS is considered of
MEDIUM risk to the business.

Service Provided

Post Office employed the services of SS to carry out a review into alleged problems with the
Horizon System. Mr Warmington, Director of SS was known to Sue Crighton, the previous
General Council, after working together in General Electric and was recommended as a preferred
bidder’.

4it was noted, SS presented a more “human face” for this sensitive task compared to the popular ‘Big 4
corporate audit companies: PWC, EY, Deloitte and KPMG.

24 Jun 2014 Confidential
POL00227400
POL00227400

Confidential

During June and July 2012, the Scope was discussed with Post Office Senior Management, the
Rt Hon James Arbuthnot MP* and with Alan Bates and Kay Linnell representing the Justice for
Subpostmasters Alliance, following which the remit of the Inquiry was later defined? as:

“to consider and to advise on whether there are any systemic issues and/or concerns
with the Horizon system, including training and support processes, giving evidence and
reasons for the conclusions reached".

It was also agreed that SS interim reporting would:

"report on the remit and if necessary will contain recommendations and/or alternative
recommendations to Post Office Limited relating to the issues and concerns investigated
during the Inquiry. The report and recommendations are to be the expert and reasoned
opinion of Second Sight in the light of the evidence seen during the Inquiry.”

Initially, Post Office gave SS approximately twenty criminal cases brought against Sub-
Postmasters (SPMRs) who were accused, and subsequently found guilty, of criminal offences.
This task has since morphed, to include providing a single point of contact (SPOC) for SPMRs and
ex-SPMRs (hereafter known as applicants) to request an independent review of their cases. To
date, c150 applicants have registered their cases. SS have recently started providing summary
reports on each case to the Mediation Group and intend to continue this pace of providing 3-4
reports per week for approximately 12-15 months. SS routinely attend, monthly progress
meetings, via conference call, with the Mediation Team and weekly to the larger Mediation
Working Group.

Business Overview

Both Mr Warmington and Mr Henderson maintain membership of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants which requires them to provide annual returns to ensure, among other things, that
the principles of information security are practiced. Mrs Warmingon and a sub-contractor, Mr
Holyoak also has access to Post Office and applicant information. Whilst Mr Henderson is a
Director in SS, for the purpose of the Post Office account, his work is undertaken by his Advance
Forensics company.

? Rt Hon James Arbuthnot MP was, and has remained, the parliamentary lead for addressing allegations
brought by constituents who questioned the integrity of the Horizon system
3 SS Interim Report into alleged problems with the Horizon system dated 8 Jul 2013

24 Jun 2014 Confidential
POL00227400
POL00227400

Confidential

SS's email service is supplied by Organisation Evil Attitude Ltd based in Redcar and hosted by
Easyspace Ltd, Glasgow. Their website is registered to Fast Hosts Internet Ltd, Discovery House,
154 Southgate Street, Gloucester, GL1 2EX. The SS website provide a webpage for Post Office
Mediation, signposting applicants via email to the company Directors and a group email account
«which flows through to Mr and Mrs Warmington, Mr Henderson and Mr

Chris Holyoak

During the initial stages of the Mediation scheme, Post Office information was passed to SS by
FileSafe, Royal Mail Special Delivery, encrypted removable hard drives’ and compact disks. As
the scope of the service has expanded the method of information sharing has also developed
alongside. Currently the Mediation Working Group uses a commercially available secure
application, ‘Huddle’, for this purpose. Applicants generally use email, signposted from the
webpage to contact SS. A small amount of items are sent to SS in hardcopy format, either by
the Post Office or from applicants, and on receipt they are transferred to electronic format and
hardcopy security destroyed.

SS process information on business owned? laptops; each has full disk encryption to “CESG
standard”. Information is stored in a logical manner and segregated from other clients. Data is
subject to daily incremental back-up on the laptops and full weekly back-up to an encrypted
iStorage removable hard drive held by lan Henderson at his office at Omnibus Business Centre,
39-41 North Road, London N7 9DP. SS retain a number of CDs at Tythe Farm which are
stored in a locked security cabinet’ on the premises. Destruction of data and devices takes place
on site, using CESG wipe tools, commercial cross-cut shredder and/or incineration. Provision for
deploying an exit strategy by purge for all client and applicant data is available on request.

* During the site visit on 24 Jun 2014 the auditor recovered a iStorage device which was no longer
required by SS

5 Either SS or Advanced Forensics working as the sub-contractor to SS.

® Quote from lan Henderson

’ This cabinet was not observed during the Audit.

24 Jun 2014 Confidential
Confidential

Second Sight Support Services
Third Party Assurance Review

Recommendations for Improvement

The following observations and recommendations were noted during the Audit. This table does not provide an exhaustive list of the assessment,

Annex A

only the identified non-conformities* (NC) or security weakness’ (SW). Should further information be required please contact Claire Davies in

the Post Office Information Security Assurance Group (ISAG).

Where detailed, observations were discussed with SS and a security improvement measures agreed.

ID

Level

Observation

Recommendation

Proposed Owner

001

NC

At the time of Audit, SS had not signed a
contract with the Post Office for the services
they have been required to undertake.
Whilst a contract was drafted, there was
some dispute whether SS were Data
Controllers or Data Processors.

A suitable supplier contract should be drafted and
signed’ between Post Office and SS. Given the scope
of service provided by SS has changed from the
original requirement to include collecting information
direct from applicants, SS should be considered Data
Controllers“.

Mediation

+ A non-conformity is a failure to adhere to legal, regulatory, 5027001 and/ or Post Office policy requirements.
? A security weakness is failure to follow information security best practice within the industry.

3 On 1 Jul 2014, an engagement letter was signed between Post Office and SS

* A view held by the Post Office Data Protection Officer

24 Jun 2014

Confidential

POL00227400
POL00227400
Confidential

002 I SW I Mr Warmington and Mr Henderson have SS should be required to sign a single NDA which will I Mediation
signed separate Non-Disclosure cover the services they provide to the Post Office.
Agreements. A third person, currently They should manage and be liable for their own
employed as a contractor to SS, Chris employees and supply chain.
Holyoak, may become a Director of SS, in
which case the SS intent is for him is to sign
a separate NDA with Post Office.
003 I NC I SS are registered with the ICO as a Data SS should review their ICO registration with a view to I Mediation/SS
Controller #Z3440411. The description of selecting a more appropriate business description or,
services they provide is under General if necessary, creating a bespoke entry.
Business which is not a true reflection of all
the services they provide to the Post Office. I This point was raised during the audit. SS have
Failure to register, use the correct provided evidence of contacting the ICO.
description or maintain your profile is
considered a breach of DPA.
004 I SW I SS is not aligned to any Information Security I SS should consider embedding the newly released Mediation/SS
Standard. Government Cyber Essentials Assurance Framework
throughout the company. It provides a clear
statement of the basic controls smaller organisations
such as SS should implement to mitigate the risk
from common internet based threats.
005 I NC I SS do not maintain a register of information I SS should initiate and maintain a register to ensure Mediation/SS

assets.

they are able to recognise assets, identify
responsibility, location and, when necessary,
destruction method for audit purposes.

24 Jun 2014

Confidential

POL00227400
POL00227400
Confidential

006

NC

During the service period, Post Office and SS
staff, have used both official and private?
email accounts for communicating
information.

As a result of a recent incident, where Mr
Warmington’s AOL account was hacked, Post
Office and the personal accounts of our staff
received phishing emails. The use of private
accounts is a breach of Post Office policy
both internally and within our supply chain.
It makes Data Loss Prevention of sensitive
information difficult to control and presents
an unnecessary threat to our information
and systems. In addition, there is a threat
that personal email accounts can be
accessed by family members who are not
authorised to view Post Office information.

In accordance with Policy, Post Office and SS staff
must only use official email accounts for
communicating official information.

SS agreed to only use @2ndsight.eu accounts, going
forward, for communicating information to Post Office
and applicants.

Post Office
/SS

° cJun 2013, SS interim report was sent to Susan Crichton personal email account allegedly because they had experienced problems with emailing the Post
Office domain. A similar email failure occurred which resulted in Belinda Cortes-Martin passing her personal account details to Ron Warmington in order to
test the email delivery. Allegedly following receipt of the email on one occasion, Ron used this account to send sensitive information and was warned at the

time this action was considered a breach of Post Office policy.

24 Jun 2014

Confidential

POL00227400
POL00227400
Confidential

007

NC

SS provide a SPOC for applicants to contact
them via details on their website. There is
potential that:

e A malicious hacker could deploy website
spoofing in an attempt to redirect
applicants and collect information for
nefarious purpose.

e Sensitive information relating to cases
including Personal Identifiable
Information (PII), other than that of the
applicant, could be communicated over
the internet without any associated
security controls and therefore be
subject to man-in-the-middle attacks.

These represent a risk to the confidentiality,
availability and integrity of information and,
given that SS are contracted to the Post
Office, a reputational risk to the business and
that of the applicant. Further to this, it could
be considered a breach of Principle 7 of the
DPA.

In order to negate the risk from website hacking, SS
should consider utilising Hypertext Transfer Protocol
Secure (HTTPS) for their website or just the
Mediation page.

To mitigate the risk of man-in-the-middle attacks on
communications between SS and applicants, during
the initial contact phase, consideration should be
given to:

e Providing a statement on the webpage warning
applicants not to include sensitive information in
the initial contact to SS; or

e Implementing a secure web-based form within
the backend application to provide for secure
transfer of information. The form should be
protected against script injection and other risks
associated with embedded forms. The form
should be transported to SS in a secure manner.

All subsequent communications between SS and
applicants should be suitably protected:

e = Only limited information should be sent within the
body of an email.

Mediation/SS

24 Jun 2014

Confidential

POL00227400
POL00227400
Confidential

¢ Sensitive information should be sent as
attachments, at least password protected, or at
best encrypted. Passwords and/or keys should be
sent via an alternative channel.

e To prevent non-conformance, applicants should
be advised on appropriate method of
communication along with reasons for adopting
these measures.

008 I SW I The Post Office Mediation page on SS’s
website provides numerous contact points
for applicants:

e Mediation group account
e Mobile phone

e Ron Warmington

e lan Henderson

¢ David Jeffries

Multiple contact points may be deemed
confusing to the applicant and/or present an
information management issue for the SS.
Further to this, during the audit, David
Jeffries was not listed as working on the

Post Office account.

SS should consider only listing the group account and
phone number as mediation contact points.

If it is considered necessary to list individual contacts,
and it is the case that David Jeffries does not work on
the Post Office account, his details should be removed
from the webpage.

Mediation/SS

24 Jun 2014

Confidential

POL00227400
POL00227400
Confidential

009

SW

SS have been providing a service to the Post
Office for nearly 2 years during which time
the above mentioned potentially unnecessary
risks have existed. When considering the
timeliness of the service required,
consideration should always be given to
adopting adequate security measures from
the onset to ensure information is protected
through the lifecycle of the service.

Should there be a future requirement to use the
services of a sole trader or small company who do not
enjoy the experience or resources of a larger
business, appropriate due diligence should be
conducted beyond just legal contracts. The
subsequent security improvement plans should be
agreed upon and deployed prior to the service launch.

Mediation/Com Sec

Confirmation is required on closure of the above recommendations. No further assessment will be required unless there is a change in the

provisions of services from SS in which case ISAG should be notified.

24 Jun 2014

Confidential

POL00227400
POL00227400
