POL00317780

POL00317780

From: Melanie Corfield[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MELANIE CORFI1DE623C2-38B2-49FB-AEQA-
12E4B20D626720C]

Sent: Wed 24/06/2015 4:11:45

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[:

Subject: RE: Panorama related interview tomorrow

Attachment: Bardo.docx

Attachment: DRAFT STATEMENT FOR PANORAMA.docx

Hi Angela

I think the attached is the most important one — the response we provided to Matt Bardo to various questions. There
has been lots of to-ing and fro-ing with emails since but we know very little more about the allegations.

The other interviewees they have are: Charles McLaughlin, defence expert witness Misra case, James Arbuthnot,
Mark Button legal expert (not known to us), Fujitsu whistleblower, lan Henderson plus of course the three people in
the cases Panorama are examining.

I think the existing brief I sent you still covers the main areas i.e. conduct of prosecution, reliability of system ( and
remote access), individual cases. The programme appears to be very focussed on the cases and the prosecution in
those cases. So I suggest we pick a tough question or two for each of these (we can edit but just need to make sure
we get some good soundbites from it that address . But, based on feedback from the calls over last couple of days, it
will be good if you can
- I We can reassure everyone who works for and with the Post Office and our millions of customers that there’s
no problem with the Horizon system
- importance of transforming the business, the confidence we can have and can provide to those who want to
work with us now and in future
- Although unfortunately there is some campaigning by a small number of people, we have done the right
thing, we have nothing to hide

I attach our latest statement — in draft —- to Panorama. This is designed for them to use on screen in context of various
allegations (hence some repetition).

Does this make sense?
Mel

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: 24 June 2015 15:36

To: Melanie Corfield

Subject: Panorama related interview tomorrow

Mel,

Would you please send me the correspondence between us and BBC so that I’m sighted on this. Any
other further info or changes to what you’ve sent me previously?

Thanks,
Angela
POL00317780
POL00317780

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
