POL00116247
POL00116247

From: Chris Aujard
General Counsel
27/01/14
To: Chair and Chief Executive
Post Office Limited

FURTHER BRIEFING FOR JAMES ARBUTHNOT MEETING

lan Henderson called me this afternoon ostensibly to give me a heads up ahead of Second
Sight briefing James Arbuthnot today. It is difficult to know whether this was a genuine
heads up or passing on a fait accompli but it is positive in that the communication lines are
open.

lan raised four key areas:

1. The 26 original MPs cases — which lan thinks are all in the scheme. He
commented that he thinks that all MPs will want visibility of progress with these
cases

2. A further Second Sight report — lan said that James will push for a further report
within the next few weeks. lan proposed using the generic report that Second Sight
are already working on to fulfil this role. I pushed back on this, pointing out that the
report lan was proposing to publish had been produced under the auspices of the
Working Group and could not just be published. Further I questioned whether
producing a report such as that in the midst of attempting to resolve the mediation
cases risked prejudicing their handling.

3. Past criminal cases — where lan felt that James would be very focussed on
whether there had been any miscarriages of justice. This triangulates with the draft
Agenda now received from James’ office which includes past cases which have
gone to court as an agenda item. My team have provided a separate briefing on
this issue (see covering email), but at headline level, a lot of work has been done to
review past criminal cases and off the back of our disclosures no applications for
appeal have been made.

4. Independent reporting — lan said that James and the other MPs would want
assurance that Second Sight would be able to report independently directly to them.

The call was very cordial, but I did explain very firmly that these were not issues which Post
Office would agree to at this point. Firstly both of you were meeting James the following
day and would wish to discuss them with him directly, and secondly the Working Group
would undoubtedly also have a view on whether this was the right way forward or not.

The current draft of the engagement letter makes clear that Second Sight are only engaged
to deal with matters under the purview of the Working Group and that it is up to the
Working Group to decide how cases under its supervision are handled not Second Sight's
in isolation.

I have annexed the relevant clauses of the current draft letter of engagement.
POL00116247
POL00116247

Chris Aujard
POL00116247
POL00116247

6. CONFIDENTIALITY
6.1. Save in the circumstances described in clause 9, Second Sight and the SS
Directors shall:

6.1.1. keep secret all Confidential Information (unless prior written consent is given by
Post Office, such consent being in Post Office’s absolute discretion);

6.1.2. use the Confidential Information only for the Services (unless prior written consent is
given by Post Office, such consent being in Post Office’s absolute discretion);

6.1.3. not copy, adapt or otherwise reproduce the Confidential Information except as is
strictly necessary for the purposes of undertaking the Services or as required by law; and

6.1.4. upon demand procure the destruction and/or return to Post Office of all copies of
any documents and material held by Second Sight and/or SS Personnel which incorporate
any Confidential Information (except such documents or material that Second Sight ist
required by law to retain).

6.1.5. Neither Second Sight and/or the SS Directors, employees or persons otherwise
engaged by Second Sight to deliver the Services will act, directly or indirectly, in any
capacity (whether for any former or current Subpostmaster or a competitor of Post Office or
otherwise) against Post Office or any of its officers, directors or employees save as where
required by applicable law or by the mandatory rules or requirements of any recognised
investment exchange or any regulatory authority, government department or agency to
which Second Sight is subject or by order of a court or a competent jurisdiction, or save as
where it is ase otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Post Office.that the work proposed
to be underatken does not and is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on Post Office's
commercial or financial interests or reputation.

9. ENGAGEMENT THIRD PARTIES

9.1. If any person, other than an applicant or their professional advisor, should seek any
Scheme Information or any information relating to Second Sight’s services hereunder from
Second Sight, Second Sight shall immediately relay such a request to the Working Group.

9.2. I Second Sight shall only discuss the Scheme or disclose Scheme Information or any
information relating to Second Sight’s services hereunder to any third party with the
express consent, and in accordance with any directions, of the Working Group but subject
always to clause 7.
POL00116247

POL00116247

SCOPE OF SERVICES

The Services Second Sight agrees to provide to the Working Group are as follows

1.1. serving as a member of the Working Group and attending Working Group
meetings as required, and act in accordance with any directions from the
Working Group Chair;

1.2. advising, as requested by Post Office or the Working Group, on the format,
style and content of the documents which are submitted by Post Office and/or
Subpostmasters during the Scheme;

1.3. investigating the specific complaints raised by each Subpostmaster who has
been accepted into the Scheme with the aim of providing:

1.1.1. an assessment of points of common ground between Post Office and
that Subpostmaster;

1.1.2. an assessment of points of disagreement between Post Office and that
Subpostmaster;

1.1.3. where there is disagreement, a logical and fully evidenced opinion on
the merits of that Subpostmaster's complaint where it is possible to do
$0;

1.1.4. a summary of any points on which it is not possible to offer a fully
evidenced opinion due to a lack of evidence / information;

1.1.5. a view on whether a case is suitable for mediation; and

1.4. assisting with any reasonable requests made by the Working Group and/or Post
Office;

(together "the Services")

Second Sight shall at all times conduct the Services solely in furtherance of the
objectives of the Scheme as set out by the Working Group.

It is recognised that Second Sight is not required to definitively determine every issue
raised by a Subpostmaster but rather is required to reasonably investigate and, where
appropriate, offer an opinion on the key issues in dispute between a Subpostmaster
and Post Office.

Although Post Office is engaging Second Sight, Second Sight is to act independently
in providing the Services and any assessment or opinion given by Second Sight shall
be neutral and without bias and based on the facts and evidence available.

In providing the Services, Second Sight shall:

5.1. act with the skill and care expected of qualified and experienced accountants; it
is acknowledged that matters relating criminal law and procedure are outside
Second Sight's scope of expertise and accordingly shall not be required to give
an opinion in relation to such matters;
5.2.

5.3.

5.4.

POL00116247
POL00116247

conduct the Services in an efficient manner and with a view to ensuring that the
costs of the Scheme are reasonable;

use its reasonable endeavours to comply with any deadlines or timeframes set
by the Working Group; and

not sub-contract any part of the Services without Post Office's prior written
consent (not to be unreasonably withheld of delayed).
