POL00034108
POL00034108

Introduction to Post Office Local

Information for

Field Support Advisors

On

Post Office® Local branches

In Commercial Confidence

NOT TO BE LEFT IN BRANCHES
Introduction to Post Office Local

This document will evolve as the project progresses and
so it is important to revisit it each time you are due to
complete onsite support for this model. You need the most
up to date information to contribute to the continued
success of this project.

Index: Page

e Model Outline e 3
e Funding eo 4
e Training Schedule e 5
e Existing site Conversions ° 6
e PREP & SET UP DAY ej7
e Being Discreet e 8
e Mail Segregation e 9
e Royal Mail Cut off Times e 9
e PSA ° 9
e Balancing & Trading e 9

Periods e 10
e Branches with Lottery e 10
e Security e 10
e Suggested Daily Routine e 11

Training e 11
e Safe Opening Times ° 12
e Compliance ° 12
e Assistants e 12
e Transactions & Stock e 12
e POCA ° 13
e Restrictions Policy ° 13
e B de C Buy Back ° 13
e POPOS Leaflets ° 13

e Issues During Training
e Feedback

1 week before you attend a PO Local branch to provide training support,
YOU must contact the branch to confirm that they have received &
completed a copy of the Onsite Training Schedule to organise staff to be

available for you to support (forward a version to them via
email were possible; if they haven’t completed one, with
the instruction to complete it and return it to you
a.s.a.p. , it is on page 5) &to confirm that all staff members due
to undertake Post Office training have completed or will have completed by

2

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012

POL00034108
POL00034108
Introduction to Post Office Local
the first day of support, the mandatory Post Office Foundation online test
for compliance .
This will be dependant upon them having access to Horizon prior to Go-live,
so we may want to emphasise this and clarify that as a minimum the
training should be completed if Horizon is not available.

POL00034108
POL00034108
Introduction to Post Office Local
MODEL OUTLINE

Post Office Ltd is committed to exploring opportunities
to maintain access to products and services by providing
an alternative form of convenience outlet. Post Office
Ltd has been trialing new concepts for delivering Post
Office services falling under the branding of Post Office
Local.

N.B Post Office® Local was referred to as Post Office®
essentials for part of the pilot phase and you may still
see branding & references to Post Office® essentials:
going forward all branches will be branded Post Office®
however, if there are any outstanding references to Post
Office® essentials in any documents it should be assumed
these references apply to Post Office® Local (e.g.
Operating Manuals). Internally, Post Office Ltd will
refer to this branch segment/model as Post Office® Local
to distinguish it from the other models we are rolling-
out,

The Post Office Local service is available all the hours
that the retail host is open which in most cases will be
7 days per week

e The new service is designed to be automated in almost
all areas which reduce costs significantly.

e Automated services are straight forward to follow as
all the instructions are available on the HOL screen
meaning staff can keep up to date with transaction
easily.

e This service offers a wide range of core Post Office
products and services, including electronic banking,
bill payments and budget payment schemes, Post
Office® Card Account withdrawals, Postal Orders and
postage, inland letters / packets and parcels
(including recorded delivery, special delivery &
express24 & 48), international letters / packets, or
the individual country limit for small packets or
printed papers. Customers can also Pre-Order foreign
currency for collection the next day.

Services not available via Post Office Local include:
*cheques as a method of payment, transcash bills (non
automated payments), paper-based banking transactions and
Parcelforce Worldwide International (excluding BFPO parcels) items

are not accepted.

e Post Office Local open plan service point is located
alongside retail till.

4

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012

POL00034108
POL00034108
POL00034108
POL00034108

Introduction to Post Office Local
e Post Office Local branches will EITHER be Retailer
(Operator) cash funded OR will receive POL
remittances in the normal way.

Apart from this all the procedures and processes are the
same,

*At selected branches transacting MVL’s, cheques will be
accepted but this is as payment for MVL’s only.

Please make sure you read (without printing) the
appropriate Post Office Local Operating Manual as this
will give you additional information you may require.

A copy of the Operating Manual will be sent via Email,
directly to the Operator by HR (Farnworth) prior to
commencement of the training, the FCA responsible for the
office before it goes live will also provide the Operator
with a copy of the correct manual but if it is claimed
that this has not been received or deleted in error; the
Field Support Advisor should email a copy* to the
Operator at their first opportunity. (*if we have a
version available)

FUNDING

Branches will EITHER be Retailer (Operator) Cash Funded
OR will receive POL remittances in the normal way.
Sometime in the week before you are due to attend the
office to complete “Set-up” you should be contacted by,
or YOU should contact the FCA responsible for the office
to discuss details of the office & Operator/ staff mix
and training expectations: they will be able to answer
any questions you have. In most cases it makes sense for
the FSA to call the FCA and you should plan to make the
call while you are preparing for the support as the
information you need may be answered easily by the FCA.

POL Funded Branches

Cash is received in the normal way via CiT. Stock will be
supplied to PO Local branches via the cheapest method
which in most cases will be by using RMSD, even when an
branch is POL cash supplied.

Stock & cash can also be returned via CiT along with
“BdeC Pre-order buy backs” and the standard Remittance
Handouts should be used as it applies to this model.

Retailer Cash Funded Branches
(2.9 Inputting and Removing Cash Process Handout)

5

6.0 Introduction To PO Loca

2012
Introduction to Post Office Local

Stock

Stock will be received and returned by Special Delivery
(Shared Service), but still needs to be remitted in & out
on HOL.

Cash

The funds required for retailer cash funded branches are
provided from the shop till by means of the process in
the Operations Manual, using icons ‘Loan To PO’ and ‘Loan
from PO’. (After automation new icons will be “Operator
Cash - In/Out”).

ALL OPERATOR CASH IN/OUT MUST BE ACCOUNTED FOR
IMMEDIATELY AND FULLY ON HORIZON WHEN THE CASH IS MOVED.
You must ensure that the Operator understands the
Settlement Procedure -

Please make sure you & the Operator have read and
understood the:
Handout for Automated Settlement (leave a copy onsite).

Use the Daily settlement Example from the PO Local EASE
file and email copies of the spreadsheets contained at
the foot of that example to the Operator preferably on
the set-up day (Daily Settlement/ Daily Settlement
Printable).These will help you explain the process (one
is a working excel spreadsheet that has all the necessary
formulas and the other is a manual version for use if a
computer isn’t available)

Ensure there is enough money in the Post Office at the
start of each day for that day’s transactions. Cash
needs to be monitored on a daily basis and any surplus
cash needs to be banked by the Operator in their
nominated bank account as soon as possible. The Post
Office will reclaim surplus cash via direct debit 3 days
after a surplus has been declared.

During the training support it will be possible to judge
how much money is required for each day’s trading from
the deposits made to the Post Office and the cash
declared figure at the end of day (ONCH to be completed
before 19.00).

For Retail Cash funded branches the Best Practice is to
keep a float of approximately £3000 in the Post Office to
start each day, depending on the transactions in
individual offices

TRAINING SCHEDULE
PO Local Offer for new branches:

6

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012

POL00034108
POL00034108
Introduction to Post Office Local

The PO Local offer for all new branches includes full
training on all transactions and products in a classroom
environment over 3 consecutive days, for the Operator or
Officer In Charge (OIC). This is mandatory for all new
Operators.

There is a classroom prep-guide for PO Local & all the
handouts will arrive at the classroom in the prep-box to
be given to the attendee during the 3 days training.
While onsite the FSA will try to support up to 5
assistants to be trained on basic transactions and
products. Each office will receive 1 day Set-up and then
additionally onsite support for a period of 6/7/8 days
which should be detailed in the Vacancy Report in regard
to a timetable of trainees and their availability not
exceeding:

= 6 days on site will be scheduled for 1 Operator and
1 Assistant

= 7 days for 1 Operator and 2/3 Assistants

=" & 8 days for 1 Operator and 4/5 Assistants.

The FSA will be on site for normal core hours (approx
8.30 - 18.00 Monday to Friday and Saturday morning until
12:30).

A Follow Up Balance (FUB) will be added at the end of the
onsite support and although PO Local branches can do
their BTS at any time of the appropriate day, under BAU
for the FUB one FSA will attend to support from 1600.

If full training for the Operator and all the assistants
is completed early, the above time can be reduced —
contact your FTL to discuss.

Assistant Tick-lists should be started for as many
assistants as the time and the assistants availability
allows. There is no maximum on the number of tick-lists
that can be started but it is the Operator’s
responsibility to complete these tick-lists once onsite
support has ended. When starting a tick-list, priority
should be given to compliance completion and use of the
HOL equipment followed by training on basic transactions
and products. The rough number of assistants eligible to
be trained at any site should be relayed to you during
the conversation with the FCA before set-up. The length
of training you will be expected to complete (6/7/8 days)
will be detailed on the Network Support Schedule and any
worries should be raised with the FCA responsible for the
opening of the office.

7

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012

POL00034108
POL00034108
Introduction to Post Office Local
Below is a spreadsheet for the Operator to schedule their
staff during the onsite training time. The FSA will be
on site for normal core hours (approx 8.30 - 18.00 Monday
to Friday and Saturday morning until 12.30). The
training schedule needs to be in place and agreed with
the Operator before any set up or onsite activity begins.
The FCA should have already made the Operator aware of
this spreadsheet and you should have spoken to the branch
in the preceding week to confirm this activity has been
completed. This is necessary to maximise the use of the
onsite support so that our support is structured. It
will help focus the Operator on when they and their
assistants need to be available for training, maximum two
people at any one time, and everyone receives training
during the allocated time on site.

Onsite Training
Schedule v2.0

For the Operator a standard PSA should be used (including
Action Plan) for assistants tick lists should be
completed and any training gaps on the assistants tick
list will be picked up by the Operator. Both PSA & tick
lists are to be printed from EASE to ensure up to date
versions.

Existing Agent to New Operator, On-site

Conversion

If a new PO Local branch is opened by converting an

existing Agent with existing staff in an existing

location they will receive:

e 1 day set-up

e 1 Induction day (delivered on site in 2 x 3 hour
sessions to reduce impact on retail operations)

e 2 days Onsite training- this is to deliver open plan
training & security regulations and cover off the basic
transactions for the new members of retail staff.

e A Follow Up Balance (FUB) will be added at the end of
the onsite support and although PO Local branches can
do their BTS at any time of the appropriate day, under
BAU for the FUB one FSA will attend to support from
1600.

Full timetable embedded here:

3 Hour Induction
Timetable June 2012

PREP & SET UP DAY

8

6.0 Introduction To PO Loca

2012

POL00034108
POL00034108
POL00034108
POL00034108

Introduction to Post Office Local
It is recommended that you log on to a live system using your HOL Global
User Password prior to attending a PO Local branch where you are
scheduled to deliver onsite support. Problems have been encountered and a
password reset is needed via the usual channels if your password is not up
to date.

For new branches a Greenfield stores pack will be sent to
the office ready for the set-up day. The Operator will
receive their training aide handouts in the classroom.
You will only need to print a few items from EASE but it
is essential that you are familiar with the material
before the training support begins, and reading the items
yourself may be time well spent. Feel free to print some
extra items you may think relevant (handouts etc) from
the EASE files to use on site for training with the
Operator - you might want to suggest these as best
practice via your Line Manager.

An easy guide to the use of the materials can be found by
following the PO Local Printing Guide. You may need to
allow extra time for personal development if this is the
first PO Local office you are training or if you haven’t
delivered one recently, so please discuss this with your
line manager.

For Converting Branches: you can print items from the PO Local
EASE file from the “Onsite Section”. NO handouts will be
sent to a converting branch.

Additionally for converting branches, the Operators is
responsible for the removal & disposal of all the
transactional stock held before the branch conversion to
PO Local ~- it is essential that you encourage/insist that
this has to be disposed of as a priority and not used
once the office is trading as a PO Local.

The Operator & all their staff MUST read:

¢ “Working in an Screenless Environment”
This should be completed on setup day or for any staff
not available on that day, before they start working at
the PO Counter. This is a vital part of their security
training and should be revisited when new staff members
are employed.

Here are some best practice and tips from the pilot
branches:

e You MUST carry out a transaction on set-up day using
a bank card (pin pad) as the method of payment or
for a balance enquiry. This is to check that the
system is working correctly. If the transaction
fails report it straight away - if you wait until

9

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012
Introduction to Post Office Local
opening day, the fault is business as usual and
therefore not a priority,

e Check HOL Help is working - report it to the NBSC if
it is not.

e Ensure that the Horizon system is in the correct TP.
e Trading Periods should continue in the same group if

the branch is converting to a PO Local (use the All
Branches Database to determine their current trading
group). If it is a new or re-opening, ask the FCA if
they know which group the office is aligned to: if
it is unclear, default to Group C.

e For a conversion the Branch Code will remain the
same unless advised otherwise.

e Allow the operator to remit in the stock, then take
them through a balance and roll over to the next BP.
This will give them extra balancing practice.

e Check that the Stores Ordering icon is working, if
not you need to report it to the NBSC.

e During the set up ensure that the Operator and any
assistants who will be working in the post office
are able to load and unload the safe as this will
need to be done before the retail opens or after it
closes and you may not be in attendance at those
times.

e Order HOL consumables to demonstrate the low volume
needed to ensure the branch understands these items
are expensive.

POH140209 Horizon counter rolls
POH2510 Red ink
POH2511 Black ink
POH3501 Copier paper
POH4030 Paystation rolls
POH4020 Horizon Cleaner fluid
POH4021 Cleaner wipes.
e Enter the Paystation opening times on Horizon.

- From the Front Office screen select:
- Licences & Government
- Compliance

- Paystation hours a

When entering the hours it is important to remember to
“backspace” 00:00 otherwise the system won’t let you enter any
figures.

Being Discreet.

Make the staff aware that they need to consider the
importance of the open plan environment and they have a
responsibility to keep as much information as
confidential as possible - confirm that this is
understood using the bullet points below:

10

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012

POL00034108
POL00034108
POL00034108
POL00034108

Introduction to Post Office Local

e Do Operators/staff realise the importance of being
discreet?

e Do they know how to be discreet?
e Do they lower their tone of voice appropriately?

e Do they know to be as discreet as possible when
counting cash?

Customers appreciate all the effort that is made to
protect their privacy, so remind the Operator & staff to
always take the time to consider the person they are
serving and the other customers waiting in the branch.

Mail Segregation

Mail segregation is applicable in ALL branches
regardless of size. Mail segregation standards
must be met at all times.

Royal Mail Cut Off Times

Royal Mail will make their last scheduled collection of
the day, at a specific time (this information will be
gained locally by asking the Royal Mail Collection
Officer or by contacting the local Royal Mail Sorting
Office). Once the last collection has been made, customers must be
informed when Royal Mail will be making the next collection at the branch
(this will be the following day unless it is on a weekend
or before a bank Holiday, in which case it will be the
next working day that Royal Mail is working). You must
make All staff aware of this instruction.

Standard PSA to be Completed

For all delegates attending a 3 Day PO Local Counter Skills
Course, a PSA will be completed using the PO Local
Classroom TAB (this is for both Operator & Assistants
attending). These are to be saved in the standard PSA
format and should be forwarded to the FSA completing the
onsite support.

If you are completing onsite support at a PO Local branch
you will be sent a PSA for each person from that branch
who has attended a 3 day CSC. The PSA has 2 TAB’s for PO
Local onsite (Operator & Assistant). Only 1 PSA at a PO
Local branch will be completed using the Operator TAB and
for every one else who attended the classroom, you will
use the Assistants TAB. At the end of the onsite support
you will produce only one Learning Action Plan using the
Operator’s PSA and this should be forwarded using the
standard PSA instructions.

1

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012
Introduction to Post Office Local

All members of the branches staff that did not attend a
classroom CSC you will begin an Assistants Ticklist as
they begin to use HOL. At the end of the onsite support,
all gaps on Assistants PSA’s & Assistant Ticklists must
be communicated to the branch Operator/OIC so they are
aware of the training they need to complete after we have
left the branch. It is the Operator/OIC’s responsibility
to complete training at their branch for all their staff
in an appropriate timescale.

In cases were the branch has multiple “Officers’ In
Charge”, you need to put one of the names against the
PSA. The aim is to cover everything detailed on the PSA
and add notes against the areas that you feel may need
additional focus.

BALANCING & TRADING PERIODS

It is at the Operators discretion whether they complete
an office balance on a Wednesday for a Balance Period
(BP) between Trading Periods (TP).

The branch has to complete a Trading Statement on the
Wednesday that their Trading Group is scheduled to end
their Trading Period (TP).

This should be done at a quiet time - it doesn’t have to
be completed at the “traditional” end of the day. If the
quietest time is 8am or 10am or 2pm, a Trading Statement
can be completed (**see note below regarding offices with
Lottery).

The office must then REOPEN for business once the Trading
Statement is completed regardless of what time of day it
is (8.30am or 10.20am or 2.38pm) and continue trading and
completing transactions. It does not have to be done at
the same time each Trading Period either - just a quiet &
undisruptive time for customers.

Transaction Corrections will NOT be generated if the
office starts their new Trading Period immediately.

For branches of this size, an office balance (using the
Stock Balance Summary held in the PO Local File on EASE)
should not take long and should cause minimum disruption
to customers.

**For Branches With Lottery.

In line with normal practices for an office with a
Lottery terminal, a separate stock (usually names OOH -
Out Of Hours) should be set up by the FSA during the
office setup. This stock should deal with Lottery
transactions & Lottery TA’s and suitable training should
be given during the onsite support.

At Trading Period end, the OOH stock should be balanced
at a quiet time.

It is recommended that no scratch cards are activated on Wednesdays.

12

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012

POL00034108
POL00034108
POL00034108
POL00034108

Introduction to Post Office Local
SECURITY

In all cases ensure Operator and assistants are aware of
security requirements for open plan working. Full details
are accessed via a Link in the PO Local file held on
EASE. Ensure a copy of ‘Post Office Local Security
Standards for PO Local’ is available and has been read
and understood by you and the agent.

Suggested Daily Routine Training.

While a branch is being supported onsite by a Field
Support Advisor, it is essential that during the set-up
day, preparations are made to ensure that the relevant
counter safes are loaded before the branch opens & that
safes are emptied and their contents secured in the
evenings after the branch closes; this could be at 05.30
in the morning or as late as llpm at night and onsite
support is only for core hours (9.00 to 17.30 approx). If
we help the branch form good habits from the beginning it
will help their branch run more smoothly.

Embedded here is a suggested routine guide for members of
the branch to follow to ensure the branch is ready to
serve and the assets are secured after they close.

oe

i

Suggested Daily Daily Planning Guide
Planning Guide with gaps

Safe Opening Times:

There have been a number of cases were a branch has
received a new safe or new safe time over-locks. These
safes are being set up as per the standard instructions
for longer opening hours of PO Local/ Mains. The times
are set when the safe or time-lock are installed and are
done on an individual basis (these times can only be
changed by the safe servicers/ installers).

It is important you find out the safe opening times so you can advise the
Operator accordingly on their opening/closing preparation procedure for
each morning/evening.

The opening times have been set for about 30 minutes
before the shop opens, then it time-locked at the shop
opening time until about 09.00, it can then be opened
until 17.00, then time locks again until the shop closes

13

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012
POL00034108
POL00034108

Introduction to Post Office Local
at which point they have another window of around 30
minutes to close up.

I.e. Shop opens 06.00 (6am) and closed 20.00 (8pm):
e Safe can be opened for 30 minutes from 05.30.
e Safe is time-locked closed at 06.00 until 09.00
e Safe can be opened from 09.00 until 17.00
e Safe is time-locked closed 17.00 until 20.00
e Safe can be unlocked at 20.00 until 20.30.

e Safe can not be opened 20.30 until 05.30 the
following morning.

Often, the hours that the branch will be open may vary
during the first few weeks as we may be expected to
follow the old office hours & this will mean that the new
Operator must be aware of how to open the safe and load
their Bidi safe, whilst on their own from the first day
(as it will have to happen before 06.00 (6am) and we will
not be there that early).

Leaving a note with the Operator, listing everything they
have to take out of the main safe is good practice.

If the Operator forgets or has issues and misses the
opening time of their main safe in the morning, they can
follow the security guidelines and filled/refilled the
Bidi-Safe so long as they close and lock the door/s to
the premises with no customers present while this is
done.

COMPLIANCE

The Operator is responsible for ensuring all existing and
future members of staff serving at the Post Office Local
have completed the Post Office Foundation online test
along with any future compliance tests which will be sent
directly to the branch. This activity must be confirmed
as completed prior to your attendance at the branch to
begin onsite training support. None completion should be
feedback to the FCA & via the feedback forms to Sue
Richardson.

ASSISTANTS

Registering

All the assistants should have been registered with HR
prior to the office going live; you should confirm that
this is the case and supply P250 forms etc if this hasn’t
been done. Please take one spare set of forms to leave
with the Operator, for registering new assistants (P250
held on EASE) and stress the importance to the Operator

14

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012
POL00034108
POL00034108

Introduction to Post Office Local
of filling these in; stressing that new assistants’
should be registered before they work in the Post Office.
The Operator should contact the HR centre when they
employ new people who are going to work on the HOL
system, to request up to date forms (usually 2 weeks in
advance of them beginning work).

TRANSACTIONS AND STOCK

PO Local branches offer limited transactions and stock
items. The FCA responsible for opening the branch will be
happy to speak to you sometime in the week before the
set-up day and you should take the time to you aware of
any additional “Bolt-on” transactions (eg. Local Collect,
Bureau de Change or Mvl’s). Feel free to give them a
call. Please be aware that the bolt on transactions will
vary from branch to branch. The complete list of
transactions for Post Office Local is in the PO Local
File held on EASE and you should leave a copy of this
onsite. The only Special Stamps that will be received as
stock will be the Christmas Issue. If the Special stamp
icons are unavailable, these items should be booked in
and sold as ordinary stamps,

You will need to be aware that some of these branches may
previously have been SPSO’s and did a full range of
transactions, there will be publicity available to make
the public aware of the difference of the new offer.
Please read the handout ‘Objection Handling’ and leave
this with the Agent to cascade to his assistants.

Pens, Paperclips, staplers, etc are provided by the
Operator and are not included in the stores pack.

POCA

PO Local branches hold all POCA forms. These branches
only issue Vault Cards and complete automated
transactions. A customer asking for POCA form should be
handed the appropriate form, but for the customer to have
the form processed, they should be directed to the
nearest Post Office branch that isn’t a PO Local.

Restrictions Policy

Print the latest version of the Restrictions Policy from
EASE (print the Power Point slides) and discuss with the
Operator and their staff. Make them clearly aware that
this is a contractual matter and there should be a copy
of the Post Office® Paystation Manual in every branch &
information available on HOL Help. Should the Operator
feel they want to discuss this in more detail with
someone or they feel that they have a legitimate right to

operate a different terminal in preference to the Post

15

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012
POL00034108
POL00034108

Introduction to Post Office Local

Office® Paystation, you must advise the Operator to contact
the NBSC for clarification as a priority.

Bureau de Change - BUY BACK

The PO Local model has the standard Pre-Order Bureau de

Change transaction as part of their offer. Training

should be given on all aspects of this transaction

especially the buy back arrangements.

e cViT will take currency pouches using normal

remittance procedures; currencies should be returned
with the next collection if POL funded.

PO Local branches DO NOT buy back any Travellers Cheques

POPOS - leaflet list

The only leaflets held in PO local branches at this time
are:

(4th November 2011) (Order Numbers Updated 28/4/12

PL5592 - Welcome Leaflets

PL6797 - Guide to customer services leaflets - English
PL6798 - Guide to customer services leaflets - Bilingual*

RMOS1 - Royal Mail Our Services Leaflet - English
RMOS2 - Royal Mail Our Services Leaflet - Welsh*

RMOP1 - Royal Mail Our Prices Leaflet - English
RMOP2 - Royal Mail Our Prices Leaflet Welsh*

*The Welsh & bilingual leaflets are for offices in Wales
only.

Issues During Training:

If an FSA experiences any problems with the Operator or
their staff during the training period which impacts on
the training being undertaken, please flag in the first
instance to your team leader. The issue should then be
flagged to the FCA who will liaise with the Operator and
raise further with their RNM if appropriate.

Level 1 Feedback Form (Mandatory)
The Field Advisor should leave a standard Level 1 form
with the Operator.

Other Feedback

16

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012
Introduction to Post Office Local
Feedback is an important part of keeping our processes
fit for purpose. If you have issues or improvement
suggestions, you need to make them known either via your
Line Manager or to Sandra McBride (EASE). Keeping our
process current is very important, as this project is
vital to the future of our business and your skill and
knowledge makes a contribution to the whole team so don’t
miss that opportunity to contribute to improvements.

Induction Day Feedback

From October 2012 there is no Induction Day Feedback.
Please do not handout or send induction day feedback.

Site Feedback for the Stakeholder

If you have experienced difficulties or had issues and
you have solutions or want to share your experiences
please fill in the attached Feedback form and forward it
to your Line Manager who will collate any feedback before
forwarding it on to steve.z.fox’ GRO I

GRO I

Feedback Form Aug

17

6.0 Introduction To PO Local v6.4 Dec 2012

POL00034108
POL00034108
