POL00069976
POL00069976

Page I of 3

St en Dilley

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent:
To: hambers.Anne.O'.'
4 G
‘wendy.n.smitt,
‘Geoff.Porter,
Ce: Tom Beezer; ‘mandy.talhy
‘andrew.wiont
rod.ismay!__

Subject: P.O -v- Castleton

Ladies and Gentlemen,
I attended a procedural hearing yesterday.

1. Mr Castleton's application to adjourn the trial was itself adjourned to Tuesday next week.
However, I cannot see the Court adjourning the trial so in practical terms, this means that it is
99% certain that the trial will now start on Tuesday next week at the earliest. On Tuesday, our
Counsel will open the case in the morning and the Court will spend the afternoon reading the
papers. This means the earliest any of you will be needed is Wednesday next week.

2. We have served our statements on Mr Castleton and asked him to confirm which of you he
has no questions for. He is not able to say at the moment, but I will continue to press him on
this. This means that for the time being, all of you will be needed at Court. Again, apologies
for the inconvenience this will cause.

3. Mr Castleton has to serve any witness statements he intends to rely on by 4pm on
Wednesday 29 November 2006. If he is going to call any witnesses, they will start to be called
on Wednesday and possibly Thursday of next week, (depending on how many he has) and in
that event it is more likely that the earliest you will be needed to attend is say, Thursday or
Friday.

4. As for approximately how long you are needed, this is our view at the moment:

Ruth Simpson - 30 mins

Greg Booth - 30 mins

Helen Rose ~ 45 mins (proves Cash Account loss)
Michael Johnson ~ 15 mins (proves lottery loss)
Ken Crawley - 10 mins

Elizabeth Morgan - 10 mins

Davlyn Cumberland - 5 mins.

Wendy Smith — 10 mins

Paul Williamson — 10 mins

Pp OanaupWwne

. Andrew Wise ~ 1 hour 30 mins

BRR
RO

. Anne Chambers 1 hour 30 mins

w
N

. Andrew Dunks ~ 45 mins
. Cath Oglesby - 2 - 3 hours

an
w

28/11/2006
POL00069976
POL00069976

Page 2 of 3

14. John Jones - 1 hour
15. U.wan Hoyland - 10 mins

5. I will give you more precise times as soon as I am able to do so, but this may not be until
Tuesday of next week. During the trial period I can be contacted on mobile
apart from when the Court is sitting.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for_and on behalf of Bond P.

From: : Stephen Dilley
Sent: 22 Novemb:
To: andrew.wiset..
john.h.jonest:
gillian.hoyland,
ruth.simpsof
Geoff. Porter
Ce: Tom Beez

Subject: Update on trial, P.O ~ Castleton

Ladies and Gentlemen,

By way of update, Mr Castleton has now disinstructed his legal team and is acting in person.
He is going to seek an adjournment of the trial and there will be a procedural hearing on
Monday 27 November to consider this amongst other matters. We will oppose any
adjournment.

I had been hoping to agree with Mr Castleton's solicitors that many of you would not have to
attend the trial because you were not all involved at the time and can probably in practice add
little to what you've already said in your statements. However, as Mr Castleton is now
representing himself, I consider it far more likely that if the trial proceeds he will require all the
P.O's witnesses to attend. You should all shortly receive from the Court a witness summons
requiring your attendance at the trial on 4 December 2006 plus a payment towards your costs
such as travel and accommodation. In fact, the date you actually need to attend will change
from 4 December and once Monday's hearing has concluded, we will be better placed to prepare
a timetable and give you a more precise time of when you will be needed.

I apologise for any inconvenience occasioned by this late development and will revert to you on
Tuesday with an update.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
-for.and.on.hehalf.of Bond Pearce LLP...

"GRO

28/11/2006
