Conduct of
Criminal Investigation

Policy

Version No.

Version 1.0
Version 2.0
Version 2.1
Version 3.0

Reason for issue
First issue

reviewed & amended
Final draft

Adopted & issued

Date

04.04.2014
28.08.2018
04.09.2018
??.??.2018

1

POL00030902
POL00030902
Table of Content

WODNAUNAWNE

Introduction

The Purpose

Case Raised

Event Log

Supervision of Investigation
Investigation

Enquiry Type

Interview Framework and Timescales
Evidence

Background Checks
Planned Order Risk Assessment
Interview

Searches

Notebook

Post Interview

Interview Notes
Statements

Business Failings

File Construction

File Submission

Summons

Committal

Case Close

Conclusion

POL00030902
POL00030902
Glossary of Terms

POL00030902
POL00030902

AEI Application Enrolment Identity

AS Arrest Summons

ATM Automated Teller Machine

CCTV Close Circuit Television

DMB Directly Managed Branch

DPA Designated Prosecution Authority
DVLA Department of Vehicle Licencing

DWP Department of Working Pensions

ECF Event Capture Form

FES Financial Evaluation Summary

FI Financial Investigator

HP Hewlett Packard

H&S. Health and Safety

HSH Horizon System Helpdesk

NBSC Network Business Support Centre
NFSP National Federation of Sub Postmasters
NPA Non Police Authority

PACE Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984
PAH Primary Account Holder

PEACE Planning, Engage and Explain, Account, Challenge, Evaluation
PNC Police National Computer

POCA Post Office Card Account

POL Post Office Ltd

POLCT Post Office Legal and Compliance Team
PORA Planned Operation Risk Assessment
SecOps Security Operations

SPMR Sub Postmaster

TC

Transaction Correction

SOURCE /
Audit Shortage Case Raised
Grapevine Team
Contract managers
Client e.g. DVLA - DWP.
~ AEI
Commercial Team

Police Case assigned to
Whistleblower Security Operations
Manager. Is there
sufficient evidence to

PACE Interview,
Compile Evidence
and update
stakeholders

Case Preparation
Phase 1 MG Format

Further enquiries to Further Action
be made. File
returned to Team
Leader

Team Leader to
Review the Case File.
Proceed with case?

Further Enquiries to be ; POL Legal Team to
made. File returned to FAAMMMIME -cview the Case File.

POL Legal Team. Proceed with Case?
Team Leader informed

Further Enquiries to be
made. File returned to Further Action
Cartwright King < >
Solicitors.
Team Leader/ POL
Legal informed

Cartwright King
Solicitors to prepare
Charges?

POL Legal Team to
Proceed to Prosecution ves I authorise

Phase 2 File prosecution?

Completion

POL00030902
POL00030902

No Further Action
case to be closed.
All relevant
stakeholders to
be notified.

No Further Action.
Case to be closed.
POL00030902
POL00030902

1. Introduction

1.1. Properly conducted investigations form a key part in our strategy in
protecting assets and reducing loss. If poorly managed, an
investigation can lead to increased risk of future loss and significant
damage to the corporate brand. When commencing any investigation
we need to consider the impact in terms of the protection of business
assets and limiting potential liabilities weighing against the reputation
of the organisation or damage to the brand should the investigation
fail. Post Office Ltd Security Operations is almost unique in that,
unlike other commercial organisations, we are a _ non-police
prosecuting agency and are therefore subjected to the Codes of
Practice and statutory requirements of the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act.

1.2. There is another anomaly that sets us aside from other commercial
investigators. Of our 11,600 branches, only 350 are currently staffed
by employees of Post Office Ltd. Branches are operated by either
Franchisees, Agents or Limited Companies (Operators) who receive
remuneration based upon transactions. As none are deemed to be
employees of Post Office Ltd, the usual practices and procedures of an
employer employee investigation do not apply.

1.3. In cases where suspected misconduct is uncovered and good
evidence of criminality exists, a criminal investigation will invariably
commence. At the same time Post Office Ltd Contract Advisors have
the responsibility to ensure that any contractual breaches are
investigated and impact on the business is minimised. As a result,
close communication needs to be maintained between the Security
Operations Manager investigating the criminal investigation and the
Contract Advisor who needs to maintain Post Office services. If this
relationship is robust then sound decisions can be made with the
benefit of all the facts and evidence shared to ensure that there is a
successful outcome to the investigation that benefits the business.

1.4. With the stakes so high, the department must be seen, internally as
well as externally, to be acting fairly, appropriately and within the law.
The investigation needs to be properly conducted to establish
evidence that will support a successful criminal prosecution.

2. The Purpose

2.1. This guide been prepared as part of the case file review and is
intended to support Security Operations Managers from the
commencement through to the conclusion of an_ investigation.
Included in the document is comprehensive guidance of the process
including key points to consider at various stages of the investigation.
POL00030902

POL00030902

2.2. Prior to commencing an investigation the Security Operations
Manager will have to consider:

e The seriousness of the allegation, to be determined by a consideration
of those factors set out at paragraph 6.3 of Post Office Limited’s
Prosecution Policy.

e The level of criminality to be determined by a consideration of factors
i. to iv., vi. to viii., x. and xiv. set out at paragraph 6.3 of Post Office
Limited’s Prosecution Policy..

e Any contractual, compliance or regulatory concerns.

e The potential to damage the reputation of Post Office Ltd.

e The expectations of key stakeholders.

3. Case Raised

3.1. Cases are raised from various sources. In each instance the
information is passed to the relevant operational Team Leader who
will evaluate the circumstances and decide whether or not a criminal
investigation case should be raised.

3.2. A shortage at audit will result in the completion of an Event Capture
Form (ECF) report by the lead auditor. The ECF report is then emailed
through to Post Office Security Operations Team. On receipt of the
ECF (where a suspension has taken place), this is passed onto the
relevant Team Leader who will make the decision whether to raise a
case or not. If this is an immediate open enquiry, the case will be
raised before the ECF is received.

3.3. All losses where a suspension has taken place are raised this way,
although the loss is not always due to criminal activity the Team
Leader should review the individual circumstances and assess whether
an investigation is the most suitable course of action working in
conjunction with the Contract Manager.

3.4. The following are examples of types of audit shortages although the
list is not exhaustive.

e Cash Shortage at Audit - no explanation.

* Cash Shortage at Audit - comments made during the audit.

Cash Shortage - member of staff (not the Operator) suspected of
criminality.

Cash Shortage - Loss hidden transfers.

Cash Shortage - Loss hidden remittances.

Cash Shortage - Loss hidden cheque suppression.

Personal cheque in drawer.

Cash Shortage in ATM.
3.5

3.6

3.7.

3.8

POL00030902

POL00030902

Cash Shortage in Lottery.

. Post Office Card Account (POCA) cases; On occasion, the service

provider is contacted by customers who claim they are victims of
fraud. The Post Office Card Account Primary Account Holder (PAH)
may identify persons who they suspect have defrauded them and on
occasions they are staff or Agents of the Post Office. The PAH
allegation will be received through the service provider who, working
on behalf of Post Office Ltd, manage the day-to-day POCA service.
The service provider is requested to record as much detail as possible
and report the allegation to Post Office Ltd Security. Details of the
complaint will be passed onto the Team Leader. On receipt, the Team
Leader will make an assessment on the validity of the claim. Should
they find no reasonable grounds to support the claim they should
return it to the Security Admin Support Team within 5 working days
with ‘NO CONCERN’ annotated in the Security Comment box. In the
event the case is worthy of further investigation, they are to request a
case number and pass to a member of their team for further
investigation.

. Cases can be raised in relation to a specific client; these can come

from various sources including directly from the client, via the
Financial Crime Team, a complaint from a customer or analysis from
the Fraud Analyst or Grapevine Team. In each case the request is
emailed to the Team Leader to review the circumstances and assess
whether an investigation should take place. Post Office Ltd has a
varied client base; the following are examples of sources from where
cases are usually raised:

DVLA

Royal Mail

DwpP

Government Services
AEI Machine

First Rate

Cases also can be raised from various other sources including:

DMB Issues / Loss

Suspicious Transactions

Remuneration (Banking or Mail products)
Contracts Manager

Police Requests

Whistleblower

. These types of enquiries are sent to the relevant Team Leader who

will make the decision whether to raise a case or not. The Team
POL00030902

POL00030902

Leader informs the Security Admin Support Team via email that a
case is to be raised and which Security Operations Manager has been
nominated to deal with the case.

3.9. The Security Admin Support Team then complete the new case
raised document and email this to the relevant Security Operations
Manager along with any ECF or audit reports which they have
received.

3.10. The Stakeholder Notification forms part of the New Case Raised
Document. Within this document details of all stakeholders are listed.

3.11. Once a case has been raised an email should be sent to all
stakeholders by the Security Admin Support Team ensuring that as
much detailed information is included as possible. Further updates will
be circulated by the Security Operations Manager via the Security
Admin Support Team.

3.12. Communication with the Financial Crime Team is essential. It is
important to ensure that all stakeholder updates throughout the
investigation are copied to the Financial Crime team including details
of any product or procedural weaknesses.

4. Event Log

4.1. All activities undertaken during an_ investigation should be
continually recorded on the event log on Sharepoint within the
electronic case file; this should also include reasons for any delay in
the progression of a case. Entries in the Event Log must be timed and
dated and must be signed or initialled by the person who conducted
the relevant activity.

5. Supervision of Investigation

5.1. The decided course of action needs to be proportionate and
necessary. It may, if the circumstances warrant, be more appropriate
to consider other actions that could be done that don’t necessarily
lead to a criminal investigation. Examples include pursuing a civil
enquiry for breach of contract, civil debt recovery, training review
refresher, additional auditing, a caution, warning letter and / or NFSP
engagement. Some of these possible outcomes may not be obviously
apparent until the subject has been interviewed under caution. The
investigation should be continually assessed and outcomes should be
considered at this early opportunity. Close communication and co-
operation with key stakeholders is essential to ensure that a proper
and considered course of action is taken.
POL00030902

POL00030902

5.2. Consistent supervision and review is vital to ensure that cases are
thoroughly investigated and submitted in a timely manner. Team
Leaders need to quality assure investigations making sure prior to
initial submission that all available evidence has been produced.

5.3. From the point that a case is first raised, Team Leaders should give
due consideration to the merits of a criminal investigation.

6. Investigation

6.1. It is important to consider the aims, objectives and scope of the
investigation. Not all Post Office investigations are criminal; the
Security Operations Manager may be called upon to investigate
employees under the grievance and disciplinary procedure. It is
important to determine what type of investigation is required, what
time frames are in place, available resources and what other issues
may affect the route of an investigation. An example may be a Flag
Case where senior stakeholders would have an on-going interest in
the progression of the investigation.

6.2. When a case is raised, the Security Operations Manager needs to
prepare an investigation plan which will outline the way the
investigation will be conducted. Points to consider include:

Risk assessment

Duty of care

The source of the evidence

Statutory, regulatory or compliance considerations
Impact on the organisation

Media interest

Timeframes

Immediate open enquiry

6.3. In all cases stakeholder engagement is essential. Updates to
stakeholders should be given on a regular basis, particularly following
an interview, file submission and summons served. For cases against
employees such as DMB losses, updates should be more frequent and
include key senior stakeholders in the relevant directorate.

6.4. For cases raised due to an audit shortage, communication with the
auditor on the day of the loss or as soon after the case is raised is
essential to gain an understanding of the cause of the loss. Also the
auditor should be instructed to produce all relevant audit
documentation (original documentation) to the Security Operations
Manager.
POL00030902

POL00030902

6.5. In all cases where a loss has been identified and an operator has

been suspended, a case conference should be arranged with the
Contracts Manager at the earliest opportunity. This is essential to
allow for an exchange of information and understanding of
expectations and direction the Contract Manager is planning in
relation to disciplinary action. The contract process can be found in
Appendix A.

6.6. There may be occasions where criminality is suspected that a

request is made directly to a Contract Manager to consider suspending
the operator. In these circumstances the Security Operations Manager
must provide a detailed explanation outlining the rationale to support
the request. A record must be kept of this decision which may, at a
future stage have to be produced in court proceedings.

6.7. The Security Operations Manager is tasked to identify whether a

criminal offence has taken place. In criminal cases where the burden
of proof is beyond all reasonable doubt, it is necessary to draw on all
available evidence which is likely to substantiate or dispel the claim.
In cases concerning the Horizon system, it is important to establish
the level of training the subject received, when this was received and
action the subject took to remedy any identified issues. A key point to
cover template has been produced to ensure that Security Operations
Managers establish these facts during the interview process. As part
of the evidence gathering process, the Security Operations Manager
should collect evidence from various sources including:

Statements from witnesses [current, previous members of staff]
Expert witnesses

Post Office accounting and HR databases

Dynamics 365 / Cloud City database

CCTV

Banking records

Telephone records

Interviews with suspects

Alarm Data

6.8. It is vital that all available witnesses are interviewed. If there is a

good reason for not doing so this must be recorded in the
investigation event log.

6.9. The Security Operations Manager should open two schedules:

e a Schedule of Non-sensitive Unused Material, upon which is to
be recorded all investigation material obtained during the
course of the investigation, but which is not evidence relied

10
POL00030902

POL00030902

upon in the prosecution or is sensitive material as described in
the sub-paragraph immediately below; and

e a Schedule of Sensitive Unused Material, upon which is
recorded material which is not to be disclosed to the defendant
without an order of the Court. Such material would, if disclosed,
reveal sensitive investigative techniques and tools the
publication of which would be likely to undermine future
investigations. Classes of material to be recorded in this
schedule includes, but is not limited to, requests for PNC
Reports, information relating to investigative methods
employed in the investigation, financial enquiry tools used,
legally privileged material, case analysis used for risk
assessment or other legitimate internal purposes only. Neither
the material in this schedule nor the schedule itself would be
seen by a defendant unless a Court ordered it.

6.10. The Security Operations Manager must not overlook the fact that a
fair investigation is there to establish the truth as well as substantiate
the allegation. It is important that any evidence uncovered that may
support the subject’s position is also recovered and disclosed. It is
important to document every action, decision and reason for decisions
being made during the course of the investigation on the event log.

7. Enquiry Type

7.1. Immediate Open Enquiry. Where immediate response is appropriate
and few pre-interview enquiries are needed or practicable.

7.2. Major Enquiry >£75,000 (or major customer / client / reputation
impact) where immediate response is not possible due to the
requirement to perform pre-interview enquiries / analysis.

7.3. Standard Enquiry. All other enquiries not included in the above -
where immediate response is not possible due to the requirement to
perform pre-interview enquiries.

7.4. Liaison. Any case where liaison with another investigative body
conducting enquiries into criminal activity at Post Office Ltd branches.

8. Interview Framework and Timescales

8.1. All steps in the investigation including any lengthy delays in
concluding enquiries need to be recorded in the event log. The event
log should be recorded in the Schedule of Non-sensitive Unused
Material. The details of the investigation need to be sufficiently
informative although an element of objectivity needs to be applied.

11
POL00030902

POL00030902

8.2. Significant points can become critical should the enquiry concern
non-availability of witnesses, external stakeholders or any other
influential factors which may force undue delay.

8.3. A culture is embedded where Security Operations Managers are
aware and fully understand the importance of providing a
comprehensive chronological account of an investigation. Not merely
to avoid undue criticism, but also where there could be an issue with
the case at some later stage which may undermine the likelihood of
successful prosecution.

8.4. Interview Date. The suspect should be contacted and invited to
interview without undue delay. Timescales will depend on preparatory
work that needs to take place prior to this. Good Evidence Takes
Time. In complex cases there may be a need to conduct a preliminary
[holding] interview with a more detailed interview taking place when
further enquiries have been completed.

8.5. Immediate Open Enquiry. Interview on day of notification or as
soon as possible and case submitted to normal report timescales (12
days after interview).

8.6. Major Enquiry. Suspect to be interviewed within 1 month of case
being raised and case submitted to normal report timescales (12 days
after interview).

8.7. Standard Enquiry. Suspect to be interviewed within 2 months of
case being raise and case submitted to normal report timescales (12
days after interview). Should enquiries indicate increased loss or
impact, status must be amended to Major Enquiry immediately.

8.8. Liaison. Regular contact should be maintained with the investigative
authority (Police, Royal Mail, DWP) dealing with the case.

8.9. Security Operations Managers should discuss the case with their
Team Leader on a minimum of a monthly basis and a way forward
agreed and communicated. This will ensure that all cases are
progressed and all stakeholders are continually updated.

9. Evidence

9.1. Good communication with the audit team is crucial to ensure
evidential resilience in relation to the continuity of evidence. Every
effort must be made to ensure that the person identifying is the
person exhibiting any original documents. These will form the
evidential basis of the case and should be securely stored at all times.

12
POL00030902
POL00030902

To evidence continuity all evidence identified should be produced and
retained in a signed, sealed and dated exhibit bag. In circumstances
where the only viable way is to send evidence through the post, this
should be sent to the Security Operations Manager by Special
Delivery.

9.2. Auditors should always record any significant comment made during
the course of the audit either unsolicited or in response to a
reasonable question. Examples are “I have checked the money in the
safe and there appears to be a shortage, is there any money stored
elsewhere that needs to be checked?” In the case of the unsolicited
comment, the Auditor should record this i.e. “I know you will find a
shortage, I borrowed the money”. However any further question such
as “why” would constitute an interview and the Auditor must refrain
from asking such questions.

9.3. In such cases, the Auditor should inform the subject that their
comment will be recorded but any further questions concerning the
comment should be discussed with a Security Operations Manager
who will explain their legal rights. This should not detract from the
role of the Auditor and questions should still be asked to allow them to
verify financial assets due to Post Office Ltd. In this respect Auditors
are entitled to, and should, ask questions which: seek to identify
persons present, go solely to the location of Post Office Limited’s
property or assets (“Is there any more cash on the premises?”,
“Where is X?”); questions about who owns a particular item; and
questions for which the ansewers are necessary to complete the audit
process. All other questions should be avoided.

9.4. In cases where the subject wishes to make comment, the Auditor
again should first explain that the subject has the right not to do so. If
the subject is determined to comment, then the Auditor should record
the initial comment. They should then further advise the subject as
above and if they still continue to comment, note in the record that
the person concerned was advised that they would have the
opportunity to discuss the matter with a Security Operations Manager.
Any questions from the Auditor other than what are required to
complete the audit would render the evidence inadmissible. The
Auditor must refrain from engaging in a discussion relating to a
shortage. + OFFERED OPPORTUNITY TO SIGN AND MUST BE PUT TO
THEM IN INTERVIEW

10. Background Checks
10.1. Local Management Checks; Contact with the Contract Manager is

essential as they may have first-hand knowledge of the branch and

13
POL00030902

POL00030902

operator. The Cloud City database can provide the Security Operations
Manager with background information relating to the branch.

10.2. Training Records. A request for the branch training history should

be made to the Network Support Admin Team email address. This will
detail what training was received by the operator when he was
appointed to the branch. It will also show any intervention training
requested or delivered for the branch. It is the operator’s
responsibility to register and train their own staff. No records of
training (apart from compliance training) are kept for operators
assistants.

10.3. Post Office Ltd HR Personnel Print. The personnel print should

be obtained for all cases by emailing the HR Assistant Checks email
address. This document can provide the following information -

The subject’s personal details, such as NI number, home address,
bank account(s), next of kin.

Date the operator was appointed

Claims data i.e. holiday dates the operator was on holiday.

The operator’s full file can be requested by emailing ‘Contract Admin
Team’.

10.4. P356 Data. The P356 Data should be requested at the same time

as the personnel print from the HR Assistants Check email address.
This report can provide the following information

All registered users at that branch.

Name, date of birth and NI numbers.

The Horizon user id’s for each assistant

Whether the assistant is permanently employed or temporary/holiday
relief.

Start and end dates of employment.

10.5. Operators Remuneration. The remuneration from any particular

branch can be obtained via an e-mail to HR Agent Remuneration.

10.6. Police National Computer (PNC). Post Office Ltd PNC checks can

be made for intelligence gathering purposes in respect of individuals
and vehicles suspected or known to be involved in crime against the
Post Office Ltd. Examples of authorised use are as follows:

To assist authorised personnel with intelligence gathering around

individuals suspected or known to be involved in committing criminal
offences against Post Office Ltd.

14
POL00030902

POL00030902

For operational Health & Safety considerations and evaluations prior
to the engagement with the person concerned as part of the
operational risk assessment.

To obtain previous conviction details of defendants and witnesses for
cases being prosecuted by Post Office Ltd.

To establish intelligence with regards to vehicles and occupants
suspected to be involved in criminal activity against Post Office Ltd.

To identify the registered keeper of vehicles connected to the address
of a suspected or known offender involved in criminal offences against
the Post Office Ltd.

PNC checks must not be submitted for the following reasons:

Unsubstantiated allegations about an individual.

‘Fishing trips’, for example blanket checking vehicles or persons such
as all vehicles in a staff car park in an effort to identify a suspect’s
vehicle.

To identify ownership of a vehicle in accordance with Proceeds of
Crime Act.

10.7. Equifax: Security Operations Managers can rely on Equifax to

provide the following information:

Personal details.

Addresses.

Court and Insolvency Information, (i.e. County Court Judgments
CCI's).

Alert Indicators (Office of Foreign Assets Control).

Alias and all names used.

Associates.

Electoral data confirmation.

Credit transactional activity, including the client and transactional
history.

Record of searches done by Equifax clients, (i.e. banks and retailers).
Property valuation.

Additional addresses-linked addresses.

Company Directors data.

Commercial searches, (i.e. data relating to the subject’s business).

10.8. Land Registry. Security Operations Managers have access to the

Land Registries in England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Most searches take only a few minutes but Scotland and NI have a
different process and these can take much longer. Land Registry can
provide the following type of information/data:

The owner(s), type of ownership & address.
The purchase price of property.

15
POL00030902

POL00030902

« An extract of the official Title Deed.

e Copy of the Title Register, Title Plan

e Registered Old Deeds, including historical editions of the register and
title plan

« Any charge on the property, and the relevant financial institution
(mortgage.)

10.9. Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) Call Logs. NBSC call
logs can be obtained by emailing the Branch and IT System Team.
These logs will detail all calls made by a branch into the NBSC. These
logs can be very useful where an operator or employee claim that they
have reported the loss or incident.

10.10. Credence; is a system used to analyse detailed transactional
data from a particular branch. This is useful to prove details of
particular transactions or events. Only data, up to 90 days, can be
extracted and analysed by Post Office Ltd Security. An application to
Fujitsu will turn the MI data into data/documentary evidence for use in
the criminal courts. Older historic data can also be obtained. Fujitsu
will only provide a witness statement relating to the authenticity of the
data only, not the specific transactions relating to your enquiry.

10.11. ONCH. The Cash Management team can provide Over Night
Cash Holdings (ONCH) data for a specific branch. This data gives in
depth cash analysis for a branch including what denomination of notes
a branch has declared on a given date along with cash remittances in
and out. A request for this data can be made to the Retail Cash
Management Team who can also highlight any concerns they might
have with the branch. The same information can be requested for
Foreign Currency holdings.

10.12. Branch Check: This can be requested from the Fraud Analyst
Team and involves a full data search for a specific branch relating to
transactional issues. This can include any transaction corrections (TC’s)
remittances, stock adjustments or any other specific office’s products.

10.13. Alarm data. Obtaining alarm data from Grapevine can be a
useful tool in determining access to the Post Office secure area and
safes. Data around perimeter and safe set & unset times can be
interrogated to assist in the investigation.

11. Planned Operation Risk Assessment (PORA)
11.1. The PORA process is mandatory in any Post Office led investigation
which may involve a planned interview under caution or premises

search. A PORA is required for each subject involved in the
investigation. In order to manage the risks effectively Security

16
POL00030902
POL00030902

Operations Managers should conduct any risk related intelligence
checks and/or enquiries that they feel are necessary as part of the
PORA process. The following checks are available and thought to be
the most relevant to Post Office Security cases:

e Local Management check: This may also identify other information
such as health issues, including suspected drug or alcohol habits, or
outside interest’s e.g. domestic circumstances which may impact on
H&S.

e PNC Individual checks: This may identify ‘warning’ indicators or
previous convictions of both suspects and others at the address. It
may also identify other information which impacts on H&S such as any
history regarding the certification (or refusal) of firearms or orders
recalling persons to hospital.

e« Full Equifax check: This check can be used to identify current
occupants at an address to be searched or visited.

e PNC Vehicle check: This can reveal registered keepers of vehicles at a
specific address.

e Land Registry checks: These will identify the owner(s) of a property.

e Local Police Intelligence check: May identify risks regarding the
suspect or other incidents or persons at the address(s) and the
geographical area(s) to be visited. It may also identify other law
enforcement interest.

11.2. Risk Score. Where any risk is assessed as High, a Senior Security
Operations Manager should be consulted and the assistance of the
Police sought before any activities which bring Security Operations
Managers into contact with the subject are commenced.

11.3. Where the Planned Operation is assessed as Low or Medium risk,
line manager’s authority must be obtained before any activities which
bring Security Operations Managers into contact with the subject are
commenced.

12. PACE Interview

12.1 Interviews should always be conducted within the provisions of
Code C paragraphs C.11 and C.12 of the PACE Codes of Practice.
Paragraphs C.11 and C.12 are appended to and form part of this
Policy. The right to legal advice must be offered to the subject from
the outset. If they want their own Solicitor and they are not available,
the Security Operations Manager should consider their position in
terms of recovering evidence and not compromising the investigation.
In this instance advice should be sought from the Team Leader or
Head of Security Operations on how to progress. Reasonable time
may differ depending on the circumstances and any action taken
would need to be justified and documented on the event log. A rule

17
POL00030902

POL00030902

of thumb is what the average lay person may consider reasonable
given all the facts. It is important to note that the need to gather
evidence and investigate the case in a timely manner is not unduly
compromised.

12.1.
12.2. Arrest by the police may be justified on the basis that there are

reasonable grounds to suspect an offence has been committed and
there are reasonable grounds for believing that the arrest is
necessary. The statutory criteria for what may constitute necessity are
set out in para 2.4 of Code G PACE. Inviting the subject to the police
station to obtain legal representation may not be effective as the
person concerned is at liberty to leave at any time. The Security
Operations Manager should direct the investigation appropriately to
remain in control of the evidential process without jeopardising the
subject’s legal rights. Code G of PACE is laid out at Appendix B.

12.3. Consider maximising the opportunity to capture evidence at the

earliest stage, i.e. where there is a significant comment. In more
complex cases where a more in-depth interview is required, hold a
preliminary interview to cover off any significant comment. Then hold
a second interview at a later stage when more evidence has been
gathered. Always follow the PEACE model [Planning, Engage and
Explain, Account, clarification and challenge, Closure, Evaluation].
Consider the ingredients of the offence; dishonestly appropriates
property belonging to another with the intention of permanently
depriving the other of it. Ensure that these are established during the
interview. Deep dive into areas where defences are likely. These can
be countered by careful planning and_ skilful questioning. A
comprehensive guide to interviewing using the PEACE model can be
found at Appendix C.

12.4. Should the Horizon system be challenged by a subject or his

representative during a PACE interview, the Security Operations
Manager should state: ‘I will listen to any personal concerns or issues
that you may have had with the Horizon system during the course of
this interview'.

12.5. The following three areas need to be covered in as much detail as

possible at an appropriate point during all PACE interviews.

Training

How long have they worked at the Post Office?

Had they any previous PO experience?

How long did their initial training last? (Please see guidance below and
get as much detail as possible)

What did it cover? (I.e. transactions, balancing, ATM, lottery etc.)

18
POL00030902

POL00030902

e Did they request any follow up training? (If so who with?)
« Was there a period when the accounts balanced? If so, then why did
things run smoothly then?

Support

e Did they tell anyone that they were having problems, if so who?

e If not, why didn’t they request any help?

e What support are they aware of (i.e. NBSC, NFSP, HSH, area
managers)

e Have they contacted the NBSC for advice or support before?

Horizon

e Have they contacted the HSH before?

e If they believed that there was an issue with Horizon, who did they
report this to and when?

e If they didn’t report it then why not?

12.6. NBSC and HSH call logs should be requested for all cases.

12.7. Training records for all new cases are automatically sent by Security
Admin Team. For info the current standard is:

e Operators receive 6-8 days of classroom training (this depends on the
products that their office transacts).

e Operators receive 6 days of onsite training and support including at
least one balance.

« Operators receive an announced visit after one month to provide
support, go through the compliance requirements and for a cash
check to be completed.

e« Operators receive an announced visit after 3 months for further
support, compliance questions and a cash check.

e Operators receive an unannounced visit after 6 months for further
support, compliance questions and a Financial Assurance audit.

13. Searches

13.1. In all cases a search of vehicle and premises should be considered.
All searches are voluntary and should be conducted in the spirit of
PACE where reasonable grounds to suspect there is evidence on the
premises that relates to the offence. Consent should be documented
prior to the search commencing.

13.2. If the subject refuses to consent to a voluntary search the Team

Leader should be contacted and if required further advice and
guidance sought from POL legal team.

19
POL00030902

POL00030902

13.3. If the subject refuses to consent to a voluntary search and there are
reasonable grounds to suspect that evidence relating to the offence
may be at risk, then advice should be sought from the police. The
Security Operations Manager should agree any course of action with
their Team Leader and advice may be sought from POL Legal team.

14. Notebook

14.1. Notebooks are an essential element in a Security Operations
Managers toolkit. They are the recognised and preferred way of
recording events and evidence that is not recorded elsewhere in a
more formal document. The pages are numbered individually and
books are issued to all Security Operations Managers performing
investigation duties.

14.2. Due to the nature of the information recorded in a notebook, it can
be referred to by the Security Operations Manager, in a Court of Law.
It is essential that all notebooks be completed with a degree of
uniform professionalism.

14.3. General rules

e Make all entries in chronological order.

e All entries must be made in ink (black preferably).

e Any errors must be crossed out with a single line, so that the original
entry can be seen and then initialled.

e Do not remove any pages, they are all numbered sequentially.

« Do not make additional entries between the ruled lines. If it is of
paramount importance that you make an additional entry, make it at
the end of your existing entry explaining why it is not in chronological
order.

e Asingle line should be scored through any blank spaces or lines.

e All entries should be signed, timed and dated by all concerned.

« All rough notes should be transferred to the notebook as soon as
practicable. The entry should include why it was not practical to enter
the note directly into the notebook. The Security Operations Manager
must retain the original note.

15. Post Interview
15.1. 48 Hour Offender Report: To be completed on the electronic casefile
on sharepoint and emailed to Team Leader, Security Admin Team and

Primary Stakeholders within 48 Hours of the interview.

15.2. FES Report: Financial Evaluation Sheet to be completed on the
electronic casefile on sharepoint within 48 hours of the interview.

20
POL00030902

POL00030902

15.3. Case Summary Report: This is to be written using example report
and guidelines that can be found on the Security Operations
sharepoint site. The case summary should be a succinct chronological
account of the investigation highlighting key facts. The rule of thumb
is to produce an account which the reader can quickly digest to get a
general overview of the allegation. Key witnesses and a brief outline
of what they said can be included as well as a synopsis of what was
said during interview. The statements, interview record and exhibit list
can be examined should the reader require further information.

15.4. Discipline Report. The discipline report should contain no legal
jargon or opinion. It should be uploaded into the electronic casefile at
Appendix C and shared with the Contract Manager via Security Admin.

16. Interview Notes

16.1. In the majority of cases the MG report should be a complete Notes
of interview need to be a brief account of the interview and any
significant comment.

16.2. Where appropriate to transcribe the Audio recording of an interview,
the request should be sent to the typist. An email should be sent to
cathphilbin._ i The email should also be copied to the team
leader and ensure return of the CD. All returns must be proof read by
the Security Operations Manager and amended where necessary.
NEED TO BE PROPERLY TRANSCRIBED

17. Statements

17.1. In all instances the following standard statements should be taken
and uploaded into the electronic casefile at Appendix A.

First Officer Statement
Second Officer Statement
Horizon System Statement
Operator Contract Statement
Lead Auditor Statement

17.2. In the course of an investigation other statements may need to be
acquired. These could be statements to describe a particular process
such as how to carry out a particular transaction.

17.3. Where statements can be taken over the telephone this should be

encouraged to save time and resources. Statement taking over the
telephone is an accepted practice.

21
POL00030902

POL00030902

17.4. Rather than a handwritten Section 9 statement, there is no reason

why a draft statement cannot be prepared in note form. The
statement can then be typed up subsequently, with any changes,
clarification or ambiguity amended. It is vital that the original notes
are retained and a relevant entry made in the Schedule of Non-
sensitive Unused Material. Once typed, the statement can be sent to
the recipient for checking and amending where necessary. Once
agreed, the statement must be signed and sent back to the Security
Operations Manager.

18. Business Failings

18.1. All business failings or procedural weaknesses should be raised by

completing the relevant tab of the case raised form on sharepoint
before emailing it to all stakeholders including the Financial Crime
Team.

19. Electronic Case File Presentation

19.1. Case files will include a schedule of unused non-sensitive material

and unused sensitive material [Public Interest Immunity, Legal
Privilege and documents that may highlight the methods used for
investigation]. These should be scanned and uploaded to Appendix ‘C’
in the electronic case file with all originals being securely stored by
the Security Operations Manager. Should Solicitors may wish to
examine any unused material, it should be presented by the Security
Operations Manager.

19.2. As a general rule Appendix; A = Witness Statement B = Evidence C

= Other material

19.3. Appendix A

Typed Witness Statements
Summons Documents

19.4. Appendix B

POLOO1

Evidence

Notebook Entry

Search Documents

Working CDs

PNC check results (include no trace replies)

19.5. Appendix C

22
POL00030902

POL00030902

Stakeholder Notification
HR Printout

Assistant List

Interview Letter
POLO03

Business Failings
Discipline Report
Antecedents

NPAO1

Unused material

20. File Submission

20.1. All cases should be submitted electronically to the Team Leader for
review and advice. Once the evidential test is met, the case will be
submitted to the Head of Security Operations and then POL Legal
Team for advice on charges.

20.2. Should further investigation be deemed necessary at this stage, the
Team Leader will be copied into the requesting email. It is imperative
that the case event log is comprehensively maintained and copies of
any generated emails saved. These must be uploaded to sharepoint
along with all other relevant documentation.

20.3. If advice is sought from Cartwright King Solicitors, the Team Leader
and POL Legal team will be copied into any requests for further
information or evidence.

20.4. Each case file should follow the stated process:

Security Operations Manager > Team Leader > Head of Security
Operations > Post Office Ltd Legal Team > Cartwright King Solicitors
> Team Leader > Security Operations Manager

20.5. Security Operations Manager > Team Leader

Once the case is ready for submission, the Security Operations
Manager should submit this electronically to their Team Leader for
review. The Team Leader should sense check the case file and ensure
that it is evidentially robust.

20.6. Team Leader > Head of Security Operations
The case will be discussed and reviewed by the Team Leader and the
Head of Security Operations. All options will be considered but if

charges are considered appropriate, the case will be submitted to POL
Legal Team. The case will be reviewed by POL Legal Team and a

23
20.

20.

20.

20.

20.

21.

21.

POL00030902

POL00030902

decision made whether to progress the case to prosecution. If the
decision is ‘No Further Action’ the Security Operations Manager and
Team Leader will be informed. If POL Legal Team decides that further
enquiries are required, the Security Operations Manager will be
informed along with Security Admin and the Team Leader.

7. Post Office Legal Team > Cartwright King Solicitors

If the decision is to proceed with a prosecution, suggested charges
will be agreed before the case is forwarded to Cartwright King
Solicitors for advice on charges.

8. Cartwright King Solicitors > Post Office Ltd Legal Team

Cartwright King Solicitors will prepare advice on charges (or advise no
further action). If further enquiries are required they will contact the
Security Operations Manager directly to discuss. An advice note will be
prepared copying in the Team Leader detailing the further enquiries.
The advice along with agreed charges will then be communicated to
Security Admin, POL Legal Team, Security Operations Manager and
Team Leader.

9. Post Office Ltd Legal Team > Head of Security Operations

The case is then forwarded to the designated prosecution authority
(DPA) for authority to proceed. The DPA will review the case file and
decide whether to proceed with the advice from POL Legal Team and
Cartwright King Solicitors or whether to take a different course of
action.

10. Head of Security > Team Leader

The file is referred back to the Security Admin team.

11. Team Leader > Security Operations Manager.

The case is returned with advice on charges to the Security Operations
Manager to proceed.

Summons
1. If advice from Cartwright King Solicitors or POL Legal Team is to
prosecute and the Head of Security Operations has given authority to

proceed, then the Security Operations Manager will need to raise a
summons.

24
POL00030902

POL00030902

21.2. The Security Operations Manager must contact the relevant

Magistrates’ Court to set a date for the suspect's first appearance.
This should normally be six weeks from date of request but no more
than 8 weeks.

21.3. Confirm the date with Cartwright King Solicitors to ensure that they

can attend. Summons and laying of information to be prepared and
once validated by the court, the Security Operations Manager will
serve the summonses. This can be in person or by posting them using
the Royal Mail Special Delivery service. Send the original copy of the
defendants summons together with a POLO44 (Charge or summons
notice) and a copy of the Means form.

21.4. Acquiring Arrest Summons (AS) Number

21.

Or

21

21.

Update the front of the NPAO1 with the date of the court hearing and
the details of the court.

Complete the offence and the method used in offence section on the
front of the NPAQO1.

Email the updated NPAO1 to the Security Admin team who will apply
to the relevant police force for an AS Number which is required for the
court to sign the summons. The AS number will be emailed back to
the Security Operations Manager within a few days of the submission
of the NPAO1 (different police forces work to different timescales to
times will vary).

5. Once conformation has been obtained that the summons has been
received, POL Legal Team and Cartwright King Solicitors must be
informed. The back of the defendants photocopied summons should
be endorsed with the following:

I certify that today, (date), I personally served a copy of the
summons upon (Name), the defendant named overleaf.

I certify that a copy of the summons overleaf has been served upon
(Name), the defendant named overleaf. The summons was sent via
Royal Mail Special Delivery (number) and was delivered (date and
time).

.6. Prepare and send to POL Legal Team a covering letter confirming

the summons has been served, together with a copy of the POL033
and any TICs. Update the front of the NPAO1 form with the date the
summons was applied for and the date the summons was served.

7. Security Operations Manager to email the Security Admin and POL
Legal Team confirmation of service letter together with the NPAO1.

25
POL00030902

POL00030902

21.8. Copies of the summons should be uploaded to Appendix A.

22. Committal

Committal Checklist

POLOO6B Self Disclosure

POLOO6c Schedule of non-sensitive unused material
Sensitive Material

Continued Disclosure Report

Witness List

Confidential witness list

Witness Non Availability

List of Exhibits

Memo to POL Legal Team

23. CASE CLOSURE

23.1. On completion of the investigation, it is vital that a review of the

root cause of the offence is undertaken by the Security Operations
Manager. It is important to ascertain whether any system processes,
integrity of the financial commercial product, technical issues, training
delivered or procedures have contributed to the offence. Equally
important, the vulnerability of the product or process in its current
form and likelihood of similar offences being committed in the future
needs to be considered. A comprehensive report outlining the cause of
the offence will be submitted to Financial Crime at the conclusion of
each investigation.

23.2. As part of the Post Office retention policy, case files must be

archived and retained for at least 7 years.

23.3. Case Closed Notification.

In all cases where a decision is taken to close a case it must be
authorised by the Team Leader.

The Case Closed notification should be completed and emailed to the
Team Leader, Security Admin, all major stakeholders and the
Financial Crime Team.

23.4 As much detail as possible should be included in the case closure

notification explaining the decision for the course of action taken.

23.5 In the event of no further action, a standard letter should be sent to

the subject informing them of the decision. A copy of this should be
uploaded to Appendix C on sharepoint.

24. Conclusion

26
POL00030902
POL00030902

24.1. Completion of the investigation review, which serves as a guide to
Security Operations Managers in the conduct of their investigations is
a timely document which embodies the ethos of Care, Challenge and

Commit. All guidance and considerations should be within the spirit of
PACE 1984 Codes of Practice.

27
