POL00333558
POL00333558

Message

From: Simon I Hutchinson’ ~
on behalf of — Simon! Hutchinson:

Sent: 06/07/2016 07:55

To: ALAN.GORDO!

cc: Helen Dickinson i

Subject: Mossley Post Office

Alan

Simply, we have been challenged, on occasion, regarding the Horizon computers system,
particularly were the case relies solely on Horizon evidence, as we are without a subject matter
expert to attend court to absolutely prove the evidence supplied by Horizon.

I am confident with Horizon integrity, however I am not qualified to say so in a court of law.

If you, or the PPS, wish to communicate with a Post Office Ltd senior manager regarding this
issue I can put you in contact with same.

Regards

Simon

Simon I Hutchinson
Security Manager

Brent House
15 Heron Road
Belfast BT3 9LE

GRO

ications OFFICIAL please use:

From: ALAN.GORDON:
Sent: 01 July 2016 14:25.
To: Simon I Hutchinson

Subject: OFFICIAL [PUBLIC]: Mossley Post Office

This e-mail has been marked OFFICIAL [PUBLIC];

Hello Simon,

In relation to your email below (Specifically the portion highlighted in bold) can you clarify what the “issue” you are
referring to is? I forwarded on your response to the prosecutors and they feel they are in the dark regarding this,

bearing in mind the standard of proof required then further clarification is needed.

Many Thanks
POL00333558
POL00333558

Constable Alan Gordon
Larne and Carrickfergus LPT

Alan

Post Office Ltd is changing Horizon over to a new and more up to date system and we would have difficulty in providing
a subject matter expert to prove the absolute integrity of the Horizon system at this time, although I am in not doubt
about Horizon. If your case relies solely on Horizon evidence then there may be an issue, if, however, the Horizon
evidence is in addition to other evidence then we should be fine.

Recently Horizon has been challenged in terms of previous successful prosecutions and as a result a small amount of
these successful prosecution cases are sitting with the Criminal Case Review Commission.

I have attached a brief explanation and response from Post Office Ltd to a BBC Panorama programme which was critical
of Horizon — Link to the article - http://corporate.postoffice.co.uk/bbc-panorama-our-response

I hope this assist you and please feel free to phone me any time (day or night) if I can be of further assistance.
Regards

Simon

EE 2K 2 FRR 2K 2 FRR A 2 2 FAR 2 2 2 RR 028 a DR a a ao

Any views expressed by the sender of this message are not necessarily those of the Police Service of Northern
Ireland. This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to
whom they are addressed. Internet email is not to be treated as a secure means of communication. PSNI
monitors all internet email activity and content. If you have received this e-mail in error please notify the sender
immediately by using the reply facility in your e-mail software. All e-mails are swept for the presence of

viruses.
ORR RR ER CF RR 2 RRR CFR 2 2 Re FRR CFR Fe Fe RRC RE Fe Fk Rk 2k Re Fe Fe Rk Re ak Ie ai ae ake
