POL00116563

POL00116563

DRAFT LETTER TO JAMES ARBUTHNOT

Thank you for your letter of 1 May. I too share your concerns about the progress of
the Mediation Scheme, and appreciate that other MPs may become increasingly
concerned the longer it is before we can update them.

I can assure you we remain determined to investigate cases as quickly as possible,
which is why we have committed substantial resources to support the Scheme,
including paying professional advisers to help the applicants, appointing 22
investigators alongside our dedicated programme team, and paying Second Sight to
review each investigation. Of the 138 applications now in the Scheme we have
received 77 detailed applications, and Post Office has completed 22 investigations
with the others currently underway.

However, every stage in the process is taking longer than originally envisaged, and
significantly, Second Sight are yet to complete a case review. Whilst their first case
review is due to be submitted in the coming days - a significant milestone - this
highlights the substantial volume of work still to be completed.

Furthermore, my understanding is that Second Sight’s interim report on thematic
issues, originally intended for March, is yet to be completed. But given the slow
progress of the investigations, my strong view is that Second Sight’s focus at this
stage should be on completing the individual case reviews. Indeed, the content of
the thematic report is dependent on the facts and evidence derived from
investigating these cases, and therefore it would be premature to produce and
release such a report before more progress had been made on the investigations.

There is one other issue which I would like to take this opportunity to address. I am
aware that you have received a copy of some correspondence between Alan Bates
and Jenny Willott MP. It is worth noting that the Working Group Chair has felt that
he should write to the Minister addressing the points made in Mr Bates’ letter. I too
have written to the Minister outlining my concerns with the letter which I believe risks
undermining the proper operation of the Working Group (and, in turn, the Scheme
itself). In particular:

1. Contrary to the Working Group’s Terms of Reference, the content of the letter
discloses information that is confidential to the Working Group.

2. It contains several factual inaccuracies and paints a picture which is
inconsistent with both the current and historic position. For example, the Post
Office had produced 20 reports for the Working Group’s consideration at the
date Mr Bates wrote, rather than none as he suggests.

3. The fact that Mr Bates has bypassed the structure of the Working Group to
raise concerns is disappointing and, in my view, contrary to the spirit of the
Working Group.
POL00116563
POL00116563

This clearly remains a complex and challenging programme, and we need to focus
on how best to resolve the cases in as swift and orderly fashion as possible. I hope
what I have set out above demonstrates that the sensitivities we are dealing with go
beyond the individual cases. Whilst I understand your desire to dampen
expectations about the possibility of a July meeting, I am not convinced that sharing
the exchange of correspondence between the two of us is the best way to achieve
that.

I am very happy to keep you updated and to take your views on matters relating to
the Scheme and would also welcome the opportunity to discuss some of the above
in more detail if that would be useful. As part of that discussion we can consider
how best to provide further updates on the Scheme to other interested parties.
