POL00097951
POL00097951

CONFIDENTIAL ~ NOT FOR PUBLICATION
Second Sight

Support Services Ue
25 March 2013 - Second Sight Briefing Note BPP See

Second Sight Support Services Ltd (“Second Sight”) was appointed in July 2012 in order to conduct an
independent investigation into various matters relating to the Horizon computer system used by
Subpostmasters throughout the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland. Second Sight is @ consultancy firm
Specialising in investigations within the financial services sector,

The terms of reference for the investigation were set cut in a document titled “Raising Concerns with
Horizon” issued jointly between the Post Office and the Justice for Subpostmasters Alfiance (URSA in
December 2012. The full agreement between the Post Office and the JESA was published on the JFSA
website in December 2012 and Subpostmasters were invited to submit relevant cases to the JFSA, or direct
to Second Sight, by 28 February 2013. in addition, all Subpostmasters were notified about these
arrangements by the Post Office in an articie in Branch Focus in January 2013. Branch Focus is a Post Office
publication sent to all Subpostmasters.

The “Raising Concerns with Horizon” document provided certain assurances concerning actions by the Post
Office regarding cases submitted by Subpostmasters and also described the remit of the investigation as
follows:

“te consider and to advise on whether there ore any systemic issues and/or concerns with the
“Horizon” system, including training and support processes, giving evidence and Feasans for the
conclusions reached”,

As of 28 February, the cut-off date agreed between the Post Office and the JESA, approximately 60 enquiries
from Subpostmasters had been received by the IFSA, mainly by telephone, but a number of these enquiries
were general questions about the investigation. This process resulted in 20 cases from Subpostmasters
being submitted via the JFSA route. in addition to these arrangements, a further 29 cases were submitted by
Subpostmasters via constituency MPs to the Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot MP.

This total of 49 cases is from an overall pogulation of approximately 11,500 Subpostmasters.

Second Sight has conducted a fast track review of ail cases that have been submitted and has requested
relevant documents from the Post Office and in some cases from third party contractors. A number of
Subpostmasters have been interviewed and telephone contact has been made with other Subpostmasters in
order to clarify the issues raised.

This fast track review process has identified the following 7 issues as being a significant feature in one or
more of the cases submitted:

i. Transaction anomaties following communications or power failures;

2, Transactions or Transaction Corrections not entered by the Subpostmaster or staff;

3. Missing or duplicated transactions associated with a small number of specific transaction types;
4. Training and Support issues;

5. Limitations in the Transaction Audit Trail available to Subpostmasters;

6. Process issues at the end of each trading period; and

7. The contract between the Post Office and Subpostmasters,

1
POL00097951
POL00097951

Whilst Second Sight will continue to. investigate all relevant cases, in order to progress the review as quickly
a8 possible, Second Sight is proposing to give priority to the top 3 issues listed above with the aim of issuing
8 report on at least those issues before the start of the Parliamentary recess on 18 duly 2013.

The investigation is progressing well. A number of difficult issues have been satisfactorily resolved and an
excellent working relationship has been established with both the JFSA and the Post Office. Second Sight has
regular meetings with senior representatives of the Post Office and is grateful for the support it is providing,
The investigation is complex and involves lovking at events that occurred over a jong period of time ~ in
some cases 7 or 8 years, We are still at the evidence gathering stage, particularly for cases submitted in the
last few weeks, and it is too early for us to reach even preliminary conclusions on the matters under review,
This is a fact based investigation involving complex information technology and it is important to allow all
relevant parties to submit evidence on the issues under review.

Second Sight is determined to get to the bottom of the issues under review and is confident that it will do so.
