POL00107985
POL00107985

Message

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd! GRO }
on behalf of Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: 04/07/2013 08:59:13

To: Theresa llesi

Subject: RE: Conference Call this morning with Paula

Theresa,

I'll be dialling in.
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

angela.van-den-bogerd
Post Office stories

@postofficenews

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and
privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you
are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original
message.

original Message--
From: Theresa Iles
Sent: 04 July 2013 08:25

To: Mark R Davies; Alwen Lyons; Martin Edwards; Susan Crichton; Lesley J Sewell; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Cc: Sarah Paddison; Jorja Preston; Amanda A Brown; Gina Gould

Subject: Conference Call this morning with Paula

Hi ATT

Referring to Paula's email below (and Alwen's in RemCom/Nomcom till 10:30) - can I suggest 10:45am in
Paula's room for the conference call - please let me know if you will be calling in/attending in person.

Dial in details are as follows:

Dialin

fron mobile: I__GRO
Participant's code: 15129314
Chair code: 2113547#

Kind regards
Theresa

aan original Message-----
From: Paula Vennells

sent: 04 July 2013 08:04

To: Mark R Davies; Theresa Iles; Sarah Paddison

Cc: Alwen Lyons; Martin Edwards; Susan Crichton; Lesley J Sewell; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: Re: Hi

Thank you Mark. And also thanks to Martin for his inputs over the last 24 hours whilst on holiday. In
fact, for the record, I am hugely appreciative of the work going in by everyone and your teams over the
last few days.

Could you forward the JA letter if not already done so (haven't yet checked all mails).

POL-0110884
POL00107985
POL00107985

I'll try to get a conference call in for the ExCo sub-group this am. The meeting went better (and at
moments) worse than hoped. But overall, the balance was positive. I suggest you speak to Alwen who can
debrief you. I am with the Fujitsu CEO at 8am then at a Crown vision event (visible leadership:) so
although I'11 try and call personally it may not be possible.

The angle is turning I think, to Horizon is ok (hurrah) but we as a business are not. Ie., that we have
behaved in a heavy-handed way with some Spmrs who panicked, which resulted in them inadvertently getting
into a muddle and committing fraud. There is no suggestion that it is wide-spread and there is
recognition that other prosecutions were correct.

I have a number of thoughts on this, which we need to discuss. This was fed back to me also by Will post
the JS/JA phone call. His view was that JA was very loose on detail and backed off a number of points
when challenged but that was pursuing this theme - ie., big institution poor duty of care.

If it is true, I am very clear that I would want to call it out first. It does not sit comfortably with
our current values and it would undermine the trust in the brand.

However, we need to be very careful about proportionality, which is the point I have made consistently: a
handful of cases vs 2.5bn txns a year, vs (at the time) 15-20k Spmrs who didn't panic, etc.

I would like Susan to find out how many prosecutions we have had over the last 10 years. And from Angela,
I would like to know what flags we have in place in the NBSC and in Chesterfield today, to make sure we
pick up any signs of concern or incompetence or inability re Spmrs balancing etc. If accurate answers are
not available immediately, I need a steer for our phone call.

Susan, I will try to call you asap I finish with Duncan as would like more advice before the call.

Finally, I'd like our next steps updated please: there are a number of activities various of us have
committed to doing and I'd like a check all is on track. Could everyone come on the call with a list.

Theresa, could you get a conf call in the diary for mid-morning?
Many thanks all.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 3 Jul 2013, at 19:36, "Mark R Davies" I

> Hi Paula

>
> I hope the Second Sight meeting went as well as it could have done. And that you are ok after another
Jong day!

>

> We have a draft letter for you to send to James and have got to the bottom of the ‘Bracknell email’
issue which James raised in the meeting today.

>
> I also feel that the comms positioning is coming along well.

>

> Portland have been in twice today and provide helpful perspective (though I must also say that Nina and
Ruth are making for a good in house team).

>

> Their view, which I agree with, is that subject to how the report lands, we can and should handle the
story without putting you up for TV and other interviews. We have also landed the ‘rocks’ which should
form the basis of our statement.

>
> I'll let you know any other developments.
>

> Mark

>
>

Sent from my iPhone

POL-0110884
