POL00022337

POL00022337
UNCORRECTED TRANSCRIPT OF ORAL EVIDENCE To be published as HC 935-i
HOUSE OF COMMONS
ORAL EVIDENCE
TAKEN BEFORE THE
BUSINESS, INNOVATION AND SKILLS COMMITTEE
POST OFFICE MEDIATION
TUESDAY 3 FEBRUARY 2015
MARK BAKER, ALAN BATES, ANDY FUREY, KAY LINNELL and GEORGE
THOMSON
ANGELA VAN DEN BOGERD, IAN HENDERSON and PAULA VENNELLS
Evidence heard in Public Questions 1 - 173

USE OF THE TRANSCRIPT

1. This is an uncorrected transcript of evidence taken in public and reported to the House.
The transcript has been placed on the internet on the authority of the Committee, and
copies have been made available by the Vote Office for the use of Members and others.

2. Any public use of, or reference to, the contents should make clear that neither witnesses
nor Members have had the opportunity to correct the record. The transcript is not yet an
approved formal record of these proceedings.

3. Members who receive this for the purpose of correcting questions addressed by them to
witnesses are asked to send corrections to the Committee Assistant.

4. Prospective witnesses may receive this in preparation for any written or oral evidence
they may in due course give to the Committee.
POL00022337
POL00022337

Oral Evidence
Taken before the Business, Innovation and Skills
on Tuesday 3 February 2015
Members present:

Mr Adrian Bailey (Chair)
Mr William Bain
Mr Brian Binley
Paul Blomfield
Katy Clark

Mike Crockart
Caroline Dinenage
Rebecca Harris
Ann McKechin
Mr Robin Walker
Nadhim Zahawi

Examination of Witnesses

Witnesses: Mark Baker, National Branch Secretary, Postmasters Branch, CWU, Alan Bates,
Chairman, Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance, Andy Furey, Assistant General Secretary ,
CWU, Kay Linnell, Chartered Accountant, Kay Linnell & Co., and George Thomson,
General Secretary, National Federation of SubPostmasters, gave evidence.

QI Chair: Good morning and thank you for agreeing to help us with our inquiry. We
have quite a few questions and not much time, so I will crack on. Before I do, please will you
introduce yourselves for voice transcription purposes?

Andy Furey: Andy Furey, Communication Workers Union.

Mark Baker: Mark Baker, Communication Workers Union.

George Thomson: George Thomson, general secretary, National Federation of
SubPostmasters.

Alan Bates: Alan Bates, Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance.
Kay Linnell: Kay Linnell, forensic accountant, adviser to JFSA.

Q2 Chair: Thanks very much. Some of the questions will be person specific and others
will be general, but please do not feel that all five of you have to contribute to an answer
unless you have something material to add. I will start with a fairly general question. The
issues between sub-postmasters and the Post Office on the Horizon system seem to have been
ongoing for some years. Have all those issues been resolved? If not, what is still outstanding?

George Thomson: May I start? Horizon came in in 2000-01—that was the original
training kit that all postmasters got at the time. I think it was set up originally in 1997 by both
the DSS and the Post Office, and it was meant to do two things—this is very important: to
POL00022337
POL00022337

vv

migrate benefits and to automate the Post Office counters network. It was set up to be able to
deal with 17 million benefit books in ’01-’02, so it was a very high specification and a very
strong system.

I think that, over that 13 or 14 years, it has performed exceptionally robustly.
Systemically, it is very strong. However, there are one or two issues where money went
missing and postmasters have felt that it had to be Horizon, while in a lot of cases it could
have been errors or, in fact, members of staff misappropriating money. Over the 15 years, the
Horizon system has been fantastically robust. It was set up to deal with 17 million benefit
transactions a week plus everything else—so a very strong system from day one.

Q3 Chair: But you said there were errors and it had to be Horizon, if I heard you
correctly.

George Thomson: Well, for example, if a sub-postmaster happens to end up being
£30,000 short—I made this point to Pat McFadden many years ago when he was Post Office
Minister—they think, “Well, I know that I never took that money, so it has to be a Horizon
mistake.” That is the postmaster’s point of view. However, a member of staff could have
misappropriated the money or actually done the transaction wrong.

A perfect example would be that someone comes in from a small business, running a
pub, and they say to the clerk in the morning, “Put £1,000 into my account.” The member of
staff inadvertently puts £10,000 in the Horizon system on the computer. That member of staff
is part of a team balance, so she does not have an individual stock—she may finish at 1 pm—
and then the second member of staff who is doing the dailies at 5 pm sees a figure of £10,000
and accepts that as being correct.

My point is that if there is a keying error, where someone should have put through
£1,000 but puts though £10,000, then all of a sudden that office will have a shortage of
£9,000. Sub-postmasters sometimes think that the problem has to be the Horizon system when
in effect it was mistakes by members of staff or misappropriation.

I accept that there are cases where some of the training could have been a bit better, but
I have brought along an original Royal Mail migration pack to show you. Every postmaster in
Britain in 2000 and 2001 had one, and this is mine because I was a postmaster then. This was
full of training materials, so from day one the Post Office has taken this extremely seriously.
This is 14 years old. It contained training materials for how to operate Horizon, because it was
a big switchover from a manual system to a computerised system that the Government helped
us pay for and equip.

Q4 Chair: I cannot see the contents of that pack, but I must admit that if someone
handed me that and told me that it was my training, I might run a mile. Perhaps I could bring
in Alan, because I can see that he is shaking his head. He is in a better position to challenge
this.

Alan Bates: 1 was also involved with the training at that point when the system came in,
and I was a sub-postmaster then. I had one and a half days’ training, my staff had one day’s
training and I believe that the regional people who worked for the Post Office had two and
half days’ training.

I, too, received a 500-page pack to take away and leam how to use the system
afterwards. That is how it was dropped on everyone. I had five members of staff who did
training at that session. One of them had never even turned on a computer before, but she did
a day’s training and then she was certified as being sound and correct and fine to use the
POL00022337

POL00022337

system at the end of one day. It was madness; she had no idea what she was doing. Staff were
just abandoned at that point.

Q5 Chair: Okay. Andy?

Andy Furey: I welcome the opportunity to give evidence to the Select Committee, so
thank you for the invitation. First, overall we think that the Horizon system has served the
community, the Post Office and the wider electorate very well, but that does not mean that it
is perfect.

There have been some problems with the system, primarily from postmasters,
particularly in small post offices where the technical support may not be so good and where
the electrical and telephony systems might not be as robust as you would want them to be. We
are not coming in here to criticise the Horizon system: indeed, it is on its way out now. Its
shelf life is near the expiry date, and thankfully the Post Office is investing taxpayers’ money
in new systems. That is a positive.

Our concer overall is the hundreds of postmasters who seemingly have not had justice.
They were dismissed for irregularities that were not down to them as individuals or their staff,
and which are seemingly a problem of the system. We were pleased that the mediation
scheme was erected and set up, but we do not think it has delivered as it was envisaged to in
the first place. We are concerned about the pace of the process of mediation, and the number
of cases that seem to have fallen out of the process. Overall, we are not particularly happy
with the way that the mediation scheme has been conducted.

Q6 Chair: So your complaint is more about the mediation than the actual scheme?

Andy Furey: I think it is that question of whether there are some glitches in the system
that have created problems for some individual postmasters. Let me put this into scale. There
are 11,500 post offices and 30,000 or 40,000 Horizon terminals up and down the length and
breadth of the country, so this is not a wide-scale problem, but nonetheless it is a problem for
the individuals who were impacted, who have lost their livelihoods.

Q7 Chair: Okay. We will hear from Kay and Mark, but please make it brief because I
want to move the questioning on a bit.

Kay Linnell: A couple of points are pertinent. One is that when the Post Office moved
to a computerised system in 2000-01, they did not amend the contract between the sub-
postmasters and the Post Office. The individual SPM remained totally responsible for all
gains and losses, but they were no longer able to check each and every transaction because
there were no slips.

My understanding is that the Post Office had to pay for metadata from their contractors
Fujitsu. This meant that when a shortage or overage arose and SPMs tried to investigate it and
asked the Post Office about it, there was an extreme reluctance to investigate each and every
shortage or overage. When they made calls to the helpline supporting them, these were not
dealt with, or were marked with low priority. I have done this from empirical evidence on a
couple of cases.

Q8 Chair: We are going to go on to this in a minute.

Kay Linnell: But you asked if all the complainants were satisfied. 1 believe none of
them are.
POL00022337

POL00022337

Mark Baker: Apart from representing postmasters nationally, I am still a serving sub-
postmaster. I have been doing the job now for 27 years, and 10 years prior to that I was
working for the head Post Office. Horizon was introduced for a specific purpose: mainly to
fulfil the wishes of the DWP to have more automated process for pension allowances.

Horizon could also do other things in its early says, but its basic requirement changed as
the DWP changed their requirements and the Post Office needed to use Horizon for more
commercial reasons and had developed application upon application upon application. They
had more and more data centres talking to each other, exchanging information. It is a very
chaotic, behind-the-scenes set of circumstances in IT terms. We have mentioned training; the
training started off reasonably good, but as the system evolved there was no back-up training
of any adequacy. Postmasters are just sent manuals and are expected to not only teach
themselves but have to teach their staff as well. So training is a huge issue.

Mr Thomson alluded to human error. There will always be human error when humans
interact with computers. However, what has been systemic and consistent throughout
Horizon’s life is the failure to recognise that parts of the infrastructure could be to blame for
some of these discrepancies occurring.

The Post Office failed to recognise that they needed to drill down into each and every
kind of discrepancy—whether that was a surplus or a shortage is irrelevant: it is a
discrepancy; and refused to look at their system and analyse, “Is it fit for purpose in the
modern day? Is it independently audited by accredited IT professionals?” It was not
supporting the postmasters—the ones that find themselves in the JFSA group—or looking
into their cases. Why has that happened over the years that Horizon has been in life? That
very much is the core reason why we find ourselves here today.

Chair: Okay. I think you have partly answered the next question, but I am going to
bring Caroline in, and no doubt she may want to develop it.

Q9 Caroline Dinenage: As the Chairman said, I think we have got your views on this,
but in a nutshell if you could say: Second Sight’s 2013 interim report gave a preliminary
conclusion that there was no evidence of system-wide or systemic problems with the Horizon
software. Can you just tell me—yes or no, really—whether you believe that this remains a fair
assessment of the system’s functioning?

Mark Baker: Personally, I do not believe that that is the case any more. I think there are
a lot of areas which have been highlighted since Second Sight issued their first report. I have
the benefit, because it was issued to one of my members, of reading their report that they
prepare for the mediation scheme, where they are now highlighting lots of areas that have the
potential to cause discrepancies.

George Thomson: I think systemically the system is very robust and I would just like
to make a point that the CWU quite rightly represent Crown office staff, but Crown offices in
the UK, there are about 330 or 340 left—very busy offices. They do about 16% of all the
volumes of work throughout the post office network, and it has been around that for the last
15 years—slightly more: 17%, 18%.

If there was a systemic issue—and we represent 70% of all Britain’s sub-postmasters;
the CWU quite rightly represent mostly Crown offices and maybe about 100 postmasters—
there would be big problems in the Crown offices as well. I cannot recall a single big issue
where someone in Crown offices has blamed Horizon. If it was systemic, it would be a
nonsense to suggest that the only time there are computer faults is to do with independent sub-
postmasters or franchise sub-postmasters; and yet there does not seem to be any noise at all
POL00022337
POL00022337

that has developed with the Crown offices over 15 years. That is very strange, given they are
doing 16% of all the volumes.

Alan Bates: One of the few documents that has come to light in all of this is a 2007-08
internal report from the Post Office, which showed that the Crown offices lost £2.2 million
across their counters that year. So Crown offices do lose money.

The reason why the JFSA was set up was that the federation refused to support sub-
postmasters in any cases about Horizon—it never once supported people in court cases or
anything like that. It was just saying to people, “Right, you’re saying it’s a Horizon problem.
Oh, I’m sorry. There’s nothing wrong with Horizon. The Post Office has told us there’s
nothing wrong.” That is why the JFSA came about. Every one of our members wants their
dues back from the federation because of its so-called support—or lack of support—over the
years.

It is really frustrating to have to sit here listening to somebody who is meant to be
representing sub-postmasters—it is like they are in a paid position in the Post Office.

Q10 Chair: Can you talk just about the issues? It is not about personalities.

Alan Bates: I am sorry. I get frustrated by this. I will try to come back to this later. I
will leave it for now.

Kay Linnell: The only thing I would add is that Horizon is the entire system, not just
the information technology—it is the selection of SPMs, the training for them and the support
for them in the system. In terms of saying there is no error and nothing that has to be put right,
I would like you to ask the Post Office in the next session what adjustments it has made to
correct the errors it has found. There obviously were errors, because there have been
corrections.

QU Chai
tell us what to ask.

Kay Linnell: 1 beg your pardon, sir. It is just that this is a question of listening to a
defence by the national federation of the Post Office side. Frankly, it is supposed to be
representing sub-postmasters who have lost their livelihoods, their homes, their money and
their reputation because of faults put at their door by the Horizon system.

Believe you me, we will cover all the angles. We do not need panellists to

Q12 Chair: Can you confine yourself to the issues we are talking about?

Alan Bates: In response to the question that was asked, a lot of water has gone under
the bridge since the original report. There are far more facts to come out, which I am sure you
will ask questions about later.

Andy Furey: This is in response not necessarily to the question, but to George
Thomson’s contribution about Crown offices. The CWU represents members in the Crown
offices. They are directly employed. The processes and systems in place provide more than
adequate protection for those individuals we get full representational rights for. There is a
losses-and-gains procedure. It is fully acknowledged that there can be human error, and
mistakes can be made, and people are dealt with under that procedure.

No Crown staff have lost their jobs directly as a consequence of Horizon problems, but
I submit that that is due to the fact that the big Crown offices have much more robust
telephony and electrical systems, as well as maintenance and regular check-ups of the system.
It is difficult to compare a Crown post office, where you might have 20 tills, with a small sub-
post office that is in a rural area and that has telephony problems and so on. Similarly, each
POL00022337

POL00022337

counter clerk will have their own till, and the balancing arrangements are virtually daily. So,
yes, George is correct to say that there have not been problems in Crowns, but, there certainly
have been problems in very small rural sub-post offices.

Q13 Chair: Could it be said that, in effect, there is a system in Crown post offices that
picks up errors and a balancing process that flushes these things out day by day?

Andy Furey: \t is even more robust than that, Chair. If one counter clerk takes over the
serving position of another counter clerk, you do a cash declaration and check the money at
that point, because you are serving from the same till. At tea breaks and meal reliefs, there is a
switchover. People do make mistakes, and the £2.2 million figure is correct. The Post Office,
with our support, has been trying to improve that figure, but people do make mistakes. This is
about what you input into the system. Generally speaking, you can find those errors in the
course of the working day and take whatever steps you need to rectify the problem.

George Thomson: I agree with what Andy said. He talked about putting measures in
place to help with human errors, whereas Mark said 10 minutes ago that the system was
systemically faulty. I do not believe the system is systemically faulty. A lot of this is down to
people making errors. Andy is right about the Crown offices having different processes in
place, which make the detection of human errors easier. That is the only point I am making.

Q14 Caroline Dinenage: To your knowledge, are sub-postmasters continuing to
experience the issues that have been previously reported?

George Thomson: The big problem I have is this. I have been active at the top of the
federation for 15 years. My colleague Mervyn Jones, who is our commercial director, has
been for a long time as well. We were talking about this yesterday. We have been to hundreds
of sub-postmasters’ meetings over the last decade. We represent 7,000 sub-postmasters; it was
more than that when the network was bigger. If there was a systemic problem and you are
doing 6 million transactions a day, with 60,000 people using the system every day—it was
100,000 10 years ago, when the network was bigger—we would be absolutely inundated.

Because we knew we were coming here, we asked the executive council about the
number of incidents where they have been asked about Horizon and it was faulty. It is tiny. In
the last two weeks, a sub-postmaster phoned up Shoreham. He was going ballistic. This is to
do with publicity, and it is starting to damage the brand, so we have to be careful. He was a
postmaster between ’96 and ’98, and he was ranting and raving at me along the lines that we
have let postmasters down, as was said 10 minutes ago. I do not accept that for a minute. He
knew that it was Horizon. He lost his job and was thousands of pounds short. I let him go on.
I said, “Now, are you absolutely certain about the dates?” He said, “Yes. It was °96 to ’98.” I
said, “Well, do you realise that Horizon wasn’t introduced until four or five years after that?”

We have to be careful that we are not creating a cottage industry that damages the brand
and makes clients like the DWP and the DVLA think twice. We do £350 million a week. We
pay out £18 billion a year for the DWP in Government benefits. The DWP would not have re-
awarded the Post Office card account contract, which pays out £18 billion a year, in the last
month if they thought for a minute that this computer system was not reliable.

I understand that Mark, for the right reasons, has genuine feelings about it, and Andy
has as well. But if we are not careful, we damage the brand, we damage the franchise and we
cost my members’ ability to sell the franchise. If we lose big contracts, Andy’s members lose
their jobs as well. So we have to be careful that we do not create a cottage industry that is
built on supposition.
POL00022337

POL00022337

Chair: Okay; I think we’ve got the point. Several Members indicated that they have
supplementary questions. Brian, I think you were first.

Q15 Mr Binley: I used to be an area manager for pubs—a lot of pubs. There is a real
similarity in the problems you are talking about because if you employ staff, money—unless
you are very careful—walks out of the front door on two legs, quite frankly. It is not difficult
to analyse where the money is being lost.

There are some big sub-post offices which employ a few people, but many of them are a
husband and wife team or, to be modern, two partners running a business together. Those are
really very small businesses. What analysis has been done on that basis? That would answer
the point that I think you are making, Mr Thomson, which is that where staff are employed,
people can walk out the door and can make mistakes that are very difficult for the sub-
postmaster in charge to manage. What analysis has been done in that respect?

Kay Linnell: May 1 take that one? The problem that the members of JFSA and the
complainants have is that the analysis and evidence has not been produced. Using your pub
analogy, the landlord has access to all the accounting records; he can see when cash is
missing. What has happened with the small sub-postmasters is that, even where there is only
the SPM operating the tills, money has gone missing which is outwith their control.

For example, if cash collection is picked up and remitted to head office, it is sometimes
not logged against them in head office and a shortage arises. Sometimes, an entry goes
through—a transaction correction or credit—and they do not know about it. Although the sub-
postmaster is personally responsible to pay cash, they are not aware of how the differences
have arisen. If this mediation scheme had told the complainants—the applicants—where the
money had gone, there would be a lot of settlements, but we still do not know. The accounting
is outside the SPMs’ control.

Q16 Mr Binley: But how can the sub-postmaster be responsible?
Kay Linnell: Because, under the contract with the Post Office, they are responsible.

QI7 Mr Binley: No, I am talking about reality. Forget how the Post Office tied it up.
How can they be responsible if they are not in control of their business in the way that you
have just described?

Kay Linnell: The problem is that under the contract they are responsible, and that is
why they feel aggrieved.

Q18 Mr Binley: I know that. I am talking about in reality. How can they be expected to
be responsible when in fact they do not have the tools to carry through that responsibility? Is
that the nub of it?

Kay Linnell: That is absolutely the key question.
Chair: We will be coming on to that when we talk to the Post Office.

Q19 Mr Walker: I want to come back to something that Andy Furey said about this
potentially relating to issues with telephony and connections, particularly in the more remote
and rural sub-post offices. Is that something that the JSFA recognise as part of the issue? You
are nodding. If it is, surely that is something that ought to improve over time as branches get
upgraded to better telephony, as we get the roll-out of rural broadband. Is there any evidence
that that is being addressed through those types of upgrades?
POL00022337
POL00022337

Kay Linnell: I think that’s a question for the Post Office. We have evidence of historic
failures. A lot of the connections on very complicated things like ATMs were done through a
mobile phone connection, which sometimes dropped before both ends of the transaction were
captured. Historically, that is the problem. I do not know what the Post Office have done to
fix it or whether they are working with British Telecom or some provider. Theoretically, we
hope it would improve.

George Thomson: I am not sure, from what I have heard today and from what I have
read, that it is okay to say that it only affects smaller offices, which is what some of the
witnesses have said. I think that some of the offices that went into mediation are quite large
offices. It comes back to the Crown office point. The interfacing between all the systems are
the same for the Crown offices as they are for the rest. That point has to be made. I do not
think that the people who are bringing their cases forward are in exclusively small offices. It
is not just about broadband; I accept Robin’s point. It would be interesting to know, if the
figures are there, how many are really small offices and how many are quite large. You have
to be consistent in your argument and not just pick and choose what you think is a good fact
for any particular point.

Mark Baker: I have a lot of experience in another life in IT network systems working
over virtual private networks, and I have been doing a lot of research into data flow
disruption. Horizon just produces packets of data. It has to be transmitted, and it needs a
secure network over which to be transmitted. The ADSL lines are not interleaved. If you do
not interleave an ADSL line and put other equipment on it, you run the risk of disruption
happening to the data flow.

Power can cause the same kind of disruption. The infrastructure in branch has not been
maintained at all since it was introduced. The power lines have never been checked. The plugs
have never been PAT tested. The trip control switches, which are designed to protect the
electrical circuitry, have never been looked at since the day they went in. I have no idea
whether they still work, so what damage can power surges and power outages cause.

The interaction of Horizon when it loses its ADSL connectivity for whatever reason and
defaults to its modem is another area of concern to me. We are doing highly encrypted secure
banking transactions on a mobile phone chip, and that is a recipe for disaster. In the rural
areas, it will be worse than in the urban areas. Urban areas get the same problem, but in the
tural areas, you are a long way away from your BT exchange. The signals are not always very
good if you have to go on to the backup through the modem, and it is a recipe for disaster.
This is not only my opinion. Second Sight have raised this issue, particularly if you read the
report that they have provided to the mediation scheme.

Andy Furey: It is a lot less technical than that. First and foremost, the vast majority of
people working in the post office network, irrespective of what the post office is, have great
integrity and want to serve the public. By definition, there will always be some bad apples in
the barrel. Thankfully, they are generally caught and they hold their hands up and
acknowledge that they have stolen money. What has happened is that hundreds of postmasters
are saying that they have not done that; money has gone missing that they cannot account for,
and they have declared those losses, which they then are responsible for making good. Now,
you are not going to steal money and declare a loss that you then have to make good. There
may be occasions when an employee of the postmaster might have stolen money and, of
course, the postmaster cannot be accountable for that person who has been dishonest, but the
reality of the contractual arrangements is that the postmaster has to make good that money.
The root of the problem is that there is no proper procedure and we have some contemporary
issues.
POL00022337
POL00022337

Q20 Paul Blomfield: I want to ask Mr Thomson a quick question. Your unconditional
endorsement of the Horizon system seems to broadly concur with the Second Sight report
conclusions. Do you agree with its conclusions that the Post Office’s response to the problems
that emerged was “unhelpful, unsympathetic” or “fail to solve the underlying problem”?

George Thomson: There could have been some better training. I accept that. In my
opinion, three things happened. Training is one thing, and some people have just got a few
things wrong.

Paul Blomfield: So you do not think that there was an attitude or culture problem in the
Post Office’s response, which is what the Second Sight report found?

Chair: We are actually asking a question on this in a few moments, so perhaps we
could just move on. Mike, your question has been partly answered. Do you want to add
anything?

Q21 Mike Crockart: Yes, I want very briefly to try to get a feel for the size of the
problem because we are talking in generalities here. Andy, you just said that hundreds of
postmasters have had this problem. How big is the problem? How many postmasters have
reported incidents?

George Thomson: Mike, I will put it in perspective over the whole 15 years. At one
time, 100,000 postmasters and their staff were dealing with Horizon every week on the
computers when the network was bigger; that is down to 50,000. It has always been a tiny
amount. Going on to Paul’s point to put it together, some of it is training. A small element is
that—

Q22 Mike Crockart: As the Chair said, we are coming on to that in a minute. I am
trying to get an idea of the size of the problem. You said that it is a small number—what does
that mean?

George Thomson: It’s tiny, because you are talking about something in the region of
more than 30 million transactions every single week. It used to be about 60 million
transactions.

Q23 Mike Crockart: The question was: what number of postmasters are affected by this?
Perhaps I can turn to somebody else.

George Thomson: Tiny.

Alan Bates: During the 12-week period in which the mediation scheme was open, we
had 150 people apply for it. Since then, probably a similar amount have been trying to get into
the scheme, but it is closed. Before that, the JFSA was going for maybe two or three years and
we had probably a similar amount. There are still people finding out about all of this all the
time, so it is a growing number. There is a definite number of people.

Q24 Mike Crockart: How much of that—people finding out about it and the number
growing—is, as George outlined—
Alan Bates: Jumping on the bandwagon?

Mike Crockart: People saying, “Oh, I had a problem; it must be to do with the Horizon
system.”?
POL00022337

POL00022337

Alan Bates: The whole point of the scheme—it is not purely the software that we are
talking about. Everyone seems to homing in on the computer system. It is about the support
package that works with it. It is the training and the lack of investigation. The Post Office
never investigate cases if a sub-postmaster has an issue. If they raise that they have a problem,
they suddenly get landed on by Post Office’s audit and, more than likely, they will be thrown
out or even charged afterwards. That is what has gone on in the past. I think they are trying to
change it these days, but I do not know how successful because two or three new people a
week call me, and these are serving sub-postmasters having problems as well. There are
ongoing issues.

Kay Linnell: 1n truth, nobody knows the answer to your question, to be absolutely
honest. If you talk to anybody who has served in one these smaller, independent SPM
branches, you will see that there is a succession of people who have had problems with the
hardware, the software or the support, and there are unanswered questions as to why the
differences arose—small or large. It is that not knowing how the difference arose for which
they are responsible that has, frankly, driven some of them to the edge of sanity.

Q25 Mike Crockart: There are 150 in the mediation system and roughly 150 that you
know about that would have liked to, but have missed the boat.

Alan Bates: And there are more coming along.
Chair: We are going on to the mediation system now. Can I bring in Paul?

Q26 Paul Blomfield: There are 150 in the mediation system. The information we have
been given is that the vast majority of those have not been resolved. Some 110 are still in the
system. Do you think that is satisfactory? What would you have expected should have been
achieved by the mediation system by now?

Alan Bates: When the scheme was originally set up, I think it was hoped that it would
move along at a far quicker pace than it has. The amount of work that is needed—

Q27 Chair: When was it set up?
Alan Bates: The original scheme was launched in August—
Kay Linnell: 2013.

Alan Bates: \t was originally launched in 2013 and it closed on 18 November that year.
There were thoughts that it would be a matter of weeks for the Post Office. I think the Post
Office allowed four weeks to look at cases and investigate them, whereas it has been taking
them four, five, six or seven months to investigate a case. Second Sight is also taking not
quite as long, but it is certainly taking considerably more time to investigate these cases. So it
is taking far longer than was thought. One of the problems is trying to get hold of information.
I think people have been struggling to get hold of information from Post Office and from
Fujitsu down the way to investigate records. No, it is not satisfactory how long it has taken.
You are quite right.

Q28 Paul Blomfield: I assume other people will concur with that—there are nodding
heads. How effective do you think the working group has been in overseeing the scheme?

Alan Bates: I think it has changed. At the outset, the people who were involved with it,
JFSA, Post Office and Second Sight, all thought we were doing one thing. We were heading
in one direction. But since the scheme has moved forward, I think we are finding ourselves at
odds with each other. People are becoming far more partisan in their approach. Post Office
POL00022337

POL00022337

has gone straight to lawyer-based support and response to queries. So it has become very
unsatisfactory.

George Thomson: Can I just say, Paul, firstly, 99% of postmasters are dead straight and
honest? That is the first thing. But on this very important issue about mediation, I think it was
probably the training. Some people believe that money went missing and it had to be Horizon
where it was maybe staff error. But the third point, and this is contentious, and I would like to
say this for a minute, the difficulty the Post Office must have is that some of the people are
chancing their luck. I am going to give you a perfect example, which is not on our previous
statement.

Q29 Paul Blomfield: That wasn’t my question. My question was how effective do you
think the working group has been in overseeing the mediation process.

George Thomson: The mediation is very effective. However, when you re-examine
some of these cases and look at the mediation, it re-emphasises how robust we were in the
first place.

Mark Baker: \ have three members in the mediation scheme and from our experience, it
is agonisingly slow. I have only got one member who got to the stage where he gets the Post
Office response. That is the sort of thing they get. We are waiting for Second Sight’s addition
to this.

I do not know why Mr Thomson comments on the mediation scheme; he does not have
any members in it. The scheme could do with some form of external body sitting on it that
could perhaps keep the pace of progress going a bit faster and maybe offer a bit more of a
robust challenge to the Post Office on some of the reasons it gives why things have to be done
the way they are. There is a big area of improvement that could be introduced into the
working group.

I would say this, wouldn’t 1? But I think the CWU has been an excellent advocate’s
body to go and act as honest broker in seeing fair play and getting this scheme working at an
acceptable pace.

Kay Linnell: The reason the working group is not as fast at pushing this scheme through
to mediation as it was, is because some of the goalposts have been moved by the Post Office.
When we originally started the scheme—this is what was advocated to members at a training
session in Birmingham in the summer of 2013—the presumption was that once they were
accepted in the scheme, they would go through to mediation fairly quickly, having raised their
issues, allowed the Post Office to investigate and respond, and Second Sight to do an
overview recommending it go forward or trying to fish out the bad apples. The reason that has
not happened is because the Post Office had done a very thorough job of investigation—albeit
half, I would say, of a report I have seen, so they cannot find the records to tell anybody what
happened, because it is too old.

Second Sight have been very thorough in their further inquiries and investigation. At the
working group, they are now taking a look at more than half the cases that Second Sight are
looking at, to try and make a decision on whether they should go forward or not. The ones
that have gone into mediation are a different issue, and it is not effective, but I don’t think you
asked me that. The reason the working group has slowed down is that the Post Office has
changed the way in which it is interacting with the applicants represented by JFSA.

Alan Bates: Which is also something that JFSA has objected to, and it will not sit in on
cases, because it was never the role of the working group to decide which cases went to
mediation or not. The Post Office have made it so. They have now decided that all cases
should go to the working group for a decision on mediation or not. We have always supported
POL00022337

POL00022337

and agreed from the outset that if Second Sight, which is an independent firm, suggested or
recommended that a case go forward to mediation, it should go. That is what should have
happened. It is what the individuals involved were promised and what the paperwork said
from the outset, but the Post Office have managed to skew it that all cases have to come into
the working group to be discussed. We do not agree with that. We will not take part in that,
and the only ones we will discuss are where Second Sight does not recommend that a case
goes forward to mediation. We are prepared to discuss a case on that basis.

Q30 Chair: Can I be absolutely clear? A sub-postmaster with a problem that he wants
to take to mediation applies to Second Sight—you are shaking your head.

Alan Bates: No, the scheme is closed at the moment. There is nothing they can do.

Q31 Chair: Well, when it was open—

Alan Bates: Yes, they submitted an application to the working group to ask whether a
case could be heard or go forward. They were then accepted—150 cases were accepted for the
scheme, and it is those cases that have been working their way through the scheme.

Q32 Chair: Yes, I understand that. This is what I am not clear on: my understanding is
that Second Sight is the organisation that determines whether something should go through to
mediation.

Alan Bates: That is our understanding of the way that it should be.

Q33 Chair: What is the role of the other parties, for instance, in the working group?

Alan Bates: Basically, it is to administer the scheme. Originally, it was to set up or
formulate the scheme—to bring it together—and then to take care of the issues of driving it
forward, making sure the cases were progressing all right, and dealing with any problems that
came along.

Q34 Chair: You said they are not pulling together. Is that the justification for the Post
Office closing the scheme or closing the process and then taking the litigious route?

Alan Bates: Well, it was only an initial scheme to start with. It was only open for 12
weeks, and it was thought that there would be something to follow up afterwards, but nothing
has yet appeared. Inside the scheme, you are quite right about the cases, as they have worked
through. That is the direction the Post Office seem to be taking with all cases. In fact, from
what I am hearing from the membership who received these reports of their cases from the
Post Office, basically the Post Office are saying that they have done everything right and the
sub-postmaster did everything wrong. That seems to be the summary of the majority of the
cases at the moment.

Q35 Ann McKechin: This is question for Alan Bates and Mark Baker. James
Arbuthnot, who is in the room with us today, wrote a letter to Paula Vennells, in which he
stated that “in recent months, the Post Office has been objecting to around 90% of cases going
forward to mediation.” The Post Office, in turn, has stated to us that, of those cases so far
recommended by the working group for mediation, the Post Office has declined to do so in
just two, representing 8% of those cases. Which do you think is correct?
POL00022337
POL00022337

Alan Bates: \ could go into figures and numbers and all the rest of it, but I do not think
that is the important point. I would like to go back to my previous answer: they should not be
discussed at the working group. They should go straight through to mediation if Second Sight
agree that a case is suitable for mediation, so the figure, really, is not important.

Q36 Ann McKechin: It is not important to the gist of your argument. Mark, do you
have anything to add?

Mark Baker: I will try to do my best to answer this question, but I am excluded from
the mediation scheme. I am not allowed to get involved, and the Post Office will not have
anything to do with us. It is my understanding that the 90% would be referring to the 110
cases that have yet to be dealt with. I am not sure where those 110 cases stand. I am led to
believe that the team that was specially put together by the Post Office to do work such as this
is now being stood down, so what will happen to these 110? Who will be investigating their
claims that they have put into the mediation scheme? Have their claims already been dealt
with by the Post Office? If that is the case, why are they not immediately given to Second
Sight for their view? I think that is where the 90% figure came from that Mr Arbuthnot was
referring to.

Ann MeKechin: We need to have clarity. We will be questioning the Post Office later
this morning, so we can ask them what is happening with the 110 cases.

Q37 Caroline Dinenage: Am I correct that you are all in agreement that the length of
time to apply and go through the mediation scheme has been far too long? You are all
nodding. With that in mind, what would you say would have been a reasonable time to expect
cases such as this to have been concluded?

Kay Linnell: That is a very difficult question, because each case is significantly
different depending on the age of the case, the size of the loss, what records have been
preserved, whether there was a criminal conviction and whether a full investigation was
conducted by the Post Office which can be produced and made available for Second Sight to
review. Every case has been substantially different. The Post Office have put people on their
own internal investigation team to try to produce evidence, and Second Sight as the
independent reviewer must be given a chance on each and every case to try to draw their own
conclusions. The delay has been in the quality of attempts to get to the facts. I do not know
what the answer is regarding the ideal time. Ideally for the complainants, it would be very
quick, but if you make it too quick, you do not do the proper and full review, so I do not know
the answer to that.

George Thomson: In fairness to the Post Office as well, when you look at some of these
cases, they are very complicated and the facts do not stack up. If you will bear with me, I will
give you a perfect example of how difficult a particular case is. I will name someone, because
they were talked about in a Westminster Hall debate in December. I made the point before
that some people are absolutely genuine and believe that the money had to be Horizon and it
was staff error. But there are some people who, quite frankly, are spinning a yarn here.
Michael Rudkin is one of those who was talked about time after time. This is where it is
difficult for me, because we do our best and we helped Michael Rudkin as well.

Michael Rudkin was initially suspended in 2008, and this comes up in Brian’s point.
We got him reinstated because his wife admitted that the discrepancy—Michael Rudkin never
said it was Horizon in 2008—-was because she had taken the £44,000 and did not tell her
husband. So we got Michael reinstated. This is important, because he claims that it is Horizon
now. His wife stole £44,000, and she admitted that. He was then reinstated because of the
POL00022337

POL00022337

work that I and others from the federation did. He was subsequently audited again in 2010,
and he was £6,500 short. It is only in the last year and a half that I have heard that he is now
blaming it on Horizon—never at the time.

The point that I would like to finish on is that Mr Rudkin must be uniquely unfortunate
when it comes to new technology, because there was a robbery in his office in 2005, when
£50,000 went missing, and his CCTV camera happened to be broken. He is very unfortunate
with new technology. I support genuine people, but some people are chancing their luck. Just
to finish on that point—

Q38 Chair: You are quoting an individual case, and that individual is not in a position
to rebut anything. I think, quite frankly, it is totally out of order. I would check on the legal
implications of what you have just said.

George Thomson: It is true.

Q39 Mr Binley: It seems to me that this problem arises from the initial launch and
familiarisation programme of a nationalised industry that did not get it right. That is the truth
of the matter. It goes back to when they initially put this into effect. Did the Post Office, when
it created this, set up special teams to give advice and training?

George Thomson: Yes it did, and it took—

Q40 Mr Binley: Hang on. That is fine. “Yes, it did”, is a good enough answer.
Did it then set up regional helpdesks and were they available to people?
Alan Bates: No.

Q41 Mr Binley: No regional helpdesks? We are talking about a national organisation
with thousands upon thousands of branch offices, which expected this to be done by the issue
of a pack, recognising that a lot of people who run post offices don’t or didn’t have English as
their first language. This was badly planned right from the start. Is my conclusion correct?

Alan Bates: Yes.

George Thomson: No. I don’t accept that it is correct because we have trainers on the
ground. The Post Office used to have a regional structure in the UK. It is only in the last 10 or
15 years that we have—

Q42 Mr Binley: Forgive me, George. I have asked about regional helpdesks. Let me
ask a third question. Recognising that the turnover of staff in any nationwide business is
sizeable, what continuing help was given to ensure that staff were familiar? It is no good just
familiarising staff 15 years ago and then forgetting that you need to keep an ongoing training
programme in place.

Andy Furey: To be fair, the Post Office was nearly right. We saw a massive programme
on a large scale. When it was originally set up, there would probably have been about 18,000
post offices in place at that point. We have lost a lot of sub-post offices with successive
Governments. With the scale of the volume of transactions—millions every day—you only
have to have 0.001% of error and that is quite significant on those individuals. We need to put
this into context. It is a robust system in many respects but there are small errors.
POL00022337
POL00022337

Q43 Mr Binley: I understand the system is robust. You have given me that answer. It is
the people that matter. They are the element where the problem lies. It seems to me that that
was not properly fully understood by the Post Office at the beginning. Can I take a vote on
whether that is a correct view?

Alan Bates: Can I give you an example?

Mr Binley: No, I would like to take a vote. Who hears that as a correct view? Was the
support and ongoing training good enough when this sizeable system was launched? Yes or
no?

George Thomson: Yes.

Andy Furey: No.

Mark Baker: No.

Alan Bates: No.

Kay Linnell: No.

Q44 Mr Walker: I want to follow up on Brian’s point and on some of the points raised
by James Arbuthnot in the debate about calls to the national helpline not being answered and
being dropped in some cases. If we accept that that is the case, do you feel that Post Office
has changed its approach and has provided more training and support as time has passed? Do
you feel that Post Office has improved things such as responding to those helplines?

Andy Furey: I think it has got worse, actually. Recently—last year—the helplines were
moved to the Philippines and that has brought with it some more problems. Brian’s point is
about it not being originally set up as good as it could have been. I am more concerned about
the contemporary problems.

Mr Binley: They go back to that point.

Q45 Mr Walker: George, you have defended Post Office’s position on this. What do
you feel about the approach over time? You have shown us the pack that came out at roll-out.
Brian makes the point that a lot of staff and postmasters will have changed over since then.
Do you feel that Post Office is doing enough to support people coming into this situation,
including staff, not just sub-postmasters?

George Thomson: There are two things on that. Firstly, postmasters know, if your staff
get it wrong, it hits you in the pocket. So, there are two ways that people get trained. Brian
was talking about ongoing training as well. You can go into a Post Office classroom, if you
are a new recruit, and you can get on the counter for a week or two; or you get hands-on
training at the post office by the sub-postmaster or his partner. That is very rigorous.

Andy touches on a very good point. I have been critical of the Post Office internally
over the decision to offshore the sub-postmasters’ helpline to the Philippines. It is a nonsense
of a decision. I will criticise the Post Office when it should be criticised. When a company has
taken £160 million per year—a Government subsidy of British taxpayers’ money—to
offshore hundreds of jobs, or 30 or 40 jobs to the Philippines, it is a nonsense. I will kick the
Post Office up the backside when it deserves it, but on Horizon, it has done nothing wrong.

Kay Linnell: May 1 add just one point? We are talking about support to sub-
postmasters. One critical thing the Post Office has not done is produce a system for when they
have a genuine concern about a short or an over—a difference—so that there is an
independent third-party who can tell them why it happened. People today are still getting
shorts and overs on a daily basis and still have no clue why the accounting systems that they
can see do not balance. To my mind, that is the support that the SPM on the ground needs
POL00022337
POL00022337

today. Helplines are all very well, but you get a person on the end who may log the call and
mark it low priority. That doesn’t help you.

Mark Baker: As a serving sub-postmaster, live, as we speak—I should be back at the
branch, but I am here—perhaps I should tell you that training is generally received by serving
sub-postmasters through the form of manuals. We call them Branch Focuses. They arrive
every week and we read them to receive training and instructions on how to operate certain
transactions. They are hopeless.

My wife prepared a 54-page dossier, randomly taking one month’s selection of Focuses
and highlighting all the misinformation and errors contained within them, which she sent to
the board of directors. She did not get a single reply from any director. The file was passed on
to a functionary further down the line, who made a hopeless job of trying to explain
everything my wife was trying to point out. She was trying to point out that we are reliant on
receiving the correct instructions in order to be able to operate Horizon and perform the
transactions, and the people who are telling us how to do it cannot even get it right. That is the
reality in the Post Office world as we speak today.

When it comes to the help desks, it is a mixed bag. If you want technical help you now
have to ring someone in the Philippines. When they are not being blown to bits by typhoons
there are language difficulties, including understanding the regional accents in this country.
When it comes to transaction support and the helpline, it is a mixed bag as to the level of
knowledge that the operators have. If they are ex-job they are pretty good; if they have been
brought in and are just reading it off a screen, they are as good as the screen. As I have
already alluded to, that information can often be wrong.

Q46 Mr Robin Walker: We all heard some of those concerns loud and clear, in
particular about the helpline moving to the Philippines—that is something that we will
probably want to follow up. The Post Office has offered financial assistance towards the cost
of professional mediation advisers. How do you feel that has worked? Has the financial
support been sufficient?

Alan Bates: Unfortunately it has turned out to be far too little. Earlier we mentioned
that it was thought that the scheme would be a far shorter device and it would take only a
matter of weeks for each stage to be gone through, but it has taken months and months. There
is a contribution of about £1,500 towards the professional adviser for an individual. I did a
straw poll of the advisers recently and more than half of them came back with responses.
They said that a more realistic figure, having now undertaken the work, is somewhere in the
region of £5,000 to £8,000—possibly £10,000—on average for these cases. That is even
without the mediation element. Some of the advisers are so upset about the cases and their
details that they are spending 30 hours on them quite happily—they are working away on
them because they have seen what has happened to people. So the advisers have been very
good, but there is certainly far too little financial support.

Q47 Mr Robin Walker: Finally, may I ask each member of the panel what you think
should happen next with the mediation scheme? What, if anything, can the Government do to
help resolve the issues outstanding?

Chair: Briefly.

Alan Bates: There was my shopping list. First, Post Office has to be investigated—it
has to become part of the investigation. It is trying to act as an agent and as everything—it is
trying to control the information coming out, what is released and all the rest of it. It has to be
investigated and taken out of the scheme, which Government have to take over. They really
POL00022337
POL00022337

do. While Post Office is still sat there controlling all the information, we will never really find
out the truth.

George Thomson: For a tiny percentage of complaints over a 15-year history, it would
be nonsense for the Government to take over. Let’s bring it to conclusion as quickly as we
can. The cases that are in mediation, let’s deal with them. Let’s get out the way, let’s move
forward and let’s try to make sure that Post Office has a decent future as a stand-alone
company outside the Royal Mail group. Let’s get on with that.

Andy Furey: I would suggest that the mediation scheme needs to be opened up for
some of the contemporary cases that are ongoing today. I would ask the Post Office to
withdraw any obstacles in the way of CWU representing postmasters. Mark gets lots of
obstacles, such as lack of recognition for representing postmasters. The filtering through the
walk-in group to stop cases getting to mediation needs to be removed and they need
somebody to bring some independence in the mediation scheme beyond the current people
involved. Obviously, I would make a bid for CWU to be involved in that. It needs to be put on
a more robust, firmer footing, with greater participation from all key stakeholders.

Kay Linnell: The initial complaint review and mediation scheme, with 150 cases in it,
needs to be drawn to a conclusion by making the Post Office go back to the original brief and
stop doing this legal defence thing. But I also think that a permanent, Government-based
solution for new complainants to a third-party individual such as an ombudsman for future
fault reporting, without any recrimination or redress from the Post Office on the person
taising the complaint, is an essential way to go forward. We need something for future
complainants to do, albeit that the MPs have been fabulous. It should not be necessary for
somebody with a current problem to fall back on their MP and raise it in that way.

Mark Baker: I have to agree with what my colleague Andy said. We are an
organisation that is excellent at advocacy and being able to sort the weaker claims out from
the stronger claims; and we know how to work with Post Office. We know how to challenge
it—we are not in awe of it, as some people are. We would make a valuable contribution to
improving and moving the mediation scheme on.

If that cannot be achieved, I would support what Alan said: perhaps the Government
should take it over and get it sorted out.

Chair: Okay. That concludes our questions: thank you. I always conclude my remarks
by saying that if there is anything you wish to add as supplementary evidence, please feel free
to do so. Equally, you may want to follow up with a question that we feel we should have
asked, and we would be grateful for your response.

Examination of Witnesses

Witnesses: Angela van den Bogerd, Head of Partnerships, Post Office, Ian Henderson,
forensic computing expert, Advanced Foresnics (Second Sight Ltd), and Paula Vennells,
Chief Executive, Post Office, gave evidence.

Q48 Chair: Thank you for agreeing to help us with our inquiry. I will repeat what I
asked the previous panel: please introduce yourselves for voice transcription purposes.

Angela van den Bogerd: I am Angela van den Bogerd, head of partnerships, Post
Office.

Paula Vennell

Paula Vennells, chief executive, Post Office.

Tan Henderson: Yan Henderson, chartered accountant, IT auditor and expert witness on
forensic technology, director of Second Sight and a member of the mediation working group.

POL00022337
POL00022337

Chair: Again, don’t feel that every person has to answer every question, although I
appreciate that there may be different perspectives, and we would need to see those.

Jan Henderson: Chairman, may I make a disclosure point?

Q49 Chair: A disclosure?

Tan Henderson: Yes. \n her statement to the House in July 2013, the Minister
confirmed that Second Sight has been appointed on an independent basis to look into the
matters raised by former sub-postmasters and some serving sub-postmasters. As part of that
process, Post Office is paying our professional fees. However, we have taken exceptional care
to make sure that, notwithstanding that payment, Second Sight has acted throughout—and
continues to act—fully in accordance with its remit to conduct an independent investigation
into the matters that we have been asked to look at.

Q50 Chair: Thanks. It was right to make the disclosure. It is equally correct to say that
the perception is that you have carried out your duties in the way you just described, but we
will obviously be questioning you about them.

The first question is to you, Ian. Can you summarise the key findings of your interim
report on Horizon?

Jan Henderson: The most important finding was the recognition of the necessity to
look at this much broader definition of Horizon. The previous session looked at the software
elements, and reference was made to our finding of no systemic errors at the software level.

As a number of the previous witnesses mentioned, we need to go much further beyond
that to look at the totality of the user experience, the multitude of interfaces that sub-
postmasters and staff have to interact with. We need to look at the level of support that is
available in terms of training and the help desk. That is the wider definition of Horizon that
we have now adopted. Notwithstanding that, the Post Office disclosed to us that a number of
software defects had been identified that affected 76 branches. It took some time for those
defects to be identified—somewhere in the order of 12 months.

A feature of a number of the matters reported to us appeared to be the old and unreliable
hardware that features in the Horizon system—old Horizon and new Horizon. We have heard
about communication failures and the consequences of that. We have been advised that
approximately 12,000 communication failures occur each year, and all of those can have
consequences for sub-postmasters.

Q51 Chair: Could you define what you mean by a communication failure? Does
nothing go through at all, or does something go through, but incorrectly?

Jan Henderson: \t can be either or both of those scenarios. Particularly under new
Horizon, the servers are located centrally. All the branches, and indeed Crown offices, have to
communicate electronically with those servers. There are fall-back procedures. As has been
mentioned, some rural branches have broadband and technology problems. Some of those
branches also suffer from a poor mobile phone signal. Those are the two principal means of
communicating transactions between the branch and the Horizon servers that are operating
centrally.
POL00022337
POL00022337

Q52 Chair: A previous panellist identified, shall we say, potentially antiquated
infrastructure and the difficulties you have just outlined. From your perspective, how
meaningful is that in terms of the system’s efficiency?

Jan Henderson: Failures are inevitable with that infrastructure. In general, Horizon has
a robust recovery mechanism to cope with those failures. The cases we have looked at are
primarily the 150 applications to the mediation scheme. They have shown that when there has
been an unusual combination of circumstances—they are relatively rare, and I would
emphasise the point made previously that, most of the time, Horizon works well—such as
power and telephone communication failures, errors being made at the counter or some of the
other errors that we have now highlighted and that we will report on in our next report, it is
how the Post Office has responded to those that has contributed to the problem. This is partly
about a lack of training, partly about a lack of support and, in particular, about a lack of
investigation.

Q53 Mr Binley: Can I ask whether it is also about a lack of understanding of the real
terms at the coal face by those in the top line of management?

Jan Henderson: We have seen no evidence of that, to be fair.

Chair: I am going to bring in Rebecca. You will have an opportunity to respond,
effectively, through her question.

Q54 Rebecca Harris: First, to representatives of the Post Office, when Second Sight’s
interim report came out, the Post Office announced the mediation scheme, the working group
and the new branch user forum. I would just like to hear your views on how well they are
working. Do you think they are working effectively, or do you think there are weaknesses in
the system at present?

Paula Vennells: Ym really sorry—when you asked the beginning of the question, there
was another conversation going on, so I couldn’t hear.

Q55 Rebecca Harris: What is your view of how well the mediation scheme, the
working group and the new branch user forum are working? Are they delivering as they
should, or are there weaknesses in the process?

Paula Vennells: First of all, 1 thank the Committee for letting the Post Office come
along to this meeting. The reason why I am here is that this is seriously important. As you
have heard, 136 cases have come into the scheme. We set it up with the ambition to find out
exactly what those people are concerned about, because it is of concern to me and the Post
Office that we do that. As we have gone through this process, we have found out a lot about
that, and I will come on to talk about it. The other reason it is very important is that the Post
Office is one of the most important institutions in the UK. We distribute £60 billion of cash
across the economy and serve 17 million customers a week.

Q56 Chair: I think every MP, above all, knows the importance of the Post Office. In
the interests of brevity, can you get to the nub of the question?

Paula Vennells: We are very grateful for their support. The point I wanted to get to is
that the scheme itself has become very important. It is critical that we hear from people who
have concerns about the system that they use day in, day out across the country. What we
have seen from the scheme is that yes, as you heard earlier, it has taken longer than we would
have liked. The reason for that—this is one of the benefits of having put the scheme in
POL00022337
POL00022337

place—is that we have investigated every single case in the most thorough detail. We have
been rigorous about this. As chief executive of the Post Office, I could not put this scheme in
place and not do it properly. The system and the people who work in our branches are too
important for that.

Perhaps, as Ian said and as you heard earlier, the most significant finding from it is that
we can continue to have confidence in the Horizon system and how people are running post
offices across the country. For me, that is critical.

Angela van den Bogerd: You asked about the branch user forum. I set it up over a year
ago, and I chair it—

Q57 Mr Binley: Excuse me. When you get old, you get deaf. Could you speak up a
little bit?

Chair: I don’t know whether it is the microphone or what, but could you speak more
loudly?

Angela van den Bogerd: I will shout at you. I chair the branch user forum, which I set
up over a year ago. I asked sub-postmasters and our Crown colleagues to nominate
themselves to come and join it. I have six sub-postmasters and two Crown members of staff
on that forum. I think it has been very successful, and I have asked them and they think it has
been very successful. The gloves are off in this forum, and we are very honest and frank. By
their nature, they are very vocal, and they bring real examples to the table of what could be
done better. As a result of that, we have made a number of changes to our processes,
particularly a couple of changes to how the Horizon system works to make it more automated,
so we reduce the risk of errors in branch. In a nutshell, it has been very successful to date.

Q58 Rebecca Harris: How do you respond to some of the criticisms we heard earlier,
for example about how long it has taken to look at individual cases and the fact that the Post
Office is in control of much of the data, or that some of the records are missing? Do you have
any response to the criticisms we have heard on that?

Angela van den Bogerd: If 1 can answer that, 1 am part of the working group, and I
have been the Post Office person who has been in there from the start until today. As you
heard earlier, the investigation—the whole process of cases into the mediation scheme—has
taken longer than we all anticipated it would, at every stage, from the applicant putting in
their initial application, through to asking whether they want an investigation to Second Sight
doing theirs. The one thing I would say is that, as Kay said earlier, these cases are individual
cases and very complex. What we have wanted to do and are very committed to doing is a
thorough investigation of each of the issues raised by each of the applicants to the scheme.
That has been a very long process.

We have not dragged our feet. I have had 20 people working on this full-time for over a
year. We have produced thousands and thousands of pieces of evidence in support of each of
the cases that we have put. I would have liked it to have been quicker, but not at the expense
of a thorough investigation. While I would have loved it to have been quicker, we have done a
thorough investigation.

Q59 Rebecca Harris: Do you concur with what you have heard about the smooth
running?

Jan Henderson: Yes. We heard evidence about this in the first session. I have spent a
lot of the past 12 months, frankly, dealing with Post Office, requesting access to documents
POL00022337
POL00022337

that have been challenged, as I understand it, on legal advice. One issue we have been looking
at relates to the Fujitsu office in Bracknell. We first requested documents relating to that in
February 2013—almost two years ago. We have still not been provided with those
documents. We are very concerned about the operation of the suspense account by Post
Office. We have been asking for that information since July last year. Perhaps the most
important failure to disclose to us is the full access to the legal and prosecution files. When
this scheme first started we were given full access to those files. Again, presumably on legal
advice, that access has been extremely restricted. We feel that this is a very severe constraint
on our ability to conduct an independent investigation into what has happened.

Q60 Chaii
been made?

Can you explain why this is so? Do you accept the comments that have just

Angela van den Bogerd: May I respond? To go back to the first point, around access to
e-mails that Second Sight requested a couple of years ago, we did provide the e-mails
requested to Second Sight—a whole year’s worth of e-mails, actually—but Second Sight have
since asked us for another year’s worth of e-mails.

Chair: Sorry, will you speak up again?

Angela van den Bogerd: We have previously provided a year’s worth of e-mails that
Second Sight requested. It is quite a large undertaking to extract that number of e-mails.
Second Sight has since requested another year’s worth of e-mails and we are currently
working through that. What we need to do, in terms of data protection, is redact the personal
information within those e-mails, and that is quite a long process.

Q61 Chair: That accounts for the time taken, but what were the other things you said
they had not provided?

Jan Henderson: Can 1 come back on that? Unfortunately, the e-mails that were
provided were for the wrong year. We were investigating a specific incident in 2008 and the
year’s worth of e-mails that we were given related to 2009. Therefore, it was not surprising
that we said, “We have asked for 2008, please provide it.” We have still not had that.

Q62 Chair: That seems an amazing error on your part, when I think of what sub-
postmasters go through if they make an error. It is such a basic error for the Post Office to
make.

Angela van den Bogerd: We provided what we were asked for at the time, so, clearly,
there must have been some misunderstanding. We would not have pulled a year’s worth of e-
mails for a wrong year.

Q63 Chair: I want to follow this through. Could you provide the evidence to this
Committee that you provided a response to the actual question and that it was not an error?

Angela van den Bogerd: Certainly.
Chair: Okay.

Q64 Mr Binley: I ask you directly, were you given legal advice not to allow these
papers to be seen? Because that is the intimation. Were you or were you not? It is a yes or no
question.

Angela van den Bogerd: Which papers are you referring to?
POL00022337

POL00022337

Q65 Mr Binley: The papers that Mr Henderson has just referred to.
Angela van den Bogerd: The e-mails? No

Q66 Mr Binley: Were you given legal advice not to submit those, in the way that Mr
Henderson has suggested?

Angela van den Bogerd: Other than our obligations under data protection, no.

Q67 Chair: Will you just outline the other issues?

Jan Henderson: Yes. The other two categories are, first, the suspense account. We
know that every year Post Office takes the credit of its profit and loss account, generally a six-
figure number, from a suspense account. The concern raised by a number of sub-postmasters
is that some of those credits actually relate to transactions where they have suffered a loss. We
have been asking for that data since July last year. We had a meeting with the new finance
director of Post Office yesterday and we hope we will make some further progress, but it is
already almost nine months since we first asked for that data. The final category, and probably
the most important, is full access to the legal and prosecution files held by Post Office.

Q68 Chair: I understand that they did do that initially.

Ian Henderson: Initially, yes; but for the past year access to those files has been
blocked.

Q69 Chair: How would you respond to that?

Paula Vennells: May I make a general point first about the accounting procedures? Post
Office, especially importantly now that it is a separate independent business from Royal Mail,
clearly accounts for its business in exactly the way that it should. We will this year comply—
and be one of the first companies to do this within Government—with the corporate code on
governance in the appliance of our accounts. It is important to put to bed any implication that
we are not accounting properly.

Another point on the suspense accounts and losses was made in the previous hearing.
Any retailer has what they call shrinkage. It usually amounts to about 2% of their business.
Ours is much less than 1%. The Crown losses are about £1 million. I will ask Angela to pick
up on the specifics around the suspense accounting area.

Angela van den Bogerd: As Ian said, there was a meeting yesterday about the suspense
account. We wanted to determine what information Second Sight sought about the cases they
were investigating.

Q70 Chair: How long has that request been on the table?

Angela van den Bogerd: As Ian said, the request has been there since July in different
forms.

Q71 Chair: So why has it taken until yesterday—

Angela van den Bogerd: No, we have previously responded to initial requests. Second
Sight have come back and asked for further or different types of information. That is what we
POL00022337

POL00022337

have been trying to get to. It is not that we are not sharing information; it is about
understanding the format the information is in.

Q72 Chair: Would you agree with that assessment?

Tan Henderson: The response to a very specific question, detailing exactly what we
needed, was made on 9 December. On 5 January the response from Post Office was that it
was a disproportionate request for information and could not readily be provided. We
regarded that as unsatisfactory, hence the follow-up meeting we had yesterday.

Paula Vennells: \f I may say something, as there may be further questions on that. This
is a really difficult one for us to deal with. We have 136 cases that we are genuinely trying to
get through and resolve thoroughly, rigorously and as quickly as possible. Second Sight are
independent; there will be disagreements about requirements for information at some stage. I
do know that where we are able to we have shared everything we possibly can.

If it goes outside the scope of the scheme it simply extends the length of time it is
taking. That is the reason that Ian met my new finance director yesterday. If this is something
pertinent to resolving one of these individual cases, which we have done in detail, of course
that information can be made available. It is difficult and what we are dealing with is very
complex. Therefore, we need to be clear that we have understood the question that is coming
through to us.

Q73 Nadhim Zahawi: Mr Henderson, did you ask for the e-mails from 2008?
Tan Henderson: Yes, we did.

Q74 Nadhim Zahawi: And you were provided with 2009 instead?

Jan Henderson: We were provided with 2009. We were told at the time that with the
first batch there were some technology issues relating to the provision of the 2008 e-mails.
Two years down the line, we still don’t have those.

Q75 Nadhim Zahawi: You are saying that you actually asked for the correct ones, and
you still don’t have those?

Tan Henderson: Yes.

Q76 Nadhim Zahawi: On the legal side, on the prosecution files, when was that
stopped? When did the policy change?

Jan Henderson: We have never been told formally that the policy has changed. When
we were first appointed, we were told that the principle behind what we were doing was to
seek the truth, irrespective of the consequences. We could look at anything that we felt, as an
independent investigator, was necessary to conduct our investigation. Unsurprisingly, with
cases that came into the early part of the scheme that involved a criminal prosecution, we
were provided with full access to a small number of files. As further cases were accepted into
the scheme, we unsurprisingly asked for full access to those legal files. Responses were to the
effect, “Under no circumstances are we going to give you access to those files. You are
entitled to the public documents that would normally be available to the defendant if the case
had gone to trial.” We felt it was necessary for us to review the internal legal files, looking at
POL00022337

POL00022337

the depth of any investigation that had happened and possibly even legal advice relating to the
prosecution.

Q77 Nadhim Zahawi: Paula, why don’t you hand those files over? What is the
problem?
Paula Vennells: The point I want to pick up first, if I may—

Q78 Nadhim Zahawi: No, answer my question. Why will you not give Ian Henderson
those files?

Paula Vennells: As far as 1 am aware, Mr Zahawi, we have shared whatever
information was appropriate on every single individual.

Q79 Nadhim Zahawi: That is not what Ian Henderson is saying.

Paula Vennells: It is the first time, personally, that I have heard that. I am happy to go
away and have a look.

Q80 Nadhim Zahawi: He has said that under no circumstances could he be given those
files. That is what you have just told me. Is that right?

Jan Henderson: We have not been given those files.

Q81 Nadhim Zahawi: You have been told by Paula’s organisation that under no
circumstances could you be given those files. Is that right or wrong?

Paula Vennells: Who told you that, lan?

Ian Henderson: \t came up at one of the working group meetings, at which you and I
were present.

Angela van den Bogerd: I do not recall that conversation.

Q82 Nadhim Zahawi: This sounds like a shambles to me. You came in here and
opened by saying the system was working beautifully. You now realise why you are in front
of the Committee.

Paula Vennells: lan said—he is quite right—that the reason we set up this mediation
scheme was to get to the truth about this system. The system itself is working very well.

Q83 Nadhim Zahawi: But you have been obstructive. We are hearing from Ian that
your organisation has been obstructive to his independent work. Is that right or wrong?

Paula Vennells: It is wrong. We have provided for every single case detailed, thorough,
independent investigation. They run to pages and pages of reports. There are on average 80
pieces of evidence—

Q84 Nadhim Zahawi: Let me stop you here. We have just heard from Ian Henderson,
who is independent, that you have not provided the prosecution files that they think they
should look at. They need your files, not just what is publicly available. They need that
information. Will you provide it? Yes or no?

Paula Vennells: Mr Zahawi, you have just heard that it is the first time I have heard
that piece of information.
POL00022337

POL00022337

Q85 Nadhim Zahawi: I am simply asking for a commitment from you. You are the
head of the organisation. Will you provide it? Yes or no? Give me a simple answer.

Paula Vennells: Mr Henderson is a forensic accountant. He is not a qualified legal
individual. Neither am I.

Q86 Nadhim Zahawi: I am simply asking whether you will provide it—yes or no?
Paula Vennells: I am not prepared on behalf of the Post Office to give—

Q87 Nadhim Zahawi: Right. I have got my answer. You will not provide it.

Paula Vennells: No, you have not got your answer. You have not heard a yes or a no. I
am simply saying that at the moment I am not able to answer your question.

Q88 Nadhim Zahawi: Why?
Paula Vennells: Because I do not know the details of the situation.

Q89 Nadhim Zahawi: You used to provide the information and you have stopped
providing it. Will you provide it going forward? Yes or no?

Paula Vennells: I am not aware that we stopped what we provided previously. Angela
has been involved daily for the last two years. She sits on the working group alongside Ian at
Second Sight. If there is a misunderstanding, I am happy to—

Q90 Nadhim Zahawi: Angela, will you provide it? If your CEO cannot answer, will
you provide the prosecution files as requested by Ian Henderson?

Angela van den Bogerd: Mr Zahawi, as Ian said, we have previously provided them,
and we have provided the information necessary for those investigations as a pack. So there
are thousands of pieces of information already provided to Second Sight.

Q91 Nadhim Zahawi: But we have heard already that he has been obstructed from
getting the legal files that you use internally, which he used to get before. That is what I have
heard. Will you now commit to providing those files going forward?

Angela van den Bogerd: We provided them to Second Sight early in the investigation.

Q92 Nadhim Zahawi: Will you provide them?

Angela van den Bogerd: Just let me finish, please. We have been working with Second
Sight over the last few weeks to get to an understanding of what we need to provide. We are
working through those, and information has been flowing.

Q93 Nadhim Zahawi: So you do not understand what you need to provide?

Angela van den Bogerd: We have been providing what we agreed we would provide at
the outset. In some cases, Second Sight have concluded their investigation on that basis. What
has been asked in the last few weeks is for access to further information that we were not
providing under the agreement that we had.
POL00022337

POL00022337

Q94 Nadhim Zahawi: What he is asking you for—there is no wriggle room—is to
provide the prosecution files going forward. Will you commit to doing that? That is all I am
asking.

Angela van den Bogerd: What I am saying is that we have already been exchanging
that information over the last few weeks.

Q95 Nadhim Zahawi: So you have been providing them?
Angela van den Bogerd: We have been providing that over the last few weeks.

Q96 Nadhim Zahawi: Is that right, Mr Henderson?
Tan Henderson: No, it is not, 1 am sorry to say.

Q97 Chair: Two things. First, what is to prevent you from providing the information
that has been asked for? Secondly, Paula, as you are the senior person here, the buck stops
with you. I find it quite astonishing that you do not seem to know anything about a process
that is so politically and socially sensitive.

Paula Vennells: I know a huge amount about this. 1 know the really important things
about it. We are talking about a small number of —

Q98 Chair: With respect, we are talking about legal files being handed to the person
who I believe is effectively contracted by you to carry out the investigation. I would have
thought that was a pretty significant element of the process.

Paula Vennells: What you have heard is that a huge amount of information is being
exchanged. There are thousands and thousands of pieces of evidence in every single case,
which is being exchanged—

Chair: But he is just asking for the legal files.

Paula Vennells: May I make my point? Because I can answer your question if you
allow me to.

Q99 Chair: I will allow you to do that. But when someone has asked for legal files,
why don’t you give them the files and let them make the—

Paula Vennells: And you have just heard that we thought we had provided them and
Mr Henderson thinks we have not. I will give you my reassurance as chief executive that I
will look into this and we will get back to the Committee and let you know. I am simply
caught in the middle of two different views. I cannot take a decision on something that, at the
moment—

Q100 Nadhim Zahawi: You are the chief executive, so the buck stops with you.

Paula Vennells: It does stop with me. Also, therefore, as chief executive, I am
responsible for the reputation of and what happens for the Post Office.

Q101 Katy Clark: I refer to the Register of Members’ Financial Interests: I am a
member of the Communication Workers Union and chair of its parliamentary group, which
obviously is heavily involved in this issue. To follow up the point made, unless there is a legal
reason not to provide the information to Mr Henderson, will you give it to him?
POL00022337
POL00022337

Paula Vennells: That is exactly what I am trying to say: I do not know at the moment,
because I do not know the issue that is being raised. I am very sorry that I cannot answer that.
Much more detail has been exchanged between us and Second Sight and I am very happy to
look into that and I will get back to the Chair and let him know.

Q102 Chair: Could I just make the point that you really should have known before
coming to the Committee?

Paula Vennells: And, if I may respond, if Second Sight and the independent chair of
the working group had raised that with me, I would have been able to answer the question. I
have been told that we are providing information. I give you my word as the chief executive
of the Post Office that I will look into this properly and give you the answer.

Chair: Okay. There seem to be communication problems within your administration.

Q103 Katy Clark: Is there anyone with an IT background on the mediation scheme?
Paula Vennells: The mediation scheme is the scheme where the individuals go into—

Q104 Katy Clark: I understand that, but can you answer the question of whether there
is anyone on the scheme with an IT background?

Paula Vennells: When you say on the scheme, as part of the working group? No, there
is not.

Q105 Katy Clark: Are you aware that that is a major criticism?
Paula Vennells: Yes, 1 am.

Q106 Katy Clark: Are you able to address that at this stage?

Paula Vennells: For each of the 150 cases for which we have now concluded our
investigations, where there have been IT issues, we have looked into those and taken the right
advice from our IT experts in the business. Yes, we have.

Katy Clark: We may come back to that later.

Q107 Mr Binley: I asked a very specific question about whether you had been given
legal advice not to show certain pieces of information within your organisation. You said no,
you had not. You intimated a few moments ago that, in fact, the reason that you are not giving
or may not have given matters because it was Data Protection Act. That would be legal
advice. I put the question to you again: have you had legal advice not to show papers that
have been requested of you?

Paula Vennells: Mr Binley, I have just tried to explain to you. I do not—

Q108 Mr Binley: Clearly unsatisfactorily. I have just asked you a question. Will you
please answer for the record?

Paula Vennells: Personally I have not had legal advice on that.

Q109 Mr Binley: I did not say personally. Come on, you are the head of a big
organisation.
POL00022337

POL00022337

Paula Vennells: Yes, and 1 have just explained to you that, on my right, we have been
saying that we have sharing information and, on the left, we have—

Q110 Mr Binley: It is not about sharing information. I asked you a specific question.
You mentioned the Data Protection Act, a matter of legality. I am, therefore, putting the
question again. Have you been given legal advice not to give over certain papers—yes or no?

Angela van den Bogerd: We do not take specific advice on data protection for this
particular matter. As an organisation, we comply with data protection all the time.

Q111 Mr Binley: It is applied by many people in many different ways, mostly without
any legal foundation whatsoever. I don’t want your nonsense, frankly, because I am hearing
too much of it, so let’s be clear on this: have you been given legal advice not to hand these
papers over—yes or no?

Angela van den Bogerd: So with the issue of data protection, yes, we would need to
redact information. That is not nonsense, Mr Binley.

Q112 Mr Binley: Forgive me, I have been around long enough to know how many
people hide behind the Data Protection Act. Everybody in this room knows that, too, so let’s
talk about facts. I asked you a question and you haven’t given me a straight answer, so I will
draw my own conclusions.

Tan Henderson: Chairman, may 1 add something by way of clarification? It is the
general counsel of Post Office, to whom I have spoken, who said that he is not prepared to
disclose to us the full legal files. I do not know to what extent he gave the same answer and
advice to the chief executive of the Post Office.

Mr Binley: Thank you, Mr Henderson.

Q113 Chair: That is very helpful indeed. Could you just repeat who it was for the
tecord?

Jan Henderson: The general counsel—the head of legal for Post Office.

Q114 Paul Blomfield: The Second Sight interim report, which broadly endorsed the
Horizon system, nevertheless identified some potential bugs and flaws that, in some cases,
could create errors. Why do you think it is appropriate to use information from that system,
given those potential errors, which suggest that it could be unreliable, as evidence to pursue
sanctions against individuals?

Tan Henderson: The short answer is that the core system—the software, for want of a
better word—works well most of the time. Like any large system, it occasionally generates
errors. Our concern is the response by Post Office to supporting sub-postmasters when they
face those problems. Yes, there is a helpline facility, and, yes, training is provided, but there is
no formal investigative support. Under the contract, sub-postmasters are not entitled to
investigative support when they say, “Look, we’ve got this discrepancy. I don’t understand
how it happened.” They are left largely to their own resources, supported by the helpline and
so on, to get to the bottom of those problems. As we have seen time and again, they have
failed to do that. In some cases, Post Office has refused to provide information to them on the
grounds of cost—this comes back to the contract with Fujitsu. They say, “It is too expensive.
It is outside the terms of our service level agreement. We cannot provide you with the detailed
information that Post Office holds.” It is not prepared to disclose that information to sub-
POL00022337
POL00022337

postmasters, even though, under the contract, it has a legal obligation to make good those
losses. It is matters such as that that we are looking into.

Q115 Paul Blomfield: I wonder whether I can ask Paula and Angela the same question.

Paula Vennells: A general point first of all, which also came up in the previous session,
on the support and training of sub-postmasters and the helpline. We monitor very carefully the
training and support that we give. The first point that I want the Committee to hear is that
there are always opportunities for us to do it better. I have no doubt about that; it applies to
any organisation. We are not perfect, and we continually try to improve things.

The satisfaction rate for the support desk for the sub-postmasters is running at about
87%. It has improved since we put in place changes last year, but it has always been good. As
you heard from George Thomson, the vast majority of people have no issue with the system,
and they are actually quite satisfied with the training and support around it. We are dealing
with a very small number of people who have had some really difficult things happen to them.
Going through this process, which Angela has built on, we have learned where we could have
done some of those things better. However, that is not to say that throughout that period—we
are talking about 10 years—the system, the support and the training were not good. In the vast
majority of cases, they were. Angela will tell you about what we have done and the
improvements that we have made.

Q116 Paul Blomfield: But that wasn’t the Second Sight conclusion, was it? It
concluded that the support appeared to be deeply flawed. It appears that there is a culture of
denial about the problems. I will share with you a case from my city of Sheffield. A sub-
postmaster told me that a long-standing business customer had deposited £4,500 and had a
receipt to show that, but her bank statement showed £200. That customer came in to see the
sub-postmaster, who printed out the transactional log, and it was evident that it had jumped on
one. The crucial point is not that one; it is that she rang the helpline, and they said that this
was a rare problem, but that they were familiar with it because it had happened previously.
She asked them to rectify the customer’s transactions and to let the customer know that the
error was not hers, because of the reputational damage she would face with one of her
significant business customers. The response she got from the helpline was, “It wouldn’t be
helpful to let customers know that the computer system has a glitch.” They were therefore
unprepared to do that, as a result of which she lost that customer, who actually transferred to
another sub-postmaster. Nevertheless, it damaged her business in that way. That seems to
reflect a culture of denial of problems; that is a theme coming through much of what we have
heard.

Paula Vennells: In terms of the culture, the reason I came today is that I really want the
Committee to hear that that is not the case. We put this scheme in place because we wanted to
find out what was going on. Inevitably, because of their distress, the people who have gone
through this are very vocal and very challenging about what they have been through—quite
rightly so. As we have gone through the investigations, we have looked at where there are
things we could improve. There were things that we could improve, absolutely.

The only point I am trying to make to the Committee is that for the vast majority of
people—70,000 people are using the system today, and half a million people over the last 10
years have not had those problems. I am not denying at all that there are problems. Of course
there are—there are problems in any organisation—but this is about the reputation of the Post
POL00022337
POL00022337

30

Office. This system works well for the vast majority of people. For those it does not work for,
we are doing our utmost. I have worked for huge businesses before, but I have not worked for
any that could have done this as well as we have, in terms of our rigour and the detail we have
gone into to try to get to the bottom of this.

Q117 Paul Blomfield: We have heard considerable evidence from all involved that the
system usually—overwhelmingly—works well, but the focus of this inquiry is how the Post
Office handles that small number of cases where it does not.

Paula Vennells: Yes.

Angela van den Bogerd: Can I answer a few points you raised? First, the information
that the sub-postmaster needs to balance their accounts is available in branch. There has
always been an audit trail in branch. Before we went on to the online system in 2010, the
reports were available for a period of 42 days. They could look back into their accounts for 42
days. Since 2010, that has extended to 60 days, so the information has always been available
in branch. The difficulty with some of those cases is that they did not declare their loss at that
time. In some cases, they have hidden the loss and falsified their accounts, and we have only
discovered later that the error occurred. Those reports in branch have then obviously expired.

If a branch finds that it has a large unexplained loss, the first port of call is for them to
ting the helpline. There is a process in place for them to be helped remotely. If the helpline
cannot solve their problem at the time, it goes to another team—a branch support team, which
has a bit more expertise and can dive a bit deeper into the information. If that fails, we send
someone out to visit the branch and see if they can help them there. That process is in place.

Looking back over the cases that we have investigated, we could have done that a bit
better in some of those cases. It is not that there is a culture of denial here. I have personally
been involved in each of those 150 cases and got into the detail. Where we could have done
better—it is only a handful of cases—we have absolutely said that. I cannot accept that we are
in denial about that, because we are looking at it. You talked in the earlier session about
telecommunications problems and a loss of power; the system is designed to cope with that. If
there is a loss of power or of communication mid-transaction, none of those data are lost. It
freezes in time, and when the system comes back on, the screen asks the user to give it some
information about what point in the transaction you were at. Did that transaction complete?
Had you given money? Had you taken money? That recovery process, as it is called, actually
resets the system to that moment in time, so no data are lost. Yes, it is inconvenient, and yes it
is frustrating for branches and sub-postmasters and assistants, who want serve their
customers, but that does not cause the discrepancies that it has been claimed it does. It does
not do that.

Tan Henderson: May I come back on a couple of points made by Angela? She is quite
correct on the numbers that she has quoted, referring to the audit trail available to sub-
postmasters; for a long time, there was a limit of 42 days. Unfortunately, the transaction
corrections that they are asked to accept—if they do—often generate losses for that branch
and that sub-postmaster. When the audit trail was 42 days, the delay in producing the
corresponding TC that they needed to investigate was in the order of three months. It was
three months late, and therefore outside the 42 days of the audit period. That, I would argue, is
another example of a systemic flaw in the overall process, because we have a mismatch
between the TC—the adjustment made by Post Office—and the audit data available to the
sub-postmaster.

Secondly, on the culture point, until we issued our interim report, the mantra that we
regularly heard from Post Office was, “Horizon is perfect. We have total confidence in the
Horizon system”. That position is slowly changing; however, in the limited cases that we have
POL00022337
POL00022337

31

looked at—we are very concerned about the prosecution cases—we have seen no evidence
that the Post Office’s own investigators were ever trained or prepared to consider that Horizon
was at fault. That was never a factor that was taken into account in any of the investigations
by Post Office that we have looked at.

That is a matter of huge concern, and that is why we are determined to get to the bottom
of this matter, because we think that there have been prosecutions brought by the Post Office
where there has been inadequate investigation and inadequate evidence to support some of the
charges brought against defendants—sub-postmasters and former sub-postmasters. In
particular, we are aware—this, again, is why we need to see the full prosecution files—that a
common tactic employed by the Post Office, or lawyers acting on its behalf, is to bring
charges for both false accounting, which is a relatively easy charge to prove, and theft; then,
as a bargaining point—a plea-bargain, almost—before trial, they drop the charge for theft on
the basis that, first, the defendant will probably avoid a custodial sentence and, secondly, the
evidence is much simpler.

When we have looked at the evidence made available to us—bear in mind that I have
been an expert witness for the Crown Prosecution Service, instructed by the CPS on fraud
cases—I have not been satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to support a charge for theft.
You can imagine the consequences that flow from that. That is why we, Second Sight, are
determined to get to the bottom of this matter, which we regard as extremely serious.

Q118 Chair: You said that you were not satisfied that it constituted theft; would you
have said that there was sufficient evidence for the lesser of the charges, false accounting?

Tan Henderson: False accounting is a relatively easy charge to bring. When we have
spoken to sub-postmasters who have been charged with that—some of whom have pleaded
guilty—their response has been, “I had no options; I was not aware at the time of the range of
options available to me at the end of a trading period, when I was faced with a substantial
discrepancy that I didn’t understand and hadn’t investigated properly, and on which I had had
inadequate support by the help desk. I therefore did the only thing that I felt was possible or
sensible at the time: I entered false figures into my month-end balances. I did that out of
desperation because I did not know what else to do.” Bear in mind that the help desk does not
operate 24/7. At the end of trading periods, often when sub-postmasters are working late at
night to try to resolve a significant discrepancy, the help desk is not even available. It is
perfectly understandable why some sub-postmasters have felt—

Q119 Chair: Okay. I think we’ve got the message on that.

Angela van den Bogerd: Can I just say something on that point, because it is very
important? The help desk has always been available after the trading hours of the post
offices—until 10 o’clock at night, back in those days—and if they were unable to get hold of
somebody, they were able to leave a message for a call back. There was always some access
to help in those situations. What is important—I disagree with Ian’s last point—is that a sub-
postmaster has a choice. At the time that they make their balance and find that they have a
discrepancy, they have a choice to declare that loss and make us aware of that, or—as
happened in some cases, unfortunately—cover up that loss and hide it from the Post Office.
That is false accounting. As Jan said, that charge is quite easy to bring, because it is evident,
but they have a choice at that point and they are not forced to do anything; it is a conscious
decision.
POL00022337
POL00022337

Q120 Chair: My understanding is—no doubt you will correct me—that if a sub-
postmaster reports a loss, they are responsible for that loss. The difficulty, as I understand it,
is that there is not an adequate mechanism for that loss to be investigated and determined—
whether it is a mistake or there is a degree of culpability with the sub-postmaster or staff—
before that sub-postmaster has to make up for that loss.

Angela van den Bogerd: \t depends on the situation. In a number of cases, there has not
been one large loss overnight, but small losses that have been carried in the account for a
period of time, so it ends up being a large loss. The point that I am trying to make is that there
is a choice. At the point at which that is a relatively small loss, they can raise that with us and
have been able to do that. We can talk them through and help them look for that. The helpline
has the experience to be able to talk sub-postmasters and branch staff through where that loss
might be.

If the loss is within the accounts system, it would typically come back as a transaction
correction, as Ian mentioned earlier. He referred to them taking three months; they do not
normally take three months. There have been occasions where there has been a bit of a
backlog and we have worked through that, but a transaction correction would normally come
through quite quickly. Where a mistake has been made over the counter and the money goes
out of the branch, that situation will not be rectified in a transaction correction, because it is
with the customer, and we are dependent on the customer to raise that.

Q121 Chair: I think I have this right: the helpline was outsourced to the Philippines,
and comments were made about a script-type response.

Angela van den Bogerd: There are two helplines. The helpline that has been outsourced
to Manila is the technical helpline, which they would ring to report a hardware problem. The
helpline that I am talking about is the Network Business Support Centre, which sub-
postmasters and branch staff ring for help on transactions and accounting. That is UK-based.
It is still in Dearne, where it has always been. That helpline is still in this country, and there
are no language problems other than the normal accents around the country.

Q122 Chair: That is a helpful distinction to make, but it could be that technical
problems impact on the accounting problems.

Angela van den Bogerd: When it goes to Manila—that is the first fix, in terms of the
initial conversation. If there is a technical problem, or hardware that needs to be replaced, that
comes back into the country and we have a field team, through a supplier, that would go to
resolve those issues. The fact that it is in a different country does not change the level of
service; actually, the feedback we have got is that it has improved the service.

Q123 Chair: There seemed to be a lack of satisfaction with the response, and obviously
I am not in a position to say whether that is because the centre is in the Philippines, or
whether things would have been the same if it was a domestic call centre. There was a
comment in some of our evidence that the staffing of the helpline had recently been reduced
by 25%. Have you any comment on that?

Angela van den Bogerd: Sorry; on the helpline?

Chair: Yes.

Angela van den Bogerd: No, we haven’t. There have been no changes to the helpline
staff. What I think you are referring to is the fact that we are looking at reducing some of the
POL00022337
POL00022337

33

training and audit team, on the back of introducing online training. We are not actually
reducing the level of support; we are changing the way that we provide the support. The
online training is one of the things that, throughout this process, I have looked at, in terms of
how we could improve our training offer to our sub-postmasters and branches. As of this
month, an element of the classroom training goes to an online platform where sub-postmasters
and their staff can access training at their leisure—they can do it whenever they like—through
a link into the intranet system. That will improve the consistency, quality and delivery of the
training. They will also get a week of onsite training to embed it in the real situation.

The online training improves the situation and, on the back of that, we can make some
efficiencies with regard to the number of people we need, because we do not need the same
level of people in the classroom to deliver that training.

Chair: At least some of our evidence seems to point to a certain degree of disquiet
about that, but it may be too early for us to make a judgment.

Q124 Mr Binley: I have been associated with the call centre industry since 1988, and I
have seen the way that call centre work has gone to countries such as the Philippines and
India. I have seen the lack of quality in those call centres, and I have seen that they think it
will figure highly against them in terms of the continuation of their contract if they send too
much back to the UK. Given what I have just said, do you really have all that faith?

Angela van den Bogerd: What we do, and will do, is monitor the level of quality that
that helpline provides to our network. We do that from a customer satisfaction perspective and
from a technical perspective. If that is your experience over the years, I am not denying it. All
I can say is that we are very closely monitoring performance to make sure that we give the
proper service to our network.

Q125 Mr Binley: Why did you take the business to the Philippines, rather than basing
it in the UK? Was it cheaper?

Angela van den Bogerd: As an organisation, we look at the cost-effective delivery of
services.

Mr Binley: So it was cheaper.

Chair: Can I just intervene at that point? I will give you a chance to elaborate, but Mike
has a question and he has to go to the Chamber very shortly.

Q126 Mike Crockart: Unfortunately, I have Justice Question Time at half-past 11.
This question is particularly for lan. My background is IT project management, and I used to
manage the IT support for Standard Life health care, so I have a bit of experience. In your
report, you identified that the systems for Horizon were significantly more complicated than
even those of the high street banks. Can you just elaborate on that a little bit? It seems very
strange that there should be such a difference between the two.

Jan Henderson: \t reflects two things, the first of which is the range of products that the
Post Office provides to its customers—of the core products, there is something like 170
different items. A much smaller range is provided directly through a high street bank, for
example. They will tend to have specialist advisers and will tend to refer customers to other
departments within the organisation, and so on. Core products are made available from the
majority of branches, whether the branch is up in the highlands of Scotland or in the centre of
London. Under the contract—I am conscious that we keep coming back to the contract, about
which we are very concerned—the general position is that a sub-postmaster is required to
POL00022337

POL00022337

34

provide whatever services head office say that he should provide. If they want him to provide
an ATM, he has to provide an ATM. If they want them to provide other complex services,
such as mortgages, foreign currency and so on, then generally speaking under the contract that
person is expected to provide that service. They will not receive further support other than by
helpline, obviously, and perhaps specialised training. /Jnterruption.]

Q127 Mike Crockart: Sorry to move you on quickly, but the bell is calling me. Given
the complexity, the lack of specialist in-branch advisors and the many—albeit small—
problems that you have identified, do you think that that is the main contributory factor for
what we are looking at here? Is that what caused many of the problems to arise?

Jan Henderson: Surprisingly, the answer is probably no, with the exception that there
are clearly some products that do seem to account for a disproportionate number of problems.
ATMs are probably pretty close to the top of that list. We are also aware that foreign currency
bureaux de change also have a disproportionate impact. I would not go so far as to say that the
offer or availability of 170 products and services is in itself a problem, but perhaps focusing
on individual products and services within that 170 is a problem.

Q128 Mike Crockart: Given the poor access that the Post Office would have had to
data because of the problems of accessing it through the Fujitsu contract, do you feel that the
Post Office had sufficient IT support behind those systems to identify and fix errors?

Jan Henderson: We can only look at the cases that we have been asked to examine. In
terms of IT support, we are concerned about some of the interfaces with third-party partners
such as Bank of Ireland and other banks, ATMs and so on. The issue is those interfaces and
the flow of information from those third parties, which of course would not happen in a high
street bank where everything is integrated. It is those third-party interfaces that seem to cause
a disproportionate number of problems.

Q129 Mike Crockart: My experience with Standard Life was that we would identify
trends and see particular things that were going wrong. In your report, it was the receipts and
payments mismatch problem and the local suspense account problem. These things would
come up time and time again, and you would then identify a work around until such time as
the IT fix went in. You would tell them, “Well, if you are doing this type of transaction, you
need to be aware that this could go wrong, so do it this way and then fix this bit over here, but
we will get back to you.” Is there any evidence of that sort of process happening through the
Post Office?

Jan Henderson: Yes, there is, but it happens slowly. A very good example was in 2009,
when the Post Office performed an audit of 20 branches relating to the lottery scratchcards.
Those 20 branches caused £147,000 in losses, and as a result of that, certain process changes
were eventually developed. In 2010, over a three-month period, more than 1,000 transaction
corrections——-TCs—were issued to branches, the financial value of which was £744,000. To
our minds, that indicates that there was a system-wide problem with lottery scratchcards. Two
years later, the Post Office introduced a number of changes that largely prevented that
problem occurring. However, it was three years before those early problems that had been
identified were fully resolved, and I am sure there were other examples.

Q130 Mike Crockart: And during those three years, sub-postmasters would have been
expected to make up the loss.

Jan Henderson: Correct.
POL00022337
POL00022337

35

Angela van den Bogerd: May I add to that? The point that Ian has not mentioned here
is that we have tried to automate products, so that less human interaction is required. In the
case of lottery scratchcards, those error notices were particular to cases where sub-postmasters
had sold scratchcards before they had booked them in. They were selling scratchcards with a
value of, say, £200 that they had not actually booked into that account. So they would have
had a surplus of £200, which if you scale up reaches a sum of £700,000. So it is not an actual
loss; it is just that they have accounted for it incorrectly at the start.

Mike Crockart: I am sure we could go into it in greater detail, but I am afraid we have
to move on.

Q131 Mr Binley: Evidence has been submitted to us by a very high-level person, Mr
James Arbuthnot, who has been looking into this matter for a considerable time. As part of his
evidence, he says: “The Post Office has accepted that its support systems left much to be
desired, and as a result it has changed them. The sheer number of calls to the Post Office
helpline is astonishing. The calls are from professional users,” and this is the bit that counts,
“but tens of thousands of them were abandoned; they were not just made, but abandoned.”
Does that cause you considerable concern?

Angela van den Bogerd: If it were correct, yes. We do not want to have tens of
thousands of calls abandoned.

Q132 Mr Binley: Well, let me tell you that Mr James Arbuthnot is one of the most
respected Members of Parliament in this House and his evidence will weigh heavily with us.

Angela van den Bogerd: Mr Binley, I am not disputing that. I look at the telephone
records. We can record the number of calls that go into the call centre. If 5% are abandoned,
what abandoned might mean is that—

Mr Binley: I know exactly what that means.

Angela van den Bogerd: Obviously, as you are aware with contact centres, when
people ring up initially, there might be other options that take them to a different route and
they therefore go a different route and they put the phone down. It does not necessarily mean
they are not answered.

Chair: Okay, I am sure that James Arbuthnot will be very happy to provide us with
supplementary evidence. As I see, he is sitting in the audience. He cannot participate in this
session. Iam sure you will want to give your assessment of that particular statistic in a written
form and we can examine it in due course.

Q133 Ann McKechin: We heard earlier this morning that there are still 110 cases in
the system. Can you advise the Committee this morning how many you expect to proceed to
mediation?

Angela van den Bogerd: On the number you quoted—110—I understand that Sir
Anthony Hooper has sent some further updated information to the Committee, which reads
differently. I can give you updated numbers, if that is helpful.

Q134 Ann McKechin: Do you expect the bulk of those cases to go to mediation?

Angela van den Bogerd: It depends on the individual case. Of the 136, some have been
resolved and some were not eligible. Of my latest figures, where the working group has
agreed that they should flow to mediation, the number is 41. We have agreed to mediate a
POL00022337
POL00022337

36

majority of those cases. The latest information is that we have declined to mediate in five of
those cases.

Chair: Could I say for clarity’s sake the information that we received from Sir Anthony
Hooper yesterday is that there are now 87?

Angela van den Bogerd: So the number I quoted of 41 is in line with that 87 now.

Q135 Ann McKechin: That is helpful. It seems from what we have been discussing
this morning that the reporting protocol seems to be rather haphazard. People are supposed to
phone a helpline, but there does not appear to be any particular written process. Do you record
all the calls that are made to the helpline?

Angela van den Bogerd: Yes.

Q136 Ann McKechin: Okay, so the transcripts of those calls are available in terms of
evidence.

Angela van den Bogerd: Yes, they are available and they have been made available as
part of our investigation into each of those cases. Each applicant has a copy of their relevant
transaction—their call logs.

Q137 Ann McKechin: It appears, as we have said, that the number of errors out of the
total number of transactions is a very small percentage, but clearly, when it occurs, it has
very, very serious repercussions. To what extent have you focused your training and
support—or what steps have you taken to improve it—so that all staff are aware exactly of the
error reporting protocol and what they need to do.

Angela van den Bogerd: So what we have done—and we have done this over the last
couple of years and I am in the process of refreshing it—is that the classroom training for
people I referred to earlier, for new people coming into the business, and on-site training are
part of the package. We have put more emphasis on the balancing process, the accounting
process, how to balance, and importantly what to do when you do not balance. How to find
your discrepancy in branch, using all the reports that are available to you. If you can’t resolve
it then, part of the learning process is to say, “This is the route that you need to go into: the
helpline.” We describe how that support manifests itself into branch, if it needs to be. We
have also produced handy tips and guides as handouts for people to take back to their branch.
When we train them on site, we talk them through and refer to the process in order to keep
them on the right track. We have done a lot of work at the front end on emphasising what
happens and what they need to do in such a situation.

Q138 Ann McKechin: You will be aware from the recent Westminster Hall debate of
some very serious allegations made by a number of people that they were told by your staff
that, if there was money over at the end of the day, they should put it in an envelope, put the
envelope in a safe and use the money to pay later shortfalls. That amounts to false accounting.
That is a very serious allegation that staff at your end—at the other end of the phone line—
were making these casual, inaccurate and highly dangerous recommendations to sub-
postmasters.

Angela van den Bogerd: What we say to sub-postmasters when we train them is that,
when they make their statement, what is declared as cash in the till is the correct statement. If
you are short, you put money in and if you are over, you take money out. That is not false
accounting. False accounting is when you sign off your accounts to say, “I have £10,000 in
POL00022337
POL00022337

37

my account,” when you only have £9,000. That is false accounting and there is a very big
difference between the two.

Q139 Ann McKechin: But it seems remarkable to me in the days of modern
technology that we do all this orally and nothing is confirmed in writing. Most people have
access to e-mails and texts. After a call, is there something then confirmed? If you find
yourself with a shortfall in your money, you have never had it happen before and you realise
what the repercussions are, most people would feel highly nervous and unsure and they go on
the phone line. At times, people do not fully absorb all the information that is relayed to them
orally. We know that happens. We know that people do not always capture every piece of
information. Therefore, it is vital, given the repercussions, that you would follow it up at the
earliest opportunity with a written communication confirming the instructions. Why do you
not use e-mail or text messages? What do you do in terms of hard copy, so that someone has a
piece of paper or a written message which tells them exactly what they need to do?

Angela van den Bogerd: Each call logged into the helpline has a reference number and
the sub-postmasters make note of that number, so that they can quote it if they need to go
back to the helpline. It takes them back into the information that has been given.

The information that we give over the phone is what is already in branch. It is already
documented in branch, whether that be by means of an operational manual or Horizon online
help, which is the instructions and the training in the system. What we do when we advise
them—

Q140 Ann McKechin: Do you not acknowledge that best practice would be to
immediately confirm it in writing following the call, so that the person had the specific
instructions, rather than having to dig their way through a very large manual to exactly what
they had to do at that time? Do you not accept that that is something which you might want to
reconsider?

Angela van den Bogerd: Certainly. What we do not have in the Horizon system at the
moment is two-way communication. When we replace that under the new contract, we are
looking to have that two-way communication. Sub-postmasters are invited to give us their e-
mail address and where they have e-mail, we communicate in that fashion. We communicate
via text in some situations as well, but I accept the point.

Chair: Okay, can I bring in Brian?

Q141 Mr Binley: Thank you. This is to both Ms Vennells and Ms van den Bogerd. I
am concerned that it has been suggested that the Post Office has tried to exclude up to 90% of
cases that have gone before the working group for mediation. How do you explain that figure?
Is it correct?

Paula Vennells: \t is incorrect and I think Angela just gave you the most recent figures.

Angela van den Bogerd: Out of 41 cases recommended by the working group, we have
declined five, which works to 12% not 90%.

Q142 Mr Binley: This is an interesting exercise, because I am listening to you, but Iam
also looking for a reaction from behind you. That concerns me enormously, but I will let that
go for the moment. I just want you to know that.
POL00022337

POL00022337

38

Tan Henderson: Mr Binley, I may be able to help you with that. I was present at the
meeting where this 90% figure came up, and it is a little different from what has been
described. As you are probably aware, the mediation working group receive reports from
Second Sight where we make a recommendation whether or not the matter should go to
mediation. There was one meeting—I think it was October last year—where quite a large
number of reports from Second Sight recommended mediation. I am guessing at the number;
let us say maybe 12. The working group therefore has a choice: either it accepts our
recommendation and they go through to mediation, or, as happened in this case, in
approximately 90% of those cases the Post Office said that it wanted to discuss the matter at
the working group. That request for discussion was interpreted as meaning that the Post
Office was challenging 90% of the, let us say, 15 cases that were going to the October
meeting. The Post Office subsequently clarified its position and said, “We are not necessarily
challenging them. We feel that they raise significant issues that need to be discussed by the
working group.” It was, however, a further process or a step in the process that introduced
delay, because clearly the working group could not necessarily deal with that number of cases
all in one meeting. That, I think, is where the 90% figure came from.

Q143 Mr Binley: I am grateful for that elucidation. Can I go on and ask if you could
confirm to us, both of you, whether sub-postmasters who have previously pleaded guilty to
charges arising from information provided by Horizon are eligible for mediation?

Angela van den Bogerd: Yes, they are. They have been accepted into the scheme.

Q144 Mr Binley: And you accept that totally, Mr Henderson, do you?

Ian Henderson: There has certainly been debate on that point. At one point, the Post
Office’s position appeared to be that it was strongly opposed to any consideration of criminal
prosecutions as part of the scheme. I think that position has gradually changed. To be honest,
1 am not sure what the Post Office’s formal position on that is. Of course, it continues to have
the right to challenge cases at any point and, ultimately, to refuse to participate in mediation,
which it has done on, I think, two cases so far.

Q145 Mr Binley: Thank you again. Finally, has any provision been made to cases
which have arisen since the mediation scheme closed to application in November, I think,
2013?

Paula Vennells: I am sorry, Mr Binley; could you repeat the question?

Mr Binley: Has any provision been made to those cases that have arisen since the
mediation scheme closed to applications in 2013?

Angela van den Bogerd: We have had a number of people—about half a dozen—come
forward and say that they would like to have their cases investigated. Once the scheme was
closed, we have offered to investigate those through our normal process, which they have
accepted. We are currently investigating about six cases outside the scheme.

Q146 Chair: If I can just interrupt, what is your normal process, as opposed to the
mediation scheme that was set out before?

Angela van den Bogerd: Effectively, it is the same process that we take, in terms of we
would look at the issues, get access to all the information, investigate their claims thoroughly,
put together a report and share those findings with the individuals.
POL00022337
POL00022337

39

Q147 Chair: What I am puzzled about is why that seems to be satisfactory, in your
eyes, for the current cases, but was not satisfactory when it was decided to set up the
mediation scheme.

Angela van den Bogerd: Our investigation is no different whether it is in the scheme or
outside the scheme. The mediation scheme was closed to new applicants, and what I have
offered to do is to apply the same process that we can to their cases. That has been deemed to
be satisfactory by those individuals. They want to understand what happened in their
situation. I have said that I can look at those cases and provide them with the findings of our
investigation, and they have been comfortable with that.

Paula Vennells: The decision to set up the mediation scheme was mine, with the board
of the Post Office, because Second Sight, as they mentioned, produced a report in the summer
of 2012. We were genuinely concerned about the issues they raised, and the fact that these
people had challenges.

We are a business that genuinely cares about the people who work for us. If there had
been any miscarriages of justice, it would have been really important to me and the Post
Office that we surfaced those. As the investigations have gone through, so far we have no
evidence of that. As you will know, we are bound by the Disclosure Act to make known
anything that we come across that might contribute to that. The difference is that we simply
wanted to know, to give those people the opportunity to be heard, because they told us they
hadn’t been.

Q148 Chair: In terms of the cases post the closure of the mediation scheme, it would
seem that they do not have the benefit of the analysis and investigation of Second Sight.
Secondly, you said that they seemed satisfied. Given the fact that there was no alternative on
the table, they could not really be anything other. Is that a fair assessment?

Angela van den Bogerd: In terms of our investigating the case, yes. Individuals always
have access to the legal rights that are unaffected by this. If they wanted to bring a legal
challenge to us at any point they could.

Q149 Chair: Could I ask Second Sight if those people are disadvantaged in not having
the benefits that others have had in terms of the approach?

Jan Henderson: It is a very difficult question to answer, because we are satisfied that
the 136 cases that have been accepted have provided us with an adequate range of issues that
we can address on the thematic basis that we have identified as of potential concern. Of
course, that will not necessarily resolve the specific facts and issues of a person who has not
yet come into the scheme. It is perhaps of potential concern. However, I hope that our next
report, which is going to be on these 19 or so thematic issues, may well address some of the
points being raised by new applicants.

Chair: Good. Thank you.

Q150 Mr Bain: We have heard criticism about the length of time it is taking to resolve
cases through the mediation scheme. Can you tell the Committee the current average time
taken to resolve such cases? What do you believe is a reasonable time to resolve such cases?

Angela van den Bogerd: That very much depends on the individual case. I think you
heard in the earlier session that no two cases are the same. When we launched the mediation
scheme, we anticipated that the investigation process would take about three months. It has
probably taken on average about six months. Some cases have taken longer and some less
POL00022337
POL00022337

40

time. Speaking from experience of the amount of information and evidence we have needed to
pull together to get to our findings, I would probably say about six months.

Q151 Mr Bain: That certainly ties in with some of the correspondence that the
Committee has seen, including that from Mr Arbuthnot to Ms Vennells. Ms Vennells, what do
you say about how you can improve the efficiency and the time taken to resolve some of these
cases? What plans are you implementing at the moment to increase the efficiency of the
mediation process?

Paula Vennells: I am very pleased to say that we have actually finished all of the
investigation reports. So the 87 you have heard about that are still in the scheme are at
different stages. When we finish our investigation reports, they go to Second Sight. They
review them and come back with questions, to which we respond. That takes a shorter period
than the initial process of putting the investigations together. They then go through to
mediation. In a sense, as we go forward, I hope we are talking just a number of months now
before we can actually get to the end of the scheme. For everybody involved, particularly
those sub-postmasters who are still waiting, that is clearly important.

Q152 Mr Bain: Would you say that the data retention policy that you followed has had
a beneficial or a detrimental impact on how efficient the mediation scheme has been? We
have heard some evidence that some documents that could be relevant in mediation have been
destroyed as a result of your particular policy. What steps are you taking to ensure that that
does not happen?

Paula Vennells: \ think that the most important answer to that question is that, as soon
as we went into the scheme, I had a conversation—in fact, I have had it several times because
I know that people are concerned about this—with Mr Arbuthnot and Mr Bates to reassure
them that nothing would be destroyed when the scheme was set up. Prior to that, we did not
know that we were going into the scheme. We have a data retention policy that is the same as
many businesses. Some of these cases are regrettably very old, so some of the data are simply
not there. As soon as the scheme started, we made sure that we did not destroy any data
related to it at all. That would have lacked integrity.

Q153 Mr Bain: And your policy is to keep everything from the last seven years.

Angela van den Bogerd: Sorry, not everything. The seven years is the information in
the Horizon system. The hard files for post offices are kept for six years. Within branches,
there are different retention periods, but the majority of where we got the information from is
the Horizon system, and that is seven years.

Q154 Mr Bain: Why did you make that particular distinction when you drew up the
policy?

Angela van den Bogerd: So normal retention policies for commercial organisations are
for six years. That is in line, usually, with the statute of limitation. We have gone a little bit
further with the Horizon system, where it is seven years. In branch, we ask them to keep some
reports for two years and others for six years. It comes down to volume and how you store
paper. That is a decision that most commercial organisations take, because it costs to store all
the data.
POL00022337
POL00022337

41

Q155 Katy Clark: You said that you thought it would be a number of months before
the remaining cases are resolved by the mediation scheme. What do you mean by that? How
many?

Paula Vennells: Sorry, I meant a number of months from now through to the end of the
scheme as it runs.

Q156 Katy Clark: When should we expect the scheme to be finished and all the cases
tesolved?

Angela van den Bogerd: Shall I answer? Sorry; I am a bit closer to the working group.
On the flow of the cases at the moment—as Paula said, the Post Office has completed all its
investigations—87 cases are still in the scheme, the majority of which are with Second Sight.
We believe—

Q157 Katy Clark: By the end of this year, for example, or next year.

Angela van den Bogerd: We believe that the working group function will cease in June
and that we should have concluded all these cases by the back end of autumn.

Q158 Katy Clark: So by the end of this year, you would expect all of them to be
resolved.

Angela van den Bogerd: Yes.

Tan Henderson: Katy, may I just make one comment on that? The unknown element in
all this is that once a case goes into mediation, under the terms of the mediation scheme, the
outcome of each individual mediation is confidential to the parties. As a party, the Post Office
obviously knows what has happened in every mediation case so far, but at the moment the
mediation working group does not know that. There is an agreement in place that, once 15
cases have been mediated, some high-level information will come back to the working group,
and we expect that to happen in the next few days.

What we do not yet know is how many of those cases have reached a satisfactory
outcome, bearing in mind that one of the objectives of this whole process is to reach closure.
One of the unanswered questions is—even in, let’s say, six months’ time, when all of the
cases have gone through mediation—on the level of satisfaction. How many cases have been
satisfactorily resolved, rather than mediated, where the parties have not reached a mutually
acceptable outcome? That is something that we have no visibility of at the moment.

Q159 Katy Clark: The Post Office will obviously be very aware of the high level of
concerns among MPs on a cross-party basis about this issue—a huge number of MPs have
been involved in the group that Sir James Arbuthnot has been involved with—and they have
no doubt read the transcript of the recent Adjournment debate, which made very clear the
anger among many MPs about how this whole matter has been handled. What do you think
you are doing or could do to address these concerns?

Paula Vennells: I completely understand that MPs are concerned, quite rightly, because
people have suffered some pretty terrible things as a result of what has happened.

Katy Clark: Yes, with people going to jail.

Paula Vennells: We have listened very carefully. We have been in contact with all the
MPs. We offered all the MPs with constituents involved in the meetings, at the beginning of
the process and throughout it, after the Westminster Hall debate—
POL00022337

POL00022337

Q160 Katy Clark: I am not particularly concerned about the MPs; I am concerned
about what the Post Office is doing to get its own act in order. What lessons are you learning
from everything that has happened so that you can improve your organisation?

Paula Vennells: \ think we have learned a number of lessons as we have gone through
this. You have heard about the improvements we have made in training and support. The
other thing that is important for us today is that the Committee can hear both sides, because
the Post Office has put a huge amount—

Q161 Katy Clark: I asked a question, and I would like an answer to the question. What
are you doing, or what have you done, to improve the way that your organisation works? For
example, one of the issues that has been put to me is that there is a lack of qualified people
within the Post Office hierarchy with whom it is possible for a sub-postmaster to have a
discussion when there is a technical issue to do with the Horizon system. What are you doing
to improve that, for example, and what other lessons have you learned?

Paula Vennells: 1 would say that that isn’t true. If sub-postmasters have queries, they
can escalate them as high as they need to. I get phone calls and e-mails, and I personally take
them on a regular basis.

Q162 Katy Clark: But you are not an IT specialist?

Paula Vennells: \f they have an IT query, I will immediately go to my CIO, and she is
prepared to talk to any sub-postmaster about it. The organisation wants to help sub-
postmasters to run post offices properly—of course we do—and we have put ourselves out as
much as we possibly can. Where we have got it wrong, because human error happens, then, as
Angela has just explained, we have put in really significant changes in terms of the training
and support that is available. The fact that you can access training 24/7 has to be a significant
improvement. We have set up a branch user forum—we have sub-postmasters coming to it
who are very critical of us, which is why we did it—is to learn the things that we can
improve.

We would not have wanted to be in this situation. As soon as I found out about it, we set
up the scheme. We put in hours and hours and hours of detailed work to make sure that we
have done investigations as thoroughly as we can. At the same time, we have a list of things
that we will deal with as we go along.

Q163 Katy Clark: What do you think needs to be done as a result of everything you
have learned from that process so that these kinds of problems do not happen again?

Paula Vennells: We have outlined some of those things already, such as the way that
we listen to sub-postmasters through the branch user forum, and the training. It seems to me
that one of the big issues to come out of this is that in some cases—not the majority, but I
accept Mr Blomfield’s point that this is about the small number of cases here today—we
could have done things better. I think that you have heard us say that we acknowledge that,
and we have put improved processes in place, but this is a business that learns all the time,
and we are constantly trying to improve what we do.

Angela van den Bogerd: Can I add that the branch user forum is an important part of
that? What we did not talk about earlier is that the six sub-postmasters who make up that
forum have connections with the wider network, through their Twitter accounts and things.
They feed in the voices of their peers into the forum, so it is not just the views of six people; it
POL00022337
POL00022337

43

is the views of a much wider number. If there are any issues or concerns, they are brought to it
and we have a very frank discussion. I have learned, through the process and having been
very close to the 150 investigations of each of those cases, that in a number of these cases we
could have explained things a bit better. That is one of the important things.

Somebody mentioned the script of the helpline. It is about trying to drill down: you ask
me a question, and I want to drill down to get to the real nub of the problem to be able to give
you the correct answer. One of the things I have introduced in the last few months is an
information tool that allows us to look into the data of the branch. If the branch rings up and
says, “I’ve just done this to my system”, we can look and say, “Actually, this is what you’ve
done.” We can give them the correct advice, rather than advice based on the information they
have given us. That is a massive step forward.

Q164 Chair: Can I ask Mr Henderson if you have any observations on the comments
you have just heard?

Tan Henderson: I would like to go back to a point that was made in the first session
about the comparison between Crown offices and branches, and a number of points relating to
why Crown offices appear, on the face of it, to deal with some of the Horizon issues better
than branches. A point that was not made by the witnesses in the first session is that Crown
offices have one significant difference compared with branches: they have the ability to write
off losses up to certain levels. A sub-postmaster cannot do that; he is accountable for every
penny. If there is a discrepancy, he has to make that good. The same principle does not apply
to Crown offices.

Another of the outstanding questions we have put to Post Office is that we want data
comparing and contrasting losses written off by Crown offices and the equivalent losses borne
by sub-postmasters. Our work to date has indicated that they both suffer from the same
underlying problems. However, the solutions are very different because, generally speaking, a
sub-postmaster cannot write off a loss; he has to make it good. That is a point relating to the
first session.

Another topic that has not been discussed at all today is what I have called “system
changes”. Over a period of time, Post Office has quite sensibly introduced a number of system
changes. Some have benefited sub-postmasters and Post Office, of which the changes to
lottery and scratch cards are a very good example. Bearing in mind that, under the contract,
the sub-postmaster is responsible for making good all losses, I am concerned that a number of
those process changes have reduced costs to Post Office or have benefited Post Office, and
have acted to the disadvantage of sub-postmasters. A number of those changes have been
implemented without any consultation or adequate consultation. I am concemed that, over
time, Post Office has been gradually transferring risk from itself to sub-postmasters, which is
ultimately being reflected in the losses they are bearing.

Q165 Chair: You have anticipated my question about the contractual basis of the
relationship between the Post Office and the sub-postmasters. You made very explicit what
the problem is there. What changes do you think could be made to the contractual relationship
that do not necessarily prevent those problems but at least provide a way of solving them
more satisfactorily or fairly for both sides?

Jan Henderson: You would need to look into the history of the contract. I am not
proposing to go into that in any detail. For a very long time, there was no formal contract
between Post Office and sub-postmasters. There was a book of rules. The current contract still
refers in places to the book of rules when describing that relationship.
POL00022337
POL00022337

44

While the contract has been changed in part, it has remained substantially the same for
20 or 30 years. We think that it does not provide sufficient safeguards for sub-postmasters.
For example, there is no entitlement to investigative support. We have been told that many
sub-postmasters were not even provided with a copy of the contract. In the contract, it states
that investigative support will be provided only in cases of suspected criminality—in other
words, if a criminal prosecution can or may be brought by Post Office. It does not seem to
cover a situation where a sub-postmaster identifies a problem, has exhausted all the readily
available help mechanisms and wants some serious, professional help from a trained Post
Office auditor. To his surprise, he will find that he has no entitlement to that. Bearing in mind
that Post Office holds all the data, we find that surprising. In the context of modern business
practices and best practice, we think that that is unfortunate.

Our view is that the contract needs a fundamental overhaul to reflect far better an
appropriate relationship. It strikes us that it is written very much in words reflecting a
master/servant relationship that perhaps was appropriate 70 years ago but should not be part
of a modern contract. Sub-postmasters are described as partners, but it is certainly not a
partnership of equals. The risk is largely borne by sub-postmasters, and some of the changes
that have happened recently have benefited Post Office.

Q166 Mr Binley: For the record, I refer again to the evidence submitted by my
colleague Mr James Arbuthnot. He hoped that the Post Office would not plead the statute of
limitations with regard to sub-postmasters’ legal actions, some of them caused by the
behaviour of the Post Office. Secondly—this was all contained in a letter to you, Ms
Vennells—he asked if the Post Office would agree that hon. Members should be briefed by
Second Sight, not on an individual basis but on how the mediation scheme has gone. Could
you give answers to both those points today?

Paula Vennells: Members have been offered meetings with us, if that is acceptable to
applicants who are their constituents, to go in detail through every single piece of information
in the investigation—

Q167 Mr Binley: My question was with regard to Second Sight.

Paula Vennells: I can’t see any reason why that is not possible. We would need to
discuss it with the applicants, clearly. If it is around the case being considered, the Post Office
would clearly want to be in that meeting and to have those discussions, but Second Sight have
seen all our investigation reports and are reviewing them. I don’t have a policy of not making
that available to Members; it is simply that there is confidentiality around it. As you heard,
some of the cases were very sensitive. If the applicants are happy to do that, we have already
offered it to Members.

In terms of the statute of limitations, a number of cases have already come in where that
has run out, so I am not sure what the issue is around that. As I understand it, there is no
implication at all for the legal options open to sub-postmasters in the scheme. They can still
pursue the legal routes of appeal if they want to do that.

Tan Henderson: Mr Binley, can I clarify one point? Second Sight is subject to a
confidentiality agreement between itself and Post Office. About nine months ago, we sought
specific consent from Post Office, as we are required to do under our contract, to
communicate freely with James Arbuthnot, and they agreed that consent. I think Members
have asked for that consent to be widened, certainly to the new Chairman, Kevan Jones, who
is taking over from Mr Arbuthnot.
POL00022337
POL00022337

45

Also, in terms of general matters, some of which I have raised this morning, several
Members have said that they would like Second Sight to be authorised to discuss general
matters relating to the scheme with them, as well as, obviously, any cases where they are
representing an individual constituent. What we could not do is discuss another constituent’s
case in detail with a Member who does not represent that constituent. But I think it would
help, in terms of communication generally, for Second Sight’s authorisation to be widened
beyond just James Arbuthnot, who, as we all know, will be standing down very shortly.

Q168 Mr Binley: Sadly, that is the case. So the ball has been batted back into your
court, Ms Vennells. Are you happy in general terms, given that you might have to take some
advice, to accede to that request?

Paula Vennells: I am happy to take the advice. In principle, I cannot see why that might
not be the case, but I may need to take advice.

Q169 Mr Binley: You are a very powerful lady. We look forward to your carrying that
out.

Paula Vennells: I am also wise, in that I know I need to take advice.
Mr Binley: Thank you very much.

Q170Chair: The Post Office is a tried and trusted bank; I think most people would
accept that. Equally, I think most people would accept that the support and counselling of
employees is very important in sustaining a positive brand for any business. I accept that the
relationship between sub-postmasters and the Post Office is rather more complicated than that
between a traditional employer and employee, but it would seem that, on the basis of this
contract, this particular software and, above all, the support and engagement of the Post
Office with those who are contracted to work for it, and who are often highly respected and
trusted individuals within their community, the relationship has broken down. Do you accept
that the Post Office has a responsibility to put in place a support and engagement system that
will, quite legitimately, root out fraud, if fraud is taking place, but ensure that those people
who may be guilty only of human error get the necessary support to correct that and carry on
with the job, working to reinforce the brand?

Paula Vennells: I agree completely about the importance of the Post Office in
communities and institutions, and particularly about the people who run them, because if it
were not for the people who run them, there would be no trust in the Post Office brand. There
is absolutely no doubt about that in my mind. It is the reason we set up the scheme in the first
place. We did not have the opportunity to reply to the last point that Mr Henderson made
about various comments relating to the contract and other issues. We will give the Committee
some further notes on that because there were some sweeping generalisations there that are
simply not true. We review the contract, for instance, very regularly. The National Federation
of SubPostmasters meets us probably twice a year to look at this kind of thing. It is really
important to the business.

When we set the scheme up, we wanted to get to the end of it and we hope to do that by
the end of this year. It is a very good question as to what next, because there may be situations
in which people are unhappy with it. The thing that we wanted the Committee to hear today is
that this is a small number that we have taken very seriously and I think that when we get to
the end of this, we should review, as any sensible organisation would, what next steps we
need to take. It is important to me that we finish it, particularly for the people who have gone
through the scheme, frankly, and—my last point—because of the importance of the Post
POL00022337
POL00022337

46

Office. This is a really successful business. We have, as many of you know, because you have
opened the new post offices, halved the losses in the Post Office in the past two years. I have
reduced our dependence on subsidy from £210 million to £130 million this year. We have an
ambition to break even in three to four years. We are in financial services and we have
launched the Post Office Money brand. It is critical to me that we keep trust in the Post Office
as high as it is. That is why we did the scheme.

QI71 Chair: 1 think that most MPs would certainly agree with your latter statement,
but given the cases that have been very publicly demonstrated and some of the evidence that
has surfaced in this Committee—and, indeed, in other debates—do you not accept that the
Post Office has been deficient in its duty of care towards the sub-postmasters who are so
important in reinforcing that positive brand?

Paula Vennells: Not at all, in terms of the vast majority. As we have said to you today,
yes, in some cases we could have done better in terms of training and support.

Q172 Chair: The point is that it is that minority of cases that colour the public
perception of the whole organisation. It is true in most businesses.

Paula Vennells: Yes—that is why we set this up.

Q173 Chair: What has concerned everybody is the culture of denial, as Mr Blomfield
said, that seems to exist in the Post Office in dealing with this minority of cases.

Paula Vennells: 1 hope that we have, at least to some extent, reassured you today that
we have put a major amount of focus on this. We could not have done more in terms of
putting these investigations together and appointing independent experts and I hope that we
can see this scheme through and bring it to a close for those people involved.

Chair: We will decide on whether we are reassured when we have done our report, with
recommendations and your response to the recommendations, but on that note, I shall close
the meeting. Thank you very much. It has been a long and sometimes robust discussion, it has
been very helpful and let us hope that the Post Office and the sub-postmasters and sub-
postmistresses will emerge stronger as a result of it.
