POL00294746

POL00294746
From: Nick Beal[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=NICK.BEAL1133B2F 1-1721-456F-9D54-
0AE934012950]
Sent: Thur 27/01/2011 9:37:36 AM (UTC)
To: Angela Van-Den-Boger

Subject: FW: BBC TV - Inside Out

Head of Network Development
Post Office Ltd
Network

1st Floor, 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

} STD Phone!

External Email:I_

Royal Mail Group's charity of choice is Barnardo's. Please visit the following website to find out how you can make a difference; www.royalmailgroupcharity.com

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce,
copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

From: Tracy Marshall

Sent: 26 January 2011 20:07

To: Kevin Gilliland; Neil Ennis; Nick Beal
Subject: Re: BBC TV - Inside Out

Hi Kevin,

Thanks - as discussed briefly on Monday, I am pushing ahead at pace with the suspension and contract termination
process review and we are on track to complete and implement by the end of Feb at the absolute latest.

Would you like to have a chat over the phone tomorrow to discuss the tor and any changes you'd like me to make? I'm
not taking leave now as originally planned.

Let me know
Thanks

Tracy

From: Kevin Gilliland

To: Neil Ennis; Nick Beal; Tracy Marshall
Sent: Wed Jan 26 18:40:12 2011
Subject: Fw: BBC TV - Inside Out

Nick,
Did we get the answers for George?

We need to finalise the review of the contract process. I have some comments on the tor that I'll let you have
tomorrow but the main thing is we finalise and implement quickly. Paula had originally wanted this finished by the end
POL00294746
POL00294746

of q3.
Kevin
Kevin Gilliland

ctor Post Office Ltd, 148 Old St London EC1V 9HQ

From: Mike Granville

To: Kevin Gilliland; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Paula Vennells; Mike Young; Mike Moores; Susan Crichton; Rod Ismay;
Alana Renner

Sent: Wed Jan 26 18:32:12 2011

Subject: FW: BBC TV - Inside Out

This note is to keep you informed — that the BBC South documentary programme ‘Inside Out’ is proceeding with
running a programme which looks like it is inspired by JFSA cases. David Simpson had spoken with the producer

previously making clear that we didn’t accept there was any case here and explaining the robustness of the system —
but it looks like they are going to run anyway.

David is currently talking to Shane O’Riordain on our approach to responding with respect to the programme — we will
probably try and get more detail about what cases the programme is seeking to feature - I will Keep you updated when
we get the Group Media position.

At present this is to keep you in the picture.
Thanks

Mike

Mike Granville

Head of Regulation Strategy
Post Office Ltd

‘=" 1st Floor, Banner Street Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON EC1V 9H1Q

From: David Simpson

Sent: 24 January 2011 17:57

To: Mike Granville

Subject: FW: BBC TV - Inside Out
Importance: High

Mike — something else to discuss tomorrow!
David

From: Jon Valte

POL00294746
POL00294746

Sent: 24 January 2011 17:34
To: David Simpson
Subject: BBC TV - Inside Out
Importance: High

Dear Mr Simpson,

Following our recent conversation I thought I'd write to outline what is in our programme as I understand Jaquie
Stenson has now left. I also now have a transmission date for our programme. As I mentioned before we are looking at
subpostmasters who claim they have experienced problems with the Horizon computer accounting system and are
unhappy with the way they have been treated by the Post Office. The subpostmasters we've spoken to have either
been suspended or taken to court.

All the subpostmasters say losses have been recorded by the Horizon computer system and they have been blamed.
Yet they maintain they were not guilty of dishonesty and are unable to explain how the losses occurred. They also
claim they did not get enough help or support from the Post Office or the IT helpline. We are aware of several
individuals who say they did not receive sufficient training on Horizon which is a complicated system to use. One of
the subpostmasters we feature accepts that some of the losses recorded at his Post Office may be down to his
mistakes, but there is still a large amount that hasn't been explained.

An MP we interview in the programme accuses the Post Office of being "hard nosed" in the way it has taken
subpostmasters to court, and suggests that the computer accounting system could be at fault.

We are again offering you a right of reply and would like to invite you to do an interview that we can include in the
programme. This story is now due to be shown on BBC 1 in the south of England on Monday, Feb 7th and any
interview would need to be recorded before Feb 4th 2011 in order to be included.

Yours sincerely,

Jon Valters
Inside Out
BBC TV South

http://www.bbe.co.uk

This e-mail (and any attachments) is confidential and may contain personal views which are not the views of
the BBC unless specifically stated.

If you have received it in error, please delete it from your system.

Do not use, copy or disclose the information in any way nor act in reliance on it and notify the sender
immediately.

Please note that the BBC monitors e-mails sent or received.

Further communication will signify your consent to this.
