POL00116209
POL00116209

From: Paula Vennells[i-
Sent: Fri 15/11/2013 1:

To: Martin Edwards[i
Subject: Fwd: Follow on from 1:1

Hi Martin, just to log that I would like you chasing on IR (action from Kevin to Chris then a meeting to review);
and on SISD - slightly alarming but useful aside from Chris that I'd like to understand so that we mitigate risk, if
there is more than we have anticipated.

Thx P

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Chris Aujard <

Date: 15 November
To: Paula Vennells <
Subject: RE: Follow on from 1:1

Many thanks for the aid memoire Paula (it is much more elegant than my notes!), and for the entrée to
Kevin and Chris. Cheers Chris

From: Theresa Iles On Behalf Of Paula Vennells
Sent: 14 November 2013 15:52

To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Chris M Day; Kevin Gilliland; Paula Vennells
Subject: Follow on from 1:1

Chris

Thank you for your time this morning. I just wanted to confirm a number of next steps and bring
colleagues into the loop.

¢ Sparrow:

o The budget for Sparrow needs restating to take account of additional resource and additional
length of time for the scheme to complete. This should be presented to the next Steering
Committee.

© Accountabilities: Belinda is to be the Project Director for Sparrow (i.e. mediation scheme and
legal case review). It’s important Angela is clear that she and her investigation team and
team of network mediation representatives are working to Belinda re the delivery of
Sparrow.

o Second Sight: Confirmation of their new role going forward i.e. independently authenticating
the reports produced by Angela’s investigation team. As this is a lesser volume of work (the
original intention was for Second Sight to also write the reports — they are no longer doing
this), I would expect their rates to reduce and we should negotiate this. Equally, I appreciate
they may be with us for a longer period of time now as the number of mediation cases will
take longer to process. Can you update the next Steering Group on progress and, also,
ensure this change is fed into the rebudgeting.

¢ — Industial Relations:
POL00116209
POL00116209

© Kevin will provide you with a list of actions we may want to take at some stage: the steer is to
understand how we can take these actions (rather than we can’t) and, if we do, what risk is
there.

« — SISD (Service Integrator Service Desk):

o You highlighted this was an unusual construct, particularly from a legal point of view, and
would not be something other businesses involving Financial Services (e.g. banks) would
have considered. As we discussed, I would appreciate more a considered review of this.
When you have had a chance to look into it, can you set up a separate meeting for you, me
and Chris to discuss.

¢ — NFSP/MoU/Future new Federation Contract:
© Just for clarity, as I agreed this with Alice yesterday, the accountability for completion of this
process sits with the GC and, therefore, it’s important that you are in the loop (I know you
and Sue have had this discussion and, therefore, Kevin copied for information).

Regards
Paula
