POLB 15(1*)

POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

POLB 15/01 - 15/22

Present:

Alice Perkins
Neil McCausland
Tim Franklin
Virginia Holmes
Alasdair Marnoch
Richard Callard
Paula Vennells
Alisdair Cameron

In Attendance:
Alwen Lyons
Neil Hayward
David Ryan
Martin Edward
Lesley Sewell
Jane MacLeod
Chris Aujard
Arnout Vanderveer
Martin George
Mark Siviter
Kevin Gilliland
Mark Davies

POLB 15/01

POLB 15/02

ACTON:
CoSec

POLB 15/03

POST OFFICE LIMITED
(Company no. 2154540)
(the ‘Company’)

Minutes of a Board meeting held on 28 January 2015
at 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ

Chairman
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Chief Executive

Chief Financial Officer

Company Secretary

Group People Director (minute POLB 15/4-15/6)

Business Transformation Director (minute POLB 15/5-15/7)
Head of Financial Strategy (minute POLB 15/5-15/6)

Chief Information Officer (minute POLB 15/7 only)

General Counsel (minute POLB 15/8 only)

General Counsel (minute POLB 15/8 only)

Head of Risk & Assurance (minute POLB15/8 only)
Commercial Director (minute POLB 15/9 only)

Head of Mails (minute POLB 15/9 only)

Network & Sales Director (minute POLB 15/10 only)
Communications & Corporate Affairs Director (minute POLB
15/11 only)

INTRODUCTION
(a) A quorum being present, the Chairman opened the meeting.
CHANGE OF DIRECTORS

(a) The Board approved the appointment of Alisdair Cameron and noted
that Chris Day would cease to be a director with immediate effect.

(b) The Company Secretary was authorised to make all the necessary
filings with Companies House.

CEO’S REPORT

(a) The CEO introduced her report and focussed on the following key
areas for discussion with the Board:

(b) Cost Reduction The CEO was pleased to report the excellent
POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

progress made by the Business - the forecast was to overachieve the
£60m target by £1.7m. She recognised the work done by David Ryan,
Business Transformation Director, and stressed that the focus on
cost reduction would continue into the new financial year. The first
wave of staff efficiencies was taking place and planning for the
second wave was underway, which was focussed on managerial
roles.
(©)
Finsbury Dials Teams would begin to move into the new ‘Customer
Support Centre’ in March and the CEO informed the Board that it
would be ready in time for the next Board meeting. The move would
promote new ways of working including a Group Executive hub; more
use of hot-desking and open plan areas; and a meeting room which
ACTION: could accommodate up to 300 people. The CEO promised to
CEO circulate a note explaining the new governance structure, including
the Group Executive, but assured the Board that there was no
change in the delegated authorities from the Board.
ACTION: (d)
Mark Davies It was proposed that the next Post Office Advisory Council (POAC)
be held in the new office.
(e)
ACTION: ES Media coverage The CEO reported the excellent media coverage
Pete Markey received for Post Office Money and the Financial Services Academy.
A link to the new Post Office Money TV advertisement would be
circulated as soon as it was available.
(f)
Banking Facilities The CEO explained that the Secretary of State was
leading a debate on banking facilities and the role that Post Office
could play and thanked Richard Callard for his support with this work.
(9)
ACTION: Hawk The CEO was concerned about the timescales for Project
Nick Kennett Hawk and proposed a Financial Services update at the next meeting,
including Hawk and POMS.
POLB 15/04 2014/15 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND SCORECARD

(a) The Board welcomed Neil Hayward, Group People Director, to the
meeting.

(b) The CFO gave the Board an update on:

e the financial performance in December 2014 and YTD;
e the expected financial outcome for 2014-15; and
¢ the expected outcome on the performance scorecard.

(c) The CFO supported the £95m EBIT forecast but acknowledged that
in his opinion the £880m revenue forecast still contained a degree of
optimism. This risk was mitigated by the continued focus on costs.
The Board discussed the revenue trajectory and the Q4 revenue

required to achieve the forecast.

(d) The Board asked when the new FS incentive scheme would be
launched. Neil Hayward explained that the detail had been sent to
POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

the CWU on 18" December. The Board discussed the importance of
retaining the focus on Treating the Customer Fairly as well as
incentivising sales and agreed that the ARC should continue to
monitor the FS sales risk measures.

(e) The Board recognised the importance of Q4 for ISA sales and asked
ACTION: the Business to ensure that they had the necessary sales focus in
Kevin Gilliland place.

(f) I The Board discussed the telephony revenue and asked if the contract
ACTION: had been changed to rectify the revenue/cost disparity for increased
CFO customer usage. The CFO agreed to circulate a note to clarify.

(g) The CFO highlighted that Q3 was the first quarter of the year to
deliver an EBIT above plan and he was encouraged that the
Business would be able to close the EBIT gap further in Q4.

(h) The Board discussed the scorecard and the poor performance on

‘easy to do business with’. The CEO acknowledged the significant

ACTION: drop against target and last year’s result and agreed to circulate a
Pete Markey note to explain the performance.

(i) I The CFO explained that Q4 still contained some big one-off risks and
opportunities and that the EBIT could range from £83m to £103m,
although he was comfortable with the £95m currently being forecast.
Likewise the Bonus could range between 12.5% and 70%, with a
current forecast of 50%.

(j) The Board discussed the Crown P&L target and agreed to the
principle that the initial 373 Crown branches be included in the like for
like breakeven analysis.

(k) The Board noted the performance and improved full year forecast.
The Board further noted that there were a number of key
dependencies for this improved full year forecast to be achieved.

POLB 15/05 UPDATE ON THE 2015/16 OPERATING PLAN AND THREE YEAR
OPERATING PLAN

(a) The Board welcomed David Ryan, Business Transformation Director,
and Martin Edwards, Head of Financial Strategy, to the meeting.

(b) The CFO updated the Board on the preparation of the 2015/16
Annual Operating Plan and introduced the proposed approach to the
three year plan, providing an interim update on the latest financial
projections through to 2017/18.

(c) An EBITDAS target of £35m was proposed for 2015/16, continuing
the improvement of the last three years but falling short of the
breakeven target in the strategic plan.

(d) The CFO explained that he believed that the Business was being

over optimistic on revenue, especially in Mails, which had not factored

ACTION: in RMG’s promotion of online postage. He did not think the level of
Martin Edwards over optimism was as significant as the 2014/15 budget but he
POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

wanted a more realistic approach in the budget and three year plan.

(e) The CFO recognised the need for a £10-15m contingency to support
the £35m EBITDAS target proposed for 2015/16 and this would be
built into the budgets issued to individual functions. Neil Hayward
reminded the Board that an EBITDAS target of £35m would not hit
the LTIP target, the Business would need to deliver an outturn of
£26m to trigger the LTIP.

(f) IThe Board discussed the current risks and opportunities highlighted
in the plan and the need to continue to focus on reducing costs. The
CFO recognised the need to manage working capital to enable the
Business to deliver the plan without further borrowing.

(g) The CEO explained that the Business scorecard and bonus
measures would be discussed at the RemCom in February.

(h) The Board discussed the objectives for the three year operating plan,
the first year of which would be the budget for 2015/16. The CFO
promised a draft to the Board in March and the final plan in May.

(i) The Board asked for a page showing the 2012/13 to 2017/18
strategic plan against the outturn for past years and the forecast for
future years, to be included as a baseline in the three year operating

plan.
0)
Martin Edwards explained that the plan would contain milestones and
change activity, along with major events and a log of material risks
and opportunities. The Board asked that the plan showed the
assumptions being made so that they could understand the choices
available to the Business.
POLB 15/06 BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION

(a) The Board thanked David Ryan for the focus he had set the Business
on cost reduction and the performance to date.

(b) The Board received an update from David Ryan on the Business
Transformation Programme and the actions arising from the
November Board. David Ryan reported that he now believed a 20%
reduction in change resource was possible as part of wave 2, taking
the team down from its current 80 FTEs to circa 60.

(c) David Ryan proposed that the Back Office Application Tower (BOAT)
work, which had been suspended to consider alignment with the
wider back office outsourcing, should now go ahead. The added risks
and cost of any further delay to BOAT outweighed any possible small
advantage. The Board agreed that the risks outweighed any benefits

ACTION: and that the Business should focus on the front office changes.
David Ryan David Ryan would circulate a briefing note to the Board once the final
BOAT and back office timelines were agreed.

(d) David Ryan explained that he was focussing on three areas for
Business Transformation:
i. Driving the cost savings this year and next to get toa
POLB 15/07

ACTION:
Lesley Sewell

ACTION:
Lesley Sewell

ACTION:
Mark Davies

POL00311444

POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(e)

(f)
(9)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(9)

stretch target

ii. Delivering a 3 year plan, aligned with the operating

plan, with Business Transformation milestones,
he agreed to report to the Board on in May

which

iii. Introducing a governance through a design authority
group and an investment appraisal group to ensure
that all activity is considered through a transformation

lens.

David Ryan stressed that the technology agenda was mission
and needed to take precedence.

The Board noted the update.
Neil Hayward and Martin Edwards left the meeting.
IT STRATEGY

The Board welcomed Lesley Sewell, Chief Information Officer,
to the meeting and received an update on: the progress
against the key initiatives within the 2020 Strategy; the
progress on developing the IT Strategy and alignment with
Business Transformation; and the key risks, mitigations and
contingency plans.

The Board discussed the changes to the front office system
and Lesley Sewell stressed the need for the front office
changes to be given primacy over all other Business initiatives.
It was recognised that standardising and simplifying products
and systems would reduce cost and complexity for suppliers.
The CEO assured the Board that the Executive recognised the
need to simplify products and processes and that the IT
strategy was being managed through an Executive IT
Governance Committee.

A preferred bidder from Accenture, IBM and CSC would be
chosen by the end of March.

The Board asked the Business to consider the failures in other
Business’ big IT projects to try to understand the possible risks.

The Board discussed Sparrow and any perceived or actual risk
for sub-postmasters of the system change. The Business was
asked to ensure independent assurance of the system's
integrity and security before it goes live, with a forensic end to
end assurance.

The Business was also asked to consider how it would
manage the PR implications of announcing the change whilst
Sparrow is still ongoing.

Lesley Sewell explained that the plan was to run the new and
old systems in parallel for 6-7months and the need for the new
supplier to work closely with Fujitsu. The Board asked if the
new supplier and Fujitsu would have back to back contracts to

critical
POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

mitigate the commercial risk for the Business. Lesley Sewell
assured the Board that this was the plan but still recognised
the Fujitsu exit as a significant risk.

(h) The Board asked how the Business would future proof the new
system and were reassured that this would be as standard a
system as possible, enabling additional ‘plug in’ improvements
for software developments.

(i) I The Board noted:

«the progress against the key initiatives within the 2020
Strategy

e the progress on the IT Strategy and alignment with
Business Transformation

* the key risks, mitigations and contingency plans

« that the team would revert back to the Board as
follows:
March 2015 -— Strategy update and alignment to
Operating Plan

May 2015 — to seek authority for the Network
Tower award
May 2015 — to seek authority for Front Office Tower
; award
0)
David Ryan and Lesley Sewell left the meeting.
POLB 15/08 RISK APPETITE

(a) The Board welcomed Chris Aujard, General Counsel, Jane MacLeod,
General Counsel and Arnout Vanderveer, Head of Risk and
Assurance, to the meeting and received a request to approve the
Company's Risk Appetite Statement (RAS).

(b) Chris Aujard explained the process used to develop the RAS and the
discussions at ExCo and the ARC. The RAS established the ground
rules for the Business and would help to drive behaviours. Arnout
Vanderveer recognised that it would take time to embed risk into the
Business and ensure that decisions were aligned with the RAS.

(c) Alasdair Marnoch, Chairman of the ARC, acknowledged that the RAS
was a good step forward, albeit that the process had been slow. He
was encouraged by the discussions at both ExCo and the ARC and

ACTION: believed the RAS was a good basis upon which to build. He asked
Arnout Vanderveer that the RAS, with risk metrics, be presented to the ARC and Board in
May.

(d) Jane MacLeod recognised that the RAS would develop and change
but wanted to develop a framework which would mature and change
to drive business decisions.
ACTION:
CoSec

POLB 15/09

ACTION:
Pete Markey

ACTION:
Mark Siviter

POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(e) The Board asked that all future Board papers included a risk section
which related back directly to the RAS.

(f) I The Board agreed to adopt the RAS.
(g) Jane MacLeod, Chris Aujard and Arnout Vanderveer left the meeting.
MAILS STRATEGY

(a) Martin George, Commercial Director, and Mark Siviter, Head of Mails,
joined the meeting.

(b) Martin George provided an update on the Christmas advertisement
campaign and its positive effect on brand recognition and perception.
The Board asked if the analysis could be broken down to understand
the effect on young people’s perception of the Business.

(c) Martin George explained that the Business was still on track to hit the
£342m Mails revenue forecast. He reported the three things in place
to support the sales:

i. The continuing sales support through the guiding coalition,
including focus on the 689 branches that were
underperforming through remedial plans

ii. An online marketing campaign

iii. And a branch sales incentive for the last 5 weeks of the year.

(d) Martin George updated the Board on the ‘Win in Mails’ strategy. He
was pleased with the progress on the hand held ingenico devices; the
positive conversations with retailers; and the clear path to a Mails-
only solution in the spring with other products added later. However
he had made limited progress with RMG, albeit they had agreed to
work on trials to look at an improved customer journey, simplified
products and more access points.

(e) The CFO recognised that this was probably the last chance to run a
meaningful trial with RMG to make a compelling case for change.

(f) I The Board asked why the Ivy trials had not produced the expected
results. Martin George explained that, although the volumes of home
shopping returns had been lower than anticipated, the trial had
shown the market that Post Office was a viable alternative to Collect+
and My Hermes. Retailers were now considering Post Office
alongside these other carriers.

(g) The Board supported the idea of a trial but were concerned that the
offer would be difficult to sell to retailers who would want a network
with more consistent opening hours for their customers. The Board
agreed that more work needed to be done on the design of the trial,
with a clear outcome for both the Business and RMG, or there was a
danger of a negative result which might reinforce the RMG position.

(h) The Board were asked to consider the Terms of Reference for
reviewing the strategic options for Post Office in the Mails markets.
The CFO explained that this piece of work was his proposal based on
similar scenario planning in previous companies. It would enable the
POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

Business to understand RMG’s strategy and possible areas of conflict
and alignment. The CEO asked that the work deliver two specific
outcomes: an understanding of the RMG operation and how Post
Office could add value; and some alternatives to working with RMG.

ACTION: (i) I The Board supported the proposal and asked the Business to ensure

Mark Siviter that the work produced tangible proposals which could be discussed
at the June Away Day. It was pointed out that this work should be
done without the knowledge of RMG.

(j) I The Board agreed not to roll out any further Ivy trial outlets prior to
the launch of the full access point proposition in May 2015. Richard
Callard supported the decision but recognised that the Minister would
be disappointed that the Business had not reached 12000 outlets by
March 2015.

(k) Martin George and Mark Siviter left the meeting.

POLB 15/10 NETWORK TRANSFORMATION, MODEL PERFORMANCE AND
CROWN TRANSFORMATION Q3 2014

(a) The Board welcomed Kevin Gilliland, Network & Sales Director, to the
meeting and received an update on Network Transformation,
performance of the new models and progress on Crown
Transformation.

(b) Kevin Gilliland was pleased to report that the Business had already
hit its target of 1650 NT branches opened in the year and was
expecting to have 4000 NT branches by March. He reported relative
success with the guided leaver programme and wanted every office
to know what was happening to their branch before the IT front office
changes.

(c)

Kevin Gilliland reminded the Board that the sub postmasters’ contract
requires the Business to give 3 months’ notice to sub postmasters but
that the proposed cliff would give 6 months. It was his intention to
have started conversations with all sub postmasters before May. The
September cliff had always been indicative and because NT was
ahead of plan the Business needed to bring this forward to keep up
the conversion rate.

(d)

The Board agreed that the term cliff was unhelpful and that the
Business should try to smooth the changes as much as possible.

(e)

The Board asked how the NFSP and George Thomson are likely to
react to the change. Kevin Gilliland hoped that George Thomson
would understand the need to bring the date forward but he was
comfortable that this was the right thing to do irrespective of the
NFSP position. The Board noted that the MoU with the NFSP had still
not been agreed.

(f)

The Board discussed the Crown Office P&L and getting the 373
branches to breakeven. They recognised that some Crown branches
ACTION: were still making a loss and that the Business would now deal with
Kevin Gilliland these as Business as Usual. Kevin Gilliland was asked to set new
POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

targets for the next 3 years with a specific focus on the untapped
potential in Financial Services.

(9)
The Board noted the update, and thanked Kevin Gilliland and his
teams for the Network and Crown transformation results.

(h)
Kevin Gilliland left the meeting.
ACTION: (i)
Virginia Holmes The Board recognised that ISA sales should be the focus for the next
3 months and Virginia Holmes agreed to discuss this with Kevin
Gilliland.
POLB 15/11 SPARROW

(a) Mark Davies, Communications & Corporate Affairs Director, joined
the meeting.

(b) The Chairman explained that the agenda item was to update the
Board on the BIS Select Committee on 3 February.

(c) Mark Davies described the Select Committee process and explained
that the Business had been asked to appear to give evidence. The
CEO would represent the Business. Other attendees were JFSA,
NFSP, CWU and Second Sight. He explained the work being done to
prepare for the Committee and the likely media activity.

(d) Mark Davies reported that the Business had received a letter from the
Criminal Case Review Commission (CCRC) asking for information on
the Criminal cases involved in Sparrow. The Business had 28 days to
respond to the CCRC.

(e) The Board discussed the possible outcomes from the Committee.
The Chairman explained that the Board Sparrow Sub Committee
would consider options and next steps at their next meeting.

(f) I Mark Davies left the meeting.

POLB 15/12 POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED DIRECTOR
APPOINTMENTS

(a) The Board received a recommendation from the Nominations
Committee to appoint a Non-Executive Chairman to POMS.

(b) The Board discussed the candidate's reticence to join until project
Hawk was certain to progress. The Board were anxious to secure the

ACTION: appointment and asked the CEO to contact Stephen Ashton to try to

CEO! Virginia persuade him to take up the POMS Chairman position. Virginia

Holmes Holmes also offered a conversation if the CEO thought that it would
be helpful.

(c) The Board approved the appointment of Stephen Ashton as Non-
Executive Chairman of POMS and agreed to provide written consent
in the form presented, giving a duly appointed director or company
secretary authority to sign the consent.
ACTION:
Nick Kennett/

Chris Aujard

POLB 15/13

POLB 15/14

POLB 15/15

POLB 15/16

POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(d)

(a)

(a)

(a)

(b)

(a)

The Board received a request for written consent to appoint two Non-
Executive Directors to the POMS Board. The Board approved the
appointment of Alisdair Cameron and Jane MacLeod as Non-
Executive directors but asked for a note explaining the timeline for
the FCA approval process and the options for appointing the new
NED directors, including risks inherent with the different options.
Subject to the receipt of a satisfactory explanatory note, the Board
agreed to provide written consent to the appointments in the form
presented, giving a duly appointed director or company secretary
authority to sign the consent.

MINUTES OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS AND MATTERS ARISING
The minutes of the Board meetings held on 21 October, 18
November, 26 November and 14 December 2014 were approved for
signature by the Chairman.

COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES FOR NOTING

The Board noted the minutes of:

e the Sub-Committee to approve the interim report and
accounts meeting held on 19 November 2014

e the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting held on
10 November 2014;

e the FS Sub-Committee meetings held on 14 October and 3
December 2014; and

e the Pensions Sub-Committee meeting held on 8 October and
3 December 2014;

e the Post Office Advisory Council meeting held on 12
November 2014; and

¢ the Sparrow Sub-Committee held on 12 January 2015.
STATUS REPORT

The Status Report, showing matters outstanding from previous Board
meetings, was noted.

The Board noted the update on Project Ultra and the draft forward
agendas.

UPDATE FROM THE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE
COMMITTEE

Alasdair Marnoch, Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance
Committee, updated the Board on the last Committee meeting.

The ARC was more comfortable with the approach to risk, although
they wanted to continue to monitor TCF. The Business had now set
POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

up a major incident team which it was in the process of testing. The
Internal Audit plan would need to come to the Board in March.

POLB 15/17 UPDATE FROM THE FS SUB-COMMITTEE

(a) The Board received an update from Virginia Holmes, Chairman of the
FS Sub-Committee.

(b) Virginia Holmes suggested that the Board may no longer need an FS
Committee, and it was agreed to include sub-committee structure as
part of the Board evaluation.

(c) The Board agreed that if this sub-committee was disbanded the ARC

would need to include FS compliance as part of its Terms of
Reference.

POLB 15/18 UPDATE FROM THE PENSIONS SUB-COMMITTEE

(a) The Board received an update from Virginia Holmes, Chairman of the
Pensions Sub-Committee.

(b) Virginia Holmes reported that the Pensions Sub-Committee had
asked for a short paper to be presented to the Board detailing the
ACTION: CFO investment review position and its implications for the Pensions Plan.
This would be presented at the March Board.
POLB 15/19 CHANGE OF REGISTERED OFFICE
(a) The Board:

* approved the change of registered office for the Company
from 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ, to 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ;

e agreed to provide written consent for the change of registered
office for POMS in the form presented, giving a duly
appointed director or company secretary authority to sign the
consent.;

* noted the change of registered office for Postal Services
Holding Company Limited; and

e authorised the Company Secretary to make all necessary
filings with Companies House.

POLB 15/20 ITEMS FOR NOTING

(a) The Board noted the IA status report summary as at 31 December
2014.

(b) The Board noted the Significant Litigation report.

(c) The Board noted the Health & Safety report.
POL00311444
POL00311444

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(d) The Board noted the Report on Sealings and resolved that the
affixing of the Common Seal of the Company to the documents
set out against items numbered 1241 to 1261 inclusive in the
seal register was hereby confirmed.

POLB 15/21 ANY OTHER BUSINESS

(a) The Board asked for an update on the appointment of the Business
ACTION: Transformation Director, and asked the CEO to check once more that
Neil Hayward/CEO David Ryan would not consider the post.

(b) Neil McCausland explained the process was underway to appoint a
new Post Office Chairman. The OCPA (Office for the Commission of
Public Appointments) had appointed Margaret Scott to lead the
process which also included Neil McCausland as the Post Office
Board SID. Russell Reynolds had been selected as the head hunters
and an advert would be published in mid-February. The plan was to
interview in May with the new Minister interviewing in June and an
appointment in July.

POLB 15/22 DATES OF NEXT MEETINGS

(a) It was noted that the next Board meeting would be held on 25 March
2015, to be preceded by a NEDs breakfast.
