POL00142856

POL00142856

Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential
POL()
POST OFFICE LTD —- POL BOARD NOTING PAPER

Horizon

1. Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to:

1.1. Brief the board on the Horizon service.
1.2. Update the board on the recent major incidents on Horizon.
1.3. Outline the actions being taken to prevent further failures.

2. Background

2.1, Last week’s major incident on Horizon was the fourth significant service failure of
this system in nine months. Briefly summarised, they are:
e 27" July 2011 — Pin pad failure caused by a change activity
«  12' December 2011 — Horizon service failure caused by a hardware failure
e 1% February 2012 — Card account failure caused by a change activity
e  1%March 2012 — Horizon service failure caused by a hardware failure

2.2. When the Horizon service was initially constructed it was based across two data
centres, both of which were fully operational; providing an active/active resilient
service arrangement.

2.3. As part of the move to Horizon on Line, the contract was renegotiated and the
architectural design changed in order to reduce Post Office’s operating costs by
£50m p.a. (excluding VAT). One of the design changes which contributed
significantly (circa £5.5m p.a.) to the savings was moving to an active/passive data
centre arrangement. Consequently the resilience is now housed in one data centre
with the second data centre primarily being used as a test environment, but
available for disaster recovery if required.

2.4. As a consequence of moving to the active /passive design, when hardware issues
arise they will result in network wide service disruption.

2.5. The previous active/active data centre arrangement would have prevented an
impact to customers for the incidents of the 12'" December and the 1° March, as the
hardware would still have been working in the other data centre.

3. Current Situation — Incidents

3.1. The incident on the 1 March was caused by a network router within the data centre
restricting the flow of transactions to the data centre. As it was in effect still working,
the device advertised itself as available and no alert was raised.

3.2. The router started failing just after 11am and from that point on branches would
have seen transactions going through the system much slower than normal. Many
transactions were going through so slowly that they timed out. From around 11:10
we were seeing less than a fifth of the expected volume going through the system;
and the situation continued to deteriorate.

3.3. By 14:15 Fujitsu had identified the component causing the issue and asked for Post
Office approval to replace the device. Replacing the router would cause a few
minutes outage of the service. As the service was in a critical state, swift approval
was given and the service was restored at 14:25.
POL00142856

POL00142856

Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential

3.4. In terms of the two hardware failures, these related to different components within
the Horizon data centre. Whilst backup devices were available in both cases they
didn’t activate due to the way in which the failing hardware acted.

3.5. With regards to the two incidents that were caused by change activities. Both of
these relate to updating our product reference data on Horizon. July’s incident was
due to the correct processes not being followed. Whereas February’s incident was
due to the test processes for reference data changes and changes delivered
through a programmed release not being fully cognisant of each other.

3.6. All of the above incidents are subject to ongoing operational investigations. A
number of changes have already been made to both the reference data processes
and to the hardware. See section 6 for further details about the proposal for a
strategic review to complement the actions that are already underway to prevent
recurrence.

. Service Levels

4.1. The availability service level is measured across the network of counter positions
where they are able to perform all transactions. The Counter Availability metric is
defined as the number of counter position hours available as a proportion of the
maximum number of counter position hours available based upon the Post Office
Core Day (08:00hrs — 18:00hrs Mon — Fri, 08:00-13:00 Sat).

4.2. Liquidated damages (£3.50 per unavailable counter hour) are payable if the
unavailable counter hours per month exceed the equivalent of 2.37 hours per
counter in the month.

4.3. If the cause of unavailability is a network wide failure event then the contract allows
Fujitsu to cap the damages at £400k for that event.

4.4. This has resulted in the following in respect of the four incidents:

« July's incident — a settlement of £250k was agreed

e¢ December's incident — no Liquidated Damages are due as the total
unavailability in the month did not exceed 2.37 hours per counter

¢ February's incident — yet to be confirmed but looks unlikely that Liquidated
Damages will be due as the availability in the rest of the month was good and
overall unavailability in the month did not exceed 2.37 hours

e March's incident — the amount of Liquidated Damages due is dependent on
the performance in rest of the month.

Risks & Mitigations

5.1. Since the move to Horizon on Line the disaster recovery service has undergone
several tests, incrementally these provide a level of assurance. A full data centre
failover is the only test which hasn’t yet been proven and is an outstanding risk
which we aim to address at the end of the month.

5.2. The data centre failover which provides the end to end test assurance means failing
over from the active data centre to the passive data centre and is scheduled for the
weekend of 31% March/1* April. This will be the first of its kind since the move to the
active/passive data centre set up.

5.3. Credence is also hosted in the Fujitsu data centre. Last year Credence had no
disaster recovery service and was involved in the process of delivering transaction
files to clients. Therefore had we conducted the end to end disaster recovery test at
that time it would have meant holding back client transaction flies for 3 days. This
risk was deemed unacceptable.

5.4. Business cases have been approved and action taken to move the delivery of client
files from the Credence environment. This service moved from February and
enables the data centre failover test to take place without the risking the delivery of
files to clients.
POL00142856
POL00142856

Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential

6. Proposal

6.1. We will continue to conduct the operational investigations into each incident and
make the improvements required to ensure the short term stability of the service.

6.2. In recognition of the recent performance history, the media attention this has drawn
and our business transformation plans, we have proposed a fundamental review of
the service. Within this review we will draw out whether the current technical design
is correct for our future business needs and plans. The review will run in conjunction
with the operational investigations.

6.3. We are proposing that the review will be conducted by Fujitsu and Post Office Ltd
with involvement from independent partners. The review will run under the
governance of a steering board consisting of the Executives from both
organisations.

6.4. The review will as a minimum cover:

¢ The technical design of Horizon

All forms of testing

Monitoring and alerting

Best practice in retail and financial service markets

Future requirements of our business strategy that may influence the technical

environment of which Horizon is a critical part.

6.5. The POL Board and the POL Executive Team will be invited to visit the data centres
and receive regular updates on the progress and findings of this review.

7. Recommendations
The POL Board is asked to:

7.1. Note the actions being taken to protect customers from further disruptions to these
services.

Mike Young
Chief Operating Officer
March 2012
