POL00110433
POL00110433

Message
From: Amanda Brown} GRO. 1
on behalf of I Amanda Brown

Sent:
To:

cc:

Subject: FW: Postmaster Litigation Steering Group - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PROFESSIONAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD
Attachments: PLSG Agenda.docx

Hi
Following on from Rod’s email below the earliest dates I can find (due to a few people on leave next week) are:-

07/06 between 12.30 ~- 16.00
08/06 10.00 — 11.00 or 10.30 -11.30

Can you let me know which is the best for you.
Kind regards

Amanda

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 23 May 2016 17:57

To: Tom Wechsler; Mark R Davies; Rob Houghton; Nick Sambridge; Patrick Bourke; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Cc: Jane MacLeod; Thomas P Moran; Amanda Brown

Subject: Postmaster Litigation Steering Group - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PROFESSIONAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD.

SUBJECT TO LEGAL PROFESSIONAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD.

All,
This email is being sent to you as members of the Litigation Steering Group set up to help Post Office respond to the
High Court claim made by 91 mostly former postmasters. Apologies if this is the first you are hearing of this — I have
tried to contact each of you to let you know this email is coming, and am available to discuss this with you directly as
you may require.

The Claim

The Claim alleges that an imbalance of power between postmasters and Post Office, particularly with regard to Horizon
branch accounting, has caused the 91 claimants damage for which they want financial compensation. It is possible that
more claimants will join the claim in due course.

Most of you are familiar with the allegations, which include poor postmaster training and support, Fujitsu’s ability to
alter remotely branch transactions, improper criminal prosecutions, and putting undue pressure on postmasters to
make up shortfalls. Please however let me know if you’d like more detail before the first Steering Group meeting (as to
which see further below).

The Steering Group
The Claim potentially poses significant legal, financial, operational and reputational risk to Post Office. Our response to
it must therefore be informed by more than purely legal considerations. To do this, GE has decided to establish a

POL-0111332
POL00110433
POL00110433

Steering Group headed by Tom Moran and comprising senior members from affected parts of the business. The
Steering Group will then support and instruct the Legal team in its day-to-day management of the Claim.

The Steering Group’s work will develop and change as the litigation progresses. To begin with, the Steering Group will
meet once every two weeks for an hour to work through a standard agenda (see attached).

Next Step — First Meeting
We need to hold the first meeting as soon as possible given the timetables that are imposed on us by the

claim. Amanda will coordinate this, and I would be grateful if you please do all that you can to facilitate holding the first
meeting before the end of next week, ideally at a time we can set as a recurring diary entry.

I will circulate draft Terms of Reference for the Steering Group shortly. Please contact me if you have any questions in
the meantime.

With thanks for your support, Rod

* Rodric Williams
Solicitor, Corporate Services
Post Office Ltd
20 Finst

POL-0111332
