POL00070302
POL00070302

Stephen Dilley

Fro: mandy.talb:

Sen: 21 May 2007 10:09

To: Stephen Dilley

Subject: Re: P.O -v- Castleton [1A.FID18640]

Given the likely affects on Mrs Castleton and the behaviour of her father I think that ultimately bankruptcy is the
only one to extract any more money from Castletom so please proceeds as suggested.

Regards

Mandy Talbot

Dispute Resolution
Company Secretary's Office
Royal Mail Legal Services
148 Old Street

London EC1V 9HQ

Postlinei
Mobile: t__
External Email:

To:
cc:

Subject: P.O -v- Castleton [1A.FID18640]

18/05/2007 16:52

Dear Mandy,

You'll remember that Mr Castleton previously confirmed in writing to us that he agreed our fees and
disbursements, but despite our extensive efforts, he won't sign a court order to that effect. An alternative option
was therefore to commence costs assessment proceedings but we wanted to avoid what would be a big fee for the
costs draftsman of doing this.

For the sake of good order, I therefore filed a request for a final costs certificate with the Court, but the Court has
today refused to seal it and has said that we should issue a formal application instead.

It is possible that the Court may decline to make a final charging order for the full amount of the costs (c.£270k)
at the forthcoming hearing.

However my view is that we ought at least to get a final charging order for the judgment debt of of £32,273.11
plus interest plus the £50,000 interim payment that Mr Castleton he was ordered to pay on account of our costs
ie a total of £82k+. If we get a charging order for that sum, it seems on the current information that may well
exceed the equity Mr Castleton has in Marine Drive in any event, so it may turn out to be academic not getting a
charging order now for c.£303k.

After the hearing I'll touch base with you and will advise whether at that stage its worthwhile bothering with an
application for a final costs certificate. My view at the moment is that it would be good to get a charging order for
£82k+, then bankrupt Mr Castleton for the unsecured balance of our costs.

I will keep you updated.

Kind regards.
POL00070302
POL00070302

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for >nd on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

www.bondpearce.com

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number 0C311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

FE SBOE OOS EES AIEEE BIS OASIS SIE AISI O ERIC ISIE IIE IEIISI EISISI ACAI RAGA AC AK A ok

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 148 Old Street London EC1V 9HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
ISSS SISOS OS SCISSOR AUC ORI IE ISCO SSIS OI IEA SEAAGRASEASEA ADEA AIK AAA AK
