POL00311944
POL00311944

Note of call with lan Henderson — Second Sight

At the last WG Chris H had said that he'd had the table on the files requested and I had,
against some, noted 'no further docs to be provided’. He asked for me to list specifically what
info was being provided, what wasn't and why. I had said I would pick up outside of the
meeting. I had tried to call Chris but he was away so I called lan and we discussed:

« Prosecution docs

« Emails

« Other misc general information
Prosecution docs

1) When I spoke to lan to clarify I explained:

a) some of the cases are completed so presumably POL would not send any further
information on those

b) SS appear to now want a note from POL in every case where there is a legal file to
say what information it holds and whether it releases it. That is impractical because
some files contain 'extraneous' routine info' and there is no merit in sending that or
even listing every document to justify why some information was not being provided. I
don't think lan realises just how much information is in files that is just routine,
duplicates (an issue we have encountered before with Second Sight — they do not
understand enough about how prosecutions work — e.g. Ron asking for transcripts for
magistrates hearings) in all cases the information ‘relevant’ to the complaint had been
provided with the POIR

c) Ron was adding new requests for papers — therefore what started off as a small
exercise in only a few cases now seemed to be applying to all cases where there had
been a prosecution — making it a larger exercise — e.g. retrieving files and going
through them, scanning in information etc.

lan made the following points:

2) He knows that a lot of the information Second Sight have requested (including general
information/answers to questions) has already been provided but it is helpful to have it
again provided in response to later requests (I challenged that and said that was not
efficient and do they really know what information they have as there have been a
considerable number of instances where they have asked for information or asked
questions where the information has already been provided). lan sort of acknowledged
that point.

3) He acknowledged that - with no disrespect to anyone (I assume he meant Ron) — the
issue of how to handle potential information provided from legal files when Second Sight
had completed its investigation (and in some instances had already been passed to
CEDR) had not been properly thought through. What he had in mind is that even if a case
had been completed, or passed to CEDR, if SS think there should be further ‘disclosure’
they would send the information to the applicant. I questioned whether this was the right
mechanism for this. lan acknowledged he had not given this any thought.
POL00311944
POL00311944

4) He said that prior to the Scheme he had been allowed to come into POL and go through
all legal files and thought that's the arrangement which should be possibly put in place
again. I explained that the task was now different, the Working group had agreed, and
Tony had set out, what further docs should be provided where they existed. lan
acknowledged this but said he did not really accept it. I suggested that this was therefore
something to take back to the Working Group. He suggested that SS and POL should
perhaps meet to discuss the matter in more detail as a tag on to the meeting with finance
on 2 Feb 2015.

Emails

«I said that I had put in a request to retrieve emails he had requested for the employee and
when I had received them we could discuss how to identify the information he wants. I
said I wanted to understand what he was looking for as my understanding was that he
was looking to prove a negative. That is he was looking to find evidence that there was
some operation in Bracknell in relation to M051. He said that it was more than that but
didn't expand.

« He said, however, that he didn't want just one set of emails, he wanted all employees who
worked in the area. I said this was not what he had asked for back in March so he said he
would send some further historical emails setting out what he wanted but he thought he
was looking for emails for about ten employees (he subsequently sent those through and
there are indeed ten on his list).

¢ I said I would have to pick that up separately when I had had chance to see those emails.

e I reminded lan that he had said he would let us have the 'key words he would use to
search for what he was looking for and he said he would but that it wasn't straightforward -
it was iterative in that one thing can lead to another but he would send his something
through along with greater clarity about exactly what questions Second Sight were looking
to answer.

Belinda Crowe

20 January 2015
