POL00101364
POLO00101364

Lead Team update for Paula’s CEO Report to the Board

Strategy and narrative (Richard Walden)

* Comms strategy and stakeholder handling approach presented to ExCo on 12
September

Business Transformation (Richard Walden)

e Cost reduction comms - SLT call, SLT brief and follow up comms across the
business

e Pulling together the comms approach for Wave 1 and understanding the
transition states

e Completing the next phase of Crowd Sourcing - reviewing the 100 ideas
received with SMEs

148 Move (Richard Walden)

¢ The next phase of the comms which includes following up with SLT following
ways of working challenge
¢ Functional trial to reduce desks at 148

BR (Richard Walden)

e Pilot of electronic payslips

e Pulse survey comms ahead of launch 22 Sep

* Communicate ExCo commitments from engagement survey
*° Mid-year PDR comms support

Future High St Forum (Alana)

* Key partner for Great British High St awards alongside Boots, Costa, M&S
and BIRA

* 134 entries being judged through October. Post Office to be allocated a
category to judge three finalists. Winner announced in November event
(possibly Downing St).

* Alana and Alan representing Post Office on judging panel which will be
chaired by the Minister and Simon Roberts CEO of Boots.

+ Long term proposal being developed by the Forum’s Core Communications
Group (Post Office is on it) to develop “Change for life” type movement.

* All FHSF members will be asked to increase their support (Post Office
recognised as a core contributor already by Co-Chairs).

BBC Children In Need (Alana)

* Post Office # 1 corporate partner last year. Key objectives this year:
Drive footfall (through exclusive products); deliver positive brand
benefits of Children in Need association; raise £2 million.

* Post Office is the exclusive partner for Children in Need’s 2014
fundraising theme of ‘Be A Hero’. Planned activity:

* Two exclusive ‘Be A Hero’ badges in branch from 25 September backed by
celebrity media launch. For the first time BBC TV and Radio trails for
Children in Need will reference Post Office as the exclusive retailer of
these products.

* Al minute Post Office Thank you film will broadcast prime time on BBC1 on
appeal night (14 November).
POL00101364
POLO00101364

* We have worked with Commercial to deliver an extensive digital and social
media campaign as well as a visual presence in branch (Pudsey in a Box) in
the run up to the appeal.

Your Charity (Alana)

* Recently rolled out to the Network following colleague launch last year.
Branches can choose a charity or community cause to support. 80% of
registrations to date are for local causes.

Digital Inclusion (Alana)

* Digital Skills. Training programme progressing (Crowns and Supply Chain
colleagues) to ensure all colleagues have basic online skills. Aim to
complete by end 2014.

* SME digital skills. Scoping a plan to encourage Agents to improve their
digital skills for commercial benefit. Many are missing out on digital
channels and social media as a means of growing business and connecting
with their communities. Supporting and expanding on the excellent work
Troy Garner and team are running.

Public Affairs (Jane)

e Manifesto influencing: we are talking to Labour, Conservative and Lib Dem
teams to ensure a favourable policy environment post 2015 as far as
possible (one that provides flexibility and freedom to pursue commercial
strategy)

e Design Lab: stakeholder engagement includes Labour and Conservative policy
teams as well as GDS.

e Post Office Advisory Council: third meeting on 12th November. Council
members are now sufficiently immersed in the Post Office to begin to add
value. Individual members are now working with parts of the business,
contribution their experience and a fresh perspective.

New approach to mapping external stakeholder interactions (Hazel)

« With a range of issues carrying significant reputational risk facing us
there is a pressing need to manage our key stakeholder contact with
greater discipline, so we have formulated an enhanced approach to
overseeing contacts with them. Our aim is to ensure that all involved in
stakeholder management are sighted on any and all significant policy level
engagements, that there is an appropriate level of high level co-
ordination given the range and complexity of stakeholders and issues, and
that ExCo is able to review the meetings landscape on a weekly basis.
Having a view of the high level stakeholder engagement landscape in this
way will help to minimise risk whilst supporting our strategic
communications planning approach.

PR - Sparrow (Nina)

e Now that Part Two report has been covered, main imminent communications
issues we are prepared for are POL’s position on not mediating criminal
cases (which will become clear to the Working Group on September 16) and a
number of high profile, high claim cases which are now approaching
potential mediation/outcome. In parallel we are working on next stage of
our communications approach re James Arbuthnot and MPs re these issues.

Policy and Briefing (Mike)
POL00101364
POLO00101364

* Restrictions: Linked into Network, Commercial and Legal on the State Aid
and Paypoint issues (also with reference to network extension). Helping
steer strategic response

* Valuation Office Agency (Business Rates on ATMs): Potential that we might
get a decision on whether VOA are likely to proceed on this issue later in
September. Liaising with BIS and internally with Finance/Financial
Services on contingency

* BIS: Wide range of engagement on issues (NT, Crowns, PQs, briefings,

Scottish Referendum etc) - liaising with POL Directors/ExCo members as
necessary
* Consumer Futures: Relationship is being held in a positive place - however

there are signs that as CF has become more established within Citizens
Advice, it is seeking to expand its role (for example - increasing the
number of escalations in NT) and taking a more scrutinising/quasi
regulatory role. Whilst this is being managed it is becoming more
resource hungry for POL. We are increasingly ‘pushing back’ (and are on
the threshold of a review of our Code of Practice liaison with them on NT
and CTP). We are proceeding carefully - as CF may well react adversely to
a shift in stance and we need to be aware of the PR/political consequences
of this.

* Freedom of Information/Executive Correspondence: Continuing high volumes
being managed. With FOI in particular there are an increasing number of
time hungry cases being escalated by correspondents as we take a firm line
in the Business’ interest (examples include the recent Section 36 issue
that Paula will be aware of, and cases where the correspondent has raised
the issue to the ICO so that we have to provide very detailed
justifications of our approach to the ICO.

Network Comms update (Richard Weaver)

* Carefully monitoring the situation with the initial group of 48
Transitional local branches in terms of internal, stakeholder and media
reaction - with no significant issues to date.

* Close involvement with Ivy/Network Development programme, with reactive
lines in place and communication plans developing in line with programme.

* Colleague letter and subsequent phone-in evenings explaining the Supply
Chain and admin pay proposals this week, and communications to support
preference exercise in place for next week.

* Middle managers pay agreement communicated this week.

* Internal and external plans in place to celebrate 3000 NT conversions next
week, with regional press releases and a photo-shoot at Finchingfield in
Essex.

* Network press team overseeing the filming arrangements for a Mary Portas
programme featuring a newly converted main branch in Slough.

* Finalising Subspace to go to press next week (including features on mails
sales coaches and community branches)

* Finalising Wow to go to press next week (including features on click and
drop and a colleagues securing new business customers) .

12 September 2014
