POL00381972
POL00381972

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ANGELA.VAN DEN BOGE1C5FCFE7-2672-42D9-
B324-4EA8D2814853]

Sent: Wed 16/10/2013 7:49:44 AM (UTC)

To: Martin Edward: 7}; Kevin
Gilliland” Mark R Davies},

Subject: Re:

Martin,

I spoke to Glenn on Monday; he is obviously feeling it and questioning whether he could/should have done this
differently. I reassured him that this is a natural reaction in such cases and that he had dealt with the situation in a
professional and sensitive way. He said he felt better after our chat.

I asked Glenn to give someone from POL attending the funeral some thought - his view was he wasn't sure the family
would tell us the funeral arrangements but if they did not to attend would look like we have something to hide. I tend to
agree with Glenn.

We have as yet had no contact from the police. Glenn or our security team would be the obvious/usual contacts for the
police and all have been asked to forward any requests from the police to me.

I also spoke to Alan Bates on Monday. He was in the same place as us......deeply saddened by Martin's death but giving
the family time to deal with the situation. He intimated that he would revisit the case once the dust settles.

With regards to were we dealing with this case any differently due to sparrow I have reviewed the case and can see
evidence that we were alerted to link to Horizon by Martin's wife but when we discussed this with Martin he said that he
was experiencing no problems with Horizon. As this was an ongoing case this wasn't flagged to me to investigate as the 3
months had been served before I really got going on the investigation / process improvement work. That said we offered
additional training and set him up on individual stock balancing although it seems he was reluctant to do this. We asked
him to keep in touch and let us know of large discrepancies but he did neither. One of our trainers who lives locally did
the training support at the branch and called at the branch quite regularly to offer any further assistance but was told on
each occasion everything was fine. So in summary this is a case where we did look to work with the Smpr to resolve his
errors. What we would do differently now is that we would probe deeper into the reasons for the losses.

If you need anything else please let me know.

Thanks,
Angela

—— Original Message -----

From: Martin Edwards

Sent: Wednesday, October 16, 2013 06:56 AM

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Kevin Gilliland; Mark R Davies
Subject:

Morning all - Paula has asked for an update on the Martin Griffiths case as set out below ahead of her 121 with Alice at
10. Please could you send something through before then (or give me a hard copy note).
"Martin Griffiths - could I have the latest re what is happening re Martin's funeral/any Police enquiries; I also need an

answer to my questions to Angela (Sparrow related). Also how Glenn Chester is?”

Thanks,
Martin
