POL00084774
POL00084774

Branch Standards - Q&As ~ 5.3.10

Branch Standards — Questions and Answers

Ql. What type of consequences will there be for not complying with
branch standards, including selected standards?

There will be specific financial consequences for subpostmasters
who do not meet the expected level of performance for some branch
standards. The amendment to the subpostmaster contract which
introduces the financial consequences is also included with the
information that will be sent with the booklet. The specifics are:

e Remuneration will not be paid for non-compliant bureau de
change transactions, including those over £5k

e Costs will be recovered for missing Motor Vehicle Licences

e If branches fail to complete the required Regulatory
Compliance Training on time and a visit is required to check
completion of the training, a member of the Network Support
Field Team will visit the branch, which will be at the cost
of the subpostmaster.

e If branches fail to complete cash declarations, including
those relating to ATMs, and performance doesn’t improve
following remote intervention, a member of the Network
Support Field Team will visit the branch to conduct further
training, which will be at the cost of the subpostmaster.

The existing contractual consequences for poor application of
branch standards remain. This includes the possibility of action
being taken under the subpostmaster contract. This could be
corrective action, with the possibility of contract termination,
and/or the removal of a product from the branch. If a
subpostmaster has a query relating to specific areas of their
contract then this query should be raised with the Human Resources
Service Centre. Certain breaches of branch standards which involve
regulatory bodies may instigate criminal prosecutions.

Q2. Who will be affected by the introduction of branch standards?
All branches in the network will be required to meet the branch
standards regardless of whether the branch is operated by a
subpostmaster, a temporary subpostmaster, a company operator, one
of our multiple partners, or it is a Crown Office. Most branches
currently comply with the majority of branch and selected
standards.

However, communication across the range of branches will be

staggered. Agency branches will be the first to receive the Branch
Standards booklet.
POL00084774
POL00084774

Branch Standards - Q&As ~ 5.3.10

Q2. How will a branch know how they are performing against the
branch standards?

Branches will receive a monthly statement of performance, showing
how they are doing against the standards. This will also include
information about any financial charges incurred as a result of
not meeting the standards.

Q3. What should a branch do if they want to question the
information that is provided to them?

If the query is about how to meet a particular branch standard,
such as how to complete a Branch Trading Statement, then the
branch will be directed to current operational instructions or
will contact NBSC and the call will be dealt with in the usual
way. If the branch would like to question their performance
information or would like to understand the reasons for the
deduction from remuneration, the call will be made into the NBSC
and the response will be provided by the Network Conformance Team.
A special box on Remedy has been established for referrals to the
Network Conformance Team. If the branch would like to question
what has been deducted from remuneration, then they should be
referred to the Human Resources Service Centre.

Q4. How will financial charges be recovered?
Financial charges will be deducted from remuneration.

Q5. What happens if a mistake is made by someone who works for the
subpostmaster, including a relief who covers for holidays or
illness?

Subpostmasters are responsible for ensuring that all employees,
including holiday and sickness reliefs meet the required branch
standards. Subpostmasters are responsible for any financial
charges that are incurred as a result of any non-compliance of the
staff or reliefs. Action may also be taken against the
subpostmaster contract for services if your branch does not meet
the standards, even if this is because of non-compliance by one or
more of their employees.

Q6. What is the reward for good performance?

All of the branch standards, including the selected standards are
considered to be essential to running a branch professionally, and
are part of the contractual obligations. We know that there are a
large number of subpostmasters and their teams who already
consistently achieve the required standards and will continue to
do so. We plan to introduce a scheme to recognise high performance
in due course.

Q7. What support will branches get to help achieve the branch
standards?

The communications branches receive from us over the next few
months will identify how to achieve the branch standards and where
to get help. As the standards themselves are not new, this
POL00084774
POL00084774

Branch Standards - Q&As - 5.3.10

information already exists via Operations Manuals, Smarthelp on
Horizon or via the Network Business Support Centre.

Q8. What support will branches get to train employees to achieve
the branch standards?

Subpostmaster will continue to be responsible for training all
employees, including reliefs, to achieve all of the standards.

Q9. Will there be any changes to the branch standards?
The standards and any associated consequences may vary in due
course. You will be told of any changes in advance.

Q10. Will new subpostmaster be subject to the same standards and
consequences?

Regardless of how long someone has been a subpostmaster, we expect
them to achieve the branch standards. New subpostmasters will
receive training before they take over the branch and dedicated
support will be provided at the one, three and sixth month stage
following the transfer. In usual circumstances, we do not expect
any financial charges to be applied during the first three months
following appointment. The exception to this relates to non-
compliant bureau transactions. Remuneration will not be paid for
non-compliant transactions from the date of appointment. Also, any
branch losses will be the responsibility of the subpostmaster from
the day of taking over the branch.
