POL00152725
POL00152725

From: Mark Underwood1f GRO }
Sent: Sat 01/08/2015 10:40:06 AM (UTC)
To: Rodric Williams{~

Subject: RE: not sure if any use

Very useful - thank you

Mark Underwood
i iew and Mediation Scheme

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 31 July 2015 11:25

To: Mark Underwood1

Subject: FW: not sure if any use

Jfsa has had criminal lawyers supporting the whole time...

Jfsa’s old website also had a bit about mediation not being able to deal with convictions, but it could refer your case to
acriminal lawyer (the same firm as below) if that’s what needed looking at (Andy P might be able to find this?).

Two points from this:

1. They have access to legal advice,
2. They know mediation won’t help with criminal

I also attach the speaking notes we used for the CCRC meeting, and my working draft which cross references various
source documents which may have helpful sound bites/substantiation for what we’re saying (i.e. an evidence base!).

From: Melanie Corfield

Sent: 03 July 2015 16:28

To: Rodric Williams

Subject: RE: not sure if any use

Oh yes - think that was Issy Hogg who is from this firm I think. I believe she gave the incredible quote that 'they
don't look like criminals'. From a media point of view I am astounded that no-one ever seems to ask the defence
lawyers why their clients pleaded guilty and why they have not tried to appeal. Seems it is only Post Office who get
asked the questions! Oh well - sunny weekend ahead hopefully and Panorama story still not showing in the schedules
(they are now trailing something on Greece for Monday 13th). Enjoy.

Mel

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 03 July 2015 15:06

To: Melanie Corfield

Subject: RE: not sure if any use

Thanks Mel.

You might also recall that the (first?) One Show piece at the end of last year interviewed a criminal law solicitor (who
POL00152725
POL00152725

may be from that firm) who said she had been looking at this for some time (years?). It is telling that they have not
been involved in any appeal.

On your specific point — yes, each case has to be looked at on its own facts. So, even if something is found to be
“wrong”, it still needs to be shown that the wrong operated to the detriment of the individual in their particular case.

From: Melanie Corfield
Sent: 03 July 2015 01:06
To: Rodric Williams
Subject: not sure if any use

Hi Rod

Was just checking on something and came across the below from Coomber Rich solicitors website in 2013 when
interim report came out. It just confirms they were looking at appeals then regarding the cases they had (think
Hamilton and Misra but can't remember!) on the basis of information from the investigation so thought it might be of
use to you at some point. It also makes clear case by case basis, a point I am still trying to make journos and
politicians understand!!! How can anything be decided any other way?!

Mel

Coomber Rich Solicitors in 2013

Post Office Horizon System Challenged

On 8th July the interim report commissioned by the Post Office into the Horizon system was released. While no
systemic failure was found, there were a number of problems that gave cause for concern. Within the next few days
the report will be available to read on the website of the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance. We are now beginning
the process of considering whether there can be any appeals against conviction which would obviously be on a case by
case basis.

For further information visit Justice For Subpostmasters Alliance website

