POL00224327
POL00224327

@

Post Office Limited
148 Old Street
LONDON

EC1V 9HO

Confidential

Second Sight Support Services Limited
7 Canon Grove

Yarm

Teeside

TS15 9XE

By hand delivery and email to: rjwi

10" March 2015
Dear Sirs
Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme ("the Scheme")

The current status of the Scheme is that all Applicants have submitted their Case
Questionnaire Responses and Post Office has finished all its Investigation Reports.
Second Sight is still producing its Case Review Reports ("CRRs").

The Working Group has continued to decide on whether to recommend cases for
mediation albeit without the assistance of JFSA who have registered a standing vote in
favour of mediation on all cases whilst declining to participate fully in the discussion of
those cases at Working Group meetings.

CEDR is managing cases through the mediation process as the Working Group has
decided that it has no role in that process.

Post Office has decided that we will put forward for mediation all cases remaining in the
Scheme except those that have been subject to a previous Court ruling. Having now
completed all our investigations, Post Office has found no reason to conclude that any
original prosecution was unsafe (and in this regard, Second Sight has expressly
acknowledged that matters relating to criminal law and procedure are outside its scope
of expertise). It is therefore Post Office’s view that there is no reasonable prospect of
mediation assisting with the resolution of the complaints raised in those cases.

In light of this change, Post Office has decided to close the Working Group with
immediate effect. CEDR will continue to be engaged to oversee the mediation process
but, as per our other letter to you today, Post Office's engagement of Second Sight will
cease with effect from 10 April 2015. We will write to you separately regarding the work
to be delivered during your notice period and with our proposals as to how Second Sight
could support Applicants thereafter.

I have sent similar letters to both Sir Anthony Hooper and JFSA notifying them of these
changes.

www.postoffice.co.uk

POL00224327
POL00224327

Post Office Limited
148 Old Street
LONDON

EC1V 9HO

Confidential

Jane MacLeod

General Counsel
For and on behalf of Post Office Limited

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales, Registered No, 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HO.
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Lid

