POL00136478
POL00136478

Jarmail A Si to ssyto90 {iis
24/02/2010 14:01 ‘CROWN COURT.

TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 2010]

Dear Ms Hogg,

I have heard from Gareth Jenkins who informed me that he had a 90 minute lengthy discussion with
your Expert Charles McLachlan as long ago as Friday 12th February 2010.

In the meantime I now enclose the replies to the third disclosure request. However if any of the items
you have requested have not been dealt with if you can give a reason wanting that item then of course
the prosecution will consider those. As always I am continuously and constantly keeping the
disclosure under review.

THIRD DISCLOSURE REQUEST

1 That was the contract in the form it was served.

2 We are well aware of our statutory duty of disclosure as you know the Prosecution have reviewed a
large volume of material. The only material disclosable is Callender Place as we know Mr Jenkins is making full
investigations so the full position can be ascertained.

TRAINING

1 The training material is at West Byfleet Post Office. Presumably you want simply an opportunity to
inspect or view it on site.

2 We do not understand the relevance to dates to which your Client received the documents. The real
issue is did she steal the money or make mistakes. This is an issue for the experts when they look at the
Horizon data.

3 See above.
4 —
5 The prosecution is under no obligation to Provide witness statements. You have full details of the

witness and can contact him if you wish.

6(a) This statement is in the most useful format. The Purpose of this statement was to provide material in
digestive form. Logs are impossible to follow unless undertaken by an expert. We do not see the relevant calls
made prior to your Client's taking Office, We have provided the information in the most useful form in the light
of the data.

() The analysis data confirms that.
7(a) You have been provided with all available training material.
(b) What are the real issues in the case.

(©) __Arewe looking at the quality of the training but made mistakes which will be investigated by
two experts, In fact the real issue inthis case, did she steal the money or deliberately attrbute it to mistakes by
her ang the training background is information only.

8 We believe we have complied with our disclosure obligation. Whether any mistakes were made.
Experts can examine them themselves.

9 We stand by our position. Our response is that there has been a misunderstanding, there is no reason
to put this in a statement form. If it carries to trial it carries with ita risk that your expert and your Mise Hogg
will become witnesses in the case which is highly undesirable. We suggest you re-consider.

10 tiga eM? already answered this request. There are no back up teams no more than the Police Force
Investigating crime. Investigators consider all reasonable explanations. Your Client did not give an explanation

POL-0125330
POL00136478
POL00136478

other than other people were responsible. If your Client had made mistakes that will be ascertained by two
experts in their enquiries.

"1 Costs is a consequence of Royal Mail contractual relationship with Fujitsu. Our duty of disclosure is
whether material which undermines the prosecution case and supports your Client's defence, we hope if the
capers look at a short span of information ie the period where your Client falsified her records as set put in sur
Previous letter. We hope it will not be necessary to examine records for § years. Your Client wes inflating

Tp pars fo be a long standing pattern of discrepancies which would appear in a shor period as it woul be on
ied, if mistakes are found in a short span of data the Crown will obviously review ite
Position as to acceptability of your Client's plea.

{b) Our disclosure obligation do not require us to justify why data for a 5 year period is so expensive.
12 We anticipate the areas are for the experts to discuss.
13 The audit was not completed.

14,15 We have disclosed all information in Our possession. We are not required to serve witness ‘statements.
It is clear that Steamline has no relevance.

18 nema at© NOt prepared to make any promise in relation to criminal or oivil action. The issue is whether
Problems referred to was happening at Byfleet is something for the experts to examine

17 The equipment is being updated. The original equipment is preserved after updating has occurred.
18 Prosecution Counsel has reviewed the case of BREp] There is no material that requires disclosure.

19 ction 82 f2"*r to our answer to paragraph 8. Prosecution Counsel has reviewed all material, Weare still
investigating Callender Place. We recognise our duty of disclosure is a continuing ome:

20 We repeat our answer in respect of Callender Place.

Yours sincerely,

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Team

POL-0125330
