POL00304464

POL00304464

From: Rodric Williams[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RODRIC WILLIAMSE9C1 14F4-B03F-4595-B082-
CE89BE5C79D47B]

Sent: Fri 09/05/2014 1:23:37 PM (UTC)

To: David Oliver!

Subject: Fw: Correspondence for review

Attachment: DRAFT LETTER TO JAMES ARBUTHNOT09052014.docx

Attachment: PV to JW 09 05 2014.docx

There you go - proper added value...

From: Swil, Jonathan [mailto:?
Sent: Friday, May 09, 2014 02:
To: David Oliver, .
Cc: Sophie Bialaszewski; Rodric Williams; Belinda Crowe; Band, Christa q

Subject: RE: Correspondence for review foes

David

I attach our suggested amendments to the two draft letters. One general comment we have about both letters is our
concern that if they are made public and in due course Post Office decides substantially to change direction with the
Scheme (e.g. if it chooses not to mediate any cases or abandons the Scheme altogether), the statements of
unqualified support for the Scheme, or even just being committed to considering all complaints brought through the
Scheme, in the letters may place Post Office in a difficult position. If you agree, perhaps one way of dealing with that
concern is to, rather than express support for the Scheme per se, express, where relevant, Post Office's commitment
to the fair and just resolution of all complaints/applications to the Scheme.

Do let me know if you wish to discuss any of our suggested amendments.
Kind regards

Jonathan

From: David Oliver

Sent: 09 May 2014 10:51"
To: Swil, Jonathan

Cc: Sophie Bialaszewski; Rodric Williams; Belinda Crowe
Subject: Correspondence for review

Jonathan,

As flagged yesterday Paula Vennells has asked if Linklaters could review the attached correspondence to Jenny Willott
and James Arbuthnot from a legal perspective.

Paula would like to send the letters today so a quick turnaround would be appreciated.
Many thanks

David

David Oliver
Programme Manager
POL00304464
POL00304464

Scheme

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Je SR ID ISHS III ISO IO IID II IOI IOD III IIS IOI IIIS.

Any business communication, sent by or on behalf of Linklaters LLP or one of its affiliated firms or other
entities (together "Linklaters"), is confidential and may be privileged or otherwise protected. If you receive it
in error please inform us and then delete it from your system. You should not copy it or disclose its contents
to anyone. Messages sent to and from Linklaters may be monitored to ensure compliance with internal policies
and to protect our business. Emails are not secure and cannot be guaranteed to be error free. Anyone who
communicates with us by email is taken to accept these risks. Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership
registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. It is a law firm authorised and regulated
by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (www.sra.org.uk). The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is
used to refer to a member of Linklaters LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its
affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. Please refer to

www linklaters.com/regulation for important information on our regulatory position. A list of Linklaters LLP
members together with a list of those non-members who are designated as partners and their professional
qualifications, may be inspected at our registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ and such
persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers.
