POL00116258
POL00116258

From: Belinda Crowe[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FY DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS. ROWE79B93F 1 1-569F-4526-A078-

Sent:

To:

Subject: URGENT Prosecutions policy and MPs meeting etc.
Attachment: image001.png

Attachment: image002.png

Hi all

Would it be at all possible to get together tomorrow am. to discuss this. I cannot access everyone's calendars so
perhaps on of the PAs could arrange.

We have comments back from JA's office on the note of the meeting he had with Paula and Alice and his office
are pushing hard for a date for the meeting with MPs and they want this tomorrow.

We need to consider what date to offer and how that fits with the timing of other events (e.g. POAC) and also
the choreography of the various meetings and the possible timing of the Second Sight 'generic' report.

I would prefer not to do this by email because I want to make sure we conclude everything and are also all
agreed.

In addition BIS want to meet and catch up tomorrow morning and I would like to agreed how we get their buy
in to our proposed approach.

Best wishes
Belinda

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells <__
Date: 11 February 2014 1
To: Mark R Davies <
Ce: Chris Aujard
Alwen Lyons ¢.

illiland <_
Subject: Prosecutions policy

Hi Mark, building on our conversation this afternoon (thanks for being available at short notice) re comms on the
prosecutions policy, which was very helpful: we have just finished the ARC and the same point was made by
Alice re the comms sensitivities, ic., avoiding the conflation of various unrelated events, not proactively
communicating any adjustments - online or otherwise, but equally thinking how we manage the public messaging
of option B, if it does become necessary. (She pointed out that it may emerge at the JA/MPs meeting, which I
think is a helpful angle to bear in mind as we shape it.)

J imagine Chris will want to update his paper before the next Board (where he can - we are aware of constraints),
so there is an opportunity to feed in the comms messaging; indeed, if you can spare the time it might be worth
you coming along if the paper is tabled for discussion. If not, I will bring you in anyway as we prep for the MPs
POL00116258
POL00116258

meeting.

Can you meet with Chris and Belinda and shape an approach and a set of Q&As to inform the Board discussion,
plus the same for the MPs meeting - they won't be far different! Then you might want to run past Alwen and/or
Martin for a second round check.

Any questions, don't hesitate to get back to me or Chris.

Cheers,

Paula

Ps. One of the arguments, which we didn't cover is the Fed and Neil/Nick B should be in the loop. They would I
hope also support B.

Sent from my iPad

