POL00024909
POL00024909

o)

Information Rights Team
Post Office Limited
Ground Floor

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

Our reference: FOI201612201017

Mr Tim McCormack
request-378119-d90bdela

Statutory Due Date: 20 January 2017
20 January 2017
Dear Mr McCormack,
Freedom of Information Request - FOI201612201017

Iam writing in response to your email received by Post Office Limited (“Post Office”)
on 20 December 2016, which I am dealing with under the terms of the Freedom of
Information Act 2000 (“FOIA”).

In your email, you requested information in four parts:

a) I will ask again - could you please provide me with the contents of the
Known Errors Log as of January 2016.

Post Office either does not hold the information you have requested or it is exempt
from disclosure. The information you have requested is principally held by a third
party supplier, with Post Office only holding parts of that information. To the extent
that Post Office has such information it is exempt under Section 43(2) of the Act,
concerning likely prejudice to commercial interests and Section 31(1)(a), Law
Enforcement.

In addition I can advise that some of the information we do hold is exempt
information by virtue of the section 42 exemption, legal professional privilege.

Legal Professional Privilege

I have considered the reasons for which this type of information would be prepared.
The legal professional privilege exemption at s42 of the Act states that information in
respect of which a claim to legal professional privilege of communications could be
maintained in legal proceedings is exempt information. In applying that exemption to
the information sought, the information has been commissioned for the dominant
purpose of legal advice between Post Office’s legal advisers and other third parties
and therefore squarely satisfies the test at s42 of the Act. Post Office maintains its
right to assert that legal professional privilege would apply in respect of the
information.

b) Please provide me with a list of people in POL (job titles will suffice) who are
provided with a copy of the known errors log.

c) please provide me with the list of known errors in Horizon that is provided to
Branch Auditors before they are asked to perform a branch audit.

d) please provide me with a list of known errors in Horizon that is provided to
Subpostmasters and Operators in order that they can check to see if they have
occurred at their branch.

PostOffice.co.uk

: Limited

POL00024909
POL00024909

Post Office does not hold information requested to b), c) and d) above

I am sorry we were not able to provide you with the information you requested on this
occasion, however if you are dissatisfied with the handling of this response, you do
have a right to request an internal review. You can do this by writing to the address
below stating your reasons for your internal review request.

Information Rights Manager
Post Office Limited
Information Rights Team
Ground Floor

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 9AQ

If, having requested an internal review by Post Office, you are still not satisfied with
our response you also have a right of appeal to the Information Commissioner at:

Information Commissioner's Office
Wycliffe House

Water Lane

Wilmslow
Cheshire
SK9 SAF
Telephone
www. informationcommissioner.gov.uk

Yours sincerely

‘Office.co.uk/access-information
