POL00259560

POL00259560
From: Melanie Corfield
Sent: Wed 21/11/2018 10:42:58 AM (UTC)
To:
Bob
Subject: RE: For action - F&O call on Thursday 2.15pm

Below are the words from the L300 call. Also the link to our latest internal comms materials (media statement, fact
sheet and Qs and As) which are accessible to all on Sharepoint:
https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/thehub/SitePages/Postmaster-litigation-against-Post-Office-%E2%80%93-High-

Court-trial.aspx

You will all be aware from previous calls and other internal communications, there is currently a trial
underway in the High Court as part of a claim against Post Office by a group of mainly former postmasters.
You might also have seen there has been some media coverage about this over the past couple of weeks and I
thought it would be useful to provide a short update.

A quick reminder of the background: There has been a long-running dispute between Post Office and the group of
postmasters who have made serious allegations including claims about defects in Horizon and our processes that they
say caused them losses they were wrongly held responsible for.

The current trial is the first phase of this legal action against Post Office and is exploring contracts between Post
Office and our agents. The trial started on 5 November and a number of former postmasters have now provided
evidence and been cross-examined by our legal representatives. Post Office witnesses are now giving evidence —
similarly being cross examined — and this will continue until the end of November. Following that, the lawyers for
each side will present ‘closing submissions’ — summaries of their arguments — to the Judge who is determining the
contractual matters in dispute. We do not know when there will be a Judgment about this part of the litigation.

Further trials are scheduled to take place next year. A trial in March next year will examine technical matters about
Horizon and there is expected to be a trial next summer, concerned with the detail of individual cases. So it is
important to understand that this is complex litigation, involving a series of outcomes from the various phases, to
progress to resolution of the claims. It will take some time and we will of course continue to keep you updated.

This will obviously continue to be a subject of media interest. Coverage in mainstream media has so far been
reasonably limited and, taken overall, balanced. It has reflected our position that we are robustly defending
the claims being made by a very small percentage of people who have used Horizon over the past two
decades. There does continue to be some less balanced social media. The traction of this is currently mainly
limited to the campaigners who are driving it but we’re monitoring very closely.

With Post Office people now providing evidence we might well see further interest and coverage. Our media
statement with some background to the litigation and some Qs and As is on Sharepoint as I hope you have all
seen. This can help you answer any questions you might receive but please, as I’ve said before, do contact me
if you have any issues or concerns.
POL00259560
POL00259560

From: Mark R Davies
Sent: 20 November 2018 20:23
To: Rodric Williams

Melanie Corfield

iBob Hammond;
Subject: Re: For action - F&O call on Thursday 2.15pm

Just adding Mel and Bob - Mel to provide the L300 words for Bob.

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Rodric Williams!
Sent: Tuesday, November 20, 2018 7:29 pm

To: Ben Foat; Mark R Davies

Subject: RE: For action - F&O call on Thursday 2.15pm

Thanks Ben.

Mark — please let me know if you need anything further from the legal team in court (we have of course been keeping
in touch with Mel as the trial has progressed).

Rod

From: Ben Foat
Sent: 20 November 2018 18:14
To: Mark R Davie:
Subject: FW: For ai

‘odric Williams

Both

Al is keen to reinforce the POL position regarding the Group Litigation given there is a lot on social media etc but
wants to ensure that POL employees are aligned to our message. I did mention that there is a comms pack around this
and I thought it would be helpful to circulate to him so he can get comfort to his employees but also ensuring that we
are aligned to the same message and/or not commenting on areas that we don’t want to be commenting upon.

Are you able to provide this comms?

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat
Legal Director
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number::

POL00259560
POL00259560

& The Post Office Legal Team was awarded a High Commendation for Excellence in Inhouse Legal Services in
2018 by the Law Society.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street,
London, EC2Y 9AQ.

From: Alisdair Cameron
Sent: 20 November 2018 15:56
To: Bob Hammond!

jRussell
Michael Passmore
}Barbara Brannon

ulie Thomas!

Cc: Ruth Phillips!” IAndrew Preston}
Subject: Re: For action - F&O call on Thursday 2.15pm

Performance

Systems thinking

Customers

GLO and political “noise”

People awards - remind me who I am congratulating for what please

Thanks Al

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Finance & Operating Officer

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Bob Hammond?
Sent: Tuesday, November 20, 2018 9:54 am
Subject: For action - F&O call on Thursday 2.15pm
To: Alisdair Cameron’ ~

Hancock!

ichael Passmore
Barbara Brannon

H lan.Namey
Alistair Romani!

POL00259560
POL00259560

Hi all, we’re opening up sli.do now for advance questions for the monthly F&O call on Thurs afternoon.

Can you get back to me please with anything you want to cover during the ‘round-the-table’ bit of the call — just send
me the topic headings, and you can elaborate on the call.

I need this by Wednesday 11amso that I can circulate some brief slides to people in good time.
Al—can you send me a list of what you’d like to cover.

Joe —can you do the same for your ‘people stuff”.

Agenda is:

© = Aloverview—Al

e Group litigation - Al

e —Round-the-table - All

e People stuff —Joe

e Dialogue sessions — Bob
© Q&A

Please keep your updates brief and to the point — we only have 45 mins max cor the call and the idea is to maximise
the time for questions!

Cheers

Bob

Bob Hammond

Communication Business Partner — Finance and Operations
Future Walk

West Bars

Chesterfield

$29 1PF

