POL00151835

POL00151835

From: Kevin Gillilandf- Si

Sent: Fri 24/04/2015 37 PM (UTC)

To: Mark R Davies ———

Cc: Paula Vennel! GRO 4]; Jane .
MacLeod[” ; Gavin Lambert[.,

Subject: Re: Note to network

Thanks mark,

Thanks for bringing this to my attention earlier when we spoke.

Just wanted to say I thought it was a great note.

Regards,

K

Kevin Gilliland
Network & Sales Director

On 24 Apr 2015, at 08:07, Mark R Davies

Both

It is my view that we should send a leadership message out to network today about the Horizon
media coverage. We expect some more coverage from a couple of papers tomorrow. I spoke with
a few postmasters yday and while they are supportive of us they did say they thought a further
message of assurance would be welcome.

I have drafted the below and I think it is probably best pitched from Kevin. I would - subject to
legal and other views - get it out via e-channels today but also to field teams and NBSC etc..to
support previous messaging.

I wanted to give you a heads up on my thinking.

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

From:
Date: 24 April 2015 07:44:46 BST

3, Tom Wechsler
Patrick Bourke
, Rodric Williams

>, Melanie Corfield
>, Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

All

Possible note to network below - could be from me, Kevin, Jane or Paula. Adding
Angela for a view. This is to further bolster messaging which went out on mOnday
and in light of further expected coverage this weekend.

Views?
Mark

I wanted to drop you a note about the media coverage you may have seen this week
about the report on Horizon and other issues.

First of all I wanted to say sorry - sorry that you may feel unsure and uncertain about
what it all means to you and your business.

Secondly, I wanted to assure you - much of the reporting is designed, as reporting
often is, to present a picture which appears alarming: it does not however reflect the
reality of the situation, which is some way from that you may read about or see on
the TV.

This is an issue which has been around for a while and I am proud of the way we
have handled it. We have taken the complaints from a tiny number of ex-postmasters
and handled them very seriously and very sensitively.

We have published a report on the issue and you can read it at this link or, if you
would prefer, we can send you a paper copy: email my communications director
Mark Davies at 7

But in essence the position we have reached after three years of investigation is that
there is absolutely no evidence at all that Horizon does not work as it should. Indeed
it is robust and reliable. The independent forensic accountants have found the same
thing.

Unfortunately the forensic accountants have also raised issues with us where, frankly,
there is no evidence to support the facts. We cannot of course support their findings

on these points - and you would not expect us to do otherwise.

This has then been taken by some media and blown up into the stories you have seen
in the papers and on television.

Iam very proud of the way the Post Office has handled this issue.
We have appointed independent investigators and set up a mediation scheme. Where
we have been told that things like training and support could be better, we have

acted.

We have also agreed to put all those cases without court rulings into the mediation

POL00151835
POL00151835
POL00151835
POL00151835

scheme. Those cases with court rulings are able to take usual legal avenues.

If applicants wish, the Post Office will provide reviews of all cases by the
independent forensic accountants.

T hope this helps. It is difficult to capture every element of this in a note like this so
you may have questions and if you do please do email Mark and the team.

Mark Davies

Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
2

