POLO0110005
POL00110005

Message

From: Mark R Davies:

on behalf of — Mark R Davies”
Sent: 20/04/2015

To: Paul Swanto!

cc: Louise Chatfiel
Subject: Re: Sparrow - urgent

Attachments: image001.png
Ta
Louise can you print for me?

Mark Davies
-Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

On 20 Apr 2015, at 09:28, Paul Swanton {_

Hi it’s all ready just to push publish

<image001.png> Paul Swanton
Strategy Planning &

Production Manager

Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Si

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 20 April 2015 09:28

To: Paul Swanton

Subject: Fwd: Sparrow - urgent

I will be in in about 10 mins - would like this out by 10. Will that work? Want to read it one final

time.

Mark Davies
£

GRO)

Begin forwarded message:

From: Jane MacLeod {GRO
Date: 19 April 2015 21
To: Mark R Davies ¢
Cc :

, Rodric Williams

POL-0111137
ichard R Weaver
, Alana Renner

Suggested text for External version — Rod — does this work in relation to the CCRC point?

You may have seen coverage today on the BBC about the Horizon computer
system and the investigations into it by a firm of forensic investigators called
Second Sight.

The report by Second Sight was prepared for use by the small number of former
postmasters in the mediation scheme who have complained about Horizon and
other issues. The report was designed to be used by the applicants and their
advisers for the purposes of mediation. It was sent along with a 77-page response
by Post Office.

Last week we wrote to the BBC offering to provide background given their past
interest in the issue, and in fact had arranged to discuss the issue with the BBC
Today Programme on Tuesday. It was surprising then that we received calls to our
press office from the BBC - including the Today programme — on Sunday night
asking us to appear on various news programmes the next day.

It seems odd to us, and probably to you, that as we had made arrangements to
meet, the BBC couldn't wait to discuss these issues properly. The BBC has also
never reported on the 187-page report we produced on this issue in March. We are
concerned that the reporting by the BBC on this issue is not [balanced and
fair][vote — can we use the wording that the BBC itself uses to describe their own
approach?] and we will be raising this concern with them.

The short story is that the investigations over the past three years have confirmed
that the Post Office’s Horizon computer system is operating as it should. It is used
successfully by 78,000 people to process six million transactions every working
day in communities throughout the UK.

A tiny fraction of the overall 500,000 people who have used Horizon since it was
introduced put forward complaints to the mediation scheme we set up to provide a
forum for people to air their concerns. That does not constitute evidence that the
IT system is flawed or unfit for purpose; indeed, if anything, it demonstrates that
the system is highly reliable.

Both the Post Office and Second Sight have found that the majority of the losses
put forward in complaints to the mediation scheme were, in fact, caused by errors
at the counter.

It is therefore unfortunate that Second Sight’s report includes a number of
assertions and opinions which, because of their inaccuracy and/or the absence of
evidence to support them, will not assist applicants in the mediation scheme or
the resolution of the remaining complaints. To address this, Post Office has
produced a response to the Second Sight report which has also been provided to
all remaining applicants to the scheme. Following the completion of its
investigations, the Post Office announced last month that it will put forward all

POLO0110005
POL00110005

POL-0111137
remaining cases to mediation, with the exception of those which have been
subject to a previous court ruling. Those cases will continue to be considered on a
case-by-case individual basis.

It's worth reading the report we produced in March on this issue [link]. It provides
background to this issue and useful information.

Post Office regrets that these issues are being played out in the media. The
mediation scheme was set up to support people making complaints. We have
learned a lot from these investigations and from the mediation process - most
importantly that our systems work as they should.

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 19 April 2015 21:23

To: Jane MacLeod

Cc: Melanie Corfield; Rodric Williams; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; Paul Swanton;
Richard R Weaver; Alana Renner

Subject: Re: Sparrow - urgent

Final version with Jane comments below:

‘You may have seen coverage today on the BBC about the Horizon computer
system and the investigations into it by a firm of forensic investigators called
Second Sight.

The report by Second Sight was sent at the end of last week to a small number of
former postmasters who have complained about Horizon and other issues. It was
sent along with a 77-page response by Post Office.

Last week we wrote to the BBC offering to provide copies, given the BBC's
previous interest in this issue. We were following up on those offers this week,
and in fact had arranged to discuss the report with the BBC Today Programme on
Tuesday. It was surprising then that last night we received calls to our press office
from the BBC - including the Today programme - asking us to appear on various
news programmes today.

It seems odd to us, and probably to you, that as we had offered to send the BBC
the reports, they couldn't wait to discuss them properly and instead called us on a
Sunday evening demanding our response.

It's equally strange that the BBC has never reported the 187-page report we
produced on this issue in March, We'll be making complaints about that, but in
the meantime I thought you would welcome some background.

The short story is that the investigations over the past three years have confirmed
that the Post Office’s Horizon computer system is operating as it should. It is used
successfully by 78,000 people to process six million transactions every working
day in communities throughout the UK.

POLO0110005
POL00110005

POL-0111137
POLO0110005
POL00110005

A tiny fraction of the overall 500,000 people who have used Horizon since it was
introduced put forward complaints to the mediation scheme we set up to provide a
forum for people to air their concerns. That does not constitute evidence that the
IT system is flawed or unfit for purpose; indeed, if anything, it demonstrates that
the system is highly reliable.

Both the Post Office and Second Sight have found that the majority of the branch
losses put forwardin complaints to the mediation scheme were, in fact, caused by
errors at the counter.

It is therefore unfortunate that Second Sight’s report includes a number of
assertions and opinions which, because of their inaccuracy and/or absence of
evidence to support them, will not assist the resolution of the small number of
remaining complaints. That's why the Post Office has produced a response to the
Second Sight report which has also been provided to all remaining applicants to
the scheme. We're happy to make it - and the Second Sight report - available to
others too subject to ensuring that confidential information about applicants is
protected.

Following the completion of its investigations, the Post Office announced last
month that it will put forward all remaining cases to mediation, with the exception
of those which have been subject to a previous court ruling. Those cases will
continue to be considered on a case-by-case individual basis.

It's worth reading the report we produced in March on this issue as well [link]. It
does provide a lot of background and useful information.

It's regrettable that these issues have played out like this in the media. The
individuals involved deserve better than that. The mediation scheme was set up to
support people making complaints. We have leamed a lot from them and from our
own investigations - most importantly that our systems work as they should.

Sent from my iPad

On 19 Apr 2015, at 21:19, Jane MacLeod ¢
wrote: ,

See minor comments below

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 19 April 2015 21:06

To: Melanie Corfield; Jane MacLeod; Rodric Williams; Patrick Bourke;
Tom Wechsler

Cc: Paul Swanton; Richard R Weaver; Alana Renner

Subject: Sparrow - urgent

All

In the light of the media tomorrow on Sparrow, I would like to get
the message below from me posted on our website asap. It builds
on previously cleared material. I would also like it to go through
internal channels tomorrow asap.

POL-0111137
POLO0110005
POL00110005

I therefore need - sorry - very quick agreement, preferably tonight
but I appreciate this is unlikely - and of course Swani to oversee its
posting on our site.

Thanks in advance.

Mark

You may have seen coverage today on the BBC about the Horizon
computer system and the investigations into it by a firm of forensic
investigators called Second Sight.

The report by Second Sight was sent at the end of last week to a
small number of former postmasters who have complained about
Horizon and other issues. It was sent along with a 77-page
tesponse by Post Office.

Last week we wrote to the BBC offering to provide copies, given
the BBC's previous interest in this issue. We were following up on
those offers this week, and in fact had arranged to discuss the
report with the BBC Today Programme on Tuesday. It was
surprising then that last night we received calls to our press office
from the BBC - including the Today programme - asking us to
appear on various news programmes today.

It seems odd to us, and probably to you, that as we had offered to
send the BBC the reports, they couldn't wait to discuss them
properly and instead called us on a Sunday evening demanding our
response.

It's equally strange that the BBC has never reported the 187-page
report we produced on this issue in March. We'll be making
complaints about that, but in the meantime I thought you would
welcome some background.

The short story is that the investigations over the past three years
have confirmed that the Post Office’s Horizon computer system is
operating as it should. It is used successfully by 78,000 people to
process six million transactions every working day in communities
throughout the UK.

A tiny fraction of the overall 500,000 people who have used
Horizon since it was introduced put forward complaints to the
mediation scheme we set up to provide a forum for people to air
their concerns. That does not constitute evidence that the IT system
is flawed or unfit for purpose; indeed, if anything, it demonstrates
that the system is highly reliable.

Both the Post Office and Second Sight have found that the
majority of the branch losses put forward in complaints to the
mediation scheme were, in fact, caused by errors at the counter.

POL-0111137
POLO0110005
POL00110005

It is therefore unfortunate that Second Sight’s report includes a
number of assertions and opinions which, because of their
inaccuracy and/or absence of evidence to support them, will not
assist the resolution of the small number of remaining complaints.
That's why the Post Office has produced a response to the Second
Sight report which has also been provided to all remaining
applicants to the scheme. We're happy to make it - and the Second
Sight report - available to others too subject to ensuring that
confidential information about applicants is protected.

Following the completion of its investigations, the Post Office
announced last month that it will put forward all remaining cases
to mediation, with the exception of those which have been subject
to a previous court ruling. Those cases will continue to be
considered on a case-by-case individual basis.

It's worth reading the report we produced in March on this issue as
well [link]. It does provide a lot of background and useful
information.

It's regrettable that these issues have played out like this in the
media. The individuals involved deserve better than that. The
mediation scheme was set up to support people making complaints.
We have learned a lot from them and from our own investigations -
most importantly that our systems work as they should.

Sent from my iPad

POL-0111137
