POL00294854

POL00294854
From: Paula Vennells[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAULA. VENNELLS8C63D283-A51 1-46C3-A93E-
DC6F2AE7A78D]
Sent: Thur 29/09/2011 2:27:36 PM (UTC)
To: David SimpsonI ; Susan Crichton[{~
ill Rebekah

Mike Gra

Subject: Re: Horizon - Private Eye

Ok thx

From: David Simpson

Sent: Thursday, September 29, 2011 04:07 PM

To: Paula Vennells; Susan Crichton; Mike Granville; Rebekah Mantle

Cc: Shane O'Riordain; Hayley Fowell; Mike Young; Kevin Gilliland; Sue Huggins; Rod Ismay; Chris M Day; Alana Renner
Subject: RE: Horizon - Private Eye

Paula — thank you. I too understand the point Susan made but Shane and I strongly
believe it is important to write to Private Eye. The magazine has made a serious
challenge to the integrity of our IT system and we should be seen to be setting the
record straight — even if there is some risk the magazine will make a sniping comment
on our response.

I’m content with the changes suggested by Rebekah (thank you), pasted below. Paula
and Mike Y, if you are content we should send the letter for publication in Mike’s
name. Do let me know.

Many thanks,

David

Sir, the Post Office takes meticulous care to ensure the Horizon computer
system in branches nationwide is fully accurate at all times. We do this because
public money is entrusted to the Post Office and our customers and
subpostmasters rightly expect the Post Office to fully account for every penny.
We have full confidence in the Horizon system.

There have been a number of cases involving a small fraction of the Post Office
network where court action has been taken over missing sums of public money.
The courts have consistently upheld the Post Office position that the Horizon
system is accurate and reliable. When former subpostmasters have been
convicted of false accounting and/or theft, it is, of course, the courts that have
convicted, not the Post Office. In some cases, the subpostmaster pleaded
guilty; in others, the Post Office had to provide robust evidence otherwise the
cases would have failed.

Yours sincerely,

Mike Young
POL00294854
POL00294854

Chief Operating Officer

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 29 September 2011 12:56

To: Susan Crichton; David Simpson; Mike Granville; Rebekah Mantle

Cc: Shane O'Riordain; Hayley Fowell; Mike Young; Kevin Gilliland; Sue Huggins; Rod Ismay; Chris M Day; Alana
Renner

Subject: Re: Horizon - Private Eye

Susan, I understand and it's a fine line; but I disagree. We need to be front foot and counter anything that has a
reputational impact. It's goal of mine that all press even local press (perhaps esp local press), should be scoured for
negative comment and refuted.

I would only NOT do so only if in Shane or Alana's view, it is likely to cause more trouble than it's worth.
Paula
Paula

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: Thursday, September 29, 2011 12:08 PM

To: David Simpson; Mike Granville; Rebekah Mantle

Cc: Shane O'Riordain; Hayley Fowell; Paula Vennells; Mike Young; Kevin Gilliland; Sue Huggins; Rod Ismay; Chris M
Day; Alana Renner

Subject: RE: Horizon - Private Eye

David - thanks for your email and the draft - my own view and experience I would not write, on the basis that this is
old news and we do not want to prolong the story. Not sure what other people think.

Susan Crichton

Legal and Compliance Director
Post Office Limited

148 Old Street

London

EC1V 9HQ

Telephone!

From: David Simpson

Sent: 28 September 2011 18:35

To: Mike Granville; Susan Crichton; Rebekah Mantle

Cc: Shane O'Riordain; Hayley Fowell; Paula Vennells; Mike Young; Kevin Gilliland; Sue Huggins; Rod Ismay; Chris M
Day

Subject: Horizon - Private Eye

Mike, Susan, Rebekah, the new edition of Private Eye out today has, as expected, ran
an article (attached) about Horizon and the criticisms made by some former
subpostmasters. The names of the subpostmasters featured are very familiar and the
claims made against Horizon are the same ones we've seen many times before. The
article also mentions Shoesmiths and a possible legal action the firm may bring — but
POL00294854
POL00294854

Shoesmiths have been saying the same thing since the early part of the year.
Disappointingly — but perhaps not surprisingly — Private Eye has not run in full the very
short statement we sent to them.

Shane and I have discussed the article. We think we should write a letter to Private
Eye for publication making two simple points: the fact that it is the courts not POL that
convict people, and (the point we made in our statement) that the courts have upheld
POL’s position in each court case.

The draft could say:

Sir, the Post Office takes meticulous care to ensure the Horizon computer system in
branches nationwide is fully accurate at all times. We do this because public money is
entrusted to the Post Office and our customers and subpostmasters rightly expect the
Post Office to fully account for every penny. We have full confidence in the Horizon
system.

There have been a [small] number of cases involving a small fraction of the Post
Office network where court action has been taken over missing sums of public money.
In every case, the courts have consistently upheld the Post Office position that the
Horizon records are accurate and reliable. When former subpostmasters have been
convicted of theft, it is, of course, the courts that have convicted them, not the Post
Office, which has had to provide sufficiently robust evidence of proof otherwise the
cases would have failed.

Yours sincerely,

Could you please let me have your views on the letter? If we are certain of the number
of cases that have come before the courts, we could give a number if it is small but I
think the difficulty in the past is that the number is not particularly small or we can’t be
absolutely certain of it. There are also cases where claims about Horizon reliability
have been made but the prosecution centres on other issues. If we get an agreed
letter, it could be signed by the Network Director, Kevin Gilliland, or Mike Young,
Operations Director.

Many thanks,
David

Here is the line we sent to Private Eye last week:

The Post Office is fully confident in the Horizon computer system operating in its branches. This accounting system,
and the processes around it, enable our branches to maintain accurate and reliable accounts in all respects, and this
has been consistently upheld when cases have gone to court.
