POL00104763

POL00104763

Investigation Policy Page I

SUMMONS & CAUTIONING

1 PURPOSE

The aim of this policy is to ensure that Security Managers are aware of the a
enable them to deal with summons / cautions etc.

ailable guidelines to

2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES

Security Managers

3 POLICY

31 OBTAINING PROCESS (England & Wales)

A summons is a written order signed by or on behalf of a magistrate directing the defendant to
attend court at a certain time on a certain day to face a specified charge. In order to obtain a
summons it is necessary to lay an information. There is no national standard form of information,
each court making its own arrangements. Some courts require an information to be sworn whilst
others deal with the matter by post.

The summons, once received back from the court duly signed, must be served on the defendant
with a form CS044. Ideally service should be by handing the summons and CS044 to the
Defendant, however service can be performed by handing the documents to another adult at the
defendant’s home address having first confirmed that he/she still resides there. Service by post
can be used provided all other avenues have been exhausted. In this event, Special Delivery must
be used.

The Security Manager who serves the summons must make an endorsement of service on the
reverse side of the copy summons and return it to the Magistrates’ Court which issued the original

summons.

Security Managers must be aware that should service by post be used, and the defendant
subsequently fails to appear at court, an arrest warrant may not always be issued.

The timescales for obtaining process are detailed in the Consignia Prosecution Guidelines.

3.2 APPLICATION FOR ARREST WARRANT

In arrest cases or cases where the Defendant has been previously bailed by the Court at an earlier
hearing should the Prosecution need to apply for a warrant after the Defendant fails to attend
Court a security manager is not required by law to substantiate the information on oath but in
more serious cases it sometimes helps. Legal Services will advise where this is necessary.

In cases where a defendant has failed to attend court without being previously bailed application
for the issue of a warrant is made by completing an information form (if this has not already been
done so) and swearing it before a magistrate. It is strongly recommended that Legal Services”
advice be sought first.

3.3 ARREST BY WARRANT

Policy Title
Version
Date

A warrant is the signed authority of a Magistrate which quotes the names of the person to be
arrested, the person required to execute it and the exact nature of the offence for which the arrest
will be made

Unless otherwise stated, a warrant to arrest a person remains in force until the arrest is effected or
until an application is successfully made to the court where it was issued for it to be withdrawn.

Summons and Cautioning
4.0
October 2001

POL00104763

POL00104763

Investigation Policy Page 2

SUMMONS & CAUTIONING

The actual document is kept at a police station but any constable in England or Wales may effect
the arrest without being in possession of the warrant. (Section 125 (3) Magistrates Act 1980). The
Investigator should contact the police officer having possession of the warrant to have ON
ARREST CONTACT CONSIGNIA SECURITY & INVESTIGATION SERVICES
TELEPHONE (NUMBER) QUOTING REFERENCE (FILE NUMBER) written on top of the
warrant.

Legal Services should be notified immediately a warrant has been executed.

3.4 COMMITTAL PROCEEDINGS

Cases must be prepared in accordance with the instructions laid down in the Consignia Prosecution
Guidelines.

3.5 GUIDELINES ON CAUTIONING OF ADULTS

The use of cautioning has no statutory basis. Neither can the cautioning procedure be said to be a
common law “invention”. Cautioning is a police practice which developed over the years and
which has now been recognised by the common law. It has statutory recognition by virtue of Part
V of the Police Act 1997.

There is guidance to the Police on the use of formal cautions in Home Office Circular 18/1994
The Cautioning of Offenders. The circular does not have the force of law.

The Home Office Circular 18/94 is not applicable to Consignia use of cautioning although as a
matter of practice Consignia has regard to the relevant provisions of the Circular. In particular
Consignia has regard to the three conditions which must be met before a caution can be
administered listed in the Revised National Standards for Cautioning which are appended to the
circular. These are as follows:
e There must be evidence of the offender’s guilt sufficient to give a realistic
prospect of conviction;
* The offender must admit the offence;
e The offender must understand the significance of a caution and give informed consent to
being cautioned.

3.6 REPRIMANDS AND WARNINGS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Policy Title
Version
Date

The new final warning scheme for young offenders (young people under 18 years of age) under the
Crime and Disorder Act 1998 came into force on 1 June 2000.

The system has replaced the cautioning of children and young offenders. Only a constable is now
able to reprimand or warn the child or young offender. No caution shall now be given to a
child or young person. This will not prevent the cautioning of adults.

The new provision takes away the ability of Consignia to caution children or young offenders. In
the event that Consignia should wish that a child or young offender is reprimanded or warned,
police assistance will be required.

Summons and Cautioning
4.0
October 2001

POL00104763

POL00104763

Investigation Policy Page 3

e = There are three effects of a reprimand or warning:

1. After receiving a warning (which is the more serious of the two disposals), a young offender
is referred to a youth offending team without delay. The youth offending team will then
assess the offender to determine whether a rehabilitation programme is appropriate and in the
vast majority of cases, provide such a programme.
The courts’ use of conditional discharges for young offenders who have previously received a
warning is restricted. Unless there are exceptional circumstances relating directly to the
offence or offender, the option of a conditional discharge will not be open to the courts where
they are sentencing the offender for a crime committed within two years of receiving a
warning.
3. Any reprimand, warning or recorded non-compliance with a rehabilitation programme will be
citable in court in the same way as previous convictions.

i

3.7 RECORDING OFFENCES
Procedures for the central recording of offences and results of prosecutions / cautions are detailed at
Appendix 15. Aspects to be covered in the final case report are detailed at Appendix 4.
4 Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located I Version I Type Policy No.
41 Magistrates Act see 125 (3) 1980 Act 3.4
4.2 Home Office 18/1994 Circular I 3.6
5 Document details
Author : Corporate Security
Owner : Head of Corporate Security
Audience: Security Community
Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,
4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ
Effective from : October 2001
Review date : October 2002
Last updated : October 2001
Assurance Details
Name Assurance Team
Business Unit Various
Assurance Date September 2001
Final Review
7.1 I Approved by Paul A Booth
72 Documented (Hard Copy) NO Location:
13 “ (Electronic) YES __Location: Programme Manager, Law & Legislation.
Policy Title Summons and Cautioning
Version 4.0
Date October 2001
