POL00031801

POL00031801
oe) Horizon Online Data Integrity
FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE
Document Title: Horizon Online Data Integrity
Document Reference: ARC/GEN/REP/1229
Release: N/A
Abstract: This document describes the measures that are built into Horizon
Online to ensure data integrity.
Document Status: Draft
Author & Dept: Gareth I Jenkins
External Distribution:
Security Risk YES, security risks have been assessed, see section 0.10 for

Assessment Confirmed — details.

Approval Authorities:

lame Role Signature Date
Torstein Godeseth Chief Arc!

[ Keith Smith I ciso I I

Note: See Post Office Account HNG-X Reviewers/Approvers Role Matrix (PGM/DCM/ON/0001) for guidance.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 1 0f 17

F/1296/1
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

0 Document Control

0.1 Table of contents

0.4 ITable of contentg.
0.4 [Figures and Tables...
b.2.1[ [fable of Figures,
0.2.4
0.4 p

0.4 eview Detail:
0.9 Associated Documents (Internal & External)...
0. _IAbbreviationg.

0.7 _IGlossary.....
0.4 [Changes Expecte
0.9 fAccuracy....
0.10 Security Risk Assessment.

2.4. [Overview of Normal Operationf..
2.4 IDetail of Normal Processing..
2.4 error Scenariog........

2.3.1 Recoverable Transactiong,
2.3.4
2.3.3
2.3.4 ‘orced Log
2.3.4 _ [Terminal Failure.
2.3.4 jRecovery....

2.4 [Database Characteristics.

0.2 Figures and Tables

0.2.1 Table of Figures

Figure 1 — Primary message flows.

0.2.2 Table of Tables

None.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15 Ref: ARCI/GEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version 44

Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 20f17

F/1296/2
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

0.3 Document History

Version No. Date Summary of Changes and Reason for Issue Associated Change -

CP/PEAK/PPRR
Reference

O41 18/01/2011 First Informal Draft. Changes from version 0.1a in red (like
this) with strikeout where appropriate. Minor changes in
response to feedback from Torstein Godeseth and Graham
Allen. Changes from version 0.1b in purple (like this) with
strikeout where appropriate. Minor changes in response to
feedback from Penny Thomas.

1.0 24/08/2011 Version for approval (coloured fonts removed). Minor
amendments to the template.

14 03/11/2011 Changes from version 1.0 in red (like this) with strikeout where
appropriate. Scope extended to consider Integrity of Central
systems and data passed to Post Office Ltd backend systems.
Changes from version 1.1a in purple (like this) with strikeout
Where appropriate. Changes from version 1.1b in green (like
this) with strikeout where appropriate.

12 09/11/2011 Changes from version 1.1 in red (like this) with strikeout where
appropriate.

Significant changes are:
Updating review details in section 0.4
Rewording of section 1
Correction in section 2.3.3 to handle Cancel option
Addition of a para to section24 to highlight
differences from old Horizon audit trail
Minor clarifications

2.0 09/11/2011 Change markings removed and status updated to Approved
24 21/11/2011 Changes from version 2.0 in red (like this) with strikeout where
appropriate.

Significant changes are:
Change of Scope to restrict it to the Integrity of the
Audit Trait
Removal of old sections 3 & 4
Addition of Section 3 on the Audit System

Changes from version 2.1a in purple (like this) with strikeout
where appropriate. Minor clarifications in response to

comments.
3.0 21/11/2011 Change markings removed and status updated to Approved
3.4 24/11/2011 Changes from version 3.0 in red (like this) with strikeout where
appropriate.

Significant changes are
Addition of new section 1

Changes from version 2.1a in purple (like this) with strikeout
Where appropriate. Minor clarifications in response to
‘comments

40 25/11/2011 Change markings removed, typo corrected and minor change
to Objective and status updated to Approved

44 15/01/2015 Changes to make the document suitable for sharing with Post
Office Ltd. Changes are not marked

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

Page No: 30f17

F/1296/3
Fe
FUJITSU

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

POL00031801
POL00031801

0.4 Review Details

Review Comments by
Review Comments to :
Mandatory Review
Role

Post Office Account Document Management

Name

Chief Architect.

Torstein Godeseth (*)

Commercial Director

Sarah Guest

CiISO

Keith Smith

Business Change Manager

Pete Newsome

Role

Optional Review

Name

POA Delivery Executive

Gavin Bell

Commercial

James Davidson (t)

Legal Michael Harve’
RMGPOA Security Penny Thomas (*)
POA Securit Kumudu Amaratunga
POA Operations Pete Thompson (t )
Architect Pete Jobson

Applications Development Manager Keith Tarran

Issued for Information — Please re
this distribution list to a minimum.
Position/Role

Name

(*) = Reviewers that retumed comments

( t ) = Reviewers that retumed no comments

0.5 Associated Documents (Internal & External)

Reference Version Date Title Source
PGM/DCM/TEM/0001 Fujitsu Services Post Office Account I Dimensions
(D0 NOT REMOVE) HNG-X Document Template

ARC/GEN/REP/0001 HNG-X Glossary Dimensions
ARC/GEN/REP/0004 Horizon Data Integrity Dimensions

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current approved

versions of the documents.

0.6 Abbreviations

Abbreviation Definition

AP-ADC. Automated Payments — Advanced Data Capture. A mechanism that allows
Post Office Ltd to produce scripts for specific transaction processing.
APS Automated bill Payments Service

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15)

Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed

Ref ARCIGENIREP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 4.1
CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015
PageNo: 40f 17

F/1296/4
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

BAL Branch Access Layer. The component that handles the interface from the
counter and updated BRDB

BRDB Branch Database

DRS Data Reconciliation Service. A system used to reconcile transactions carried
out with Financial Institutions.

FAD Financial Accounting District

Fl Financial Institution

HNG-X Horizon Next Generation — Plan X. Also known as Horizon Online

HR SAP ‘An SAP system used by Royal Mail Group to remunerate sub-postmasters

LFS Logistics Feeder System. A System used to interface with Post Office Ltd’s
Cash and Stock Management services in POL SAP.

jsn Journal Sequence Number. Unique identifier for an audited message from a
specific Branch and Counter Position.

ONCH OverNight Cash on Hand. The amount of Cash held in a Post Office Branch
overnight. This is used to predict future cash requirements for the Branch.

POL SAP An SAP system that carries out Post Office Ltd’s accounting and cash
management functions.

RAC Real Application Cluster
Or

Request, Authorisation, Confirmation. The mechanism used for interfacing to
Financial Institutions

TCP/IP The standard communications protocol used for communications between
the Counter and the Data Centre.

TPS Transaction Processing System

0.7 Glossary
PRCGENREPOOD]

Definition

See also document

Term

Back Office Administrative Functions carried out in a Post Office Ltd Branch such as Remitting In
Cash / Stock
Basket The set of transactions which are processed together. For example all the
transactions associated with a single Customer (including those used for Settlement).
Client An organisation for which Post Office Ltd acts as an Agent, for example DVLA where
Post Office Ltd provides Motor Vehicle licences to customers on behalf of DVLA.
FAD Code Unique identifier for a Post Office Ltd Branch
Settlement Those transactions that represent the payment by the Customer for goods or
Services or to the customer in respect of Out Pay transactions such as Cash
Withdrawals.
‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15 Ref: ARCI/GEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 5o0f17

F/1296/5
POL00031801
POL00031801

oe) Horizon Online Data Integrity

FU ITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

0.8 Changes Expected

Review comments etc.

0.9 Accuracy

Fujitsu Services endeavours to ensure that the information contained in this document is correct but, whilst every
effort is made to ensure the accuracy of such information, it accepts no liability for any loss (however caused)
sustained as a result of any error or omission in the same.

0.10 Security Risk Assessment

No identified security risks.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 6 of 17

F/1296/6
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

1 Purpose

This document is a technical description of the measures that are built into Horizon Online (also known
as HNG-X) to ensure data integrity and descriptions as to how those measures apply in each case.

Note that this document only covers Horizon Online (HNG-X). It does not cover the original Horizon

system. There is a separate document [ARC/GEN/REP/0004] covering the original Riposte-based

Horizon system.

Section 2 describes the measures taken in the design of the Counter, Branch Access Layer (BAL) and
Branch Database (BRDB) to ensure integrity. Section 3 describes the audit system used to preserve the
auditable messages sent from the counter to the Data Centre for use in Litigation Support.

The scope of this paper is restricted to showing the Integrity of the Audit trail and that it accurately reflects
the transactions entered at the counter.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 7 of 17

F/1296/7
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

2 Horizon Online Data Integrity

2.1 Overview of Normal Operation

Horizon Online is designed to store all data in an online database known as the Branch Database
(BRDB). This database is a highly resilient Oracle database implemented using Oracle Real Application
Cluster RAC (see also section 2.4). In particular no data concerning Business Transactions is retained at
the counter other than in the memory of the Counter Business Application."

Other
Systems
Data} Copy
go
Oracle Audit 5 nl
write Write Se
Audit) Store
BALI Message Audit Retrieval

Audie
bet

Figure 1 — Primary message flows

Transactions are carried out locally on the Horizon Online counters and a Basket is built up during a
Customer Session. Each transaction will result in a Basket Entry consisting of one or more Accounting
Lines. At the end of a Customer Session when the Basket has been completed and all Settlement items
(or Tender lines) have been processed and added into the Basket as further Accounting Lines, such that
the total value of the Basket is zero, the entire Basket is sent to the Data Centre as a BAL Message
where the Branch Access Layer (BAL) processes the message and all the Accounting Lines are recorded
and committed to the BRDB as part of a single Oracle Commit. This means that either all the
transactions within a Basket are successfully written or none of them are. Once the Accounting Lines
have been successfully committed a response is returned to the counter indicating this success and this
then allows any receipts to be printed. The Basket is deemed to be fully completed once all relevant
receipts have been successfully printed. Note that if there are no receipts to be printed, then the screen
is updated to show the top level menu indicating successful completion of the previous Basket.

The Oracle Commit also includes an Audit of the data originally transmitted from the counter to the
BRDB. This data is digitally signed at the counter using a key generated as part of the Log On process.

‘ In order to support recovery as described in section 3.3.6, the identifier of the last successfully
completed Basket is recorded on the Hard disk at the counter. However this is not classed as Business
Data.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGENIREP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 8 of 17

F/1296/8
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

It is this audit record that is used to provide the extract of transactions used for Litigation support.
Section 3 describes how this audit record is managed after it is committed to BRDB.

The audit record may also include application events that have been accumulated at the counter since
the last auditable message was sent to the Data Centre. All major activities that affect the Branch also
have an audit of the data sent from the counter to the Data Centre included in the audit log. Such
activities include:

Log On / Log Off of Users at the counter
Creation / modification of User Accounts (including change of password)
Attaching Users to Stock Units
Balancing a Stock Unit
Producing the Branch Trading Statement.
Each Audit record includes the following identification:
Branch identifier (i.e. FAD Code)
Counter identifier
Sequence Number (known as a Journal Sequence Number or jsn)
Counter timestamp

Within any counter (i.e. for a given Branch Id / Counter Id combination), the jsn will always increase by
exactly one for each successive audit record. This enables a check to be made that there are no records
missing from the audit trail when they are retrieved.

The transactions in a basket are constructed using the principle of double-entry bookkeeping. This
means that in addition to the Accounting Lines that relate to the actual business transactions, separate
Accounting Lines are also generated for the tender items (such as Cash, Cheques or Credit / Debit
Cards), resulting in the total value of all Accounting Lines in a Basket adding up to zero. When the
contents of a Basket are written to BRDB a check is made that the net value of all the accounting lines is
indeed zero and should it not be, then an alert is raised and the basket is discarded and an error
response returned to the counter.

Note that this could only happen as a result of a bug in the code and this check is included
specifically to check for any such bugs.

Baskets are also built up during Back Office Sessions and such Back Office baskets are handled in a
similar way to Customer Baskets.

2.2 Detail of Normal Processing
The purpose of this section is to expand on the summary in Section 2.1.
As outlined in section 2.1 above, the following is the key behaviour of the handling of a Basket:

1. The Clerk carries out one or more business transactions. Each Business transaction will
construct a Basket Entry which is held in the memory of the counter and the value of which is
visible on the screen.

2. When all the transactions for a customer have been completed, the clerk selects either the Fast
Cash or the Settle functions on the screen.

Note that if the total basket value is zero at this point then either button will result in immediately
going to step 3 below.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 9of 17

F/1296/9
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

a. Selecting Fast Cash results in the system calculating the amount to required to take the
total value of the transactions in the basket to zero and constructs a Basket Entry for the
Cash Product for this amount and adds it into the Basket. By definition, the total value of
the basket at this point will be zero

b. Selecting Settle results in the system displaying a menu of permissible settlement
options. The allowable settlement options are configurable and depend on various
Business Rules, however are likely to include the following:

i. Cash

This allows a specific amount of cash to be entered (which may or may not be
the full amount). It will take a sign based on attempting to move the Basket total
nearer to zero.

A corresponding Basket Entry is created and added to the in memory and
On-screen basket display with an updated total.

ji. Cheque

This allows a specific amount for a Cheque to be entered (which may or may not
be the full amount). Its sign will always reflect the fact that a cheque is payable
to Post Office Ltd (other than for Reversals).

A corresponding Basket Entry is created and added to the in memory and
On-screen basket display with an updated total.

iii. Chip and PIN

This allows Chip and PIN transaction to be processed. The amount to be taken
is entered, but defaults to the maximum amount allowable by business rules
(which may or may not be the full amount). Its sign will always reflect the fact
that a payment is being made to Post Office Ltd (other than for Reversals).

The details of the Business Rules are not relevant to the Integrity of the system.

A corresponding Basket Entry is created and added to the in memory and
On-screen basket display with an updated total.

iv. Swipe

This allows magnetic swipe payment card to be processed. Note that if the
Magnetic stripe indicates that the card is a Chip and PIN card then the
transaction will be abandoned at this point. The amount to be taken is entered,
but defaults to the maximum amount allowable by business rules (which may or
may not be the full amount). Its sign will always reflect the fact that a payment is
being made to Post Office Ltd (other than for Reversals).

The details of the Business Rules are not relevant to the Integrity of the system.

A corresponding Basket Entry is created and added to the in memory and
On-screen basket display with an updated total.

v.Fast Cheque

This allows Cheque transaction to be processed. However in this case the
system calculates the amount required to take the total value of the transactions
in the basket to zero and constructs a Basket Entry for the Cheque Product for
this amount and adds it into the Basket. By definition, the total value of the
basket at this point will be zero

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

Page No: 10 of 17

F/1296/10
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

vi. Fast Cash
This is the equivalent of the Fast Cash Button described at point a above

c. The User is then able to select any of the available options and add appropriate
settlement items into the In memory and On-screen basket as described. Should the
Total value of the Basket not be zero after processing the settlement transaction, the
settlement menu is re-displayed allowing further settlement transactions to be selected
until the net value of the Basket becomes zero.

3. Once the Basket Total becomes zero, a message is constructed to send the entire basket
content to the BAL. A new connection is established to the BAL in order to send this message.
The message sent is defined as being an auditable message and so will include a jsn. It may
also pick up any outstanding Audit Events and Statistical data that have been accumulated at the
counter since the last auditable message was sent from the counter to the BAL. This message
will be signed by the counter using a Digital Signature constructed using a key that has been
generated as part of the Log On process. This Digital Signature is sent as part of the message to
the BAL.

4. When the BAL receives the message it detects that there is an associated jsn. This means that
the Audit Filter is invoked which results in the entire data sent from the counter being added to
the BRDB table BRDB_RX_MESSAGE_JOURNAL.

5. The BAL then processes the message and updates other tables in BRDB.

6. If all these updates are successful, then the BAL invokes a COMMIT to Oracle on BRDB which
will commit all the changes at steps 4 and a Should there be any failure, then the BAL will issue
an Oracle ROLLBACK which results in none of the changes in steps 4 and being saved and it
is then as if the interaction from the counter didn't take place. In either case a suitable response
is returned to the counter and the connection to the counter is closed.

7. When the counter has sent the message to the BAL (at step B), it waits fora Response. There
are 3 possible responses that can occur:

a. The BAL update was successful (this is the normal case)
b. There was a failure returned from the BAL
c. Noresponse is received within a configurable timeout period (usually 30 seconds)

The first case is normal. The last 2 cases are considered to be Error Scenarios and are
considered further in section 2.3, but are also considered to be out of scope of the normal
processing.

8. When the response is received, any receipts required are printed and then the In-memory and
On-screen baskets are cleared and the screen is updated to the “Home” screen ready for a new
Basket to be started.

Overnight, the content of the table BRDB_RX_MESSAGE_JOURNAL is copied to a set of serial files and
passed to the Audit system. There is also more information on this audit process in section 3 of this
document.

2.3. Error Scenarios

This section describes a number of error scenarios and how the system handles them. However such
errors are rare and it is asserted that even if such scenarios do result in integrity issues that are rare
enough to not be relevant.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

Page No: 11 of 17

F/1296/11
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

2.3.1. Recoverable Transactions
Simplistically it could be assumed that if a Basket fails to commit then the content of that basket can just
be discarded.

This is similar to the normal model presented with on-line shopping, in that if your browser fails after
trying to commit the basket, you are uncertain as to whether your purchase has been processed or not.
You then need to carry out some other activity (e.g. phone the provider or check your Credit Card
account the next day) before knowing whether or not to re-attempt the transaction.

However this is not really appropriate in a Post Office environment. For many transactions it can be
assumed that the Basket has failed to commit and so the transactions in the basket are discarded and
they can be re-attempted at some later date. However in some cases this is not appropriate since the
Transaction may have had an impact on some external system. An example of this is a Banking Cash
Withdrawal. In this case the Bank has been informed of the Transaction during the processing of the
Banking Transaction and has removed the funds from the Customer's account. Therefore it is important
that this transaction is completed. Such transactions are considered to be Recoverable Transactions.

If a transaction is to be Recoverable, then information about that transaction is recorded in the BRDB
when the transaction is first initiated (and before the transaction is sent to the Fl) allowing the transaction
to be recovered should there be a failure. Note that this recovery information is not audited.

There are many types of Recoverable Transaction:
All Banking transactions
All Credit / Debit Card transactions
All E-Top up transactions
All Reversals
Selected AP-ADC transactions (as defined in the transaction script)

2.3.2 Failures

Any failures in committing Auditable activities at the Data Centre will result in an error response being
returned to the counter. Such an error response will be displayed to the User, thus informing them of the
situation. The next action then depends upon the Auditable activity:

If it relates to a basket settlement where the basket that contains 1 or more Recoverable
Transactions, then a Forced Log Out is initiated and the normal Recovery process will tidy things

up

If it relates to a basket settlement where the basket doesn’t contain any Recoverable
Transactions, then the content of the basket is discarded and the User is returned to the Menu to
continue working

If it relates to a non-basket activity, then activity is abandoned and the User is returned to the
Menu to continue working

In all cases the User is informed of what is happening.

Such failures will not be visible in the transaction audit, but may be visible in the system Event Log.

2.3.3 Time Outs

Should there be no response from the Data Centre following an attempted commit of an auditable activity
within a timeout period (currently set to 30 seconds), an automatic retry is invoked. This sends identical

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 12 0f 17

F/1296/12
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

business data to the Data Centre where a check is made to see if the Audit data has already been
committed to BRDB.

If it has been committed, then this means that the original activity was successful, but the
response did not reach the counter in time. Therefore no action is taken in terms of updating the
BRDB and a Success response is returned to the counter.

If it has not been committed, then the original activity either didn’t reach the Data Centre, or it
failed to be processed. In either case it is safe to re-process the data and the appropriate
response is returned to the counter after the data has been processed which will be handled as if
it was from the original request. Note that re-processing the data will include recording an audit
of the data if the reprocessing is successful.

Should the retry also timeout, then the User is prompted and asked whether they wish to Retry or Cancel
the Activity.

Selecting Retry results in the Activity being retried once more as described above. If this also
times out, then a further automatic retry is attempted and if this is still unsuccessful, then the
User is again prompted as to whether to Retry or Cancel. This cycle then continues until either
there is success, or the User finally gives up and selects Cancel.

Selecting Cancel results in a Forced Log Out being invoked.

Such time-outs and any retries will not be visible in the transaction audit, but may be visible in the system
Event Log.

2.3.4 Forced Log Out

Continual failures to Update the Database at the Data Centre mean that it is not clear at the counter
whether or not the database accurately reflects the situation in the Branch. Therefore the safest thing is
to force a Log Off at the counter and ensure that when communications are re-established, that the
Recovery process is invoked to reconcile the counter view with that on BRDB.

If there is a basket currently being processed, then a special Disconnected Session Receipt will be
produced showing which transactions have been discarded and which are to be recovered making it clear
what money needs to be exchanged with the Customer.

2.3.5 Terminal Failure

Clearly a counter terminal can fail at any time. However the situation is not very different from that where
a failure to contact the Data Centre has occurred as described above. Therefore the behaviour of the
User needs to be as follows:

1. Work out the value of any Recoverable Transactions (there ought to be printed receipts
associated with all of these)

2. From this work out what is owed to, or due from the customer

3. Consider whether any Credit / Debit Card payments may have been successful
4. From this work out any cash due to / from the customer.

5. Write out any necessary receipts by hand

6. Keep a record of exactly what happened to be used at Recovery time.

Clearly in this case the system is unable to assist the User in guiding them as to what to do.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 13 0f 17

F/1296/13
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

2.3.6 Recovery

Recovery after a failure must always take place on the same counter position. Note that if the terminal
has failed and needs to be replaced by an engineer, then recovery cannot be carried out until the
replacement terminal is working correctly.

At every Log On a check is made in the Central Database to see if any Recovery is required. The
following checks are carried out:

1. Is there any outstanding Recovery Data associated with this terminal?

If so return the outstanding Recovery Data to the counter so that the transactions can be
recovered using Rollforward Recovery

2. Did the last session carried out on this terminal have a tidy Log Off?

If not, return details of the last Basket (if any) that was successfully written from the last Log On
session to the counter so that further recovery checks can be made

Otherwise all is well and No Recovery is required (i.e. the normal case).

During the Log On process, if the counter receives an indication that recovery may be required (i.e. one
of the two cases described above), then the following occurs before the Log On is completed:

1. If Rollforward Recovery is requested, then for each Transaction with associated Recovery Data,
then the appropriate Recovery script is executed, which will result in a Rollforward Recovery
Basket being produced which is then settled to the Branch Database as normal and this will
generate a recovery Receipt. This will normally match any Disconnected Session receipt (or
other information recorded at the time of failure).

2. If there was no Basket Details of a Last successful Basket returned, then No Recovery is
required

3. If further checks are requested, then the following checks are made at the counter:
a. What was the identifier of the last successful Basket sent from the counter?

The identifier of the last successful Basket is written to the Counter Hard Disk at the
completion of the basket (i.e. after all Receipts have been successfully printed).

Therefore, provided that the Terminal has not been replaced, then this is available to be
checked for automatically.

Where the terminal has been physically replaced, a dialogue is invoked to get the user to
confirm the identity of the last Successful session which may involve displaying the last
basket known to the Data Centre.

b. If this matches the identifier of the Last Successful Basket that was returned from the
Data Centre, then No Recovery is required and all is well.

c. If they don't match (i.e. the Basket returned from the Data Centre was the one that the
counter was trying to save at the time of failure), then the Forced Log Off process will
have assumed that the Basket failed. Therefore the Recovery process needs to
generate a Basket that reverses any non-recoverable transactions in that basket (since
the forced Log Off would have discarded them). This is known as Rollback Recovery.
This will also produce a Receipt. However it will not match the Disconnected Session
Receipt exactly.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 14 0f 17

F/1296/14
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

2.4 Database Characteristics

The database uses Oracle version 10gR2, moving to Oracle version 11gR2 in 2015. It uses an Oracle
Real Application Cluster (RAC), which runs the database over multiple nodes (servers). In practice there
are normally 4 such database nodes

Partitioned tables store branch specific data. This provides high performance and _ scalability.
Applications need to know in which partitions data is stored and which nodes manage these partitions.
They use a convention based on Branch codes.

The design of the Branch Database supports non-stop trading during core hours.

Oracle RAC is resilient. If one node fails, the remaining nodes carry on running and the
database remains available for use. The database can meet its performance targets if one node
fails.

The standby database allows very fast recovery if there is a data corruption that takes the live
database offline. The maintenance of the standby database is automatic.

A disaster recovery site remotely mirrors the data. The mirroring of data is synchronous. This guarantees
that no data is lost if there is a catastrophic site failure.

Data associated with a Basket is stored in 3 separate areas of the Branch database:

1. A copy of the actual Basket data as transmitted from the counter together with the associated
digital signature is held in a table known as the message journal.

Use of the data in the message journal is described further in section 3.

2. Individual accounting lines are extracted from the basket and each accounting line is written to
two separate tables:

a) Detailed transaction information for passing to Post Office Ltd Back end systems

This data is retained for sufficient time to ensure it has been successfully passed to Post
Office Ltd's back end systems (in practice it is held for about 4 days)

b) Summary transaction information to support reporting and Branch accounts

This data is retained to allow it to be used for any reporting and accounting period within
the branch (in practice it is held for about 60 days)

Each night the reporting data is summarised within the branch database to provide daily totals for
transactions based on product, mode, stock unit and accounting period. This summarised data is used
(together with transactions for the current day) when balancing a stock unit, thus minimising the amount
of data that needs to be considered.

Although the data used for generating the counter reports and passing to Post Office Ltd’s back end
systems is taken from the tables described in point 2 above, any data provided by Fujitsu in order to
support litigation is based on the Audit taken at point 1 above. Since the processing for producing any
report is based on the same source of data (ie the audited data sent from the counter) it is asserted that
any report could be regenerated based solely on the audited data. As described in section 2.1, the
audited data consists not only of the Basket information, but also any other significant events and in
particular the Opening Figures (ie cash and stock levels) calculated at the start of a new period based on
the balancing of an accounting period.

It should be noted that such data is not presented as evidence as part of the normal litigation support
service. Similarly we do not have tools that extract data such as Opening Figures into a readable
[form or to be able to re-generate reports based on the audit trail. However such data is available in
the audit trail, and if required, such tools could technically be developed to resolve any dispute in

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

PageNo: 15 0f 17

F/1296/15
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

that area. (Though there are clearly commercial considerations in terms of the cost and effort
involved in doing so.)

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGENIREP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

Page No: 16 of 17

F/1296/16
POL00031801
POL00031801

Horizon Online Data Integrity

FUJITSU FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

3 Audit System

As outlined in section 2.1 and described in section 2.4, any auditable message from the counter is stored,
together with its Digital Signature and other key attributes in an “Audit table” (known as the Message
Journal) in BRDB.

To ensure that the message is not tampered with after being sent from the counter, each message has
an associated Digital Signature. The mechanism for creating this Digital Signature is as follows:

1. AtLog On, the Counter creates an RSA Public / Private key pair.

2. The Public key is sent to the BAL as part of the audited Log On message

3. The Log On message is concatenated with the Digital Signature and the BAL's signing certificate
for its Public Key and signed by a BAL Private key (held in the Data Centre Key Store) and
added to the audit trail with a BAL generated jsn

4. All subsequent messages are digitally signed by the counter using the private key established at
Log On.

5. Digitally Signing a message involves taking a SHA-1 Hash of the message and digitally signing
the Hash value using RSA.

6. The Digital signature is stored alongside the message in the Journal table and is extracted with it
into the Audit file as described below

Each night after midnight, the contents of this table for the previous day are copied from the BRDB to a
number of serial files.

A number of files are generated due to the volume of data processed each day. All data from a given
Branch will be concentrated into a small number of these files for ease of retrieval.

At this point a check is made that indeed there are no missing or duplicate jsns for any counter and
should any be found an alert is raised.

Note that this could only happen as a result of a bug in the code or by somebody tampering with the
data in BRDB and this check is included specifically to check for any such bugs / tampering.

These files are then copied to the Audit system where they are sealed with digital seals. They are held
there for a period of 7 years during which time they may be retrieved and filtered to produce the relevant
audit data for a particular Branch.

The Digital Seal is calculated using an MD5 hash of the entire content of the file being sealed. This value
is stored in a separate “Seals Database” held on the Audit Server.

Whenever data is retrieved for audit enquiries a number of checks are carried out:

a) The audit files have not been tampered with (i.e. the Seals on the audit files are correct)
b) The individual Baskets (and other records) have their digital signatures checked to ensure that
they have not been corrupted.

This involves finding the Public Key which has been saved with the Log On message and also
checking the integrity of the Log On message using the Public Key Certificate of the BAL’s signing
key which is stored as part of the Log On audit message.

c) Acheck is made that no records are missing or duplicated. I.e. a check is made that there are no
gaps or duplicates in the jsn sequence for any counter.

It should be noted that this same Audit system was used to hold similar data from the old Horizon system.
However on the old Horizon system the audit point was the message journal on the Riposte
Correspondence Servers and thus the technology used for producing the audit of data is completely
different between the old Horizon system and Horizon Online.

‘© Copyright Fujitsu Services Ltd 2011-15) Ref: ARCIGEN/REP/1229
FUJITSU RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL IN Version: 44
Uncontrolled if Printed or Distributed CONFIDENCE Date: 15/01/2015

Page No: 17 of 17

F/1296/17
