POL00071003

POL00071003

Julian Summerhayes

From: Julian Summerhayes

Sent: 22 December 2005 17:49

To: ‘john.h.jones@j.

Ce: Tom Beezer; Stephen Dilley; 'mandy.talbot@;
Subject: FW: Witness statement of John Jones (Post Of

John I
Iam very sorry to chase but have you had a chance yet to consider my email set out below?

Regards

Julian Summerhayes
Associate

for and on behalf of
Bond Pearce LLP

www.bondpearce.com

—— Original Message-----
From: Julian Summerhayes
Sent: 21 December 2005 13:26

Subject: RE: Witness statement of John Jones (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)
John

Sorry for the delay in coming back to you. I cannot see that your marked up versions were attached and I wonder
if I could trouble you to send again? I will then amend and hopefully send you back a final version for signing. If 1
have misread your email and your answers are in your email then I will retrieve the latest version from our
system, make the necessary changes and then send a clean copy back to you (hopefully) for signing.

Regards

Julian Summerhayes
Associate

for and on behalf of
Bond Pearce LLP.

www.bondpearce.com

Original Message-
From: john.h.jones@
Sent: 13 December 2005 13:43
To: Stephen Dilley

Cc: Julian Summerhayes; Tom Beezer; mandy. talbot@),
john.h.jones@i,
Subject: Re: Witness statement of John Jones (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Richard Morgan;

Stephen/ Julian
Both versions contain marked up areas for comment: -
I have detailed answers to the areas you have raised; -

(i) The branches receipts exceed payments by £15,300, this is the net result of all transactions and methods of
payments.

POL00071003
POL00071003

(ii) I can confirm that this customer deposited £16,500 in cash.

(iii) The cash declaration should have been in the £49k+ range as the customer deposited £16.5 of physical cash.
(iv) I have examined my records and can find no reference to the narrative of this section of my statement, at
24.

(v) Ido not have a copy of this letter, therefore I am unable to comment upon its contents.

John

Area Development Manager
Network Change

Post Office Ltd

Sales and Service

To: — <john.h.jones@
"Julian Summerhayes"

“Tom Beezer" ~
<Tom.Beezer@I. >, <mandy.talbot@; >, “Richard
Morgan" en \ al
06/12/2005 10:38 <rmorgan GRO
Subject: Witness statement of John Jones (Post Office Limited -v- Lee
Castleton)
Dear John,

I refer to my email of 2 December.

Counsel has now provided me with his comments on the latest draft of your statement. I attach a clean
amended copy together with a marked up version showing the latest changes. Please could you read it through
and email me the clean copy back with your comments on the questions I've asked in bold italics.

I will be away from the office to 9 to 29 December. Please could you copy in your reply to my colleague Julian
Summerhayes ( =

julian,summerhayes@, .
assisting Tom Beezer in my absence.

). Julian is fully aware of this case and will be

I look forward to hearing from you.
Kind regards.
Stephen Dilley

Solicitor
for and on behal

www. bondpearce.com

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

2
POL00071003
POL00071003

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You shold carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for an, 3s or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number 0C311430.
Registered Office: Bristol Bridge House, 138-141 Redcliff Street, Bristol,

BS1 6B).

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

>>>> STATEMENT_1098109.DOC attachment was removed from this email <<<<

>>>> STATEMENT_1096605.DOC attachment was removed from this email <<<<

JESS ISI ISI OSE ISIS IES ACE ISIE CI OKIE ARIA IEE ICIS AKI OK ICIS KASAI I AGA I CAA AC AK

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JESSE OSB OO EIB ROR OARS AR ASE IODA EIS AGRA AAA ASA AAO A A AO IAA
