POL00071093
POL00071093

Page 1 of 3

Stephen Dilley

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent: 17 August 2006 11:22
To: ‘Chambers Anne O'
Ce: Pinder Brian

Subject: RE: First draft Witness Statement of Ann Chambers (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Dear Anne,

Many thanks for this. Are you available this afternoon for a telephone call to discuss at say
around 2.30pm

In the meantime, what I do also need is someone from Fujitsu who is comfortable summarising
all the call logs to HSH (we'll then separate this bit out from your draft statement). There were
numerous people at HSH who took these calls, (too many to all call as witnesses) so please can
you and Brian identify a HSH call supervisor to whom I could speak, asap?

I look forward to hearing from you.
Kind regards.
Stephen Dilley

Solicitor
_on.behalf.of Bond Pearce LLP
GRO !

www.bondpearce.com

From: Chambers Anne O [mailta
Sent: 16 August 2006 16:11

To: Stephen Dilley

Cc: Pinder Brian

Subject: RE: First draft Witness Statement of Ann Chambers (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Stephen,
I have only today received this draft, and am attempting to go through it.

I'm somewhat concerned about my witness statement containing all the Powerhelp calls, given that I had no
involvement with them at the time - I would have looked at a number of the earlier calls when investigating e-
0402251077 (para 26), but none of the later ones. I was unaware of problems at the branch until 26th
February when the call was sent to SSC

The way it is laid out at the moment is neither a verbatim transcript of the calls, nor my interpretation of what
was probably meant at the time. I can provide the latter if that is what is required, but there needs to be a
clear delineation between what was stated then and comments I make now.

I do not particularly want to be questioned on the handling of calls by HSH, since I did not and continue to
have no responsibility for this.

I have many changes and comments to make to the witness statement (not least, can you please spell my
name correctly) but would like to get this clarified first.

Regards,

17/08/2006
POL00071093
POL00071093

Page 2 of 3

Anne

Anne Chambers
Systems Support Centre, Post Office Account

FUJITSU

ik fujitsu.com
Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW
This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Pinder Brian

Sent: 15 August 2006 11:33

To: Chambers Anne O

Subject: FW: First draft Witness Statement of Ann Chambers (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Ann

If you remember we discussed this at our meeting a while ago. Stephen has now put together a statement for
you to review and which you are free to amend alter or add anything you like.

Gratefull if you can go through this to ensure what the statement says is correct and you are happy with it.
Please advise Stephen if there are any innacurracies or if you have any concerns at all.

Also please let me know if you have any questions at all on this.

Regds Brian

From: Stephen Dilley [mailto;
Sent: 08 August 2006 12:46

To: brian.pinder,
Ce: mandy. talbot.,

graham.c.warc
Subject: First draft Withiéss Statéiient of Ann Chambers (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

5 Tom Beezer;

Dear Brian,

I refer to my e-mail of 2 August and attach the first draft of a Witness Statement and exhibit
for Ann Chambers. This is designed to run through the HSH call log reports and explain them
to a Judge. Please can Ann have a look at the first draft, make any changes she feels are
appropriate and also answer my questions in bold italics. Once I get feedback from Ann, then
I will revise the statement with Counsel.

I look forward to hearing from you or Ann as soon as possible.
Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

17/08/2006
