POL00458686
POL00458686

To: :

Rod Ismay;

Ce: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Mancheste!

From: Julie George

Sent: 2014-07-18T09:59:53Z

Importance: Normal

Subject: RE: Rogue Meeting Entry...

Received: 2014-07-18T09:59:54Z
Hi there,

lam not aware of anything outstanding from me. Let me know if it is otherwise.
Cheers
julie

Julie George FBCS I Head of Information Security and Assurance Group

2” Floor, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

From: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester) [mailto._.
Sent: 18 July 2014 10:01

To: Julie George; Rodric Williams; Rod Ismay; Malcolm Zack
Cc: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)

Subject: Rogue Meeting Entry...

All - you may have just received a meeting cancellation from my diary — it appears there was a legacy ‘backup’ in our
diaries for a meeting to walkthrough Section 6, which clearly we had a couple of weeks ago.

On this note, we’ve received feedback and requests for change from Rod Ismay — Rod (W) / Julie, are you able to
share your requested amends too and we'll get a fresh version out?

All the best

Gareth

Gareth James

Analytics Website I Finance Analytics Website

UK Futures

How can UK business drive growth?
POL00458686
POL00458686

http://www deloitte.co.uk/ukfutures

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is 2, New
Street Square, London EC4A 382, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), a UK private company
limited by guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal
structure of DTTL and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient(s), please (1) notify it-security.uk¢__ GRO __ by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying
or use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a
Deloitte UK email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s)
to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other informatio

this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
