POL00413519
POL0041

CFRC) Financial Reporting Council

April 2016

Final Draft

The UK Corporate Governance Code
The FRC is responsible for promoting high quality corporate
governance and reporting to foster investment. We set the UK
Corporate Governance and Stewardship Codes as well as UK
standards for accounting, auditing and actuarial work. We represent
UK interests in international standard-setting. We also monitor

and take action to promote the quality of corporate reporting and
auditing. We operate independent disciplinary arrangements for
accountants and actuaries, and oversee the regulatory activities of
the accountancy and actuarial professional bodies.

The FRC does not accept any liability to any party for any loss, damage or
costs howsoever arising, whether directly or indirectly, whether in contract,
tort or otherwise from any action or decision taken (or not taken) as a result
of any person relying on or otherwise using this document or arising from
any omission from it.

© The Financial Reporting Council Limited 2016
The Financial Reporting Council Limited is a company limited by guarantee.
Registered in England number 2486368. Registered Office:

&th Floor, 125 London Wall, London EC2Y SAS

POL00413519
POL00413519
POL00413519
POL00413519

Comply or Explain...............

The Main Principles of the Code

Section A: Leadership

Section B: Effectiveness

Section C: Accountability ...

Section D: Remuneration ...

Section E: Relations with shareholders

Schedule A: The design of performance-related remuneration for executive directors........ 24

Schedule B: Disclosure of corporate governance arrangements ..

Financial Reporting Council
POL00413519
POL00413519

The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519

POL00413519

Governance and the Code

1.

The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and
prudent management that can deliver the long-term success of the company.

The first version of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) was produced in
1992 by the Cadbury Committee. Its paragraph 2.5 is still the classic definition of the
context of the Code:

Corporate governance is the system by which companies are directed and controlled.
Boards of directors are responsible for the governance of their companies. The
shareholders’ role in governance is to appoint the directors and the auditors and to
Satisfy themselves that an appropriate governance structure is in place. The
responsibilities of the board include setting the company’s strategic aims, providing the
leadership to put them into effect, supervising the management of the business and
reporting to shareholders on their stewardship. The board's actions are subject to
laws, regulations and the shareholders in general meeting.

Corporate governance is therefore about what the board of a company does and how it
sets the values of the company. It is to be distinguished from the day to day operational
management of the company by full-time executives.

The Code is a guide to a number of key components of effective board practice. It is
based on the underlying principles of all good governance: accountability, transparency,
probity and focus on the sustainable success of an entity over the longer term.

The Code has been enduring, but it is not immutable. Its fitness for purpose in a
permanently changing economic and social business environment requires its evaluation
at appropriate intervals.

The new Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016 and

applies to all companies with a Premium listing of equity shares regardless of whether
they are incorporated in the UK or elsewhere.

Financial Reporting Council 1
POL00413519

POL00413519

Preface

1.

Over two decades of constructive usage of the Code have contributed to improved
corporate governance in the UK. The Code is part of a framework of legislation,
regulation and best practice standards which aims to deliver high quality corporate
governance with in-built flexibility for companies to adapt their practices to take into
account their particular circumstances. Similarly, investors must take the opportunity to
consider carefully how companies have decided to implement the Code. There is always
scope for improvement, both in terms of making sure that the Code remains relevant and
improving the quality of reporting.

Boards must continue to think comprehensively about their overall tasks and the
implications of these for the roles of their individual members. Absolutely key in these
endeavours are the leadership of the chairman of a board, the support given to and by
the CEO, and the frankness and openness of mind with which issues are discussed and
tackled by all directors.

Essential to the effective functioning of any board is dialogue which is both constructive
and challenging. The problems arising from “groupthink” have been exposed in particular
as a result of the financial crisis. One of the ways in which constructive debate can be
encouraged is through having sufficient diversity on the board. This includes, but is not
limited to, gender and race. Diverse board composition in these respects is not on its
own a guarantee. Diversity is as much about differences of approach and experience,
and it is very important in ensuring effective engagement with key stakeholders and in
order to deliver the business strategy.

One of the key roles for the board includes establishing the culture, values and ethics of
the company. It is important that the board sets the correct ‘tone from the top’. The
directors should lead by example and ensure that good standards of behaviour permeate
throughout all levels of the organisation. This will help prevent misconduct, unethical
practices and support the delivery of long-term success.

This update of the Code has been driven by the consequential changes required from
the implementation of the European Union’s Audit Regulation and Directive. Section C.3
on Audit Committees was reviewed to ensure it remained consistent and changes have
only been made when necessary. It is important that companies view these changes
alongside the revised Guidance on Audit Committees.

Following the 2014 Code amendments, which focussed on the provision by companies
of information about the risks which affect longer term viability, the FRC will continue to
monitor compliance with these changes. Companies should be presenting information to
give a clearer and broader view of solvency, liquidity, risk management and viability. For
their part, investors should assess these statements thoroughly and engage accordingly.

To run a corporate board successfully should not be underrated. Constraints on time and
knowledge combine with the need to maintain mutual respect and openness between a
cast of strong, able and busy directors dealing with each other across the different
demands of executive and non-executive roles. To achieve good governance requires
continuing and high quality effort.

Chairmen are encouraged to report personally in their annual statements how the
principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the board (in Sections A and B of the
Code) have been applied. Not only will this give investors a clearer picture of the steps
taken by boards to operate effectively but also, by providing fuller context, it may make

2 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519
POL00413519

investors more willing to accept explanations when a company chooses to explain rather
than to comply with one or more provisions.

9. While in law the company is primarily accountable to its shareholders, and the
relationship between the company and its shareholders is also the main focus of the
Code, companies are encouraged to recognise the contribution made by other providers
of capital and to confirm the board's interest in listening to the views of such providers
insofar as these are relevant to the company’s overall approach to governance.

Financial Reporting Council
April 2016

Financial Reporting Council 3
POL00413519

POL00413519

Comply or Explain

1.

1

The “comply or explain” approach is the trademark of corporate governance in the UK.
It has been in operation since the Code’s beginnings and is the foundation of its
flexibility. It is strongly supported by both companies and shareholders and has been
widely admired and imitated internationally.

The Code is not a rigid set of rules. It consists of principles (main and supporting) and
provisions. The Listing Rules require companies to apply the Main Principles and
report to shareholders on how they have done so. The principles are the core of the
Code and the way in which they are applied should be the central question for a board
as it determines how it is to operate according to the Code.

It is recognised that an alternative to following a provision may be justified in particular
circumstances if good governance can be achieved by other means. A condition of
doing so is that the reasons for it should be explained clearly and carefully to
shareholders,’ who may wish to discuss the position with the company and whose
voting intentions may be influenced as a result. In providing an explanation, the
company should aim to illustrate how its actual practices are consistent with the
principle to which the particular provision relates, contribute to good governance and
promote delivery of business objectives. It should set out the background, provide a
clear rationale for the action it is taking, and describe any mitigating actions taken to
address any additional risk and maintain conformity with the relevant principle. Where
deviation from a particular provision is intended to be limited in time, the explanation
should indicate when the company expects to conform with the provision.

In their responses to explanations, shareholders should pay due regard to companies’
individual circumstances and bear in mind in particular the size and complexity of the
company and the nature of the risks and challenges it faces. Whilst shareholders have
every right to challenge companies’ explanations if they are unconvincing, they should
not be evaluated in a mechanistic way and departures from the Code should not be
automatically treated as breaches. Shareholders should be careful to respond to the
statements from companies in a manner that supports the “comply or explain” process
and bearing in mind the purpose of good corporate governance. They should put their
views to the company and both parties should be prepared to discuss the position.

Smaller listed companies, in particular those new to listing, may judge that some of the
provisions are disproportionate or less relevant in their case. Some of the provisions
do not apply to companies below the FTSE 350. Such companies may nonetheless
consider that it would be appropriate to adopt the approach in the Code and they are
encouraged to do so. Externally managed investment companies typically have a
different board structure which may affect the relevance of particular provisions; the
Association of Investment Companies’ Corporate Governance Code and Guide can
assist them in meeting their obligations under the Code.

Satisfactory engagement between company boards and investors is crucial to the
health of the UK’s corporate governance regime. Companies and shareholders both
have responsibility for ensuring that “comply or explain” remains an effective
alternative to a rules-based system. There are practical and administrative obstacles to
improved interaction between boards and shareholders. But certainly there is also
scope for an increase in trust which could generate a virtuous upward spiral in
attitudes to the Code and in its constructive use.

References to shareholders in this section also apply to intermediaries and agents employed to assist
shareholders in scrutinising governance arrangements.

4 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519
POL00413519

The Main Principles of the Code

Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for
the long-term success of the company.

There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the
running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the company’s
business. No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.

The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all
aspects of its role.

As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should
constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.

The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience,
independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective
duties and responsibilities effectively.

There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new
directors to the board.

All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their
responsibilities effectively.

All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and
refresh their skills and knowledge.

The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality
appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.

The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance
and that of its committees and individual directors.

All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued
satisfactory performance.

The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the
company’s position and prospects.

The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is
willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. The board should maintain sound risk
management and internal control systems.

The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they

should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and for
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the company’s auditors.

Financial Reporting Council 5
POL00413519
POL00413519

Executive directors’ remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term success of
the company. Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and
rigorously applied.

There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive
remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors. No director
should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.

There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of
objectives. The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue
with shareholders takes place.

The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors and to encourage
their participation.

6 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519

POL00413519

Section A: Leadership

Main Principle

Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively
responsible for the long-term success of the company.

Supporting Principles

The board's role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework
of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed. The
board should set the company’s strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and
human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review
management performance. The board should set the company’s values and standards and
ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.

All directors must act in what they consider to be the best interests of the company,
consistent with their statutory duties.”

Code Provisions

A.1.1. The board should meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively. There
should be a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision. The
annual report should include a statement of how the board operates, including a high
level statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the board and which
are to be delegated to management.

A.1.2. The annual report should identify the chairman, the deputy chairman (where there is
one), the chief executive, the senior independent director and the chairmen and
members of the board committees.° It should also set out the number of meetings of
the board and those committees and individual attendance by directors.

A.1.3. The company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action
against its directors.

2 For directors of UK incorporated companies, these duties are set out in the Sections 170 to 177 of the
Companies Act 2006.

3 Provisions A.1.1 and A.1.2 overlap with FCA Rule DTR 7.2.7 R; Provision A.1.2 also overlaps with DTR 7.1.5
R (see Schedule B)

Financial Reporting Council 7
POL00413519

POL00413519

Main Principle

There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company
between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of
the company’s business. No one individual should have unfettered powers of
decision.

Code Provision

A.2.1. The roles of chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the same
individual. The division of responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive
should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.

Main Principle

The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its
effectiveness on all aspects of its role.

Supporting Principles

The chairman is responsible for setting the board’s agenda and ensuring that adequate time
is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues. The chairman
should also promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective
contribution of non-executive directors in particular and ensuring constructive relations
between executive and non-executive directors.

The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear
information. The chairman should ensure effective communication with shareholders.

Code Provision

A.3.1. The chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out in B.1.1
below. A chief executive should not go on to be chairman of the same company. If
exceptionally a board decides that a chief executive should become chairman, the
board should consult major shareholders in advance and should set out its reasons
to shareholders at the time of the appointment and in the next annual report.*

4 Compliance or otherwise with this provision need only be reported for the year in which the appointment is
made.

8 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519

POL00413519

Main Principle

As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should
constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.

Supporting Principle

Non-executive directors should scrutinise the performance of management in meeting
agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance. They should satisfy
themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of
risk management are robust and defensible. They are responsible for determining
appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing
and, where necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.

Code Provisions

A4.1. The board should appoint one of the independent non-executive directors to be the
senior independent director to provide a sounding board for the chairman and to
serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary. The senior
independent director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which
contact through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or other executive
directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.

A.4.2. The chairman should hold meetings with the non-executive directors without the
executives present. Led by the senior independent director, the non-executive
directors should meet without the chairman present at least annually to appraise the
chairman's performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.

A.4.3. Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of the
company or a proposed action, they should ensure that their concerns are recorded
in the board minutes. On resignation, a non-executive director should provide a
written statement to the chairman, for circulation to the board, if they have any such
concerns.

Financial Reporting Council 9
POL00413519

POL00413519

Section B: Effectiveness

Main Principle

The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills,
experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.

Supporting Principles

The board should be of sufficient size that the requirements of the business can be met and
that changes to the board’s composition and that of its committees can be managed without
undue disruption, and should not be so large as to be unwieldy.

The board should include an appropriate combination of executive and non-executive
directors (and, in particular, independent non-executive directors) such that no individual or
small group of individuals can dominate the board's decision taking.

The value of ensuring that committee membership is refreshed and that undue reliance is
not placed on particular individuals should be taken into account in deciding chairmanship
and membership of committees.

No one other than the committee chairman and members is entitled to be present at a
meeting of the nomination, audit or remuneration committee, but others may attend at the
invitation of the committee.

Code Provisions

B.1.1. The board should identify in the annual report each non-executive director it
considers to be independent.> The board should determine whether the director is
independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the director's
judgement. The board should state its reasons if it determines that a director is
independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which
may appear relevant to its determination, including if the director:

« has been an employee of the company or group within the last five years;

* has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with
the company either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior
employee of a body that has such a relationship with the company;

¢ has received or receives additional remuneration from the company apart from a
director’s fee, participates in the company’s share option or a performance-
related pay scheme, or is a member of the company’s pension scheme;

e has close family ties with any of the company’s advisers, directors or senior
employees;

° A3.1 states that the chairman should, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in this

provision, but thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the chairman

10 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519
POL00413519

e holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors through
involvement in other companies or bodies;

¢ represents a significant shareholder; or

¢ has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first
election.

B.1.2. Except for smaller companies,® at least half the board, excluding the chairman,
should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Asmaller company should have at least two independent non-executive directors.

Main Principle

There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of
new directors to the board.

Supporting Principles

The search for board candidates should be conducted, and appointments made, on merit,
against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the board,
including gender.

The board should satisfy itself that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments
to the board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills
and experience within the company and on the board and to ensure progressive refreshing
of the board.

Code Provisions

B.2.1. There should be a nomination committee which should lead the process for board
appointments and make recommendations to the board. A majority of members of
the nomination committee should be independent non-executive directors. The
chairman or an independent non-executive director should chair the committee, but
the chairman should not chair the nomination committee when it is dealing with the
appointment of a successor to the chairmanship. The nomination committee should
make available its terms of reference, explaining its role and the authority delegated
to it by the board.”

B.2.2. The nomination committee should evaluate the balance of skills, experience,
independence and knowledge on the board and, in the light of this evaluation,
prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular
appointment.

B.2.3. Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to re-election
and to statutory provisions relating to the removal of a director. Any term beyond six

® Asmaller company is one that is below the FTSE 350 throughout the year immediately prior to the reporting
year.

7 The requirement to make the information available would be met by including the information on a website
that is maintained by or on behalf of the company.

Financial Reporting Council 11
POL00413519
POL00413519

years for a non-executive director should be subject to particularly rigorous review,
and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the board.

B.2.4. A separate section of the annual report should describe the work of the nomination
committee,® including the process it has used in relation to board appointments. This
section should include a description of the board’s policy on diversity, including
gender, any measurable objectives that it has set for implementing the policy, and
progress on achieving the objectives. An explanation should be given if neither an
external search consultancy nor open advertising has been used in the appointment
of a chairman or a non-executive director. Where an external search consultancy has
been used, it should be identified in the annual report and a statement made as to
whether it has any other connection with the company.

Main Principle

All directors shi
their responsi!

Id be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge
ies effectively.

Code Provisions

B.3.1. For the appointment of a chairman, the nomination committee should prepare a job
specification, including an assessment of the time commitment expected, recognising
the need for availability in the event of crises. A chairman’s other significant
commitments should be disclosed to the board before appointment and included in
the annual report. Changes to such commitments should be reported to the board as
they arise, and their impact explained in the next annual report.

B.3.2. The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors should be made
available for inspection.? The letter of appointment should set out the expected time
commitment. Non-executive directors should undertake that they will have sufficient
time to meet what is expected of them. Their other significant commitments should be
disclosed to the board before appointment, with a broad indication of the time
involved and the board should be informed of subsequent changes.

B.3.3. The board should not agree to a full time executive director taking on more than one
non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a
company.

® This provision overlaps with FCA Rule DTR 7.2.7 R (see Schedule B).

® The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors should be made available for inspection
by any person at the company’s registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM (for 15
minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting)

12 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519
POL00413519

Main Principle

All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly
update and refresh their skills and knowledge.

Supporting Principles

The chairman should ensure that the directors continually update their skills and the
knowledge and familiarity with the company required to fulfil their role both on the board and
on board committees. The company should provide the necessary resources for developing
and updating its directors’ knowledge and capabilities.

To function effectively all directors need appropriate knowledge of the company and access
to its operations and staff.

Code Provisions

B.4.1. The chairman should ensure that new directors receive a full, formal and tailored
induction on joining the board. As part of this, directors should avail themselves of
opportunities to meet major shareholders.

B.4.2. The chairman should regularly review and agree with each director their training and
development needs.

Main Principle

The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a
quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.

Supporting Principles

The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear
information. Management has an obligation to provide such information but directors should
seek clarification or amplification where necessary.

Under the direction of the chairman, the company secretary's responsibilities include
ensuring good information flows within the board and its committees and between senior
management and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with
professional development as required.

The company secretary should be responsible for advising the board through the chairman
on all governance matters.

Code Provisions
B.5.1. The board should ensure that directors, especially non-executive directors, have
access to independent professional advice at the company’s expense where they

judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors. Committees should
be provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.

Financial Reporting Council 13
POL00413519

POL00413519

B.5.2. All directors should have access to the advice and services of the company
secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that board procedures are
complied with. Both the appointment and removal of the company secretary should
be a matter for the board as a whole.

Main Principle

The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own
performance and that of its committees and individual directors.

Supporting Principles

Evaluation of the board should consider the balance of skills, experience, independence and
knowledge of the company on the board, its diversity, including gender, how the board works
together as a unit, and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.

The chairman should act on the results of the performance evaluation by recognising the
strengths and addressing the weaknesses of the board and, where appropriate, proposing
new members be appointed to the board or seeking the resignation of directors.

Individual evaluation should aim to show whether each director continues to contribute
effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role (including commitment of time for
board and committee meetings and any other duties).

Code Provisions

B.6.1. The board should state in the annual report how performance evaluation of the
board, its committees and its individual directors has been conducted.

B.6.2. Evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at
least every three years. The external facilitator should be identified in the annual
report and a statement made as to whether they have any other connection with the
company.

B.6.3. The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, should be

responsible for performance evaluation of the chairman, taking into account the views
of executive directors.

14 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519

POL00413519

Main Principle

All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to
continued satisfactory performance.

Code Provisions

B.7.1.

B.7.2.

All directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by
shareholders. All other directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the
first annual general meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at
intervals of no more than three years. Non-executive directors who have served
longer than nine years should be subject to annual re-election. The names of
directors submitted for election or re-election should be accompanied by sufficient
biographical details and any other relevant information to enable shareholders to take
an informed decision on their election.

The board should set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying a resolution to
elect a non-executive director why they believe an individual should be elected. The
chairman should confirm to shareholders when proposing re-election that, following
formal performance evaluation, the individual’s performance continues to be effective
and to demonstrate commitment to the role.

Financial Reporting Council 15
POL00413519

POL00413519

Section C: Accountabi

Main Principle

The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the
company’s position and prospects.

Supporting Principles

The board's responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment
extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well
as to information required to be presented by statutory requirements.

The board should establish arrangements that will enable it to ensure that the information
presented is fair, balanced and understandable.

Code Provisions

C.1.1. The directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for preparing the
annual report and accounts, and state that they consider the annual report and
accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
information necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s position and
performance, business model and strategy. There should be a statement by the
auditor about their reporting responsibilities. '°

C.1.2. The directors should include in the annual report an explanation of the basis on which
the company generates or preserves value over the longer term (the business model)
and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the company."

C.1.3. In annual and half-yearly financial statements, the directors should state whether they
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing
them, and identify any material uncertainties to the company’s ability to continue to
do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the
financial statements.'2

1 This requirement may be met by the disclosures about the audit scope and responsibilities of the auditor
included, or referred to, in the auditor’s report pursuant to the requirements of ISA 700 ‘Forming and Opinion
and Reporting on Financial Statements’ ~ Paragraphs 38-40. Copies are available from the FRC website.

1 Section 414C(8) (a) and (b) of the Companies Act 2006 requires a description of a company's business model
and strategy as part of the Strategic Report that forms part of the annual report. Guidance as to the matters
that should be considered in an explanation of the business model and strategy is provided in the FRC's
“Guidance on the Strategic Report”. Copies are available from the FRC website.

"2 This provision overlaps with FCA Rules LR 9.8.6 R (3) (see Schedule B). Additional information relating to
C.1.3 and C.2 can be found in “Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and
Business Reporting”. Copies are available from the FRC website

16 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519

POL00413519

Main Principle

The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it
is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. The board should maintain
sound risk management and internal control systems.

Code Provisions

C.2.1. The directors should confirm in the annual report that they have carried out a robust
assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. The directors
should describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.

C.2.2. Taking account of the company’s current position and principal risks, the directors
should explain in the annual report how they have assessed the prospects of the
company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to
be appropriate. The directors should state whether they have a reasonable
expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, drawing attention to
any qualifications or assumptions as necessary.'?

C.2.3. The board should monitor the company’s risk management and internal control
systems and, at least annually, carry out a review of their effectiveness, and report
on that review in the annual report.'* The monitoring and review should cover all
material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.

Main Principle

The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how
they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control
principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the company’s
auditors.

Code Provisions

C.3.1. The board should establish an audit committee of at least three, or in the case of
smaller companies'® two, independent non-executive directors. In smaller companies
the company chairman may be a member of, but not chair, the committee in addition
to the independent non-executive directors, provided he or she was considered
independent on appointment as chairman. The board should satisfy itself that at least
one member of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial experience.

18 This provision overlaps with FCA Rules LR 9.8.6 (3) R (see Schedule B).

In addition FCA Rule DTR 7.2.5 R requires companies to describe the main features of the internal control
and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process

“Guidance on Audit Committees” suggests means of applying this part of the Code. Copies are available from
the FRC website.

18 See footnote 6.

Financial Reporting Council 17
C.3.2.

C.3.3.

C.3.4.

C.3.5.

POL00413519

POL00413519

The audit committee as a whole shall have competence relevant to the sector in
which the company operates.'”

The main role and responsibilities of the audit committee should be set out in written
terms of reference'® and should include:

¢ to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the company and any formal
announcements relating to the company’s financial performance, reviewing
significant financial reporting judgements contained in them;

e to review the company’s internal financial controls and, unless expressly
addressed by a separate board risk committee composed of independent
directors, or by the board itself, to review the company’s internal control and risk
management systems;

e to monitor and review the effectiveness of the company’s internal audit function;

«to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the shareholders for their
approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and
removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of
engagement of the external auditor;

e to review and monitor the external auditor's independence and objectivity and the
effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK
professional and regulatory requirements;

« to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to
supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding
the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm; and to report to the
board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or
improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be
taken; and

e to report to the board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.

The terms of reference of the audit committee, including its role and the authority
delegated to it by the board, should be made available. '

Where requested by the board, the audit committee should provide advice on
whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess
the company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.

The audit committee should review arrangements by which staff of the company may,
in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial
reporting or other matters. The audit committee’s objective should be to ensure that
arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of
such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.

‘7 This provision overlaps with FCA Rule DTR 7.1.1A R (see Schedule B).

‘8 This provision overlaps with FCA Rules DTR 7.1.3 R (see Schedule B).

1° See footnote 7.

18 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
C.3.6.

C.3.7.

C.3.8.

POL00413519

POL00413519

The audit committee should monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit
activities. Where there is no internal audit function, the audit committee should
consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a
recommendation to the board, and the reasons for the absence of such a function
should be explained in the relevant section of the annual report.

The audit committee should have primary responsibility for making a
recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external
auditors.?° If the board does not accept the audit committee’s recommendation, it
should include in the annual report, and in any papers recommending appointment or
re-appointment, a statement from the audit committee explaining the
recommendation and should set out reasons why the board has taken a different
position.

A separate section of the annual report should describe the work of the committee in
discharging its responsibilities.2' The report should include:

the significant issues that the committee considered in relation to the financial
statements, and how these issues were addressed;

e an explanation of how it has assessed the effectiveness of the external audit
process and the approach taken to the appointment or reappointment of the
external auditor, information on the length of tenure of the current audit firm when
a tender was last conducted and advance notice of any retendering plans;?* and

«if the external auditor provides non-audit services, an explanation of how auditor
objectivity and independence are safeguarded.

2 This overlaps with Part 3 of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 and the
requirements of Chapter 2 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 as inserted by the Statutory Auditors and
Third Country Auditors Regulations 2016 on the appointment of auditors to public companies that are Public
interest Entities.

21 This provision overlaps with FCA Rules DTR 7.1.5 R and 7.2.7 R (see Schedule B).

This overlaps with Part 4 of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation

(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014

Financial Reporting Council 19
POL00413519

POL00413519

Section D: Remuneration

Main Principle

Executive directors’ remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term
success of the company. Performance-related elements should be transparent,
stretching and rigorously applied.

Supporting Principles

The remuneration committee should judge where to position their company relative to other
companies. But they should use such comparisons with caution, in view of the risk of an
upward ratchet of remuneration levels with no corresponding improvement in corporate and
individual performance, and should avoid paying more than is necessary.

They should also be sensitive to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group,
especially when determining annual salary increases.

Code Provisions

D.1.1. In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration for executive directors,
the remuneration committee should follow the provisions in Schedule A to this Code.
Schemes should include provisions that would enable the company to recover sums
paid or withhold the payment of any sum, and specify the circumstances in which it
would be appropriate to do so.

D.1.2. Where a company releases an executive director to serve as a non-executive director
elsewhere, the remuneration report”? should include a statement as to whether or not
the director will retain such earnings and, if so, what the remuneration is.

D.1.3. Levels of remuneration for non-executive directors should reflect the time
commitment and responsibilities of the role. Remuneration for non-executive
directors should not include share options or other performance-related elements. If,
exceptionally, options are granted, shareholder approval should be sought in
advance and any shares acquired by exercise of the options should be held until at
least one year after the non-executive director leaves the board. Holding of share
options could be relevant to the determination of a non-executive director's
independence (as set out in provision B.1.1).

D.1.4. The remuneration committee should carefully consider what compensation
commitments (including pension contributions and all other elements) their directors’
terms of appointment would entail in the event of early termination. The aim should
be to avoid rewarding poor performance. They should take a robust line on reducing
compensation to reflect departing directors’ obligations to mitigate loss.

D.1.5. Notice or contract periods should be set at one year or less. If it is necessary to offer

longer notice or contract periods to new directors recruited from outside, such periods
should reduce to one year or less after the initial period.

% As required for UK incorporated companies under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2013.

20 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519

POL00413519

Main Principle

There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on
executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual
directors. No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.

Supporting Principles

The remuneration committee should take care to recognise and manage conflicts of interest
when receiving views from executive directors or senior management, or consulting the chief
executive about its proposals. The remuneration committee should also be responsible for
appointing any consultants in respect of executive director remuneration.

The chairman of the board should ensure that the committee chairman maintains contact as
required with its principal shareholders about remuneration.

Code Provisions

D.2.1. The board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three, or in the case
of smaller companies** two, independent non-executive directors. In addition the
company chairman may also be a member of, but not chair, the committee if he or
she was considered independent on appointment as chairman. The remuneration
committee should make available its terms of reference, explaining its role and the
authority delegated to it by the board. Where remuneration consultants are
appointed, they should be identified in the annual report and a statement made as to
whether they have any other connection with the company.

D.2.2. The remuneration committee should have delegated responsibility for setting
remuneration for all executive directors and the chairman, including pension rights
and any compensation payments. The committee should also recommend and
monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management. The
definition of ‘senior management’ for this purpose should be determined by the board
but should normally include the first layer of management below board level.

D.2.3. The board itself or, where required by the Articles of Association, the shareholders
should determine the remuneration of the non-executive directors within the limits set
in the Articles of Association. Where permitted by the Articles, the board may
however delegate this responsibility to a committee, which might include the chief
executive.

D.2.4. Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive
schemes (as defined in the Listing Rules**) and significant changes to existing
schemes, save in the circumstances permitted by the Listing Rules.

4 See footnote 6.
25. This provision overlaps with FCA Rule DTR 7.2.7 R (see Schedule B).

26 Listing Rules LR 9.4. Copies are available from the FCA website.

Financial Reporting Council 21
POL00413519

POL00413519

Section E: Relations with shareholders

Main Principle

There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of
objectives. The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory
dialogue with shareholders takes place.””

Supporting Principles

Whilst recognising that most shareholder contact is with the chief executive and finance
director, the chairman should ensure that all directors are made aware of their major
shareholders’ issues and concerns.

The board should keep in touch with shareholder opinion in whatever ways are most
practical and efficient.

Code Provisions

E.1.1. The chairman should ensure that the views of shareholders are communicated to the
board as a whole. The chairman should discuss governance and strategy with major
shareholders. Non-executive directors should be offered the opportunity to attend
scheduled meetings with major shareholders and should expect to attend meetings if
requested by major shareholders. The senior independent director should attend
sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order
to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major
shareholders.

E.1.2. The board should state in the annual report the steps they have taken to ensure that
the members of the board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an
understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company, for example
through direct face-to-face contact, analysts’ or brokers’ briefings and surveys of
shareholder opinion.

Main Principle

The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors and to
encourage their participation.

Code Provisions

E.2.1. At any general meeting, the company should propose a separate resolution on each
substantially separate issue, and should in particular propose a resolution at the
AGM relating to the report and accounts. For each resolution, proxy appointment
forms should provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote either
for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote. The proxy form and any
announcement of the results of a vote should make it clear that a ‘vote withheld’ is

27 Nothing in these principles or provisions should be taken to override the general requirements of law to treat
shareholders equally in access to information

22 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
E.2.2.

E.2.3.

E.2.4.

POL00413519

POL00413519

not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the
votes for and against the resolution.

The company should ensure that all valid proxy appointments received for general
meetings are properly recorded and counted. For each resolution, where a vote has
been taken on a show of hands, the company should ensure that the following
information is given at the meeting and made available as soon as reasonably
practicable on a website which is maintained by or on behalf of the company:

¢ the number of shares in respect of which proxy appointments have been validly
made;

e the number of votes for the resolution;

e the number of votes against the resolution; and

e the number of shares in respect of which the vote was directed to be withheld.
When, in the opinion of the board, a significant proportion of votes have been cast
against a resolution at any general meeting, the company should explain when
announcing the results of voting what actions it intends to take to understand the
reasons behind the vote result.

The chairman should arrange for the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and
nomination committees to be available to answer questions at the AGM and for all
directors to attend.

The company should arrange for the Notice of the AGM and related papers to be

sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. For other general
meetings this should be at least 14 working days in advance.

Financial Reporting Council 23
POL00413519

POL00413519

Schedule A: The design of performance-related remuneration for
executive directors

The remuneration committee should determine an appropriate balance between fixed and
performance-related, immediate and deferred remuneration. Performance conditions,
including non-financial metrics where appropriate, should be relevant, stretching and
designed to promote the long-term success of the company. Remuneration incentives
should be compatible with risk policies and systems. Upper limits should be set and
disclosed.

The remuneration committee should consider whether the directors should be eligible for
annual bonuses and/or benefits under long-term incentive schemes.

Traditional share option schemes should be weighed against other kinds of long-term
incentive scheme. Executive share options should not be offered at a discount save as
permitted by the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules.

Any new long-term incentive schemes which are proposed should be approved by
shareholders and should preferably replace any existing schemes or, at least, form part of a
well-considered overall plan incorporating existing schemes. The total rewards potentially
available should not be excessive.

For share-based remuneration the remuneration committee should consider requiring
directors to hold a minimum number of shares and to hold shares for a further period after
vesting or exercise, including for a period after leaving the company, subject to the need to
finance any costs of acquisition and associated tax liabilities. In normal circumstances,
shares granted or other forms of deferred remuneration should not vest or be paid, and
options should not be exercisable, in less than three years. Longer periods may be
appropriate. Grants under executive share option and other long-term incentive schemes
should normally be phased rather than awarded in one large block.

In general, only basic salary should be pensionable. The remuneration committee should
consider the pension consequences and associated costs to the company of basic salary
increases and any other changes in pensionable remuneration, especially for directors close
to retirement.

24 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519

POL00413519

Schedule B: Disclosure of corporate governance arrangements
Corporate governance disclosure requirements are set out in three places:

e FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTR”) sub-chapters 7.1 and 7.2,
which set out certain mandatory disclosures;

¢ FCA Listing Rules (“LR”) 9.8.6 R, 9.8.7 R, and 9.8.7A R, which includes the
“comply or explain” requirement; and

e The UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) — in addition to providing an
explanation where they choose not to comply with a provision, companies must
disclose specified information in order to comply with certain provisions.

These requirements are summarised below, with the full text contained in the relevant
chapters of the FCA Handbook.

The DTR sub-chapters 7.1 and 7.2 apply to issuers whose securities are admitted to trading
on a regulated market (this includes all issuers with a Premium or Standard listing). The LR
9.8.6 R, 9.8.7 R and 9.8.7A R and the Code apply to issuers of Premium listed equity shares
only.

There is some overlap between the mandatory disclosures required under the DTR and
those expected under the Code. Areas of overlap are summarised in the Appendix to this
Schedule. In respect of disclosures relating to the audit committee and the composition and
operation of the board and its committees, compliance with the relevant provisions of the
Code will result in compliance with the relevant Rules.

DTR sub-chapter 7.1 concerns audit committees or bodies carrying out equivalent functions.

DTR 7.1.1 R, 7.1.1A R and 7.1.3 R set out requirements relating to the composition and
functions of the committee or equivalent body:

e DTR 7.1.1 R states that an issuer must have a body or bodies responsible for
performing the functions set out in DTR 7.1.3 R.

e DTR7.1.1A R requires that a majority of the members of the relevant body must
be independent, at least one member must have competence in accounting or
auditing, or both, and that members of the relevant body as a whole must have
competence relevant to the sector in which the issuer is operating.

e DTR 7.1.2 G states that the requirements for independence and competence in
accounting and/or auditing may be satisfied by the same members or by different
members of the relevant body.

e DTR 7.1.3 R states that an issuer must ensure that, as a minimum, the relevant
body must:

1. monitor the financial reporting process and submit recommendations or
proposal to ensure its integrity;

Financial Reporting Council 25
POL00413519
POL00413519

2. monitor the effectiveness of the issuer’s internal quality control and risk
management systems and, where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the
financial reporting of the issuer, without breaching its independence;

3. monitor the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated financial
statements, in particular, its performance, taking into account any findings and
conclusions by the competent authority under article 26(6) of the Audit
Regulation;

4. review and monitor the independence of the statutory auditor, in accordance
with articles 22, 22a, 22b, 24a and 24b of the Audit Directive and article 6 of
the Audit Regulation, and in particular the appropriateness of the provision of
non-audit services to the issuer in accordance with article 5 of the Audit
Regulation;

5. inform the administrative or supervisory body of the issuer of the outcome of
the statutory audit and explain how the statutory audit contributed to the
integrity of financial reporting and what the role of the relevant body was in
that process;

6. except when article 16(8) of the Audit Regulation is applied, be responsible for
the procedure for the selection of statutory auditor(s) and recommend the
statutory auditor(s) to be appointed in accordance with article 16 of the Audit
Regulation.

DTR 7.1.5 R sets out what disclosure is required. Specifically:

e DTR/7.1.5 R states that the issuer must make a statement available to the public
disclosing which body carries out the functions required by DTR 7.1.3 R and how
it is composed.

e DTR 7.1.6 G states that this can be included in the corporate governance
statement required under sub-chapter DTR 7.2 (see below).

e DTR 7.1.7 G states that compliance with the relevant provisions of the Code (as
set out in the Appendix to this Schedule) will result in compliance with DTR 7.1.1
R to 7.1.5R.

Sub-chapter 7.2 concerns corporate governance statements. Issuers are required to
produce a corporate governance statement that must be either included in the directors’
report (DTR 7.2.1 R); or set out in a separate report published together with the annual
report; or set out in a document on the issuer’s website, in which case there must be a
cross-reference in the directors’ report (DTR 7.2.9 R).

DTR 7.2.2 R requires that the corporate governance statement must contain a reference to
the corporate governance code to which the company is subject (for companies with a
Premium listing this is the Code). DTR 7.2.3 R requires that, where that it departs from that
code, the company must explain which parts of the code it departs from and the reasons for
doing so. DTR 7.2.4 G states that compliance with LR 9.8.6 R (6) (the “comply or explain”
tule in relation to the Code) will also satisfy these requirements.

DTR 7.2.5 R, DTR 7.2.6 R, DTR 7.2.7 R and DTR 7.2.10 R set out certain information that
must be disclosed in the corporate governance statement:

26 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519
POL00413519

e DTR 7.2.5 R states that the corporate governance statement must contain a
description of the main features of the company’s internal control and risk
management systems in relation to the financial reporting process. DTR 7.2.10 R
states that an issuer which is required to prepare a group directors’ report within
the meaning of Section 415(2) of the Companies Act 2006 must include in that
report a description of the main features of the group’s internal control and risk
management systems in relation to the financial reporting process for the
undertakings included in the consolidation, taken as a whole.

« DTR 7.2.6 R states that the corporate governance statement must contain the
information required by paragraph 13(2)(c), (d), (f), (h) and (i) of Schedule 7 to
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008 (SI 2008/410) where the issuer is subject to the requirements
of that paragraph.

¢ DTR 7.2.7 R states that the corporate governance statement must contain a
description of the composition and operation of the issuer’s administrative,
management and supervisory bodies and their committees. DTR 7.2.8 G states
that compliance with the relevant provisions of the Code (as set out in the
Appendix to this Schedule) will satisfy these requirements.

LR 9.8.6 R (for UK incorporated companies) and LR 9.8.7 R (for overseas incorporated
companies) state that in the case of a company that has a Premium listing of equity shares,
the following items must be included in its annual report and accounts:

* a statement of how the listed company has applied the Main Principles set out in
the Code, in a manner that would enable shareholders to evaluate how the
principles have been applied;

* a statement as to whether the listed company has:

— complied throughout the accounting period with all relevant provisions set out
in the Code; or

— not complied throughout the accounting period with all relevant provisions set
out in the Code, and if so, setting out:

(i) those provisions, if any, it has not complied with;

(ii) in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a continuing nature,
the period within which, if any, it did not comply with some or all of those
provisions; and

(iii) the company’s reasons for non-compliance.

LR 9.8.6 R (3) requires statements by the directors on:

(a) the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of accounting
(containing the information set out in provision C.1.3 of the Code); and

(b) their assessment of the prospects of the company (containing the information set
out in provision C.2.2 of the Code);

prepared in accordance with the ‘Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control

and Related Financial and Business Reporting’ published by the Financial Reporting
Council in September 2014;

Financial Reporting Council 27
POL00413519

POL00413519

In addition to the “comply or explain” requirement in the LR, the Code includes specific
requirements for disclosure which must be provided in order to comply. These are
summarised below.

The annual report should include:

a statement of how the board operates, including a high level statement of which
types of decisions are to be taken by the board and which are to be delegated to
management (A.1.1);

the names of the chairman, the deputy chairman (where there is one), the chief
executive, the senior independent director and the chairmen and members of the
board committees (A.1.2);

the number of meetings of the board and those committees and individual
attendance by directors (A.1.2);

where a chief executive is appointed chairman, the reasons for their appointment
(this only needs to be done in the annual report following the appointment)
(A.3.1);

the names of the non-executive directors whom the board determines to be
independent, with reasons where necessary (B.1.1);

a separate section describing the work of the nomination committee, including the
process it has used in relation to board appointments; a description of the board’s
policy on diversity, including gender; any measurable objectives that it has set for
implementing the policy, and progress on achieving the objectives. An
explanation should be given if neither external search consultancy nor open
advertising has been used in the appointment of a chairman or a non-executive
director. Where an external search consultancy has been used it should be
identified and a statement made as to whether it has any other connection with
the company (B.2.4);

the impact of any changes to the other significant commitments of the chairman
during the year should explained (B.3.1);

a statement of how performance evaluation of the board, its committees and its
directors has been conducted (B.6.1). Where an external facilitator has been
used, they should be identified and a statement made as to whether they have
any other connection to the company (B.6.2);

an explanation from the directors of their responsibility for preparing the accounts
and a statement that they consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information
necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s position and performance,
business model and strategy. There should also be a statement by the auditor
about their reporting responsibilities (C.1.1);

an explanation from the directors of the basis on which the company generates or
preserves value over the longer term (the business model) and the strategy for
delivering the objectives of the company (C.1.2);

28 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519
POL00413519

e¢ astatement from the directors whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and identify any material
uncertainties to the company’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least
twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements (C.1.3);

e confirmation by the directors that they have carried out a robust assessment of
the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. The directors should
describe the risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated (C.2.1);

¢ astatement from the directors explaining how they have assessed the prospects
of the company (taking account of the company’s current position and principal
risks), over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to
be appropriate. The directors should state whether they have a reasonable
expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, drawing attention to
any qualifications or assumptions as necessary (C.2.2);

¢ a report on the board’s review of the effectiveness of the company’s risk
management and internal controls systems (C.2.3);

e where there is no internal audit function, the reasons for the absence of such a
function (C.3.6);

e where the board does not accept the audit committee’s recommendation on the
appointment, reappointment or removal of an external auditor, a statement from
the audit committee explaining the recommendation and the reasons why the
board has taken a different position (C.3.7);

* a separate section describing the work of the audit committee in discharging its
responsibilities, including: the significant issues that it considered in relation to the
financial statements, and how these issues were addressed; an explanation of
how it has assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and the
approach taken to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor,
including the length of tenure of the current audit firm, when a tender was last
conducted and advance notice of any retendering plans; and, if the external
auditor provides non-audit services, an explanation of how auditor objectivity and
independence is safeguarded (C.3.8);

e a description of the work of the remuneration committee as required under the
Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2013, including, where an executive director serves as a non-
executive director elsewhere, whether or not the director will retain such earnings
and, if so, what the remuneration is (D.1.2);

e where remuneration consultants are appointed they should be identified and a
statement made as to whether they have any other connection with the company
(D.2.1); and

e the steps the board has taken to ensure that members of the board, and in
particular the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of
major shareholders about their company (E.1.2).

The following information should be made available (which may be met by placing the
information on a website that is maintained by or on behalf of the company):

Financial Reporting Council 29
POL00413519
POL00413519

e the terms of reference of the nomination, audit and remuneration committees,
explaining their role and the authority delegated to them by the board (B.2.1,
C.3.3 and D.2.1); and

e the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors (B.3.2) (see
footnote 9).

The board should set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying a resolution to elect
or re-elect directors:

e sufficient biographical details to enable shareholders to take an informed decision
on their election or re-election (B.7.1);

¢ why they believe an individual should be elected to a non-executive role (B.7.2);
and

¢ on re-election of a non-executive director, confirmation from the chairman that,
following formal performance evaluation, the individual’s performance continues
to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role (B.7.2).

The board should set out to shareholders in the papers recommending appointment or
reappointment of an external auditor:

¢ if the board does not accept the audit committee’s recommendation, a statement
from the audit committee explaining the recommendation and from the board
setting out reasons why they have taken a different position (C.3.7).

The FRC publishes guidance on the strategic report, risk management, internal control,
business and financial reporting and audit committees, which relate to Section C of the
Code. These guidance notes are available on the FRC website.

30 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
Appendix

Overlap between the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate

Governance Code

POL00413519

POL00413519

Disclosure and Transparency Rules

UK Corporate Governance Code

DTR 7.1.1 Rand 7.1.1AR

Sets out minimum requirements on
composition of the audit committee or
equivalent body.

Provision C.3.1: sets out the
recommended composition of the audit
committee.

DTR 7.1.3 R

Sets out minimum functions of the audit
committee or equivalent body.

Provision C.3.2: sets out the
recommended minimum terms of
reference for the audit committee.

DTR7.1.5R

The composition and function of the
audit committee or equivalent body/
bodies must be disclosed in the annual
report.

DTR 7.1.7 G states that compliance
with Code provisions A.1.2, C.3.1,
C.3.2, C.3.3. and C.3.8 will result in
compliance with DTR 7.1.1 R to DTR
7.1.5 R.

This requirement overlaps with a number
of different Code provisions:

A.1.2: the annual report should identify
members of the board and board
committees.

C.3.1: sets out the recommended
composition of the audit committee.

C.3.2: sets out the recommended
minimum terms of reference for the audit
committee.

C.3.3: the terms of reference of the audit
committee, including its role and the
authority delegated to it by the board,
should be made available.

C.3.8: the annual report should describe
the work of the audit committee.

DTR 7.2.5 R

The corporate governance statement
must contain a description of the main
features of the issuer's internal control

and risk management systems in
relation to the financial reporting
process.

While this requirement differs from the
requirement in the Code, it is envisaged
that both could be met by a single
internal control statement.

Provision C.2.1: the directors should
confirm that they have carried out a
robust assessment of the principal risks
facing the company — including those that
would threaten its business model, future
performance, solvency or liquidity. The
directors should describe those risks and
explain how they are being managed or
mitigated.

Provision C.2.3: the board should
monitor the company’s risk management
and internal control systems and, at least
annually, carry out a review of their
effectiveness, and report on that review
in the annual report. The monitoring and
review should cover all material controls,
including financial, operational and
compliance controls.

Financial Reporting Council 31
POL00413519
POL00413519

Disclosure and Transparency Rules

UK Corporate Governance Code

DTR 7.2.7R

The corporate governance statement
must contain a description of the
composition and operation of the
issuer's administrative, management
and supervisory bodies and their
committees.

DTR 7.2.8 R states that compliance
with Code provisions A.1.1, A.1.2,
B.2.4, C.3.3, C.3.8 and D.2.1 will result
in compliance with DTR 7.2.7 R.

This requirement overlaps with a number
of different Code provisions:

A.1.1: the annual report should include a
statement of how the board operates.

A.1.2: the annual report should identify
members of the board and _ board
committees.

B.2.4: the annual report should describe
the work of the nomination committee.

C.3.3: the terms of reference of the audit
committee, including its role and the
authority delegated to it by the board,
should be made available.

C.3.8: the annual report should describe
the work of the audit committee.

D.2.1: a description of the work of the
remuneration committee should be made
available. [Note: in order to comply with
DTR 7.2.7 R this information will need to
be included in the corporate governance
statement]

32 The UK Corporate Governance Code (April 2016)
POL00413519
POL00413519

Financial Reporting Council
8th Floor

125 London Wall

London

EC2Y 5AS

www.frc.org.uk
