POL00278009

POL00278009

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=5A43D95D6E034A4E98DB9BFC7AD2FE7D-
A.VANDENBOG]

Sent: Thur 04/07/2019

To: Huw Williams.

Ce: Kathryn Alexandet: Shirley
Hailstones__

Subject: Error Update [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Attachment: RE: Horizon helpdesk ref 804298

Attachment: RE: Horizon helpdesk ref 804298

Attachment: Bug 5 - extract from PO HIT Closing Submission.docx

Attachment: RE: Branch Impacting Incidents Summary

Huw

As discussed:

¢ Below is the email from Tim McCormack to Al.

e I attach my request to Dean Whitehead (and his subsequent responses) for the detail of the Helpdesk
reference number as supplied by TC

e I attach Ben Cooke’s update on the known CWC related remming issue.

Could you please confirm:

1. what the remming in process is for outreach from the core (is it as stated by Dean?)

2. is there a safety net in the remming process between core and outreach? From cash centre to branch and
vice versa there is the automatic reconciliation process. For transfers within branch there is the transfer
reconciliation report (not sure what the correct terminology is)/the process that won't allow roll over (is it BP
as well as TP?) until transfers balance out.

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Business Improvement Director

1% Floor,Ty Brwydran,

00

Atlantic Close,Llansamlet
Swansea SA7 9FJ

GRO]

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
POL00278009
POL00278009

From: Andrew Parsons [mailto:;

>; Rodric Williams <
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

I don't think WBD can add much substantively to this at the moment. I would recommend that some looks into the call
reference below and sees what was said. If the branch calling the helpline is a Claimant, then we should immediately
interview (and note) the helpline operator's recollection before their memory fades, as this point may come back later.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Manage your e-alert preferences

womblebonddickinson.com

@ (in)

Zoe
Patrick

; Andrew Parsons <i.
gela Van-Den-Bogerd <i™

See below

Ben Foat
General Counsel
Post Office Limited

GRO.

POL00278009
POL00278009

From: Alisdair Cameron

Sent: Thursday, July 4, 2019 6:58:05 AM
To: Rob Houghton; Julie Thomas; Ben Foat
Subject: Fwd: Error Update

Thoughts? Al

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Tim McCormack <_~
Sent: Thursday, July 4, 2019 6:49 am
To: Alisdair Cameron
Subject: Error Update

Good Morning Al
Thought I would just give you a quick update on the error based on what I am hearing.

The error looks as if it is quite prevalent throughout the whole network but you will have a
better idea of that than me. What is surprising though is that the Help Desk in several
instances since the MBS was issued seem unaware of the problem. You might be interested
to examine an example (Horizon helpdesk ref 804298) where even Tier 2 support were
confused it seems and asked for photographic evidence (this was from yesterday I believe)

Could I draw your attention to the Closing Statement remarks of your legal team in the
Horizon Trial and have a look at what they say about Error 5 (it is in the appendix page 420 or
thereabouts) If the processes they state are in place then this error could not have lasted
long in the system.

Until the matter is resolved you might consider a couple of options:

a) Use only one denomination in each pouch

b) Temporarily use clear plastic pouches (leads to witness evidence from delivery driver)
c) Remove the Scan Barcode function for Rem Acceptance - one way would be to produce
labels with just the number and no barcode and allow manual entry - advantage of this
solution would be to determine if the actual scanner is to blame which would make lot of
sense given the intermittent nature of the problem.
POL00278009
POL00278009

Kind regards

Tim

2A 2 2 2428 9 2K 2 Rf 2 RF ARR 0 2 2 RR 02 KR oR Go a a ao

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2H 2 RFR ff FAR 2 0 2 FARR 0 fF RR 02 RR Doo CR a a a a

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e
authorised to access this

hments is confidential
ments, If you are n

il and any atta
mail and any at
delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copy
about how we use personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website

d may be legally privil

sd and protected by law

125 S00n as possible and
of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
age which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership r
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to insp
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB 123393627.

istered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
on, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, whic! nsists of independent and autonomous law firms providing,
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate Jegal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.comI

notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
