POLO00060760

POL00060760

Message

From: Ron Warmington - 2nd Sight,

on behalf of I Ron Warmington - 2nd Sight
Sent: 01/09/2013 10:24:38

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

cc: irh@2ndsight.eu; Susan Crichton:
Subject: Re: IN CONFIDENCE - Anil PANDIT

Angela I had cleared the use of Anil with Simon and - I think it fair to say - Susan. But if all are more comfortable with
someone else or nobody joining that session I can stand him down. Alan and Kay were in favour so - if we are to stand
him down I need to have the decency to inform them. Thanks anyway for the quick response. Ron.

Sent from my iPhone

On 1 Se

p 2013, at 00:35, Angela Van-Den-Boger:
Hi Ron,

I’m not aware that anyone other than you and lan were approved to work on the POL investigation ~ have
I missed this? P've not met Anil so am unable to comment on him as individual, a former Spmr or indeed
as a relief Spmr. And P'm noi adverse at all to having a knowledgeable and up to date Spmr in attendance
however I would question whether Anil meets this requirement as I’m not aware that Anil has undertaken
any relief Spmr work since 11/12 so therefore may not be as up to speed as we would need on the day. I
can certainly arrange for a more operational POL person to be at the session to answer any questions
around the detailed workings of a branch or if we prefer I could ask a Spmr or two if they would be
prepared to attend to do the same. That said is not your case study session about how the advisors help the
Spmr present their case to you for investigation -- rather than about the investigation itself as this is what
you'll do? Please correct me if I’m off track here.

Either way I think the overriding consideration is that we have people who are able to be objective and
factual when dealing with any questions and if the day is to be effective as a training day we all need to
keep the content on a neutral basis and not get drawn on issues that might be besi discussed in another
forum.

Regards,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships
<image009.jpg>

<image003.png>
<image004.png>
<image005.png>
<image006.png>

<image007.png> .ostofficenews
<image008.png>

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

POL-0057239
POLO00060760
POL00060760

From: Ron Warmington
13 19:56
indy Holt; Susan Crichton

an ; alan.bates ; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: RE: Anil PANDIT
Sensitivity: Confidential

Andy (Holt) had his doubts as to whether this was a good idea... So he and I
discussed the matter during a phone call earlier this evening. Andy's gone away to
think about it - and discuss with Angela. If Julian Wilson will be there, that's
GOOD. Because he's great - and very articulate too - on coal-face matters. But
he's a complainant (isn't he?). Anil, on the other hand, is under instruction - from
me - to be STRICTLY NEUTRAL. I'd have thought POL would be glad to have a
neutral, well-informed, highly experienced, Relief SPMR there to help us answer
any detailed questions that come up (I know we'll be trying to keep this high level
but these are SMART people and they'll know the difference between keeping to
the Agenda and Relevant Issues vs bluff, bluster and ignorance (I appreciate that
Angela will know most of the answers). It'd be a chance for Ian and me - and all of
us - to check Anil out too. Only downside is (negligible) cost. It was Alan that
suggested inviting him and I thought the idea a good one.

Looking forward, the alternative source of current-SPMR skill input to 2nd Sight
was offered by Angela when she, Andy and I met in Swindon (inject people from
her team - in addition to Kathryn and Shirley). BUT... will any such person - from
that low down in the POL organisation - be there with us on the 5th... and won't any
such person have a serious conflict of interest to deal with (i.e. would he or she be
courageous enough to criticise POL procedures, systems and people if that was
what was justified?).

Anil is on standby and is ready to come on Sept 5th if I give him the nod.

Regards Ron.

From: Kay Linnell (..
Sent: Friday, August 30, 2013
To: 'Ron Warmington’; andy.
Cc: ‘Ian Henderson’; alan.bat
Subject: RE: Anil PANDIT 77>
Sensitivity: Confidential

Absolutely fine by me

Kay

Miss Kay Linnell

Kay Linnell & Co
Brick Kiln Cottage
The Avenue, Herriard

POL-0057239
POLO00060760
POL00060760

Near Basingstoke

Tel/Fax

hire RG2S 2PR
atity to whom itis addr
, copying or distribution is strictly prot

If you are not the

3 andy.holt
Cc: ‘Ian Henderson’; alan. bates
Subject: Anil PANDIT “
Sensitivity: Confidential

In order that we have current SPMR skill available on Thursday and to help Ian and
Tin the Case Study Delivery, and in addition to the excellent Julian Wilson that
Alan is sending along with Kay, I'd like to invite Anil Pandit, the relief postmaster
who's approved to work with 2nd Sight on the investigation. That OK with you? Be
glad to know soonest.

Ron Warmington CFE, FCA
Director

Second Sight support Services Ltd
Tythe Farm

Maugersbury

Cheltenham
Gloucestershire

GL54 1HR

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

See ee ete e tee aettet ter tree tec teeter te centretreetecesettecteresectend

POL-0057239
