POL00407812
POL00407812

From: Jessica Barker;
Sent:
To:
Williamsg.
Sophie
Ce:
Subject: Mediation process maps
Attachment: mediation_process_draft3.ppt
Hello all

I hope everyone had a great Christmas.
Please see attached a draft of the mediation process maps. In the slide deck you will see:
- Slide 1: the mediation process map for the Working Group

- Slide 2: the internal mediation process map for POL only
- Slide 3: the internal tasks which need to be completed by POL (for POL only)

I’ve added animation to the slides so if you view them in slideshow and click through they are broken down in to
stages and should be easier to digest that way.

We want to take the first slide to the Working Group on Friday the 3 of Jan. With that in mind, could you please cast
avery critical eye over all of the slides and highlight any potential problems / issues / additions that you can see? It is
best (and probably easiest for you) if you send your feedback in an email to me, but if you would find it easier to
amend the slides themselves then I have no problem with that. Although the first slide is the most urgent, you will
need to review them all as they are interrelated (so a change on slide 2 or 3 could impact the process as represented
on slide 1).

Please return any feedback to me as soon as possible — if you are able to do so by the end of the day on Monday 30”
December, that would be very helpful.

Angela — you will notice that one stage/task is to identify and prepare POL mediators: please could you advise where
are we with this?

Nicky — could you please start to turn this into a mini project plan with tasks allocated to individuals so we can get a
feel for the scale of the challenge?

Many thanks all, best wishes,

Jess

Jessica Barker

GRO

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.
POL00407812
POL00407812

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
