POL00069056_006
POL00069056_006

Individual Insolvency Register - Print Page Page I of 2

INSOLVENCY
mma SERVICE
wwwweinsoivency.gov.uk

Individual Insolvency Register

Individual Case Details

While every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided is accurate, occasionally
errors may occur. If you identify information which appears to be incorrect or omitted, please inform us
using the feedback links contained within this site, so that we can investigate the matter and correct the
database as required.

The Insolvency Case Details are taken from the Court Order made on the Order Date, and include the
address(es) from which debts were incurred. They cannot be changed without the consent of the Court.

The Individual Details may have changed since the Court Order but, even so, they might not reflect
the person's current address or occupation at the time you make your search, and they should not be
relied on as such.

The Insolvency Service cannot accept responsibility for any errors or omissions as a result of negligence
or otherwise. Please note that The Insolvency Service and Official Receivers cannot provide legal or
financial advice. You should seek this from a Citizen's Advice Bureau, a solicitor, a qualified accountant,
an authorised insolvency practitioner, reputable financial advisor or advice centre.

The Individual Insolvency Register is a publicly available register and The Insolvency Service does not
endorse, nor make any representations regarding, any use made of the data on the register by third
parties.

Report Requested For : HUGHIE NOEL THOMAS
Report for Bankruptcy Case

Individual Details

Surname THOMAS

Forename(s) HUGHIE NOEL

Title . MR ,
Occupation

Date of Birth
Last Known Address

Insolvency Case Details

Case Name HUGHIE NOEL THOMAS
Court Llangefri County Court
Type Bankruptcy

Number il

Case Year “2608

Order Date 24 January 2008

Status Currently Bankrupt : Automatic Discharge will be 24 January 2009 —

FootNote
POL00069056_006
POL00069056_006

Individual Insolvency Register - Print Page Page 2 of 2

* Case Description _HUGHIE NOEL THOMAS I “GRO”

jlately carrying on business as a Postmaster from the Post Office
“elyheadl Road, Gaerwen, Anglesey LL60 6DB

Trading Name POSTMASTER

Trading Address Post Office
Holyhead Road
Gaerwen
Angelsey
LL60 6DB

Insolvency Service Contact Details
Insolvency Service Office Chester
Contact Enquiry Desk
Address

Post Code
Telephone

Footnote The bankrupt’s Discharge Date is in accordance with Section 279(1) of The Insolvency Act as
amended by Section 256 of The Enterprise Act 2002.

Details extracted on 23/9/2008

