POL00103190
POL00103190

Message

From: Tim Parker }

on behalf of — Tim Parker i...

Sent: 14/05/2016 0!

To: Jane MacLeo:

Subject: Re: Post Office - Chairman's review

Thank you Jane. I think there will soon be frustration at the time this is taking (indeed I am also beginning to
get somewhat frustrated) So what is now the projected timetable for completion on the components of the action
list?

Best

Tim

Tim Parker

Chairman
National Trust
20 Grosvenor C

Chairman
Post Office Limited

t, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Chairman
Samsonite International SA
Westerring 17, B-9700 Oudenaarde, Belgium

On Fri, May 13, 2016 at 10:13 AM -0700, "Jane MacLeod" +

Dear Tim
Here is my regular fortnightly update on the progress of your review and the litigation.
Review
e Helpline - In relation to the allegation that our Helpline may have provided incorrect advice to subpostmasters
which resulted in a loss to the accounts, Bond Dickinson (the external firm conducting the work) has now

completed its investigations. Although some investigations were limited because certain records are no longer
available and there were inaccuracies in the information provided by complainants, their draft report reveals

POL-0102773
POL00103190
POL00103190

that there is no evidence to support the allegations that have been made. We are currently reviewing the report
ahead of sharing it with Jonathan Swift to seek his view as to whether it sufficiently discharges his
recommendation in this area, but we are confident that it should.

* — Horizon System — We have had further meetings with Deloitte in relation to the extent of the work necessary to
discharge Jonathan’s 3 recommendations on the testing of Horizon, and they have begun work on the
substantive phase of that work. It is, by its nature, an iterative process in that, dependent on early results,
further decisions then need to be made on whether or not to explore further. To assist us in this process, I have
asked the new Chief Information Officer, Rob Houghton, to review the process undertaken by Deloitte, to sense-
check these further decisions. Our next meeting with Deloitte takes place on 20 May.

® Suspense Accounts — You will recall that Deloitte are also conducting the work, into the existence and nature of
the relationship between POL’s suspense accounts and specific branch accounts over the relevant period. This a
materially different exercise to the IT testing, and I understand that most of the relevant accounting processes
were/are based paper records and manual reconciliations. We will shortly be having a specific meeting with
Deloitte to discuss their progress on this and will be keeping Al Cameron briefed on those discussions.

¢ — Prosecution Practice — Jonathan Swift has confirmed that Brian Altman QC can limit his initial review to those 19
cases presenting the specific features of double charges in question, and decide on the basis of those findings
whether to extend the exercise. That work is ongoing.

Litigation

As I indicated in my last update, we are in the process of preparing a short paper for the May Board which will include,
at a high level, a summary of the legal claim, the likely timescales, and our initial approach for its management. I have
briefed the GE today on these matters.

As ever, should you have any questions, do give me a call.

Kind regards,
Jane

® Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

ECZY 9AQ

POL-0102773
