POL00054252
POL00054252

: <jarnail.a.singh@
: "Thomas Penny" <Périny, Thomas@ GR
RE: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA. GUILOEOR
TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 2010

01/03/2010 10:35

Jarnail,
Thanks for the information, which I've now read through.

I think I can summarise the situation as follows:

1. Ms Misera says initially identified that the sub post office was
short of cash by about £80 - £90K

2. She tried to cover this up while she repaid the loses which she
thought was due to staff theft

3. By the time of the audit in Jan 2008 she was £73K short suggesting °
she had made good about £10K of the losses

4. When she went to court, she saw an article in Computer Weekly
indicating that Horizon was unreliable and decided to jump on the
bandwagon.

5. Note that there is no evidence to support. any of the cases
referenced in the Computer Weekly articles and there is case law showing

the reliability of Horizon. (The case of Marine Drive which I think was
referred to in the Computer Weekly article.)

However I don't see how anything here changes the fact that she falsified
the accounts or that money was missing.

What I still don't understand is exactly what it is that the defence is

claiming in terms of where exactly Horizon might have "lost" this money
rather than her or her staff stealing it. Therefore unless we can get a
clear statement as to exactly what is being looked for and when the system
allegedly made mistakes, I don't think there is anything I can do. (I do
appreciate that it is up to the Prosecution to prove Horizon is reliable
rather than the defence to prove it isn't, but it is always difficult to

prove that there are no errors - particularly over such a long period of
time.)

Surely it is down to the Post Office investigators to get to the bottom of
exactly where there is anything in dispute. At that point I might be able

to assist with some technical knowledge to help interpret the various logs
to support such areas of dispute.

I'll leave Penny to continue the discussions she is currently having with
the Post Office investigators until there is something concrete for me to
investigate.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
POL00054252
POL00054252

Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account
FUJITSU

Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN

Tel: Internal:
(Note new external number -
old number will not work after 31/12/2009)
Mobile:
email: Gareth. Jenkins@_
Web: http: //uk.fujitsu.com

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office
22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents
are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and
amended or that it is virus-free.

-Original Message
From: marilyn. benjaming
] On Behalf Of jarnail.
Sent: 26 February 2010 1)
To: Jenkins Gareth GI
Cc: Thomas Penny
Subject: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 2010

mailto:marilyn.benjamin@ GRO j
weed

Thank you for your E-Mail of today. As per discussions I now enclose:-

1 Copy Case Summary.

2 Copy Indictment

3 Copy Defence Statement

4 Copy of the interview

5 Copy Defence Expert's name is Charles Alistair McLachlan, Staple

Hall, 87-90 Houndsditch, London, EC3A 7AD. Telephone number and mobile to
follow.

It is important that we are pro active on this and that you contact him as
soon as possible with a view to concluding this.

I appreciate all the help and assistance in this case.

I hope the above assists but if you require anything further or wish to
POL00054252
POL00054252

discuss in more detail please telephone me.

(See attached file: 258932AI.doc) (See attached file: 258932 IND.doc) (See
attached file: Defence Statement Scanned.pdf) (See attached file: Interview

- Scanned document .pdf)

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Team

Tel.No

Fax.No:
JESSIE ESSE SSIS TEISIIIISS ISSO IOUOUOUEI IIIS HE
Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

FOI IISIISIOUICISOCSIO ROCIO EIE IESE ISIS ESS HO UES OE SE SE aE Giiiet
