POL00448186

POL00448186

Postmaster Account Support

No. 1 Future Walk
Chesterfield
S49 1PF

Telephone:
Mon to Fri

THIS IS NOT A DEMAND FOR PAYMENT
[Date]

Private and Confidential
Name
Address

Branch Code: XXXXXX
Customer Account: XXXXXXX

Dear XXXXXXXXXX,
Discrepancy for XXXXbranch nameXXXx Post Office® branch

I’m writing to see if we can help you resolve the discrepancy of £xxxx that you have asked
us to review. We've enclosed a statement which we believe is an accurate reflection of
your account with Post Office.

Please get in touch with us by calling my team on “I We'll start by giving
you more information about the entries on your statement and should you require further
help and support we'll make sure that this is made available to you.

Investigating the discrepancy

If you decide to investigate the discrepancy further yourself, please remember that we
publish updates about known Horizon and transaction issues. These can be found on
Branch Hub under, ‘Help and support’.

If you don’t understand the reason for this discrepancy, we can help you to establish the
likely cause of it.

Please follow either of the options below, depending on whether we believe it is a Branch
Discrepancy or a Transaction Correction.

a) Investigating or disputing a branch discrepancy

Your Branch Support Centre, on {_
to identify how the discrepancy happened.

can help you to investigate further

If, between us, we can’t agree on the reason why this discrepancy happened, your
Branch Support Centre will be able to raise a dispute for you.

b) Investigating or disputing a transaction correction

Registered Office Finsbury Dials. 20 Fisbury Steet, London, EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk

Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited

Page 1 of 2

POL00448186
POL00448186

When you received your transaction correction, the team that sent it will have provided
you with their telephone number. If you have a query about the transaction correction,
please contact that number.

If you have already done this, and wish to dispute the transaction correction, the
Transaction Corrections Disputes Team will be able to help. Please contact them at
disputesteam/” ERO Jor call them on

Accepting the discrepancy

If, however, you understand and accept the discrepancy, please contact my team on
“lor at postmasteraccount: GRO j to discuss the best course of action

for you:

e arranging payment, or a refund, of the amount;
* arranging a deduction from your remuneration/fees to cover the amount;
* arranging an instalment plan.

Remember, we’re here to help. Contacting us as soon as possible makes it much easier
for us to support you with your discrepancy, so please get in touch as soon as you can,
and ideally within the next seven days.

Yours sincerely,

Susan Burke

Postmaster Account Support Manager

Enclosures:

Statement

Registered Ofice Finsbury Dials. 20 Finsbury Street London, EC2Y FAQ PostOffice.co.uk

Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited

Page 2 of 2

