POL00242845
POL00242845

From:
Sent:
To:
. I Pamela J Heap),
Woodley{ i
Subject: Kevin's lead team - Service slides
Attachment: Network Business IT Performance 20160620_AG_v1.pptx
All

Please find attached my service slides I was unable to squeeze into the agenda today. There is quite a lot in here and I
doubt with your packed diaries that you will get a chance to review/comment back.

The key take outs for me are as follows;

1. Explanation of the Branch Network (9th June) and SSK Card Payment (14th June) service incidents.

I will forward a separate email on the SSK incident as we are due to receive a RCA tomorrow which will hopefully
provide the reassurances required to turn the management tool link back on.
The Contactless roll out cannot restart until this link is back up.

2. Intermittent Branch Faults

Overall performance is improving however I am arranging full site feasibilities for Birmingham, Sunderland, Leeds
St Johns, Reading and Milton Keynes. These are high profile sites called out by the Network Operations teams.

3. NCR SSK contractual service levels

The Service remains stable with network availability being 99.7% in May (target 98%). As per previous emails, I
was hoping to discuss Kevin’s request to review the impact of returning to a 6 or 12 hour device fix time.

I will ensure this is on the agenda next month as it is not one for email however I have included a new KPI of
Average Response and Resolution times for VIP sites. The actual Average Resolution performance is circa 8 hours
which, with the other benefits we are receiving, I believe is the best aggregated terms for our branches. However
I still would like to discuss as a team.

4. Ingenico stock management

Service level performance is solid with a healthy surplus of stock back in Ingenico which exceeds current demand.
Even though break fix performance appears to exceed service levels, I still would like branch issues i.e. examples
of longer than acceptable time frames, to be fed back to me so I can challenge Ingenico.

5. MoneyGram - Transaction processing

Myself, Rob, Financial Services, Fujitsu and Accenture are meeting with senior IT MoneyGram team on 29" June. I
have taken responsibility for Problem Management of MoneyGram and have various MI now being provided
including MoneyGram network latency, Accenture CDP response times, Fujitsu transaction errors and Atos
incidents all which are an excellent litmus test of component parts of the service.
POL00242845
POL00242845

Latency is steadily decreasing however I am still not comfortable that we have the correct suite of KPIs which best
demonstrates the end to end service is performing well. This will be concluded on the June 29" June and MI
dashboard worked up.

Various improvements have been implemented including, most importantly, a call validation process between the
branch and MoneyGram when the customer is present. This is to ensure the transaction is successfully completed,
monies are processed to the recipient and branch losses are not incurred. Finally please ensure you continue to
feedback branch escalations that suggest problems with the service so they can be part of our service review
process.

Thanks
Andrew Garner
Head of IT Service
Network & Financial Services

Post Office Limited,
Finsbury Dials,

20 Finsbury Street

