POL00116444

POL00116444

From:
Sent:
To:

Cc:

Subject:

Paula Vennellsi_
Wed 09/04/2014 7:

Mark R

Chris M Day,”

Re: Alice

Thanks am not completely clear but think this is where we will spend our time. Just realised I left Mark off the

trail

The debate will need to hear from Mark re handling on 3. Esp when you look at what was said in the House and
in public domain.
Mark any views/steers from you?

Sent from my iPad

On 9 Apr 2014, at 08:42, "Belinda Crowe

Mark has updated us.

We took the term closure out of the option 3 name but still used it in the descriptor. The key difference
between option 3 and 4 is that 3 gives us greater control:

- Second Sight would not be involved

- The working group would be disbanded

Therefore we would take out the cost of second sight (directly and the indirect costs they incur by raising
what we often consider to be spurious issues which have to be responded to)

Speed up the process

Management overhead would reduce

Would be more akin to business as usual

- far fewer cases mediated ( poss saving c£1m)

With Option 4 we would still:

- have a working group

- second sight would still be involved (as members of the working group but could still slow down the
process by raising issues in the same way as they do now). We would still have to negotiate what we
wanted to do and either accept that we either fail or create (or continue) on going tensions with working
group if we assert our authority. Therefore not pain free (and could leave us in Option 3 territory
anyway if members walk)

Therefore most cases would probably be mediated (cost as above)

Best wishes

belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

belinda.crowe
POL00116444
POL00116444

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 09 April 2014 07:59

To: Chris Aujard; Belinda Crowe
Cc: Chris M Day

Subject: Fwd: Alice

Hi there. Fyi. Mark may by now have updated you. But a heads up if not.
Alice's query is the same as mine would be - what's the difference between 3 and 4? (It was why I
suggested to Belinda that you removed the term 'closure' from the original.)

Chris D - where are you on this?
Thx P

Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:

From: Mark R Davies
Date: 8 April 2014 18:
To: Paula Vennells
Subject: Alice

Hi Paula

Alice was pretty relaxed about it. She feels that we will need to bring him in
eventually so fine to do so now as long as we are clear there is more work to be done
on any option.

She was glad though for the call - I don't think she'd considered the point before.

Her view is that we lack strong enough reasons to end the scheme and that we can't
underestimate the parliamentary angle. Essentially, what would our story be if we
took option 3?

She will ask us to do some cost and resource comparisons for the various options - if
for instance we took option 3 how much more painful would it be than option 4 and
is the gap between the two worth the pain etc..

Hope this helps. Happy to discuss of course.

Mark

Sent from my iPhone
