POL00185741
POL00185741

Notes from Second Sight / Post Office meeting 11% March 2013
Attendees: Alwen Lyons, Simon Baker, Ian Henderson, Ron Warmington
Not present: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd, Susan Crichton, , Rod Ismay
Items Discussed:

1. Update on number of cases:
a. 27 MP submitted cases (one has dropped out since last time).
b. 60 JFSA inquires of which, of which documentation came through for 30, of which 19 to 20 will
result in cases.
2. There are eight themes that have emerged from these cases.
3. Spot reviews:
a. Three have been passed to POL for comment.
b. 16 more spot reviews have been documented by Ron, now with Ian to evaluation against the XML
data.
c. John Armstrong case:
i. Very simple incident.
ii. Occurred last year
iii. Customer wanted to pay for a phone bill, while it was being processed there was
a power failure.
Horizon backed out the transaction - without communicating this to the sub-
postmaster
v. For the first time have evidence Horizon has done something without reporting to the sub-
postmaster
vi. These incidents seem to be limited to power or communication failures.
vii. Some evidence that sub-postmasters have raised these type of issues with the
Post Office but Post Office have fobbed off the sub-postmaster (eg of letter from Andy
Winn)
viii We can expect to receive this spot review by the end of this week.
d. POLs response to Spot Reviews need to be able to stand up on their own - understandable by MPs
without background knowledge

iv,

4. Meeting with MPs on the 25"
a. James Arbuthnot has written to Alice asking her to the meeting and to bring colleagues if required.
b. The PR/comms meeting has been arranged for the 21* March 4pm, in 148.
c. Themes: Ian to mention them but not go into detail

5. Actions

a. Previous Actions:

Ian to e-mail Simon the general issues that the investigation will be focusing on.- Closed

Simon to set up 2 meeting with Alwen, Alana, Mark Davies, Susan, Ron, Ian to discuss PR

- Closed
b. New Actions

i. Simon to

fe Angela to the comms meeting on the 21% March

ii. Alwen to discuss with Alice the confidentiality conditions of the MPs meeting and
her status/role at the meeting

iii. Tan to discuss with Janet the confidenti
meeting

iv. Simon to contact Angela about the Armstrong case, and determine if she
happy for it to be processed as a spot review

y conditions for the MPs
