POL00167382
POL00167382

Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

°
POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF POST OFFICE LIMITED HELD ON TUESDAY 26 MAY
2020 AT 20 FINSBURY STREET, LONDON EC2Y 9AQ BY CONFERENCE CALL AT 11:00 AM?

Present: Tim Parker Chairman (TP)
Nick Read Group Chief Executive Officer (NR)
Ken McCall Senior Independent Director (KM)
Tom Cooper Non-Executive Director (TC)
Carla Stent Non-Executive Director (CS)
Zarin Patel Non-Executive Director (ZP)
Lisa Harrington Non-Executive Director (LH)
Alisdair Cameron Group Chief Finance Officer (AC)
In attendance: Veronica Branton Group Company Secretary (VB)
Max Jacobi Head of Financial Performance and Analysis (MJ)
(Item 5.)
Dan Zinner Group Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer (DZ)
(Items 5. & 7.)
Owen Woodley Group Chief Commercial Officer (OW) (Items 6. & 7.)
Chrysanthy Pispinis Director, Post Office Money (CP) (Item 7.)
Jonathan Allen Digital Briefing session from AWS (JA)
Jeff Smyth Interim Chief Information Officer (JS) (Digital briefing
session)
Julie Thomas Operations Director (JT) (Item 8.)
Ben Foat Group General Counsel (BF) (Item 8.)
Zoe Brauer Head of Legal, Retail (ZB) (Item 8.)
Catherine Emanuel Herbert Smith Freehills (CE) (Item 8.)
Alan Watts Herbert Smith Freehills (AW) (Item 8.)
Action
1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest

‘A quorum being present, the Chairman opened the meeting. The Directors declared that they had no
conflicts of interest in the matters to be considered at the meeting in accordance with the
requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's Articles of Association.

2. Minutes of Previous Board meetings (08"" April 2020, 17" April 2020, 27" April 2020 and 14° May
2020) including Status Report

The Board APPROVED the minutes of the Board meetings held on 08" April, 17" April, 27" April and
14" May 2020.

The Board NOTED progress with the completion of actions as shown on the action log. The majority
of actions were to close but where they remained open we needed to confirm dates for coming back

to Board.
3. Committee updates (verbal)
3.1 ARC

Carla Stent reported that the ARC had approved the Internal Audit Plan and Charter at its meeting on
19 May 2020. The Terms of Reference review had been completed and the Committee evaluation
report discussed. The Committee was encouraged by the good response to Covid-19 and had noted
the risks as we moved from the crisis phase into the re covery stage. Branch Hub had gone live and
the majority of Post masters should have registered by the end of June 2020. The Committee had
considered our approach to situations where we were required to provide evidence to support law
enforcement and Ben Foat would be undertaking further work on this to reflect a number of points
raised by the Committee. The ARC had agreed that the top 145 contracts should be reviewed and the

1 participation in the meeting was entirely via Microsoft Teams from participants’ personal addresses. In such
circumstances the Company's Articles of Association (Article 64) require that the location of the meeting be
deemed as the chairman’s location. However, it was not deemed appropriate to record personal addresses on
the Company record. As such, the Registered Office is recorded as the meeting location.

Page 1 of 10

POL Board Minutes for Signature-28/07/20 1 of 29

POL-0161322
Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

2 of 29

°

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

balance of 1,500 should be renewed in the normal course of business. Exceptions to compliant
procurement processes would be coming to the Board for approval.

Performance and current issues
CEO Report

Nick Read introduced his report and highlighted how we had been dealing with the Covid -19 situation
and were planning to move to the recovery phase. We felt that our relationship with Postmasters
was continuing to improve with 5,800 now registered on Branch Hub which provided a better
mechanism for staying in touch and providing support. There had been week-on-week improvements
in the network, including opening hours and the number of branches open. Our assumption was that
the travel market would start to reopen in the next couple of months. There had been green shoots
in insurance trading. Bills Payments stood at 60% of normal trading volumes while Telco remained
flat. The Verify volumes continued to rise, linked to the uptake in Universal Credit. We would be
entering a more complicated phase as we moved to return to office work. A survey was going to be
sent to employees to gauge concerns and to help inform how we should roll out the return to some
office working. We did not envisage a rapid return to the office and certainly not before July 2020.

In our strategy paper we had tried to bring together Purpose, Strategy and Growth outputs with the
NEO work programmes and the overlay of Covid-19 and the litigation position.

A number of initiatives had been pursued to support our vulnerable customers.

John Manzoni was remaining in government to support the digital identity ag enda and we would be
having conversations with his team in June 2020.

Nick Read had been speaking with John Ashworth, the form er CEO of Collect+ about Bills Payments
and how the Payzone network could be used which would link into our strategy discussions and how
we should define a Post Office.

The approach to Postmaster remuneration during the Covid -19 crisis appeared to have been right,
with no big major reaction to the approach we were proposing for June 2020. There had been fairly
limited calls on the hardship scheme so far. Nevertheless, there was a challenging industrial relations
position ahead of us with difficult conversa tions required with the unions and criticism anticipated
with the resumption of DMB franchising.

Discussions with the Royal Mail Group (RMG) continued but had been slower than anticipated over
the last two weeks. RMG would nevertheless want to use their results notifications in mid-June 2020
to announce a new deal with Post Office.

The quarterly Shareholder meeting had taken place on 30" April 2020 and subsequent meetings with
the Minister at which the “good bank/ bad bank” idea had been noted. We did not yet have a date
for the reconvened BEIS Select Committee on Horizon issues.

There had been an erroneous story in the Sunday Mirror about a Post Office re -branding spend for
which we had sought a correction. The Radio 4 Series on the “Great Post Office Tr ial” had started on
25 May 2020 but had not included any issues of which we had been unaware. We were anticipating a
busy week especially if the Minister made his statement in relation to a public inquiry on Post Office
and the Horizon issues.

A number of points were raised, including:

© Zarin Patel asked whether we were concerned about the health of our partners, noting the
revenue declines suffered by WHSmith during the Covid -19 crisis. Nick Read reported that the
CEO of WHSmith had requested a meeting last week. The company had raised an additional
£150m at the start of crisis and their Post Office customer satisfaction scores had improved.
We had carried out some contingency planning around partners, especially in relation to
McColls, although their position had improved

* Tom Cooper reported that the terms of reference (ToR) for the Post Office inquiry were likely to
cover, 1) a) Has Post Office learnt lessons from the case and the judgments. b) Are there
processes in place to make sure this does not happen again 2) Have Postmasters been able to
tell their side of the story on the case. The ToR would have to be approved by th e Cabinet,
Office but were likely to be issued this week. There could be a further inquiry if this review was
principally future focussed.

Page 2 of 10

POL Board Minutes for Signature-28/07/20

POL00167382
POL00167382

POL-0161322
POL00167382

POL00167382

Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

°

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

* Ken McCall asked about the functionality of Branch Hub and whether any reconciliations went
through this system. It was reported that Branch Hub was largely a communications tool at the
moment and was driving down call centre volumes. KM noted that it was an excellent
development and that it would be helpful to understand all of the operational developments as
we moved forward. NR agreed that the executive could bring Branch Hub and how it was going
to be used back to the Board and show how it will drive greater efficiency NR

* Tom Cooper asked about the pay review situation and discussions with the CWU. NR reported
that we had our quarterly meeting with CWU on 9 June 2020 and they were aware that we
were suspending the pay review as we worked through the implications of Covid -19. There
were likely to be some difficult conversations but most people would understand that this was
not the right time to make pay rises, while individual organisations needed to be able to justify
the decisions they made on bonuses. Al Cameron noted that front line staff were p aid more
than the market rate but that we had supported honouring the frontline bonuses and there was
a distinction between an operational incentive and a bonus.

Financial Performance Report

The Chairman welcomed Dan Zinner and Max Jacobi to the meeting. Al Cameron introduced the
report, noting that our trading position was recovering quicker than anticipated although there was
minimal business in Foreign Exchange and Travel while FRES was assuming a budget of zero at year
end. We had made a successful start to cost reductions and the security headroom position had been
positive at the end of P1. We would be seeking an extension of the May 2020 waiver to June 2020 for
the BEIS/ Santander inter-creditor security. Santander would be willing to waive the arrangement if
we moved to next day payments. That timetable was likely to be tied to the PCI compliance work. We
had submitted a 6 month waiver on security headroom and in respect of branch nu mbers. A number
of conditions applied to the waiver but we had sought to increase the Change spend limit from

£120m to £150m to build in redundancy payments. When we had remodelled the 2020/21 budget to
include redundancy and DMB franchising costs following the decisions at the Board meeting on 14
May 2020 but we had run up against security headroom problems again so had only included a
budget of £15m for DMBs for the meantime, recognising the Board’s wish to accelerate were this
possible.

We knew that it would be imperative to put in place the right incentives for the banks to want to sign
up to Banking Framework 3.

A number of questions were raised, including:

* Tim Parker asked whether Post Office’s trading position had been less severely affected than
many other types of business? Al Cameron confirmed that this was the case and that the trends
were picking up week-by-week though we expected Travel to have a much longer recovery
period. Enabling banks to move more business to us would be critical to the success of Banking
Framework 3

* Ken McCall asked for confirmation that we had 52 people in group marketing. This was
confirmed. We were reducing the overall marketing budget and had reduced discretionary spend
significantly but had not made any redundancies yet as these costs had not been built into the
plan and we needed to assess where the capabilities lay. KM noted that we needed to look at the
ratios but also be sure that there was correct categorisation as the overhead numbers seemed to
be out of kilter. AC agreed that was the case and that over the medium term we were proposing
that our overhead numbers drop to around 1,600 FTE. We were considering the ti mings of our
announcements on redundancies with the aim of completing a significant tranche by the end of
the calendar year. However, this would not be an approach of cutting across the board because
we needed to put in place automation to facilitate some of the reductions. Tim Parker noted that
it was also worth looking at where information and reporting was adding value versus those
things we could do without which equally applied to marketing spend

Lisa Harrington noted that we needed to understand our IT capability needs clearly. AC
concurred as this was the biggest area of non-staff costs outside agent remuneration and the
hardest area for us to find comparators which was why we had avoided including overly
ambitious targets for IT spend reductions. IT salaries were also a challenge

* Carla Stent asked why the trading profit figure in the 2020/21 budget had moved down from
£13m to £11m. Al Cameron reported that a few upward changes had been made including how
bonuses were provisioned

Page 3 of 10
POL Board Minutes for Signature-28/07/20 3 of 29

POL-0161322
Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

4 of 29

°

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

© Tim Parker asked whether our revenue was likely to decline significantly with Banking Framework
3. Al Cameron thought that possible or that revenue would be comparable but that we wou Id
have to deliver more. TP suggested that this needed to be factored into our understanding of
network requirements. Tom Cooper noted that we had recognised that we would need to make
cost reductions when putting Banking Framework 2 in place and we might need to think
differently about structure to give banks some certainty about their costs as cash demands
reduced or offer the service on a regulated basis. We also needed to know how many branches
banks wanted us to deliver to

* Carla Stent asked what measures we needed to consider to make Banking Framework 3 attractive
to the banks. Nick Read reported that we had a number of meetings set up at a senior level with
the banks over the next few weeks to explore this, and with HM Treasury on what strategic role
we could play as a cash utility. Natalie Ceeney, Independent Chair, Access to Cash Review,
thought we needed to independently broker Banking Framework 3 to understand the banks’
needs fully.

Strategy and updates
Telecoms
The Chairman welcomed Owen Woodley and Meredith Sharples to the meeting.

Owen Woodley introduced the paper. Negotiations on the request for proposals (RFP) had continued
until 25 May 2020 because of the condition precede nt clause and the lawyers wanting to be sure that
we had mitigated the risk of commercial misrepresentation if we sign ed the RFP and did not proceed
with its implementation. However, it was noted that we had been clear with TalkTalk throughout the
process that we wanted to proceed with a sale. If we did not sell, we would proceed with the RFP.
Meredith Sharples reported that we had worked on the assumption that a sale would go ahead while
the contract with Fujitsu was in operation.

A number of points were raised, including:

* Tom Cooper sought confirmation that the draft budget for 2020/21 did not include provision for
the REP implementation costs and this was confirmed. TC advised that this was a short window
in which to sell the business and that BEIS and HM Treasury could find these timelines difficult
to accommodate. Cooperation would also be needed from Fujitsu to make the timetable viable

© Carla Stent noted that the Fujitsu relationship had been raised at the ARC on 19 May 2020 and
that Jeff Smyth, ClO, would be preparing a paper for the Board on this issue. The Fujitsu CEO
had recently indicated that they would like to explore a structured early exit agreement. A
principles document was being drawn up over the next 2 to 3 weeks

* Lisa Harrington asked whether FirstSource was UK based and Meredith Sharples confirmed that
it was. LH was surprised by the PJT advice that the telecoms business was operating largely as
usual and thought this opinion might need to be tested as well as working timings back from the
February 2021 break given how restricted a timeframe this was. LH also noted that it was
unusual for the client to pay for the transition costs. MS explained that the distinction was that
we were asking TalkTalk for a fully managed service. The cost of the switch should be minimal as
the customers were already on the TalkTalk network. LH asked whether we had considered the
impact on our own teams of managing two contractors and whether we had the capability to do
this. MS reported that we would be employing two contract managers in the team. The Board
noted the need to start the sale process as soon as feasible.

The Board APPROVED

© the Telecoms Request For Proposal (RFP) contract key terms

‘* submission to the Shareholder of the RFP contract key terms for approval

‘* delegated authority to the CEO and Chief Commercial Officer to proceed to contract signature
with TalkTalk and FirstSource once shareholder approval had been received

© £0.4m of additional spend in relation to the sales process, subject to sign -off of the business case
by the executive’s Investment Committee.

Digital briefing session from AWS

Jonathan Allen provided a presentation to the Board on cloud migration.

Page 4 of 10

POL Board Minutes for Signature-28/07/20

POL00167382
POL00167382

POL-0161322
POL00167382
POL00167382

Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

°

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

Strategy & Vision Update

Nick Read explained that the purpose of the paper was to provide clarity on how the Purpose,
Strategy and Growth work (PSG), NEO and the post-Covid and litigation cost worlds fitted together.
The funding requirements, how these could be achieved and the issues that needed to be resolved
were being worked through for discussion at the July strategy sessions. We were setting out a
strategic framework for a highly effective franchise business.

Dan Zinner explained that we wanted to confirm with the Board that these were the right questions
and areas of focus, discuss the purpose and vision and note the challenges of capacity and capability.

The historical position, market challenges and our core response to this had been considered by the
Board through the PSG outputs in January 2020. These outputs were still valid but Covid -19 had
accelerated the challenges and reinforced our purpose as a commercial business which also had a
social purpose, while the litigation position had further constrained our funding envelope. NEO
included six areas of strategic focus and the questions which needed to be addressed for each work
programme.

The strategic framework was designed to align views on where and how our energy and resources
should be focussed. It was split into the three areas: Re -setting and fixing the past; Building the
Foundations for POL; and, Creating a self-sustaining future commercial business

The draft purpose was “nobody gets left behind” and to support this it was proposed that the specific
access criteria included having Mails and Bills Payments at every post office but no prescribed
network numbers. It also meant forging the right relationships with Postmasters with the right
contracts. Addressing network issues through franchising DMBs, strengthening IT, right -sizing the
business and making sure that the commercial drivers, such as the shape of the Banking Framework
and the product sets, were right. The paper included a table with the topics for Board discussion in
June and July (regular Board and Strategy sessions) and September 2020.

The Chairman noted that the paper was a useful advance on the last Board discussion but the core
structure was the same so it would be helpful to focus on the main issues and establish which the
Board saw as uncontentious and which required further consideration and debate.

The Board discussed the issues in turn:

Purpose ~ it was noted that this was an internal purpose, rather than a marketing strapline.
However, the consensus was that the purpose should not be a negative statement and needed to be
more progressive and inspirational. We also needed to remember our SME audience. We were the
most accessible network in the UK with branches and services across the country. Nick Read noted
that there were political drivers for “levelling up” and we needed to fuse the political will for this with
our social purpose and commercial and SME market

Resolving the past - the Board was supportive of this approach. Tom Cooper noted that this was not
just an issue for government, it was also about making the organisation fit for purpose for the future.
This was agreed but linked into the relationship, representation and contr act with Postmasters

Fit for purpose network — we had the option to close the DMBs which would provoke a union
reaction and be unpopular with some MPs and parts of the media. We had to be clear as a Board
that we should be developing a franchise business and moving away from managing DMBs. Al
Cameron noted that we might nevertheless want the flexibility to run a post office in certain
circumstances, such as putting our staff in a community store if that was required to keep it running.
The Board supported closing the DMB network and accelerating as fast as funding allowed. Tom
Cooper noted that key questions for the network included space requirements, automation and how
we delivered the changes required in a cost-effective way. Nick Read noted that having DMB staff
also increased our central costs but we would need to navigate the opposition to closure carefully
Right-sizing the business — the Board supported this approach strategically and noted that it was
intertwined with the shape of the network. Lisa Harrington noted that we had to be pragmatic about
our ability to attract the right talent given the limitations within which we operat ed and would need
to think about re-training. Zarin Patel thought we needed to address what we saw as the purpose of
the corporate centre and what we wanted it to deliver. Were we trying to deliver the same functions
as now at a lower cost or something different? Nick Read explained that we did not have internal
capability across all functions currently and were operating as a hybrid of outsourced and internally
run. Carla Stent reflected that we needed to think about the key enablers such as IT because
patching up the existing model would not work so it would be helpful to understand our options for
delivering these changes. Ken McCall noted that there were around 480 fiel d based employees and it

Page 5 of 10

POL Board Minutt

for Signature-28/07/20 5 of 29

POL-0161322
POL00167382
POL00167382

Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

6 of 29

°

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

would be helpful to understand what they did now and what they would be doing in the future. Al
Cameron observed that our corporate clients were our most important customers but our
relationship managers were often fairly junior staff and we did not have a high standard of contract
management in place currently. That would need to change. In addition, the Senior management
team was spread too thinly and their remit needed to be simplified to provide the right focus in the
right areas. Tim Parker noted that where investment was needed there may be some difficul t
choices. We needed a fundamental change in the culture of the organisation and the Board was
supportive of a major reduction in the staff costs for the organisation

Network strategy — we had to meet the current Shareholder requirements until and unless different
targets were agreed. Fundamental questions included whether there should there be a target
number of branches and product targets (our proposal was that Mails and Bills Payments services
should be offered in all branches). Tom Cooper thought that the strategy could be broken down ina
different way: a) the network we want to run commercially b) the network that would have to be
paid for by the tax payer. Making these positions plain provided a clearer choice for Ministers. Tim
Parker agreed that we needed to make clear our service obligation to Government. If Government
wanted us to keep open more branches they could be given a menu of options such as offering cash
but TP was concerned that we were trying to present ourselves as a social purpos e organisation that
therefore should be supported by the state, rather than a commercial organisation that provided
some services which delivered a social purpose. TC noted that the deal with the Royal Mail Group
would drive certain obligations and we would also have to operate some branches which were
unprofitable to be attractive to clients. Al Cameron commented that there could be more Post Office
outlets providing PUDO through the Payzone network which would give us more flexibility. From a
commercial perspective we would not offer cash at every Post Office. Dan Zinner noted that we
wanted to have a narrow universal offering of Mails and Bills Payments Services but have the
flexibility to add on cash to deliver a social purpose where this was required . The requirement for the
universal provision of a wide range of services added to our costs substantially. It would also help us
to attract Postmasters if we could offer them a menu of services to choose from. TC noted that the
social obligation was primarily connected to the provision of cash rather than mails which was driven
by the RMG obligation? but that BEIS understood that cash requirements were changing. Lisa
Harrington observed that Post Office’s uniqueness was our network scale and we needed to make
sure that we had the right partners. Dan Zinner noted that we were investigating being able to offer
different pricing structures which would be important for the services we wanted to offer. TP noted
that we would need to have a reasoned discussion about managing a sensible network of a suitable
scale. Even a reduced network would be much larger compared with others and we could not retain
uncommercial branches which were not funded to deliver particular services. The Board would need
to see a clear set of options for the network in June 2020, including what happened to costs as you
added or retracted services or reduced branch numbers. Al Cameron noted that there would
inevitably be elements of the strategy we adopted now that turned out to be wrong in some respects
or needed to be adjusted in a few years’ time. For this reason it would be preferable to move away
from a fixed set of rules and build in flexibility to be able to adapt to changing circumstances. It was
agreed that this also needed to be part of the RMG contract discussions. TC reported that the BEIS
view was that a public consultation was likely to be required to change the access criteria. The
response to proposals to reduce branch numbers was likely to be less adverse if we co uld show that
the access criteria that would still be met. Preparatory work was needed to get answers to questions
Ministers were likely to be asked on the impact of removing some of the SGE Is. DZ noted that we
would make sure this was addressed in the June and July Board sessions on the network

Cash supply chain — we needed to review the cash supply chain from a cost perspective, which to
some extent tied into the size of the network. We could write a flexible contract on delivery numbers
with an external supplier. We were reasonably efficient in how we operated the service now but
were reviewing potential efficiencies and outsourcing again. Outsourcing would not be
uncontroversial but if we retained the current redundancy provisions would be less con tentious. Ken
McCall noted that should be following the principle of consolidating the cash supply into the network
on one platform

Fujitsu/ Horizon—- we needed to assess our options. There were opportunities for transformation but
we were circumscribed by costs of doing so. The work supported by McKinsey on exit strategies had
begun and Lisa Harrington was participating in a deep dive to look at these. Nick Read reported that

it was explained that a branch network number was not include d in the contract with RMG but the
requirement linked to RMG being able to deliver its Universal Service Obligation.
Page 6 of 10

POL Board Minutt

for Signature-28/07/20

POL-0161322
POL00167382
POL00167382

Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

°

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

we were holding discussion with Fujitsu and there were no arguments against lo oking at these
options. Tim Parker suggested that in structuring our IT for the future, one of the way s of making our
franchise more attractive was to have a simple, bolt-on IT component and that a key part of the
strategy had to be making us one of the simplest franchises of which to be part. Lisa Harrington noted
that there were options which entailed a business model change not just an IT change. Dan Zinner
noted that we also wanted to hold Fujitsu to account for the work they needed to deliver under the
contract

Cash Market - Tim Parker noted a substantial piece of work was needed to define the Banking
Framework 3 proposition for the banks. It had to be attractive to both parties as we remained the
largest remaining player in a declining market for cash. Tom Cooper noted t hat we had to maximise
the benefits of being part of this market because it was not a market we could exit because of our
social purpose. Carla Stent thought that we needed to be able to help the banks solve some of the
problems they faced

Financial Services - Tom Cooper noted that our plans for Financial Services (FS) were not prominent
in the strategy. Nick Read explained that the main focus here was on cash and banking and included
the foreign exchange debit card. TC asked what we were trying to offer customers in the FS space
and what a coherent FS strategy would look like for Post Office. NR reported that Travel was a key
element. We had renegotiated the deal with the Bank of Ireland (Bol) but were unclear what that
relationship was going to be in longer term. We had included FRES for prioritisation but not the
question of the wider Bol relationship but we knew that they were losing money on their deal with
Post Office currently. We would be reverting to the Board with options for insurance, potent ially for
divestment. TC noted that Post Office was trusted for the savings accounts it offered. Owen
Woodley explained that we could not envisage there being a partner in the current environment that
could make a profit through offering a savings account via Post Office

Mails and Pick Up and Drop Off (PUDO) market — Ken McCall noted that he would favour pursuing
the development of a PUDO strategy as we had the network scale and facilities to operate in this
market and aim to be the PUDO operator with the largest market share in UK. This was a growth
option for us. Amazon would be one of the major players in this market so understanding the
partnering opportunities would be useful

Financial model/ financial projections it was noted that the financial model would take shape as
some of the other decisions were reached. However, all of the strategic elements would need to be
brought together in a set of financial projections. Tim Parker noted that w hile we had strategic intent
we were lacking the numbers and it would be important to define the value in areas such as the Mails
strategy. Al Cameron reported that we would bring these numbers to the July Board meeting and
align this with the Government spending process. We were likely to need conversations with HM
Treasury as well as BEIS. Tom Cooper suggested that it might be necessary to work with the figures
following the discussions at the Board Meeting on 14 May 2020 and have a separate conversation
about the longer term requirements. AC noted that we would work as fast as possible to enable
these conversations to take place and were working with o ur current view of the post 14°" May 2020
figures which would have to be adjusted as the strategy is firmed up. TP thought the Board would
need to see the financial results we could achieve once all of the savings and other strategies had
been agreed, absent the PUDO and Travel strategy, but including running the network in a different
way.

The Chairman summarised the conclusions of the discussion:

- Post Office was a commercial business with a social purpose

- We wanted to remove the management of historical litigation decisions (GLO and Starling) from
the present day business

- We wanted to reset our relationship with Postmasters with a fair contract that invo ved them as
part of a fully franchised network

- We would right-size the business as fast as possible

- We would explore our subsidiary element options for FRES and Post Office Insurance

- We would investigate the FRES and travel opportunities further

- We would investigate options for outsourcing supply chain

- We wanted to exit the Fujitsu contract fully or partially

- We would remain in cash and wanted to understand the network requirements to do this and
achieve a successful outcome for Banking Framework 3

- Our scope to develop profitably in the digital identity market remained in question

Page 7 of 10

POL Board Minutt

for Signature-28/07/20 7 of 29

POL-0161322
8.2

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

We wanted to operate a smaller network that cost less but many questions still had to be
addressed to enable these proposals to be delineated

- Further discussions would be needed on funding requirements
We needed to rule out more and focus on a few core elements.

The Board NOTED the paper.
Post GLO - Subject to Legal Privilege

Post GLO Settlement Programme Update

The Chairman welcomed Ben Foat, Kate Emanuel, Alan Watts, Julie Thomas and Zoe Brauer to the
meeting.

Part of this work would be scoping the first phase of the
programme so the total budget had yet to be defined. Alan Watts reported that the costs for phase 1
should not exceed £50k. Tom Cooper reported that Tim McInnes at UKGI was going to consider what
would be needed to take forward this piece of work and the Board AGREED that HSF should be
involved if needed to once we had received Tim McInnes’ thoughts.

The Board:
* NOTED the status updates provided on the Post GLO Settlement Programme work streams
in the report
© NOTED the next steps for each work stream
© NOTED and APPROVED the terms of Sir David Calvert-Smith’s engagement
© AGREED that the cost of the legal advice received should be included in the Board update reports.

Postmaster Contracts and Policies

Julie Thomas introduced the report which provided an update on operational improvements and on

the work on Postmaster contracts, which the Board had asked to see in more detail. JT explained that

the work on contracts had a number of parts

* what we had done with new Postmaster contracts to align these with the findings of the Common
Issues judgment. This had entailed codification to update the relevant clauses

* how the judgment had impacted the contract of existing Postmasters. For these contracts we
wanted to issue a restatement but this used legal language so we had been discussing the idea of
having a Support Charter with the NFSP, which would set out in lay language what the judgment
meant

* the position with circa 600 Postmasters who did not have contractual obligations in place. In
these case:

This risk was a pre-existing risk but the question of how we dealt with it and the sequencing
remained to be resolved
* work on policies which had been redrafted to comply with the judgment s.

It was noted that the documents were GDPR compliant.

JT noted thatI
This report would be shared with the Board.

Page 8 of 10

POL00167382
POL00167382

BF/CE/AW

POL-0161322
Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

9.2

°

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

A number of points were raised, including:

* Zari Patel asked about the status of the Support Charter. Julie Thomas reported that the Support
Charter was intended to be a public document

* Ken McCall asked whether we had defined what constituted “adequate training”. KM thought
that we needed to set out Post Office’s commitment to specifics like the number of days’ training
provided, drawing on best practice principles. JT confirmed that we intended to include that sort

of information in the Charter. KM also noted that the wording used such as the description of the

Horizon system as “reasonably fit for purpose” was not helpful. JT explained that we had used
Justice Fraser’s words from the judgments but wanted to bring to life in the Support Charter the
actions we had taken to address the findings. We had, for example, been transparent about
where bugs had been identified in the system and communicated the issue and the fix to
Postmasters

«it was noted that the contract re-statement would need to use Justice Fraser’s wording. Ben Foat
explained that we would issue the contract re-statement to make sure we complied with the
judgments. In due course we would also look at modernising, automating and improving the
contracts. Ken McCall asked how we could ensure that our operational processes sa tisfied the
requirements of the judgments. BF thought that this could be set out in an underlying document
and would ask for the team to consider this further

* Tom Cooper suggested that we take more time to consider the contracts and the underpinning
policies. There we a number of fundamental issues that needed to be addressed and the
contracts and policies also needed to be operable for the business

* Ken McCall noted that we needed to be able to show what we had in place to properly investigate

any losses now and what we proposed to do in the future. Carla Stent noted that we needed to
be able to confirm how we complied with all of the points that had to be addressed.

The Board AGREED that a revised paper should be produced building in the points raised by the
Board; this could be added to the agenda for one of the CCRC Board calls. Any further points should
be sent to Julie Thomas.

Approvals
PCI-DSS Compliance Business Case

Carla Stent noted that the funding request had increased the original budget spend by 84%. We
needed to be clear on our costings and numbers. Other Board Directors concurred with this view and
it was noted that successful change spend management was one of the key performance measures.
Zarin Patel noted that there were a number of risks associated with the project and we needed to
build in contingency and assurance to project costs. It was felt that there were lessons to be learnt
and we should revisit these as the project came to a close.

The Board RESOLVED to APPROVE additional funding of £7.2m for the PCI DSS Compliance
programme, taking total expenditure to £15.8m.

Procurement exceptions

The Board discussed Appendix 2 — CCS Panel for Management Consulting where retrospective
approval was sought for a variation to the appointment process for a CCS Panel for Management
Consulting. This had been approved by GE in February 2020 but it was felt that as consulting
engagements would flow through this arrangement approval should be sought from the Board. Tom
Cooper reported that a number of questions had been raised in relation to this by the UKGI
procurement experts and it was AGREED that Al Cameron would discuss these points with Tom
Cooper and bring back the proposal to the next Board meeting.

The Board APPROVED:

‘* the revised approval process for procurement risk exceptions, under which all proposed
Procurement Risk Exceptions would be submitted for Board approval prior to being entered into,
irrespective of value and/or legal risk but with delegated authority granted to GE for emergency
Covid 19 procurement activity which fell under PCR Regulation C32.2.c. In addition, a quarterly
report would be provided to Board on all planned Procurement Pipeline activity which would
include planned route to market, projects at risk of exception and key dependencies.

the risk exceptions as set out in the following appendices:

Appendix 1 - PREN 11 ~ GLO Stamps Review

Page 9 of 10

POL Board Minutes for Signature-28/07/20

POL00167382

POL00167382
BF
All
AC/TC
9 of 29

POL-0161322
Tab 1 Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

10 of 29

10.1

10.2

10.3

10.4

11.

12.

®

POST OFFICE LIMITED BOARD MEETING
Strictly Confidential

Retrospective approval of an award of a new statement of work under the MSA to KPMG (n.b. the
figure included in the paper had been corrected from to £47k to £ 107k). The Board also
DELEGATED AUTHORITY for future low value [<£189k] work required to support GLO activity
where speed was imperative and/or panel firms were conflicted out

Appendix 3 - Common Digital Platform

Approval to proceed to extend an existing extension option, beyond the period of

compliance.

Noting and governance items
Health & Safety Report

Al Cameron reported that we were discussing the risks around branches operating as the lockdown
restrictions began to lift.

The Board NOTED the Health & Safety Report.
Sealings

The Board APPROVED the affixingof the Common Seal of the Company to the documents set out
against itemsnumber 1931 to 1954 inclusive in the seal register.

Future Meeting Dates
The future meeting dates were NOTED.
Forward Agenda

This included the items set out in the Strategy & Vision Update paper, including the shape of the July
Strategy sessions.

The forward agenda was NOTED.
Any other Business

There being no other business the Chairman declared the meeting closed at 16.00 hrs.
Date of next scheduled meeting

Additional meeting arranged for 30 June 2020. Next scheduled meetings 28 & 29 July 2020.

06/08/2020

CHAIRMAN DATE

Page 10 of 10

POL Board Minutes for Signature-28/07/20

POL00167382
POL00167382

POL-0161322
Voting Results for Board Minutes - 26.05.2020

The signature vote has been passed. 1 votes are required to pass the vote, of which 0 must be independent.

Vote Response

Count (%)

POL00167382
POL00167382

For 1 (100%)
Against 0 (0%)
Abstained 0 (0%)
Not Cast 0 (0%)
Voter Status
Name Vote Voted On
Parker, Tim For 26/08/2020 12:20

POL-0161322
