POL00145835

POL00145835
From: Charles Colquhounf_
Sent: Tue 06/08/2013 11
To: Rodric Williams! GRO. I
Subject: FW: Potential notification of claim again Post Office Lt's Professional Indemnity (PI) Insurance in

view of Horizon issues

Regards
Charles

Charles Colquhoun I Head of Corporate Finance

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V SHQ

From: matthew.harvi
Sent: 05 August 2013

To: Charles Col¢
Ce: Mark.Hickst
Subject: Potential notification of claim again Post Office Lt'
issues

jh

(PI) Insurance in view of Horizon

Charles,

It was good to speak to you and everyone else on Friday. It was a particularly constructive conversation and we
certainly gained a greater understanding of the issue.

One of the items that required following up was to detail exactly what could be covered by your PI insurance and also
what underwriters consider they are giving cover for.

Having reviewed all of the papers, we wanted to outline the challenges we might have in notifying this as a potential
circumstance to insurers (if indeed this is what PO are considering).

Firstly, it is clear that the original request for PI insurance was in response to contractual requirements made by the
government in respect of the DVLA contract. The proposal form completed for the placement of this insurance and
subsequent correspondence from PO specifically confirmed that cover was required in respect of work carried out by
the “Government Services team” and, strictly speaking, this is the basis upon which insurers are providing cover.

In addition to the above, another potential problem to having any notification successfully accepted under your PI
policy is that of first awareness. During our discussions with you on Friday and reading through the Second Sight
Interim report, it is apparent that the problems with the Horizon system and the resultant issues with the sub-
postmasters had occurred prior to the inception date of the PI policy and therefore, under it’s strictest terms, any
claims arising from this “known” issue would be excluded from cover.

Notwithstanding the above Charles, if you would like us to make formal notification to insurers then we will of course
do so and do everything we possibly can to have insurers accept it as a valid notification under your policy. However,
for the reasons detailed above, we feel it prudent to advise you that in our professional capacity, this is going to be
difficult.
POL00145835
POL00145835

I trust the above is useful to you but if you would like any further clarification of anything, please do let me know.
Regards

Matt

For Miller's standard client terms of business, please visit : www.miller-insurance.com/About-us/Terms-of-
business.aspx

This e-mail and any attachments are confidential. If you have received this e-mail in error, please delete it
immediately. Thank you.

Miller Insurance Services LLP, Dawson House, 5 Jewry Street, London EC3N 2PJ. Registered number OC301468.
Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
