POL00277848
POL00277848

Sent: Mon 01/07/2019 8:
To: ‘Andrew Parsons’
Subject: FW: Criminal Investigation Opened

Pls see below for info.

On review of my emails, it looks like we addressed Dalmellington in late 2015 before the issue came up again in
July/Aug 2016 when Tim McCormack raised it in emails, suggesting there was another instance of it at a branch we
were (according to TM) investigating for false accounting. TM would only provide information to us to consider
further if we “call[ed] Seema Misra and put her out of her misery”.

So, I think the positon is:

-We looked into Dalmellington and had FJ resolve it in late 2015.

-TM then raised it again in 2016, but Rob put a hold on investigating it further until IT joined up with Legal.

-(I think Rob was pretty new to POL at this time. it is a pity he didn’t cc ayone form Legal on his email)

-We then corresponded with TM to find out what he was on about, but couldn’t take it forward without info from
him, which he refused to supply.

- There is an unfortunate temporal connection with the letter of response, but I can only assume we didn’t add
Dalmellington to the letter because it wasn’t in our frame of reference (the concern with it seemed to be the
resource consumed on dealing with a difficult correspondent and the overlap with the Misra prosecution). It
was not to the best of ki led, belief a result of any direction from within Post Office.

From: Tim McCormack [mailte
Sent: 16 August 2016 18:54
To: Rodric Williams <1
Subject: RE: Criminal
You do realise that your shower of idiots are actually in the process of investigating
the person involved for false accounting?

You might also want to have a read of this.

https://problemswithpol.wordpress.com/

An interesting conversation indeed.

Regards

Tim McCormack

@jusmasel2015

From: rodric.william
To: t.j.mccormack€~
Subject: FW: Criminal Investigation Opened
Date: Tue, 16 Aug 2016 17:30:29 +0000

Mr McCormack,

Post Office Limited has asked me to respond to your email below. Post Office would be happy to consider any
information you may care to disclose to it. However, and in line with my previous reply to you dated 4 July 2016, Post
Office will not comment on the other matter you have raised.

Yours sincerely,

POST *
OFFICE

POL00277848
POL00277848

From: Tim McCormack [mailtof.
Sent: 09 August 2016 14:47

To: Paula Vennells <
Subject: RE: Criminal Investigation Opened

What I have heard today is frankly totally unbelievable.

By now you should have acquainted yourself with the 'Dalmellington Error’ and its
consequences.

You should know that Fujitsu said they were going to fix this earlier this year.

YOu should know that I stated that it would be highly unlikely that they managed to
do this as they didn't know what caused the error in the first place.

You now know because I am about to tell you - that the very same error has just re-
occurred in another branch in far more serious circumstances.

If you want details on this I will be glad to help as soon as you call Seema Misra and
put her out of her misery

You are a complete bunch of idiots playing havoc with the lives of people you have
little interest in.

Tim McCormack

@jusmasel2015

From: t.j.mccormack
To: paula.vennells/
Subject: FW: Criminal Investigation Opened

Date: Mon, 4 Jul 2016 20:44:54 +0100

A typical head in the sand reply from the team you have placed too much trust in.
Let me be very clear here.

Once the police investigation is completed it is HIGHLY likely, indeed probable, that
members of your staff will be sent to prison. A custodial sentence is mandatory for
this offence.

Your role in this will not escape attention.

This is Seema Misra's phone number -
Call her and apologise and ensure her suffering is ended as soon as possible.
I do wonder what kind of God you worship.

Tim McCormack

@jusmasel2015

From: rodric.william
To: t.j.mcecormack
Subject: RE: Criminal iinestigation Opened

Date: Mon, 4 Jul 2016 17:43:14 +0000

Dear Mr McCormack,

Thank you for your email to Piero d’Agostino (Post Office Limited Head of Legal, Commercial) dated 1 July 2016, to
which I have been asked to reply on behalf of Post Office Limited.

The content of your email has been noted. Post Office Limited will cooperate fully with any formal investigation into
its activities, but will not otherwise comment on the matters you have raised.

Yours sincerely,

POL00277848
POL00277848

Z

From: Tim McCormack [mailto!
Sent: 01 July 2016 08:55

To: Piero D'Agostino

Cc: Paula Vennells; Tim Parker
Subject: Criminal Investigation Opened

Dear Sir

As you will be aware by now, the police have opened a criminal investigation into
matters surrounding the prosecution of Seema Misra by POL in October 2010. I am
assisting them with their enquiries and have been interviewed by them as well as
supplying them with relevant documentary evidence. If they have not already Iam
sure they will be in touch soon.

In order to assist them I am reviewing my correspondence with POL and have come
across emails sent by your team to me in relation to emails sent by me to Ms
Vennells in connection with an error in Horizon dated November 2015, to which I do
not appear to have responded.

On the 19th November I received an email containing an image of a letter from your
Mr Rodric Williams. In it he asks for 'something more substantive’. I draw your
attention to communications you subsequently received from the CWU regarding the
same error as well as my blog post published on 10th November 2015 which goes
into great detail of the very same error.
https://problemswithpol.wordpress.com/2015/11/10/the-error-in-horizon

I also draw your attention to further emails I sent to Tim Parker and Paula Vennells
under the Freedom of Information act asking them to reveal details of the Known
Error Logs in January that should have contained details of the fix to be applied in
connection with this error. These requests were acknowledged but I was refused
access to that information.

Let me be clear why I requested that information. Unless the email from ATOS to Ms
Baker was completely disingenuous, and if so that would be extremely damning in its
own right, the contents show that Fujitsu/ATOS completely misunderstood the error
that was reported to them, made no attempt at all to establish the real cause of it
and provided a fix for something that had not caused the error in the first place. If
Fujitsu and ATOS (whose PO team I believe consist mainly of ex POL employees) are
behaving like this now in 2015/16 it is entirely likely that they were behaving like
this in 2010 when Ms Misra was placed on trial. It is, and would be, substantial new
evidence which you yourselves declare in your letter to me that you have a duty to
disclose to the defence even subsequently to a prosecution being brought.

With the police now involved and my evidence to them having being considered by
two leading barristers to be reliable, one of which, Mr Stephen Mason, was
responsible for the publication of the transcript of the trial of Ms Seema Misra, I would
urge you to now consider the contents of the blog I wrote yesterday.
https://problemswithpol.wordpress.com/2016/06/30/what-are-you-waiting-for-paula

I find it utterly appalling that Post Office Ltd seek to prolong the suffering of a woman

POL00277848
POL00277848

who very clearly did not commit the crime she was accused and convicted of. You
have the opportunity to contact the CCRC straight away on this matter and ensure Ms
Misra suffers no longer than she has to. I urge you to do so today. At the moment I
am prepared to consider incompetence as the rational behind these contemptible
failings of POL to understand that Horizon is capable of producing intermittent errors
that result in huge paper losses at subpostmaster branches. Any subsequent delay
will make me consider the far more serious matter of conspiracy.

The ongoing police investigation will take time. The CCRC has already sat on this case
for a year now. Seema Misra deserves justice today.

I look forward to hearing from you without delay.

Kind regards

Tim McCormack

@jusmasel2015

FE SSAA CIGIGG USSSA ACIGCIE SSG SICIGCIE SSIS AISIGSEIGIG II a A Ia a ak ok ak aca ar

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540, Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FESS GSI GIGIGGCGISIGCCGGGGCIGIG CCGG GGGG GaGa a kak ok
