POL00030098
POL00030098

atchithananda Muhunda’
Subject: FW: UPDATE Q1 : URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon
Date: Tue, 09 Jun 2015 11:40:17 +0100

Attachments: image001.png; image002.jpg; image011.png; image012.gif; image003.png; image004.png; image005.png;
image006.png; image007.gif; image008.gif; image009.gif; image010.gif

Question re-Remote Access
Pete
Pete Newsome

Business Change Manager
Fujitsu UK&

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homelessness charity

eA pease consider ne envionment do you realy need to pit hs onal?

From: Kevin Lenihai
Sent: 30 January 2015 17:51

To: Mark Underwood1; Melanie Corfield

Cc: Newsome Pete; Dave Hulbert; Lesley J Sewell; Dave M King; Julie George; Davidson James
Subject: UPDATE Q1 : URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon

Mark / Mel,

James has had a look at your answer to Qi. And thinks there’s too much detail for Paula — this was written for a different type of audience. He has captured the same points
but in a more appropriate format :-

He states :-
Having looked again at the request from Paula, it appears that the fundamentals around this question (remote access) are not understood. I suggest that Paula is briefed
along the lines of the following.

1) No transaction data is held focally in any branch. Transactions are completed and stored in a central database and copies of all data is sent to a secure audit
database.

2) Sub-postmasters directly manage user access and password setting locally so system access (to create transactions) are limited to approved local personnel only

who are responsible for setting their own passwords. Users are only created following an approval process which requires authorisation by the sub-postmaster. All

subsequent transactions are recorded against the id used to log on to the system.

Once a transaction has been completed, there is no functionality (by design) for transactions to be edited or amended. Each transaction is given a unique number

and ‘wrapped’ in a digital encryption seal to protect its integrity. All transactions are then posted to a secure and segregated audit server.

4) Onapproval, there is the functionality to add additional transactions which will be visible and have a unique identifier in the audit trail. This is extremely rare and
only been used once since go live of the system in 2010 (March 2010)

3)

5) Support staff have the ability to review event logs and monitor, in real time, the availability of the system infrastructure as part of standard service management
processes.
6) Overall system access is tightly controlled via industry standard ‘role based access’ protocols and assured independently in annual audits for SO 27001, Emst and

Young for IAS 3402 and as part of PCI audits.
I suggest that we take James advice on this and combine that with the Q2. Answer as proposed.

Mel / Mark ~ I'll assume that you are okay with this final position unless I hear differently. James has advised that he is contactable over the weekend, so if you need more
information / clarification on any points please direct via me and I'll co-ordinate.

Thanks,
kevin

Kevin Lenihan I Senior Information Services Manager

Footer 5

Sent

30 January 2015 17:01

G/38/1
POL00030098
POL00030098

To: Kevin Lenihan; Davidson James; Melanie Corfield
Ce: Newsome Pete < i
Subject: RE: URGENT ACTION ? Accessing Horizon

7] Dave Hulbert; Lesley J Sewell; Dave M King; Julie George

Fine by me. Mel — let me know if you need me to do anything further

Mark

Sent: 30 January 2015 16:59

To: Mark Underwood1; Davidson James; Melanie Corfiel
Ce: Newsome Pete
Subject: RE: URGEN

GRO 4 Dave Hulbert; Lesley J Sewell; Dave M King; Julie George

Mark,
Ihave the bullets that James provided earlier in relation to Q2
Q. "you have said this is such a vital system to the Post Office, what testing do you do and how often? When was the last time?”

Answer:
+ There is aJoint permanent test team
Permanent test facilities are in place
In constant use to test enhancements and maintenance releases (software upgrades, patching etc)
All code regression tested to ensure stability of the environment
All change approved formally by change process
Processes (change, release etc) audited annually by Ernst and Young as part of IAS 3402 standard
Alll access and system segregation, security audited by external PCI auditors for PCI accreditation
Consequently system stability is high and availability has run consistently above target over many years

I suggest that any words in association to the above are primarily to make the above flow, and they are the facts. I am happy to reconstruct the above into sentences but
don’t want to dilute the facts provided.

I propose that we provide Mel with the answer to Q.1) as you have stated below (I have already agreed that content with Dave King, Info. Security. AND the bullets
provided by James to Q2. so that the final article is crafted by a Comms expert.

Mel / James / Mark ~ are you all okay with this or do you need me to do anything else ?

Thanks,
Kevin

Kevin Lenihan I Senior Information Services Manager
nd

Footer 5

Sent: 30 January 2015 15:50

To: Davidson James

Ce: Kevin Lenihan

Subject: RE: URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon

Hi Kevin my proposed answer to the first question below (it can be sent in its entirety to Mel and she can pick and choose). Though this will need to be signed off by James
as accurate.

In terms of the second question, I cannot find anything on the testing carried out. It could very well have been sent to one of my predecessors but I cannot find it anywhere.
James are you able to put something together based upon the email you sent Kevin?

Mark

in terms of QL

This question often phrased by Applicants and Second Sight is:
"Can Post Office remotely access Horizon?”

Phrasing the question in this way does not address the issue that is of concern to Second Sight and Applicants. It refers generically to” Horizon” but more
particularly is about the transaction data recorded by Horizon. Also, the word "access’ means the ability to read transaction data without editing it - Post

Office / Fujitsu has always been able to access transaction data however it is the alleged capacity of Post Office / Fujitsu to edit transaction data that appears
to be of concern. Finally, it has always been known that Post Office can post additional, correcting transactions to a branch's accounts but only in ways that
are visible to Subpostmasters (i. Transaction Corrections and Transaction Acknowledgements) — it is the potential for any
that is of concern.

Can Post Office or Fujitsu edit transaction data without the knowledge of a Subpostmaster?”

G/38/2
POL00030098

POL00030098

Post Office confirms that neither it nor Fujitsu can edit transaction data without the knowledge of a Subpostmaster.

There is no functionality in Horizon for either a branch, Post Office or Fujitsu to edit, manipulate or remove a transaction once it has been recorded in a
branch's accounts.

The following safeguards are in place to prevent such occurrences:

. Transmission of baskets of transaction data between Horizon terminals in branches and the Post Office data centre is cryptographically protected
through the use of digital signatures.

. Baskets must net to nil before transmission. This means that the total value of the basket is nil and therefore the correct amount of payments,

goods and services has been recorded in the basket. Baskets that do not net to nil will be rejected by the Horizon terminal before transmission to the

Post Office data centre.

. Baskets of transactions are either recorded in full or discarded in full — no partial baskets can be recorded to the Audit Store.

. All baskets are given sequential numbers (known as Journal Sequence Numbers or JSNs) when sent from a Horizon terminal. This allows Horizon

to run a check at the Data Centre for missing baskets (which triggers a recovery process) or additional baskets that would cause duplicate numbers
(which would trigger an exception error report to Post Office / Fujitsu).

. All transaction data in the Audit Store is digitally sealed — these seals would show evidence of tampering if anyone, either inadvertently, intentionally
or maliciously, tried to change the data within a sealed record.

. Automated daily checks are undertaken on JSNs (looking for missing / duplicate baskets) and on the digital seals (looking for evidence of
tampering).

Fro GRO :

Seni
To: Mark Underwood

Ce: Kevin Lenihan

Subject: FW: URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon

James Davidson
Post Office

Fujitsu
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity
Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

Mark,
As discussed, can you hook up with Kevin to review what answers have already been provided to second sight as this should form the Post Office response
Thanks,

James.

From: Kevin Lenihan
Sent: 30 January 2015 09:28

To: Newsome Pete

‘Subject: URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon

Pete,
My phone call earlier today refers.

[need some urgent information as per Paula’s note please. Apologies if you've had this before but I'm not aware of the history on this ~ just point me in the direction of
who has that answer and I'll pursue accordingly.

Cheers,
kevin

Kevin Lenihan I Senior Information Services Manager
24 Floor, 148 Ok

Id Street, London EC1V 9HQ
GRO }

G/38/3
POL00030098
POL00030098

Footer §

From: Paula Vennells <
Date: 30 January 2015.
To: Mark R Davies
Subject: Urgent: Accessing Horizon

Dear both, your help please in answers and in phrasing those answers, in prep for the SC:

1) “is it possible to access the system remotely? We are told it is."

What is the true answer? I hope it is that we know this is not possible and that we are able to explain why that is. I need to say no itis
not possible and that we are sure of this because of xxx and that we know this because we have had the system assured.

2) "you have said this is such a vital system to the Post Office, what testing do you do and how often? When was the last time?

Lesley, I need the facts on these - I know we have discussed before but I haven't got the answer front of mind - too many facts to hold in
my head! But this is an important one and I want to be sure I do have it. And then Mark, to phrase the facts into answers, plus a line to
take the conversation back up a level - ie., to one of our narrative boxes/rocks.

Thanks, Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or from Fujitsu
Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does
not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.
Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park Central, Hayes End Road,
Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business
Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. It you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V HQ.

G/38/4
POL00030098
POL00030098

G/38/5
