#32232

Monday 27" July 2015
Guild Hall, Queen Street, Glasgow

Meeting with Brian Trotter — Agent Contract Advisor

POL00005245
POL00005245

Financial Audit findings ~ 15/07/2015

-£2,795.80 was identified as a shortage in cash figures
-£3.676.57 was identified as a shortage in foreign currency
£220.70 was identified as a surplus in stock figures

-£12.19 was identified as a shortage in postage

-£3.121.44 was identified as a shortage in cheques (vouchers)

-£3,054.60 Nett discrepancy shortage declared from previous balance period within current trading
period

-£10,461.90 Total shortage on the day

© Cheques — I have spoken to Jass in detail in regards to cheques and she assures me that
all the cheques are genuine and do exist. She advised that each day she cut off the
cheques, printed a list and sent. Jass did not rem out the cheques — I had previously
trained her and she already knew how to do so, but I carried out refresher training to
make sure.
Have the cheques listing print outs been gathered? Margaret has the weekly folder.
Have the cheque centre given an updated total of cheques that have been received?
Spoke to the agents accounting team (colleague of Allison Bolsover) who advised there

could easily be a backlog of cheques.
© Nett discrepancy shortage — on 8/5/2015 £2660.00 was received in coin (along with cash

and stock) the delivery was accepted as normal. My cash, coin etc was balancing so no

issues were highlighted.
It wasn’t until 5 weeks later there was a correction issued to me in horizon titled ‘Rem in

mistyped’ and the details said that the coin wasn’t remmed in. Coin is scanned once
(RIAD — Remittance In Auto Distribution) — so the title is not possible plus I have all the
other receipts. Margaret advised shes seen this happen previously (recently) at another
branch and the barcode was scanned again and it printed the rem in receipt that was
missing.

I had to accept the correction as it was a Wednesday and with balance etc I couldn’t
continue without doing so. I spoke to Jill Southern (" Redacted
correction on behalf of the cash centre.

Jill said without the rem in slip (which didn’t print) she was unable to log a call with
fugitzu to investigate). I was then given the details of the relationship manager at

ho issued the

E5/220/1
POL00005245
POL00005245

Chesterfield: Andrew Winn, FSC Relationship Manager, 1° floor West, 1 Future Walk,
Chesterfield, $49 1PF.

as worked for the Post Office for around 12 years.
I appraoached her in March to ask if I was to plan a visit t

prepared to cover the Post Office for me. It’s the school holidays so is very quiet during
this time. She agreed as long as she was allowed some time off on my return. I agreed to

Jin July would she be

this — we said we would arrange on my return or sooner id she preferred.

I spent a full 2 weeks going over daily tasks such as rem out cheques, filling in the forms.
for pouch and sending to the cheque centre (she claims she had carried this out in the
previous PO), cash declarations, reports etc. Jass advised she was happy with the training
and I confirmed several times that she was confident with all of the tasks. She said she
was and if in any doubt she can always phone me in
was the previous Post Master.

‘or ask her Brother — who

On 4" July as was taking me t

1°" GRO" airport for some reason the security
cameras went down. He has been unable to get in touch with {( the man who
installed and maintains the cameras. On F~ had a friend hanging
around the shop ~ she has been warned previously. No friends are allowed to hang
around the shop which will put off customers but also risk security.

3 churches in Lenzie have approached us to see if they can bank with us into RBS acc on
a Sunday — previously have used night safe.

* Since the audit there are Parcelforce parcels not scanned out, sitting on the counter.

© MVLstill sitting which I already mentioned but not actioned.

e Customers are still able to order currency online and have delivered, purchase from
amazon etc and choose Lenzie PO for local collect etc.

The opening hours have not been updated onbline etc but customers are coming from all
over to use our longer opening hours.

© RSB Lenzie is closing on 19" Aug — spoke to! egarding local plus. Which will

enable customers to withdraw and deposit cash from RBS accounts etc.

¢ OOB in first week.

¢ Unable to order pens, passport application forms, special delivery envelopes.

¢ Ran out of stamps before xmas — had to buy from other PO.

¢ Why only 3 days training and cash balancing etc wasn’t part of it. Problem solving and
investigation should be included.

e After opening Margaret advised she would be back a few weeks later to check our
progress but no visit.

#32232 E5/220/2
