Testing of proposed new p32

The below list details individuals that have been involved with testing the two
different versions of the proposed new p32. The list contains people that
have either been asked to test the p32 (T), live on audit or inputting previous
audit figures via a paper exercise or have seen the document and have

commented upon aspects of it (C).

FAA P32

Tier 2 p32

Lindsay Young (T)

Jan D Ferguson (T)

Keith Scott (T)

Janet Holding (T)

Gaynor D Davies (T)

John G Fraser (T)

Alex McKenzie (T)

Tim Gordon-Pounder (T)

Douglas Heed (T)

Alex McKenzie (T)

Jan D Ferguson (T)

Rob Lyon (T)

Janet Holding (T)

Douglas Heed (T)

Margaret Burke (T)

Lindsay Young (T)

Terry Smithson (T)

Margaret Burke (T)

Tim Gordon-Pounder (T)

Keith Scott (T)

Paul a jones (T) Jane X Bailey (T)

Kath smith (T) Tahira Akbar (T)

Chris senior (C) Mark Sealey (T)
Paul humber (C) Kevin Watkins (T)
Kev Watkins (C) Paul Field (T)

Sandra Lewis (C)

Dates of testing and feedback

The above Field Advisors were asked to test various versions of the p32
between 23 March and 21 April 2009. Feedback was encouraged and
received on an ongoing regular basis. Feedback ranged from formula
problems/locked cells to numerous likes/dislikes regarding the design of the
form itself. Numerous updated versions were issued to correct formula
problems, adding or changing design requests to pages along the way. A
feedback form was designed and after a period of about 2 weeks, more
‘official’ feedback was requested to compliment the ad-hoc email feedback
received. The p32 has evolved dramatically during the course of testing,
reacting in the main to feedback provided by Field Advisors. A ‘CONTROL’
icon was added to make maintaining and updating the p32 easier. As a result
of concerns raised, the size of the file was cut by more than half.

Comments

= I liked the audit report financial result section, saves working out what
to count in or not.

= Liked the prep data and menu box a lot easier

= WHS/Crown could be incorporated into the FAA input sheet as is now -
no need for additional tab — This was actioned

* No verification box for rems verification at audit - These were added

POL00084211
POL00084211
Why do we still have to list cheques processed by day and amount? —
Still an ongoing query?

.I much preferred the reconciliation sheet we had before that showed
what should be on hand (BTS+REMS IN AND OUT- SALES) and what
was is on hand and then the discrepancy. Saves jumping about looking
at BTS entries, REMS, sales and then on hand figures if there is an
input error when they are all together — New stock discrepancies page
created to take into account this viewpoint.

The new P32 is enjoyable to use and being able to copy and paste a
lot of the material over is of great use.

Found the layout easier than the current P32.

Not experienced enough with audits to give more personal issues likes
and dislikes with it.

Can't read some figures due to spacing.- This was corrected

I found it much easier to see the columns ( could even use it if I had
forgotten my glasses) and I was even able to do the cut and paste at
line 18

stock be listed in the same order as on the snapshot, and you haven't
called the SAS stock sheets the same on the two sections. — This was
corrected as much as possible.

TC's, confirmed on day of audit, that are due to be issued are not
included, this can make a difference as to whether an FAA turns into a
Tier 2 — This was actioned.

Can responses be formulated relating to section 2 of the measures
sheet so that messages reflect the result. — This was actioned.

Like that the tabs are arranged in order that as a printout is entered, it
can be put to one side with the knowledge that it is not needed again,
with the exception of the office snapshot which will be needed again
once the rems have been input to check that the receipts and
payments balance.

Liked - Branch details are a benefit to be included in the file.

Didn't like that the Prep tab was locked - unable to move curser or
copy branch details.- This has been changed.

BTS tab — stock items could be moved to reflect the BTS (POSS, Gift
vouchers & Elec tokens). — Altered as much as possible

Sales input — stock items missing which are still available on horizon
(2° x 6 books, in the case of the audit I trialled). — This was corrected.
Sales input — I found it difficult to move around the sheet using the
direction arrow keys (this is only a personal view as navigation is
easier using the mouse). — This was altered to make navigation easier.
Rem out, cheques — date format is incorrect and the date shows
wrong. — This was corrected

Rems — personally prefer a vertical table to input. —- This has been
implemented

Cash input — only the first column total can be read as subsequent
columns are too narrow. — Corrected.

Financial result table — locked and can not delete rows or copy to
report. - Resolved

I do not find them any quicker to complete and do not see an
advantage in separating them from the present P32. The present P32

POL00084211
POL00084211
POL00084211
POL00084211

works and we have gotten to know it I can not see the benefit in
changing from the one we are using to these new ones.

= Prep sheet is easy and quick to use.

= Audit Report Financial Result sheet is really good.

= Also good that bulk figures for rems in and out and cheques on hand
can now be used.

= Would be good if bulk figure for cheques remmed out could also be
used but not sure if there is a reason for this still standing! - Ongoing
query?

= Also quicker to input bulk cash on hand figures for each stock unit or
multi stock unit cash sheets rather than list a full break down.

= Can we have the Financial Assurance Input sheet to read so that the
discrepancies for cash, stock etc are included in the one page view. —
Hopefully resolved.

= If possible, would prefer to have a “click on” box for “print” or “preview”
in the PAA sheet, saves time and easier. — This has been actioned.

= Prep sheet is easy and quick.

= And reporting details info on Current Trading Position sheet is really
good.

= Also good that bulk figures for rems in and out and cheques on hand
can now be used.

* Like to new addition of the stock discrepancies sheet. Similar to the old
reconciliation sheet where c/f from BTS, Rems in and out, sales, what
should be on hand according to Horizon and what is actually on hand
according to the audit count are all stated together. This is better than
having to go into different sheets to find either an input error or give an
explanation to a SPMR about the audit findings.

= Nota lot has changed compared to the old version just the layout but
with a few good improvements. Once you are familiar with the new lay
out it will be fine.

= Input made easier from documentation as layout allows for this. Branch
details included so no need to open and search the “all branch file” for
the information if required later on.

= Menu Page: Audit resource should be left aligned (cosmetic) — This
has been changed.

= REMS Tab: Entering figures for Cheque rems etc on the horizontal
instead of vertical. Excessive boxes provided. — This has been
changed.

= Stock Page: Postage Stamps Misc. should be clearly marked where to
enter.

Would prefer each SU to show cash value total, Should mirror exactly
with BTS, Snapshot and Stock Discrepancy pages — This has been
actioned

= I think that current p32 should be changed. I have never liked the
current version’s navigation process.

= I found it really good to use, liked the completed for you, audit report,
though I realise this is only when no compliance done, liked the cut
POL00084211
POL00084211

and paste info from qry all branches. Good to use even more when I
stopped being a smarty pants, and read your instructions!
