POL00139729

POL00139729
Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting 07/08/13
Attendees:
Team/Function Attendees
Legal Rodric Williams

Martin Smith

Renata Renata Prywerek
Financial Services Centre (FSC) Andy Winn
Security Dave Posnett

Andy Hayward
Communications Sophie Bialaszewski
Network Gayle A Peacock
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Steve Beddoe
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)
Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments
Gayle Peacock I Network Branch Loss Board — met yesterday (inc John Scott & Drew

McBride) ... this weekly call may duplicate the Branch Losses
Board ... do we continue with these calls? To update in due

course.
Roderic Legal The reason for this weekly call is due to ‘other#’ 2"¢ Sight
Williams concerns. We need to understand role/remit of Branch

Losses Board.

Gayle Peacock I Network It deals wioth investigations/people who come into contact
with Horizon stuff, etc.
Steve Beddoe IT&C Meeting with Fujitsu today re enhancements for release in

January. Needed by end of month to hit January target
(meeting includes NFSP and other internal Stakeholders).

Andy Winn FSC Was concerned that Steve and meeting focussed on volumes
of issues rather than values as there could be minimal
concerns about a particular area but the values involved could
be significant.

Steve Beddoe IT&C Clarified that if say 40 SPMRs flag up a similar issue then the
issue will be considered, whereas say a one off would not be
considered for improvement and referral to Fujitsu for the
January release.

POL00139729
POL00139729

Andy Winn FSC Stated there was nothing from offices this week, claiming
there were no Horizon issues v losses identified.
Dave Posnett Security Relayed 2 x incidents where Investigators have been spoken

to by police and CPS re external cases progressing through
the courts.

Action Points

1. Gayle Peacock to send out TOR re Branch Loss Board.

2. Dave Posnett to email Jarnail with details of the 2 contacts with Investigator and cc
Rodric and Renata, with the heading ‘Subject To Legal Privilege’.

3. Rodric Williams to share information provided by Dave with Gayle Peacock.
