POL00381706
POL00381706

From: Paula Vennells[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAULA. VENNELLS8C63D283-A51 1-46C3-A93E-
DC6F2AE7A78D]

Sent: Thur 12/09/2013 6:50:40 AM (UTC)

To: Theresa Iles

Subject: Fwd: Lessons learned ToR

Ppo for the ARC

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells:
Date: 11 September 20
To: Alasdair Marnoc!
Ce: Alice Perkii
Martin Edwards}
Subject: Re: Lessons learne

Alasdair, thanks. Helpful steers and I think most if not all captured in the spirit of what the new
TOR seeks to address; specifically f and g on risks and culture

We should talk more about your point 3 please.

And re point 1: not an issue with the person I have in mind - Belinda used to work for the
information commissioner!

Looking forward to seeing you tomorrow.
Paula

Happy to discuss the

Sent from my iPhone

On 11 Sep 2013 at 18:22, "Alasdair Marnoch

Thanks Paula and agree with the approach and broad thrust particularly on timing.
Clearly the most important thing is to be wiser as a result of the issues raised and
make the PO better.

We can chat more tomorrow but here are a few initial thoughts
1. L expect the report will include some criticism and I have a question about

the possible individuals doing the work to ensure that they are sufficiently
experienced in writing such a report. Worth chatting about balance/tone etc
(although not public I think we need to assume that it will become so and are
able to stand by it)

2. Equally keen that Susan does not become a ‘lightening conductor’ for the
issues and that we capture the broader lessons also

3. Agree on risk management - something is not working here
(Horizon/NTP/SS). We can discuss tomorrow at the ARC and a subsequent

discussion at a future Board. Progress so far has been ok but I think we need to

increase the tempo

4. Small point on cultural lessons - i think we listened and heard but didn't
action the concerns raised?

5. IT wonder how we most effectively answer the question - 'is there anything
else like this out there’?

Finally keen to see the output from this work embedded as part of the on going
culture and process improvements at the PO.

Look forward to discussing tomorrow.

Regards

Alasdair

POL00381706
POL00381706

From: paula.vennel!

To: alasdairmarn:
CC: Aliceperkins:

martin.edwards1@G
Subject: Fwd: Lessons learned ToR
Date: Wed, 11 Sep 2013 13:35:15 +0000

GRO

Alasdair, hi. I hope you have readjusted to the autumnal weather! Thanks for your

time over the weekend. I have since spoken with Susan and also stood down Richard

Hatfield. I will update you properly tomorrow.

I’m grateful to Martin for the attached revised draft of our
terms of reference for the lessons learned exercise. This is
now more tightly focussed on our internal handling of the
investigation, with the proposal that the review should be
run by an internal facilitator - but with the opportunity for
external challenge and input once our initial conclusions are
drafted.
Most of the note should be self-explanatory, although I
should explain the rationale behind our proposed timings.
As we discussed last week, there is a choice between
proceeding with the review in the near future, while the
experiences are still relatively fresh in our memory, or
waiting until early 2014 (when we expect SS will no longer
be involved in the process). Having de-risked the review by
narrowing its scope and running it as a short internal
exercise, on balance I think it is more important to capture
our insights sooner rather than later. We are therefore
proposing to commence the process in October (not earlier
because it would be more appropriate for both sides to wait
until Susan is no longer working in the building).

Alice and I had chance to discuss at our 121 this morning
and we are both comfortable. I would welcome any
comments you have.

Best wishes,

Paula

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are
solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148
OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

--Forwarded Message Attachment--

POL00381706
POL00381706
