POL00458463
POL00458463,

Our Behaviours

Creating a great place to work for all

July 2024

Document classification: Internal
Introduction — why this
is important

Our strength comes from our people.

They are the driving force behind our

transformation and culture and critical
to our success.

Our behaviours provide clarity on ‘how’
we do things and help guide us on
what it takes to be successful.

A combination of these behaviours will
provide a pathway for everyone to
realise their full potential, while giving
us a clear and consistent standard
against our leadership and talent
processes.

Document classification: Internal

POL00458463
POL00458463
How it all fits together

Our behaviours represent the essence and spirit of our
business, the driving force behind our transformation,
and support us in creating an inclusive and thriving
culture that secures Post Office’s success for the long
term.

As you all know, we are on a journey of huge cultural
change, and we must all play a part in being able to
move the business forward, whilst we continue to
learn from the past.

We have developed the behaviours to ensure they
support our relationships across the business with our
postmasters, partners, colleagues and customers.
These behaviours are for anyone and applicable to
everyone, regardless of role or grade.

Our expectation is we all live and breathe the
behaviours, embrace them and hold ourselves and
each other to account.

Document classification: Internal

POL00458463

POL00458463

“We have identified these behaviours as those that
matter most. They form the core beliefs and guiderails
that will drive Post Office forward and serve as a
cornerstone for our cultural change.

By threading these behaviours through our processes,
we will see consistency, alignment and significant
strengthening of both performance and culture.”

We want everyone to feel proud to be part of the
journey in order to bring about positive change.
Everyone's contribution really does count!”

Karen McEwan, Group Chief People Officer
POL00458463

POL00458463

The behaviours that will drive our culture and transformation plans

Move it forward

Be Curious

Own the outcome Back each other

h

As estions you think need to Keep
be asked ani r the truth if
you ever think it is mi) }———T

‘tum, pushing things
closer to c ; ourage
others to do the same

Sponsibility, run with it

and see it through

We support each other and embrace
diversity to build an inclusive culture

“We challenge the norm, ask
questions and push for the truth”

“We hold a high bar on
performance”

“We are inclusive, speak openly
and listen to the views of others”

“We make bold decisions for
today and the future”

“We try new things and encourage
others to do the same”

“We cut through complexity
and execute with pace”

Document classification: Internal

“We are accountable for our
decisions and grow from our
actions”

“We trust and encourage
each other”

“We treat others with respect
“We have high levels of personal and dignity at all times”
integrity”
“We are all in this together”
“We support business change

and find the way forward”

POL00458463
POL00458463

How and when to use these behaviours

Activity How to utilise the behaviours

‘How’ people deliver their role is as important as ‘what’ they deliver. We have a clear expectation when objectives
are set that behaviours are considered in the objective setting process. This will also assist individuals in having
richer performance conversations aligned to our transformation and culture plans.

Performance conversations/ objective
setting

A chance to deep-dive on what will really make the difference to support your career pathway by helping you
Career / development conversations reflect on what combination of behaviours will unlock you being at your best, whilst supporting everyone to create
high impact personal development plans targeting the most relevant areas.

To support what it takes to be successful at Post Office, we will align our behaviours to our recruitment and
selection processes. The definitions will provide a solid benchmark when hiring. We should clearly set out our
expectations on the technical skills required and behaviours, using scenario-based questions to better understand
an individual's skill level and cultural fit.

Recruitment and selection

oo You will see these behaviours threaded throughout all our communications going forward. We believe they are
Communication and engagement essential to our success.

Organisational design Using the behaviours to benchmark our structure design, role summaries and future needs.

Including questions related to behaviours in employee surveys to gauge impact on overall engagement, cultural

Employee engagement survey alignment and colleague satisfaction.

Succession planning will support us in building strong and diverse pipelines of talent. Part of the process will be to

Succession planning consider observable behaviours and have meaningful conversations using the definitions provided. (See appendix)

Identifying high potential We consider that someone with potential should consistently role model all four behaviours.

Document classification: Internal
Question and Answers

What are Post Office behaviours?

The behaviours underpin our purpose. They are simple, set
the standard and define the cultural differences we want
to see. We will hold ourselves and each other to accountto
ensure they are being lived across the business.

They provide clarity on our organisationalcapabilities so
everyone is clear what is expected of them and will be the
foundation for all our talent, inclusion and people
processes going forward.

It will be the combinationof all four behavioursthat will help
us to drive stronger cultural outcomes.

They will be used at every stage of the colleague lifecycle,
from recruitment, performance and development to
communication, engagement surveys and succession
planning.

Who are the behaviours for?

We have developed the behaviours to ensure they
support our relationships across the business with our
postmasters, partners, colleagues and customers. These
behaviours are for anyone and applicable to everyone,
regardless of role or grade.

We want everyone to feel connected to the behaviours to
support business performance, enhance individuals’ skills
to meet their potential and contribute to the collective
success of Post Office.

Document classification: Internal

When are they used?

They have several different uses. The main ones are:

* Performance~ Aligned to the performance matrix, reviewed and
held accountableagainst both the ‘what’ and the ‘how’

* Succession planning - Conversationsand benchmarking
observable behaviours to support us with our talent decisions.

* Recruiting and appointing leaders ~ recruiting and promoting
candidates assessed against the behaviours so we always attract
the best talent.

* Career development— helping to define and develop careers and
the behaviours that will help everyone achieve their ambitions.

What else can you tell me about them?

A great deal of time and consideration has gone into finding the right
behaviours which mean somethingto everyone and people feel
connected to. They also providea clear and consistentstandard
against which we recruit, select, review and develop our people.

In the appendixto this guide, for each of the four behaviours you will
find:

* A definition.

* An expectation of the observable behaviour in practice

* An observable scale to rate current level of ability.

How do these behaviours align to our purpose &
vision?

To achieve ‘a great place to work for all’, our people strategy
focuses on three phases - foundations, growth and sustainability.
Having a set of common behaviours in place creates a strong
foundation, allows individuals to grow and sets the direction for a
sustainable business.

POL00458463
POL00458463,

What is the purpose of providing examples?

These are indicatorsonly ratherthan a comprehensivelist of

everything that you might observe, or a person may demonstrate.

* The observable behaviours are designed to act as a benchmarkto
help all colleagues understand, develop and grow.

* The definitions will help you to identify key strengths that could be
utilised further as well as highlighting developmentneeds which in
turn will support a much more detailed and robust development
plan.

How do we use the behaviours for succession
planning?

Each of the four behaviours will be used as part of the succession
planning process, whereby we will ask for current level of ability
using the observable scale below:

+ Not demonstrating - Behavioursare not visible or actively
practised

Emerging— Some opportunitiesto develop this behaviour and
give some more focus.

Accomplished- It's a genuine and consistentstrength; they
constantly receive feedback that tells them so.

Role Model ~ You can point to them as someone who
demonstrates what good looks like and others will learn from.
Appendix

Observable
behaviours
guide

Document classification: Internal

POL00458463
POL00458463,
A closer look at.

‘Be Curious’

Ask the questions you think need to be asked and push for the truth if you ever think it is missing

Observable
behaviours in
practice

Challenge the
norm, ask
questions and
push for the truth

Be inclusive,
speak openly and
listen to the views
of others

Try new things
and encourage
others to do the
same

Not demonstrating

Behaviours are not visible or actively
practised

Emerging
Some opportunities to develop this

behaviour and give some more focus

individuals receive feedback that tells them so

Accomplished

It’s a genuine and consistent strength, and

POL00458463

POL00458463

Role Model
You can point to them as someone who
demonstrates what good looks like, and
others learn from them

+ Shows little interest in considering
alternatives or seeking deeper
understanding with a reluctance to ask
questions or explore topics in depth

May accept information readily or seek a
quick solution without questioning,
challenging or exploring deeper ideas or
options

Confident in questioning, displaying self-led
curiosity to problem solve and navigate setbacks
if they arise

Has a significant influence and impact on
others to think independently, always
demonstrating integrity and authenticity

+ Disregard for others’ contributions and
lack of willingness to listen

Sometimes dominates conversations and
attention to listening is limited, missing
the opportunity to gather diverse views

Seen advocating for underrepresented voices, by
actively involving people from diverse
backgrounds in conversations and decision
making showing they value their input

Listens attentively, acknowledges different
points of view, and shows empathy, setting a
standard for others to follow

+ Absence of interest and shows
resistance when presented with new
ideas

Tend to stick to what they know, avoiding
stepping out of their comfort zone with a
strong preference for ‘playing it safe’

Frequently takes the initiative to explore new
ideas and ventures, adapting to change and often
leading the way for others

Displays genuine enthusiasm to actively
engage in new experiences demonstrating a
willingness to step out of their comfort zone
whilst showing their trust and belief in
others to do the same

Document classification: Internal

A closer look at... ‘Move it forward’

Keep momentum, pushing things closer to completion, and encourage others to do the

sam

Observable
behaviours in
practice

Hold a high bar on
performance

Make bold
decisions, for
today and the
future

Cut through
complexity and
execute with pace

Document

Not demonstrating

Behaviours are not visible or actively
practised

Emerging
Some opportunities to develop this
behaviour and give some more focus

Accomplished
It's a genuine and consistent strength, and
individuals receive feedback that tells them so

POL00458463

POL00458463

Role Model
You can point to them as someone who
demonstrates what good looks like, and
others learn from them

+ Fails to meet deadlines or accept
constructive feedback indicating a lack
of commitment to performance
standards

Seeks feedback or clarification on their
performance, but needing more guidance
and support on delivery

+ Consistently meets or exceeds performance.

targets and are often recognised for their
contributions. Able to adapt to changing
circumstances and still deliver results

Actively seeks feedback and uses that to
reach higher levels of performance,
consistently meeting or exceeding
expectations

+ Show reluctance or indecision when
faced with choices that require a firm
commitment and does not consider the
long-term implication

Hesitant at times to take risks, reflect and
make decisions, sometimes waiting for
others to move things forward

+ Confident and reflective decision maker showing

assertiveness in their choices with the ability to
adapt and bounce back quickly if setbacks occur

Reflective and transparentin their thinking
and actions which are visible to others,
readily adjusting to new information or
circumstances

+ Taking longer than necessary to
complete tasks, overcomplicating
instead of simplifying or putting off
decisions

May not always prioritise effectively or
focus on the most important tasks, at times
delaying making decisions or taking action

Can identify and focus on the most important
tasks and make decisions promptly and
confidently even in complex situations

Make informed decisions swiftly without
unnecessary delay and prioritise their work
on tasks that will add the most value,
showing confidence in their judgement

classification: Internal

A closer look at... ‘Own the outcome’

Take responsibility, run with it and see it through

Observable
behaviours in
practice

Accountable for
our decisions and
grow from our
actions

High levels of
personal
integrity

Support business
change and find
the way forward

Not demonstrating
Behaviours are not visible or actively
practised

Failing to learn from past errors and
continuing to make the same choices. Not
owning up to mistakes, they may blame
others or external circumstances

Emerging
Some opportunities to develop this
behaviour and give some more focus

Can show reluctance to accept
responsibility and avoid taking ownership
of outcomes

Accomplished
It's a genuine and consistent strength, and

individuals receive feedback that tells them so.

+ Take full responsibility for their choices and
decisions regardless of the outcome, and reflect
on successes and failures to extract valuable
lessons

POL00458463

POL00458463

Role Model
You can point to them as someone who
demonstrates what good looks like, and
others learn from them

Are proactive and intuitive with a solution
orientated attitude, displaying high levels of
integrity and are trusted to always do what's
right

Failing to take ownership of their actions
and often showing favouritism or treating
others in a way that is not ethical

Sometimes demonstrating a gap between
what they say and what they do, which can
play out in their consistency in decision
making

+ They are humble, showing empathy and respect

for others and value honesty and truth even
when things are challenging

They lead the way in helping establish a
culture of integrity, reliable with their
commitments and treat others with respect
and dignity

Demonstrating an inability or
unwillingness to adjust to new ideas,
processes, or technologies without
offering constructive alternatives

May be resistant to new ideas or
approaches, needing some reassurance and
guidance to work independently

+ Showing adaptability with their deci

n making
and forward plans whilst supporting others to
overcome resistance

They quickly adapt and maintain a
determined and positive outlook, whilst
guiding and supporting others to move
forward together

Document classification: Internal

A closer look at... ‘Back each other’

We support each other and embr

Observable
behaviours in
practice

We trust and
encourage each
other

We always treat
others with
respect and
dignity

Weare all in this
together

Not demonstrating
Behaviours are not visible or actively
practised

Lack of encouragement or positive
reinforcement, quickly dismissing or not
considering others’ suggestions

ce diversity to build an inclusive culture

Emerging

Some opportunities to develop this
behaviour and give some more focus

May hold back in supporting others with
tasks, ideas or initiative without guarantee
of success

Accomplished
It's a genuine and consistent strength, and

individuals receive feedback that tells them so

Empower others, trusting them to complete work
effectively, acknowledging success through
positive feedback

POL00458463

POL00458463

Role Model
You can point to them as someone who
demonstrates what good looks like, and
others learn from them

Create opportunities for others to grow and
demonstrate their capabilities, often
recognising their potential even before they
see it in themselves

Uses derogatory or belittling language
when speaking to or about others and
failing to acknowledge or consider the
contributions and opinions of others.

At times show lack of attention to others"
views or opinions, sometimes overstepping
personal or professional boundaries

Making the effort to include everyone in
conversations and decision making, valuing
others’ opinions and offering support and
guidance

Always maintains a high level of
professionalism treating everyone with
courtesy and ensuring they feel seen, heard
and recognised

Unwillingness to collaborate or assist
others in shared objectives with little
concern for the challenges or needs of the
team

Prefers to work in isolation and can avoid
participating in group efforts, resulting in
missing the opportunity to share
experiences or collaborate

Invest time in helping others to develop their
skills and confidence and actively participate in
team activities, sharing their knowledge and
expertise

Cooperative, respectful and positive with
their actions and attitudes, inspiring others to
do the same

Document classification: Internal

