CONFIDENTIAL AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED

Project Sparrow - Note for Tim Parker

For the last three years the Post Office has been investigating claims made by a small number of
largely former postmasters (136) that faults in the Horizon computer system were the cause of
losses in their branch. Of these 136 people, 43 have criminal convictions related to these losses.

However, thorough investigation has not produced any evidence to support the claims:
indeed it has underlined that the system is efficient and robust. In the cases involving
criminal convictions, nothing has emerged to suggest that any are unsafe.

The Horizon system deals with six million transactions every day and has been used by
almost 500,000 people since it was introduced. It is currently used by 78,000 people
working in Post Office branches, is independently audited and meets or exceeds standard
industry accreditations.

‘The Post Office has nonetheless taken its responsibilities to its people very seriously. We are
genuinely sorry that this small group of people feel they have been treated unfairly and this
is demonstrated by the enormous lengths we have gone to -re-investigate their cases and
offer opportunities for those involved to have their say.

We commissioned a review by independent forensic accountants, set up a scheme which,
where appropriate, offered mediation_and reinvestigated every complaint in huge detail.
We also provided funding for individuals to help support people obtain independent
professional advice on preparing their case.

External criminal lawyers have continued to review material in the cases involving criminal
convictions, including of course material produced through the mediation scheme, to
ensure that the Post Office complies with its duty of disclosure, which it takes extremely
seriously.

Throughout all this no evidence has emerged to support the very serious allegations being
made, which in some cases have stretched to claims that the Post Office has abused the
prosecution process.

We do take forward prosecutions where it is right to do so. Post Offices are dealing with
public money. We would be heavily - and rightly criticised if we did not deal with the very
small number of cases where, for example, false accounting and/or theft takes place.

But we can only prosecute where there is clear evidence of wrongdoing and we can meet
the bar set for bringing prosecutions: the evidential and public interest tests. We do not
prosecute people for making innocent mistakes and we never have.

‘Twenty cases involving prosecution, 16 of which were accepted into the mediation scheme,
recently applied to the Criminal Cases Review Commission, as is their right. We are,

POL00319092
POL00319092

Commented [APG61]: We have in some cases recognised that
the training was insufficient but not to the extent that it prejudiced a
convietion.

‘Commented [AP62]: This is correct ifyou exclude the Rudkin's.
‘Michael Rudkin applied tothe scheme but Susan Rudkin applied to
the CCRC. I thinkitis safer to include the Rudkin's and make the
number 17.

POL-BSFF-0157142
POL00319092
POL00319092

naturally, co-operating fully with this process and providing all information required. We are
not destroying any information that we, and external lawyers, hold on these cases, as has

been alleged. ‘Commented [AP63]: POL has historically destroyed info where
went beyond normal retention periods which means some infos
not avalable forthe CCRC

We have said we are prepared to mediate in every non-criminal case. Unfortunately many
applicants are refusing to engage in the process.

We have offered to meet them with their MPs to talk through their case. Some have agreed
to this but a number of others have declined.

Some individuals are being advised in this by the Justice for SubPostmasters Alliance (JFSA).
The JFSA has been in existence since 2009 and is led by Alan Bates, who himself is one of the
elaimantsapplicants.

Through the Scheme, Ssignificant compensation claims - totalling more than £65m - have { ‘Commented [AP64]: Just to make clear that these are not Court
been made without the evidence to support them. This figure can be compared to the total seins
losses of public money in the 136 cases involved, which is just over £1m.

The JFSA’s campaign has secured the support of some MPs - with whom the Post Office has
engaged at length - which has in turn led to parliamentary and media activity.

We have been robust in rejecting the serious allegations made in Parliament and media,
particularly in recent months. Whilst the investigations have determined that it was not, as
originally claimed, faults with Horizon that caused money to go missing in a small number of
Post Office branches, the campaign’s allegations have grown to include suggestions of
wrongdoing by senior management, bullying, deliberate cover-up and abuse of prosecutor
powers.

ABBC Panorama programme, which we expect to repeat many of the allegations being
made by the campaign, is due to be aired on August 17. We have challenged the
programme at length, over a period of 3 months, but expect it will go ahead. We have
provided detail on every allegation put to us save where this would require us to discuss
matters private to individual postmasters. We are not appearing on the programme for
interview because the programme is focussing on individual cases that have been referred
to the CCRC.

We cannot provide detail on individual cases because:
- we agreed to confidentiality with all applicants because of the very personal nature of
some of the facts involved: while they have talked publicly and partially about their cases it

would be wrong for us to breach the undertakings we made

- we would be accused of seeking to undermine or predetermine the CCRC's deliberations in
relation to criminal cases

- we would be accused of trying to further damage individuals’ reputations if we were to
reveal some of the details of the cases which are known to us but not to the wider public

POL-BSFF-0157142_0001
POL00319092
POL00319092

I hope this note is helpful. We can of course expand on any part of it.

POL-BSFF-0157142_0002
