POL00038643
POL00038643

Strictly Confidential

POLARC14 (1%)
14/1 - 14/
POST OFFICE LIMITED
(Company no. 2154540)
(the Company)

Minutes of a meeting of the AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE SUB-COMMITTEE held
on Tuesday 11 February 2014 by conference call

Present:

Alasdair Marnoch Chairman of Committee
Neil McCausland Senior Independent Director
Tim Franklin Non-Executive Director

In attendance:

Alice Perkins Company Chairman
Paula Vennells CEO

Chris Day CFO

Chris Aujard General Counsel (GC)

Belinda Crowe
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

David Oliver
Alwen Lyons Company Secretary
POLARC INTRODUCTION
14/1
A quorum being present, the Chairman of the Committee opened the
meeting and welcomed all those present.
POLARC PROSECUTIONS POLICY
14/2
(a) The Committee received a report which outlined the proposed changes to
the prosecutions policy and the way in which Post Office would prosecute
criminal cases in the future. The GC explained that the recommended
policy would limit prosecutions to egregious misconduct taking using a
more filtered approach and taking into account the factors laid out in the
paper.
ACTION: (b) The ARC discussed the three options as laid out in the paper and
Company supported the recommended option asking for a further review in a year’s
Secretary time.
(c) Angela Van-Den-Bogerd explained her work on Business Improvement
and the effect this had on reducing cases coming to prosecution. The
ARC asked if this had increased the risk in the business, but it was
explained that earlier detection of possible problems along with a more
pragmatic approach to suspensions was having a positive effect. Angela
. Van-Den-Bogerd clarified that this would not stop prosecutions for criminal
ACTION: theft through the civil route. A detailed paper on Business Improvement
Angela VDB would be provided for the next Board meeting.
ACTION: I (d) The ARC asked for a paper to explain the most appropriate way to
Mark Davies communication the prosecutions policy to be provided for the next Board.

Page 1 of 2
POL00038643
POL00038643

Strictly Confidential

(e) The Committee approved the recommendations outlined the paper.

POLARC CLOSE
14/3

There being no further business, the meeting was declared closed.

Page 2 of 2
