POL00218260
POL00218260

Kendra

Subject: Answers to SS questions
Attachment: Part 2 Responses - Confidential.pdf
Dear all

Please see attached the answers provided to Second Sight ahead of tomorrow's meeting.
Obviously, this document is confidential and should not be shared.

Kind regards

Paul

Paul Loraine
Solicitor

for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

88 Jin)

www.bonddickinson.com

The informa’
rod.ismayé
phil.bowdery

andy.baker1¢
sue.richardson¢

sean. farrow!
helen.dic!
andrew.winn

GRO I

rodric.william: angela.van-den-
bogerdé: nd any attachments

rod.ismay; sean.farrowt. GRO kevin.lenihar,

phil.bowdery¢ helen.dickinson: rob.king”

POL00218260
POL00218260

andrew.winr
john.breeden

kendra.dickinsor,
alison.bolsover

sue.richardson¢
rodric.williamé } Andrew. Parsons?’ {_angela.van-den-
bogerd™ please notify Paul.Lorainei “Bs soon as possible and delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may
be unlawful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson
LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus
checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales
under number OC317661. Our registered office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list
of members' names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or
consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Requlation Authority.
