POL00045450
POL00045450

Alwen, Gere back gound fbr fe — NM
a See Sos aw soar

The SPSO Contract Oe oo yee oe aeshers be -)

u

The subpostmasters contract has, in various forms. been in existence Ss “/
for over one hundred years. It was last issued in its current

consolidated form in 1994 (400 pages). Subsequent to that and from .
time to time we have issued variations to the contract in writing to

existing and new subpostmasters. The contract between

subpostmasters and Post Office Ltd is expressed in various documents:

the contract booklet itself, the remuneration booklet, and various

operations manuals, including weekly bulletins.

Subpostmasters are obligated to ensure that the system is operated
according to the rules and instructions that are provided to them by
Post Office Ltd. No breach of these instructions is excused on the basis
of ignorance (absentee subpostmaster). This approach has been
effective as evidenced by the overall level of non-compliance which
remains low.

Going forward, we recognise that our contracts need to have a more
commercial look and feel to them and, as a consequence, all new
operating model contracts have been greatly slimmed down (30 pages)
with a refreshed operations manual that aims to explain the benefits of
compliance as well as the operating model features and all in plain
English.

Branch Transfers

When a branch changes hands, the key extracts of the contract are
covered at the interview stage by the Contracts Advisor. A copy of the
contract is sent to the agent as part of the pre-appointment pack. On
the day of transfer the Field Support Advisor covers the key elements
of the contract again with the agent who then signs the document to
confirm understanding of the contract T&Cs.

Once an offer of appointment is accepted, training dates are then
confirmed. Training processes are under constant review and can be
modified to accommodate a variety of circumstances.
POL00045450
POL00045450

Training commences at the point of on site transfer in smaller
branches and in larger branches where classroom training is required
this happens before the on site transfer takes place. The Ops Manual is
used as reference document during training and all subpostmasters
have copy. Classroom training allows agents to become familiar with
the Horizon system and provides an overview of the balancing
procedures.

(Going forward - all branches will receive some element of classroom
training to enhance their understanding of the new models.)

The on-site training includes how to complete the office balance and
the trainer is on site with the agent for the completion of the first office
balance. Follow up support is provided to assist with balancing or any
other training needs. This takes the form of:

e Helpline support. If unable top resolve the issue the agent is
referred to the Branch Support team.

¢ The Branch Support Team is able to provide telephone support
to the agent. If this support doesn't fully resolve any issues (and
in the majority of cases this does) then this is escalated to the
Field Support Team.

¢ A member (trainer/auditor) of the Field Team will visit the branch
to provide face to face support in resolving the issue.

¢ Remedial training would be arranged following the face to face
support if the Field Support Advisor felt this was necessary.

Is the training adequate?

Customer satisfaction with training completed (independent research -
questionnaires collated by Kendata - team leader receives a copy of
each branch feedback form and if any comments cause concer or if
any subpostmaster raises an issue regarding the quality of the training
or lack of confidence this is followed up by the team leader). Currently,
95% satisfaction, response rate 69%.
POL00045450
POL00045450

Initial training

Larger branches - 8 days classroom and 6 days on site. All others - 6
days classroom and 6 days on site. Community branches - 6 days on
site. Further follow up to embed training includes:

e One month after appointment, follow up call to check all okay,
confident, etc.

e Three months after appointment - visit to check all okay/observe
the branch operationally and refresh/support as necessary.

e Six to nine months after appointment - follow up unannounced -
audit (procedural and cash/stock).

NB: Please note both the CWU and NFSP are on public record as
having every confidence in the Horizon system and its operation.
