POL00189205
POL00189205

From: Parsons, Andrew...

Sent: Thur 27/06/2013 6 PM (UTC)

To: Rodric Williams”

Ce: Hugh Flemington:

Subject: RE: Second Sight Review

Attachment: _DOC_27053113(1)_Second Sight Response. DOCX
Rodric

Draft response attached for your review.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate

for and on behalf of Bond Dick’

Follow Bond Dickinson

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 27 June 2013 14:15
To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Hugh Flemington
Subject: Second Sight Review

Andy,

As discussed, Second Sight will shortly be presenting an interim report to MPs on their investigation (“Inquiry”) into
the Horizon system.

We want to ensure that all concerned are aware of the responses we have given to the issues raised with us during
the Inquiry (including any supporting documentation).

Second Sight has been conducting the Inquiry in line with the “Raising Concerns with Horizon” document (copy
attached in pdf and Word), the Appendix to which sets out the Remit, Conduct and Output of the Inquiry. I draw your
attention to the following extracts from the Appendix section 3. “Establishment and conduct of Inquiry”:

- “Post Office Limited may provide Second Sight with its own comments on any or all concerns, and on Horizon
generally.”

- “Second Sight will consult with JFSA, Post Office Limited, and/or any other party as it considers necessary
before producing any report."
POL00189205
POL00189205

- “Second Sight will consider and take into account any comments received from JFSA, Post Office Limited
and/or any other consulted party...”

- “Second Sight will prepare the report... bearing in mind the primary need to ensure that the report is
reasoned and evidence based.”
Could you please therefore prepare a document referring to Second Sight’s obligations to consider the evidence we
produce in response to the Inquiry, and summarising the responses we have given on 4 specific Spot Reviews sent to
us by Second Sight, i.e. those concerning the Bracknell Test Centre, communication line interruptions to the branch
terminal, remming-in scratch cards, and stamp stock balancing.
Please give me a call if you need to discuss anything further.

Thanks, Rod

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

@ 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

@) Post Office stories
Q Pest oie stones

® @postofficenews

we arent arenes erent ereees

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JES IB IDI HI III IO IIIS IIS III IIIS IOI III II IIE

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this

1 and any attachments is confidk
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not hugh. flemingtord
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or

nication or attachments is pr

Any files

ached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

POL00189205
POL00189205

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered.
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of

the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
