BRU

Private & Confidential: Draft @ 26 Feb

Post Office mediation scheme updatereaches-final
slagesnears-conchision

‘The Post Office today announced that it has completed all its investigations into
complaints from each-of the-cases-of 150-a small number of sub-postmasters

aboutters-who filed complaints its against the Post Office's Horizon system-in
2013.

‘The Post Office can confirm that nNone of these investigations have uncovered a
system wide problem with the Horizon system, which has around 68,000 users

and processes more than six million transactions every day.

Of the 1501.36 cases that have been investigated, xx have been closed. A further

xx-are-the-subject-of legal proceedings involve Court decisions. The Post Office

will now offer the opportunity for prepose mediation in cach of the remaining xx
cases which do not involve court decisions, in an attempt to accelerate the

process for those cases. bring this process te-a final conclusion.
Angela van den Bogerd, Post Office head of partnerships, said:

past or present, had an opportunity to raise complaints.

“Significant progress has been made, most notably in establishing that there are
no system wide problems with our computer system and associated processes.
Fora business which is so central to millions of people this is critically

important.

“Where cases without court judgements against them remain, we have agreed to
offer mediation, overseen by an independent body, in order to provide focus for
their individual concerns.”

dividual outstand: ftly-and-t tly-with thi 1

The Post Office will continue to offer independent analysis for all cases from
forensic accountants.

Ithas also offered MPs with constituents in the process th rtunit
discuss relevant cases, in confidence, where applicants give their consent.

[ PAGE ] I Page

POL00222819
POL00222819

POL-BSFF-0060882
POL00222819
POL00222819

t Offi re it e:
undertaken to handle this issue.

{COMMENT: NEED A Q&A LINE WHICH COVERS OFF - WHY NOT MEDIATE
CRIMINAL? WHICH COVERS THE POINT ABOUT LEGAL AVENUES REMAINING
OPEN), __~ (Formatted: Font: (Default) Cambria )

DR

[ PAGE ] I Page

POL-BSFF-0060882_0001
