POL00023433
POL00023433

Message

From:

Sent:

To: Parsons, Andrew i" I; Mark Underwoo
Rodric Williams{- "GRO.

ce: Lukas, ElisafSSSCGRO. y; Prime, Amy

Subject: RE: Remote Access Wording

Attachments: Remote Access Rider.pdf

lve attached my minor comments, but there is a more substantive one as to how we present the argument under
‘Administrator Access’.

I think the sequence of statements should be as follows — note this is not drafting(!) and much of the existing wording
could be used:

* The question of access has come up many times starting with the Rudkin allegations, and including many specific
questions raised by SS

« inreiation to such specific questions, PO reverted to FJ to clarify the technical details in order to respond
appropriately to the specific question asked

* PO has recently commissioned further work and this is wider in scope than the specific questions previously
asked.

e In summary:

» PO does not have access or the ability to change transaction data

© There are a small number of staff within FJ who currently and historically have had administrator access.
This means ....

© Fihave advised us that there are controls in place to ensure that this administrator access is not used
inappropriately .... [tbc]

Happy to discuss.

jane

e Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailto:Andrew.Parsons'
Sent: 20 November 2016 13:17 _
To: Mark Underwood! GRO __._Pi Jane MacLeod <
Williams

Cc: Lukas, Elisa é_

Subject: RE: Remote Access Wording

Rodric

Prime, Amy . _.GRO_ P

Thanks Mark.

I've updated the attached. Where I agreed with your suggested amendments, I've included them and deleted the
respective comment. In reiation to your other questions, I've added my answers to the aitached.

POL-0019912
POL00023433
POL00023433

Andrew Parsons

Partner
Bond Dickinson L

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Mark Underwood!”
Sent: 18 November 2016 21:
To: Parsons, Andrew; Jane MacLeod; Rodric Williams
Cc: Lukas, Elisa; Prime, Amy

Subject: RE: Remote Access Wording

Andy, Jane & Rod,
i have track changed my comments, for your consideration, in the attached version.

Mark

From: Parsons, Andrew C
Sent: 18 November 2016 19:25

To: Jane MacLeod; Rodric Williams

Cc: Mark Underwoor es Lukas, Elisa; Prime, Amy
Subject: Remote Access Wording

Jane, Rodric

As discussed in the con with Tony, please find attached our draft wording on the "remote access" issues. This wording
will be part of a longer letter to Freeths that we hope to circulate next week.

In the attached, we refer to certain information provided by FJ to Post Office about editing transaction data. This
information was by way of an email (attached) that was arguably subject to litigation privilege. By referring to this
information in our letter (i) we may be waiving privilege in that email and (ii) Freeths could push for a collateral waiver of
privilege in other emails from FJ on the same topic.

We have not expressly referred to the email in the letter to minimise this risk. However, my view is that if we do not
explain that Post Office relied on information provided by FJ, Post Office's story is severely weakened and hence some
risk of waiving privilege should be taken.

Happy to discuss this point in more detail. All comments on the attached are welcomed.

Kind regards
Andy

POL-0019912
POL00023433
POL00023433

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Bond Dickinson LLP

tected by law. mark underwo
andrew parson

2A 9 FCC R28 2 FFA 08 R010 0 2 10K 08 08 FEY 0 OR OR CGF 0 0 ACCES 0

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2 32 RR RE RRR RA SOA RR OSE RB CODA RRR A A SESS RRR ACESS GR

POL-0019912
