POL00116255
POL00116255

From: Mark R Davies{
Sent: Wed 05/02/2014 6:46:21 PM (UTC)
To: David Oliver!

Ce: Belinda Crow:

Bialaszews!I GRO
Subject: Re: Second Sight and James Arbuthnot
Thanks David.

In option C there is a significant con which I am not sure comes through as strongly as it might, and that is the
standing of SS in parliament and statements on the record from the minister. I think this would need to be
reflected in any further discussions on this.

Happy to discuss.

Mark

Sent from my iPhone

On 5 Feb 2014, at 17:52, "David Olive

PERSONAL NOT FOR ONWARD CIRCULATION
Paula,

Following our meeting with you yesterday I attach a short note summarising the options to go forward
together with my assessment of pros and cons. Chris has cleared (save the pros and cons which were
added in response to Martin’s comments).

Separately there is the issue about whether we should engage Grant Thornton separately to provide QA
regardless of the outcome of Plan A. We can pick this up in any initial discussions.

I have also attached the note you asked for of forthcoming issues/events. In particular it would be very
helpful to get your comments on the Arbuthnot meeting note and on the green light to hold
introductory discussions with Grant Thornton etc.

Actions from yesterday's meeting
1. PV to speak to Alastair re his availability to act as a non executive point of contact for Tony
Hooper.
2. Following the outcome of action 1 Chris Aujard to speak to Tony.
3. Board paper to be provided on Second Sight contingencies and management following their
refusal to agree to the Board's requirement around acting against Post Office for their engagement
letter.
4, David to review the draft note of the Arbuthnot meeting to ensure it reflects the point
Paula made to James about MPs cases being subsummed into the scheme.
5. David to contact James Arbuthnot’s office once I have your comments (Paula) to agree a note
of the meeting — it would be good to get these soon to avoid James’ office doing any further
communicating with MPs without Post Office input.

 Seperately Chris Aujard to confirm that the issue around scratchcards has been successfully
resolved.
Thanks
David

David Oliver
Programme Manager

<actions and timelines.doc>

<note to PV 05022014.docx>

POL00116255
POL00116255
