POL00191593
POL00191593

From: Hugh Flemington[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HUGH. FLEMINGTON14106A9A-9886-403D-
BF5B-E08821F432B3]

Sent: Tue 09/07/2013 3:01:01 PM (UTC)
To: Susan Crichton:
Subject: FW: Tactical Activities

Legal issues for strategic planning:

1. Criminal Case Review underway by external lawyers

a. Initial focus on all cases POL have run since Separation on 1 April 2012.

b. Recommendation is that all cases since 1 Jan 2010 be reviewed (to tie in to the migration from old to
new Horizon).

c. If and when this review generates a recommendation that a conviction may be unsafe, there is a
prosecution authority duty to disclose this to the relevant defendant. It’s then up to that defendant
whether or not they appeal their conviction (we cannot do it for them).

d. Comms plan needed.

2. Civil cases:
a. It is up to the individuals to request that the court re-open any settlement.
b. We would deal with these on a case by case basis if and when they arise.

3. Be part of a weekly meeting involving IS, FJ, Lawyers, Investigations, PBNA and Contract Managers — to
discuss any Horizon related issues that week and make sure everyone is on the same page.

4. Deal with individual case appeals as and when they appear

a. Criminal aspect
i. This may mean supplying information to the Court of Appeal.
ii. This may mean deciding whether or not to waive a request for a retrial if the Court of
Appeal suggest one.

b. Civil aspect.
i. This may mean defending or settling a claim for wrongful conviction.

c. Compensation Fund: how much, management etc.

d. Comms plan needed

5. Budgeting:
a. We needa fund to pay for both initial and ongoing external support of this matter
b. We need to consider a compensation fund.
6. Strategy for ongoing cases
a. Get anew expert from FJ
b. Move toa non FJ independent expert as soon as we can

7. Strategy for new cases

8. Strategy for the future of Prosecutions at Post Office.

Hugh Flemington I Head of Legal
POL00191593
POL00191593

i) 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

@ Post Office stories

®© @postofficenews

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 09 July 2013 15:39

To: Susan Crichton

Cc: Hugh Flemington; Martin Edwards; Alwen Lyons; Mark R Davies
Subject: Tactical Activities

DEAR ALL _ ANYTHING MORE TO ADD

How do we manage activity going forward:
e Assign a programme lead and internal project manager, the recommendation is that this is an external to
support the working group. Ideally someone who has had previous investigative experience to enable
management of SS. (note Simon is leaving the business shortly).

¢ Consider establishing an internal ring fenced working group to support the remaining Spot Reviews.

e The Branch User Group needs to be considered alongside the existing structure with the NFSP.
Recommendation/ToR and approach.

e Agree the ToR with SS for the remaining spot reviews.
® One to one meetings with interested MPs?

e Terms of Reference to be developed for the Independent review of new cases.

Immediate actions from the SS report:

Technical considerations:

e Review the messaging and procedures when a SPMR has to deal with a communications failure — change as
appropriate.

e — Review the hardware failures. Identify improvements.

¢ Consider a ‘suspense account’ at a branch level. Cost/process/implementation.
POL00191593
POL00191593

Process:
e Interventions team — change of name? review the current contracts.

e Create a central repository for all SPMR cases. All 47 cases which have been raised with SS in the first
instance and then Legal cases. Review all sub post master interactions, eg P&BA, Legal, Security, NBSC.

e — Review/Create process map for support of Sub post masters and change where appropriate.

e¢ New cases: Reissue communications to the branches and agree mechanism for adding new cases to be
reviewed

¢ Consider an ‘outreach’ investigations support function. Cost/scale/responsibilities.

Behaviours:

¢ Check how we are dealing with cases and ensure we are handling delicately — how can we demonstrate that
we are improving. Angela

e — Review our current training in light of the comments made in the SS report (process and behaviours).
Communications:
e Communications plan for the summer to cover BBC, and computer weekly et al.

¢ ~~ Communication to all MP’s who have cases.
e  JA/AB

Lesley J Sewell
Chief Information Officer

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
