POL00109904
POL00109904

Message

From: Mark R Davies

on behalf of — Mark R Davie: ]
Sent: 23/01/2015

To: Louise Chatfield j.

Subject: FW: Second Sight's Investigations

Sensitivity: Company Confidential

Another!

Best wishes,

Mark

Mark Davie:

‘s I Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 22 Jai

nuary 2015 14:48

To: Jane Hill; Melanie Corfield
Cc: Belinda Crowe; Chris Aujard; Mark R Davies; Rodric Williams; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; Parsons, Andrew
Subject: FW: Second Sight's Investigations

Sensi

Please see tl

: Confidential

he exchange below.

Ihave alerted Paula to the fact that this is in existence and relevant to the Select Committee. She has asked specifically
that we have answers to these questions. I assured her we would — Rod will be able to provide answers to these
questions. He Andy Parsons and I have been trawling old documents (some of which I have forwarded) to highlight the
fact that the terms of the original enquiry changed following the publication of their report and the establishment of the

Scheme.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Cri

148 Old St

G RO. Postline:

‘owe

et, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

From: Ian Henderson foo’ RO nnn j

Sent: 21 Jai

nuary 2015 13:03

To: Chris Aujard

POL-0111112
POL00109904
POL00109904

Cc: Belinda Crowe; rjwi WALKER, Janet’
Subject: RE: Second Sight's Investigations
Sensi : Confidential

! will need to go back through my notes.

My clear recollection is that Post Office (Paula / Alice) provided a number of undertakings to Second Sight both before
Second Sight was appointed and subsequently. Similar undertakings were given to James Arbuthnot'’s office around the
time of our appointment.

The main points were:

* Post Office was committed to “seeking the truth” however painful the outcome may be

e Second Sight was appointed to conduct an independent investigation into the matters raised by
Subpostmasters

* Post Office would not interfere with the scope of work deemed necessary by Second Sight

e Second Sight would be provided with access to any documents held or controlled by Post Office, that Second
Sight considered necessary for the purpose of its investigation

thave checked with Janet Walker of James Arbuthnot’s office and she has confirmed my recollection / understanding on
these points.

It have previously referred you to the “Raising Concerns with Horizon” document which described the basis upon which
documents would be provided to Second Sight by Post Office.

I would further point out that for many months following Second Sight’s appointment, Post Office was providing full
access to all documents requested by Second Sight, including documents that were confidential or subject to legal
professional privilege. it is only in the last year that Post Office has chosen to challenge or withhold a number of
documents requested by Second Sight.

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Email: irhj
Website: http://advancedforensics.com
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be privileged.
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at irhj E
delete the email and any attachments.

From: Chris Aujard
Sent: 21 January 2015 11:51
To: Ian Henderson
Cc: Belinda Crowe

POL-0111112
POL00109904
POL00109904

Subject:
Sensiti

RE: Second Sight's Investigations
ity: Confidential

Dear lan

While I await your response to my email below responding to the specific points you have made regarding information
requests, there is one further matter which requires attention. Given that your email also refers to a number of
“undertakings” purportedly given by Post Office (of which I have had no visibility) I would ask that you provide to me as
soon as possible the specific details of these purported “undertakings” (e.g. when, where, by whom, to whom and by
what means you assert they were given) so that I can consider more fully your assertions in this regard.

i hope that you understand that in the meantime our position remains reserved.
Regards

Chris

From: Chris Aujard

Sent: 20 January 2015 16:13

To: ‘Ian Henderson’

Cc: Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: Second Sight's Investigations
Sensiti : Confidential

Dear lan
Thank you for your email, forwarded to me last Friday evening; I confess to having been quite surprised to receive it.

First I would like to stress that in response to your list of some 109 questions, Post Office provided a response to the
majority of questions you posed. Our responses ran to over thirty pages with, in addition, over 100 pages of documents
in 16 annexes. {would hope you agree that is a considerable amount of information collated in less than one month.

Following our meeting to discuss those responses, and specifically those questions where Post Office had asked you to
clarify how the information you were requesting related to specific issues raised by applicants so that we could narrow
down what appeared to be a number of wide requests for general information (and you will recall that the last Working
Group the Chair agreed that a number were ‘too wide’), you helpfully narrowed down some of your requests and
explained more fully and clearly what information you were actually seeking and the issues you were seeking to
address. We are now in the process of pulling together a further response, as we agreed, on the basis of your
clarification. I hope to get more information to you by the start of next week. You have also emailed separately about
information relating to “suspense accounts” which I have been discussing with my finance colleagues, and I will respond
to that shortly.

In addition, Belinda is liaising with Chris Holyoak (who has also been in touch separately about prosecution files) and she
is looking at the provision of the emails you have requested and she will liaise with you about that in due course.

That said, I was rather perplexed by your reference to the ‘Raising Concerns with Horizon’ document. As we have
discussed previously, and I thought agreed, Second sight is engaged to review the individual applications in the Scheme,
and your engagement letter and the Terms of Reference of the Working Group, makes that clear. This document relates
to your original work, which led to the publication of your report in July 2013. Following this report, it was then agreed
with you (and JFSA) that Second Sight would focus on reviewing the complaints of individual Subpostmasters to try to
bring those complaints to a close rather than trying to evaluate the whole of Post Office’s organisation which was
considered unlikely to directly assist individual Subpostmasters.

Finally, you appear to be suggesting that if Post Office does not provide the information you have requested, which, as
set out above, we are in the process of doing, you will raise this in your written and oral evidence to the Select

POL-0111112
POL00109904
POL00109904

Committee. On that point, you emailed me yesterday to say you had been invited to attend (and I will also respond
separately on that) but there was no reference in that email, or the invitation, of a request for written evidence. If itis
your intention to provide an unsolicited written submission to the Select Committee I should be grateful if you would let
me know as soon as possible.

Regards

Chris

From: Ian Henderson [}
Sent: 16 January 2015
To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Paula Vennells
Subject: FW: Second Sight's Investigations
Importance: High

Sensitivity: Confidential

Privileged and Confidential — Created for the purpose of obtaining legal advice
Chris
When Second Sight was first appointed by Post Office and Members of Parliament in July 2012, a number of
undertakings were given by POL in order to satisfy MPs that Second Sight would be able to conduct a truly independent
investigation into the matters of concern.
Those undertakings included the following:

e Unrestricted access to documents held by POL (including documents subject to confidentiality and legal

professional privilege)

@ No limitation in the scope of work determined necessary by Second Sight

Those undertakings were reflected in the “Raising Concerns with Horizon” document signed by POL on 17 Dec 2012
(Attached). A key paragraph was:

In order to carry out the Inquiry, Second Sight will be entitled to request information related to a concern from
Post Office Limited, and if Post Office Limited holds that information, Post Office Limited will provide it to Second Sight.

lam sure that many Subpostmasters and Applicants to the Mediation Scheme will have relied on that paragraph, when
reporting matters to Second Sight.

As we have discussed in the context of POL’s incomplete response to our Part 2 questions, POL is now seeking to
challenge those undertakings and so far has not provided the information requested on a number of critical matters,

including the Bracknell emails, prosecution documents and full details of transactions relating to the Suspense account.

Second Sight takes this matter very seriously and will not hesitate in raising this important non-compliance and integrity
issue in the next version of our Part 2 Report and in written and oral evidence to the BIS Committee.

All of this can be resolved by POL taking all practical steps necessary to answer the questions put to it by Second Sight. If
any questions raise particular difficulties, we are of course, happy to discuss an alternative approach.

I would be grateful if you would consider these matters before our meeting with POL’s Finance team next week.

With best wishes

POL-0111112
POL00109904
POL00109904

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

UK Mobile

Email: irh
Website: htt
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential_a
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at irhl
delete the email and any attachments.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0111112
