POL00108439
POL00108439

Message

From:

on behalf of

Sent: 17/04/2014

To: Rodric Williams

cc: Belinda Cr Angela Van-Den-
Bogerd c

Subject: RE: Post Office Mediation Claims [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Just as background ~ I called the report the “Lepton report" in the email to Howe as it seemed contradictory to keep
calling it the "Helen Rose report’ whilst stating that we were redacting material for privacy reasons! It is 100% the same
report.

A

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 17 April 2014 12:05

To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Belinda Crowe; David Oliver1; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: FW: Post Office Mediation Claims

FYI - response from Howe & Co.
No action currently required.

From: Priti Sing!
Sent: 17 April 2014 1
To: Rodric Williams
Cc: Graham Cade; 'Ron Warmington’; Steve Darlington; Martin Howe
Subject: RE: Post Office Mediation Claims

8

Dear Sir,
I refer to your e-mail dated the 15 April 2014.
The enclosures you have sent at first glance do not seem to me to be from the same report as the one sent to

Della Robinson which was stated to be the “The Helen Rose Report” not the “Lepton Report” by your own
solicitors at the time.

POL-0106538
POL00108439
POL00108439

In any event my colleague, Graham Cade will be reviewing matters in more detail and writing to you in due
course,

All future communications should be addressed to him directly.

Yours faithfully.

Priti Maru-Singh LL.B (Hons)
Senior Solicitor

4010 Great West Road, Brentford, TW8 SBA
www. howe.co.uk

Howe+Co

Warning: Copyright Howe & Co - Where the content of this e-mail and/or attachment includes materials prepared by Howe & Co the use of those materials is
subject exclusively to the conditions of engagement between the Firm and its client.

This communication is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. By the use of email over the Internet Howe & Co is not waiving either
confidentiality of, or legal privilege in, the contpnt.f he emalland of any attachments if you have received this email in error you should not rely on it and should
please contact Kieran O'Rourke on telephon GRO ___ or email law,
Howe & Co will communicate with you by email, However, the Firm cannot guarantee the confidentiality, reliability or speed of these communications, or of any
attached documents. if you wish to send to the Firm any urgent, critical, or encrypted email communication, then please notify us in advance. The preferred format
for receiving word-processed documents is Microsoft Word.

Howe & Co does not warrant that this email is free of computerised viruses or malicious programmes, although we do everything to ensure that our emails are free
of computerised viruses and malicious programmes. Howe & Co accepts no liability whatsoever for any form of loss or damage (including consequential loss or
damage) a result of the recipient of this email (including consecutive or concurrent recipients) being infected with a computerised virus or malicious programme
unknowingly hidden within this email

Any opinions expressed in this email or any attachment thereto are not necessarily the opinions of Howe & Co.

Howe & Co's partners are: M J Howe BA (Hons), K P O'Rourke LLB (Hons), D Enright LLB (Hons).

The firm's practice address is Howe & Co, 1010 Great West Road, Brentford, TW8 9BA, United Kingdom

This firm is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. (SRA No. 73646)

From: Rodric William:
Sent: 15 April 2014 18:39

To: Priti Singh

Subject: Post Office Mediation Claims

GRO !

Dear Ms Maru-!

ngh
I refer to your email of 7 April 2014 to Chris Aujard.

The version of the report sent to Ms Robinson ("the Lepton Report") was redacted to protect the privacy and personal
information of the individuals named in that Report. This was done to ensure compliance with the Data Protection Act
1998. We will therefore not be providing an un-redacted copy of the Lepton Report.

As requested, please find attached a copy of Appendix 1 to the Lepton Report along with copies of the spreadsheets
embedded in Appendix 1. To protect the privacy of those referred to in these documents we have again redacted any
personal data. In particular, in the spreadsheets we have deleted the data from the "user id" and "employee id"
columns.

I also attach a copy of Post Office's response to Second Sight's Spot Review 1, which was prepared and disclosed to
Second Sight before the publication of its interim report. Again, this document has been redacted to protect the privacy
of the individuals involved. This Spot Review addresses the same transactions as raised in the Lepton Report. However,
whereas the Lepton Report is focused on the presentation of data from Horizon, the Spot Review 1 Response directly

POL-0106538
POL00108439
POL00108439

addresses the issue raised in your email about reversal transactions. I trust that this document helps demonstrate that
the reversal transactions in question did not occur without the knowledge of the subpostmaster.

For the sake of good order, I note that Post Office disagrees with the statements in your email about the integrity of
data on Horizon and the safety of convictions. Further, Post Office maintains that the disclosure of the un-redacted
Lepton Report or Appendix 1 to that report was not required for it to comply with its prosecution disclosure duties.

I do not believe that this matter should delay the submission of your clients' CQRs. However, should you require further
time on any particular case you may of course apply in th: I way to the Working Group for an extension — please
make this request in writing to schemeenquiries __

Yours sincerely, Rodric Williams

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

1
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0106538
POL00108439
POL00108439

sceuss this e-mail and any
delete any copies. Usau

fom software before ti

Any files attack with dete

waistered in Eo
x9 names is open
roanber is GIB12339362

‘This ersail is sent and on bel
© is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside

or consultant who is of equivalent standi

NEI 3DX, where a fis
Our VAT registra

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised an

y the Solie: sion Anthe

POL-0106538
