POL00103238
POL00103238

Message
From: Matthews, Gavin
Sent: 02/08/2016 13:
To: Rodric Williams: A
Pheasant, Andrew GRO i
Subject: RE: Post Office Limited - Strictly Private & Confidential [BD-4A.FID26859284]
Hi Rod

I hope you have had a great holiday.

I'm just responding to your email below because I've discussed the matter with Andy Parsons and given my involvement
with the CCRC from the start I will lead on this issue supported by Andy Pheasant. I'm not in on Friday but perhaps we
can meet up early next week — I'm in London for a meeting on Wednesday 10 August at 2.30 but could meet with you in
the morning. Alternatively I am pretty free on Monday/ Tuesday next week also if that is more suitable for you.

Andy and I have given the matter some initial thought and our preliminary views (which we can discuss further when we
meet) are that the following are possible areas to develop;

1. Push them on their jurisdiction to take this action ("exceptional circumstances") which was slightly tenuous at the
start. If they have not already found any link between the cases then there are no exceptional circumstances and
they have no jurisdiction

2. Apply some political pressure BiS/MoJ

3. Tell the CCRC that you are coming under increasing pressure internally to know when the CCRC is likely to have
completed its findings ~ Can Amanda help?

4. Tell the CCRC that there are now group litigation civil proceedings on foot and that several of the claimants in
these proceedings are applicants in the CCRC process and there is a real danger that any delay in the CCRC
investigation will cause those claimants cases to be stayed pending the result ie the CCRC investigation may hold
up some of the civil case.

Let me know how you are fixed for next week.
Kind regards

Gavin

Gavin Matthews
Partner

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Rodric Williams [maitto!
Sent: 01 August 2016 12:48 +

POL-0102821
POL00103238
POL00103238

To: Parsons, Andrew; Pheasant, Andrew; Matthews, Gavin
Subject: FW: Post Office Limited - Strictly Private & Confidential

Hi - please see below and attached. Could we discuss on Friday when I'm back in the office? I'd like to start thinking
about whether and how we can start forcing the issue with the CCRC - they've been looking at these for a long time and
seem to be jumping down every rabbit hole they're directed to (for example, the "ComputerWeekly" issue won't have
any bearing on any case under review).

I'm also conscious about the noise about the receipt payment mismatch issue and its effect on Misra, to which the
document requests may be linked.

Sent from my Windows Phone
From 16s:
Sent: 01/08/2016 13:02
ms

Post Office Limited - Strictly Private & Confidential

Hi Rodric,

This was a very timely email — I'd planned to take stock of where we are with these cases before I go
on leave (on 3 August!)

Thank you for the updated Case Tracker and the state of play re Trousdale, Hedges, Holmes, Owen,
Joshi and Shaheen. Thanks also for the ATM information.

Concerning the MacDonald case, we haven't heard anything from Mr Patel so if there’s anything else
that you can do to encourage him to contact us that would be very helpful. In addition, please could
you send us copies of the documents linked to the entries from 23/7/09-1/9/09 on the Broughton
‘electronic filing cabinet’ document which was attached to your email of 14/3/2016? (I haven’t sent a
further section 17 notice for these on the basis that they're covered by our original request re Mrs
MacDonald’s case. Please let me know if you think otherwise.)

I’m afraid I’ve also got some further requests for information and documents.
Documents:

1. We met with Ron Warmington of Second Sight on 17/6/16. He mentioned a couple of
documents that we think it would be helpful to see (i) the thematic spreadsheet which Second
Sight created identifying the alleged faults/problems; and (ii) a June 2014 report which Mr
Warmington prepared on POL’s investigations department and prosecution process. I attach a
section 17 notice to cover this request. Please let me know if you need more information to
help identify or locate the documents.

2. We are trying to locate the transaction logs for the Misra case. We haven't been able to find
them in the data room. We have found a 255-page ‘event log’ and a 29-page log of
‘Transactions associated with rejected card payments’ but no sign of the full transaction
logs. If the logs weren’t printed out for trial, are you still able to access them from the audit
store? (Again, I haven't sent a further section 17 notice for these on the basis that they’re
covered by our original request re Ms Misra’s case.)

Questions:

POL-0102821
POL00103238
POL00103238

1. In November 2015, Computer Weekly reported an issue whereby payments had been
duplicated on Horizon. It was reported that this was caused by the user forcing log off. We
have also seen this referred to as the “Dalmellington Error’. Would it be possible for POL to
provide us with an explanation of this issue, similar to the way that you responded to the
issues identified in the Second Sight part two report?

2. We've seen a number of references to the “Receipts and Payments Mismatch Problem” which,
we think, has also been referred to as the Callendar Square/Falkirk problem. Are we right in
thinking that they’re the same thing and are we right in thinking that the issue concerns only
transfers to remote stock units (ie those run from a laptop in remote areas)? Could the issue
affect transfers between stock units within a branch?

3. We've seen references to some sort of ‘fault log’ produced by Fujitsu. I understand from the
CRMs working on the cases that this has been variously referred to as the ‘peak incident reports’,
‘pinnacle’, and the ‘known error log’. Do these refer to the same thing? Is it one document or is
a series of documents? It may be that we need to see this/these, but I’m trying to get a better
sense of what they are before issuing a formal request.

I suspect that we'll need to discuss these questions in more detail but I thought I’d attempt to set them
out here and then give you a call when I’m back from leave (week commencing 22 August).

I hope you had a good break and I’ll speak to you soon.

Kind regards,
Amanda

Amanda Pearce

From: Rodric Williams [mail

Sent: 25 July 2016 13:09

To: PearceA

Ce: StuartF

Subject: Post Office Limited - Strictly Private & Confidential

Amanda,

I hope this finds you well. I thought it might be helpful to drop you a line summarising where we are in responding to
your various Section 17 Notices before I go on annual leave (returning 3 August 2016).

l attach an updated Case Tracker. With respect to the first batch of 20 cases, the content of the electronic Cartwright
King file has now been reviewed, which identified documents relating to the Robinson, Barang, Prince, Ishaq, Williams
and Misra prosecutions. Millnet is creating sub-folders called “Electronic CK Documents” for each of these individuals
into which the documents will be transferred. We will let you know once this has been completed and the documents
are available for your review.

POL-0102821
POL00103238
POL00103238

With respect to the later notifications for Trousdale, Hedges and Holmes, we should be in a position to release
documents to you shortly after my return from annual leave (we are just waiting for some confirmations around the
categories where we have not located any responsive documents). We are still in the document gathering phase for the
most recent notifications for Owen, Joshi and Shaheen.

In looking back over my communications with you, I noted two other open items, one concerning ATMs, the other the
specific case of Jaqueline MacDonald.

On ATM’s, I attach instructions that set out what Post Office agents have to do on a daily/weekly basis to
balance/account for their ATM, which were issued in this format around June/July 2013, and which I believe you asked
for when you attended our office for the Horizon demonstration. Please accept my apologies for not providing this to
you sooner.

On the MacDonald case, can you please let me know whether or not you still require our assistance to enable your case
handler to speak to Mr Zubeir Patel, who provided temporary postmaster services at Mrs MacDonald’s branch, as part
of the review of that case.
More generally, please let me know if you have any questions or wish to discuss anything in more detail.
Kind regards, Rodric

» Rodric Williams

Solicitor, Corporate Services
Post Office Ltd

RR RR RR I A RRR A ARR RR A RR RI A BK RR A RR RR ka

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Af 4 28 28 ff RR 2 128 28 Rf 28 2 2 a A 3 2 a a 08 RR a aa a a

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com.

The Criminal Cases Review Commission
5 St Philip's Place
Birmingham

POL-0102821
The information contained in this e-mail and any files transmitted with it is
confidential and is intended for the use of the person(s) or entity named above.
If you are not the intended recipient of this communication, any disclosure,
copying, distribution, or any action taken in reliance on it is prohibited and

may be unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please
return it immediately to the sender by replying to it and then delete the
message from your computer.

We may monitor the content of e-mails sent and received via our network for the
purposes of ensuring compliance with policies and procedures.

Viruses: Although we have taken steps to ensure that this e-mail and attachments
are free from any virus we advise that in keeping with good computing practice
the recipient should ensure they are actually virus free.

POL00103238
POL00103238

POL-0102821
