POL00099331
POL00099331

Message

From: Alasdair Marno

on behalf of — Alasdair Marnos
Sent: 21/07/2013

To: Paula Vennells:
Subject: Re: Insurance reply

I'm afraid Chris's answer does not address the key question as to whether or not we have got cover. He dropped
me a note which suggested we do but seems to suggest it would be under D&O cover. Like you I'm concerned

that we believe this policy would cover us for this sort of issue - rather I'm sure we will have a PI policy which
will cover us for this and any other like issue.

The follow on issue is that to avoid the underwriters rejecting our claim we need to keep them abreast of
developments and any possible claims (on this and any other issues)Experience tells me that keeping
underwriters updated on this sort of developing issue can be very tricky getting the balance right in levels of
disclosure. Normally I would have expected Chris to have been involved in discussions with Susan testing the
thinking at each stage of the process.

I've gone back to Chris for further clarification but I suggest it's handled in a face to face conversation (perhaps
at your Exec) and/or I will follow up wi him directly. Also will pick up with Susan on SS.

The issues about any disclosure is that it will affect our premiums even if the underwriters don't pay out. It's a
bit like having to report near misses when you a driving as well as crashes. The result will be higher premiums
etc etc. But turn the issue (hassle/cost) on its head and we can reverse this problem into an cost saving/process

improvement opportunity by combining necessary reporting to underwriters with improvements on our own
processes identifying mistakes and a tracking mechanism to their resolution.

Regards
Alasdair

Ps haven't forgotten about cycle routes in the borders - lots of opportunities - roughly where will you be and
how long have you got?

Sent from my iPad

On 20 Jul 2013, at 21:24, "Paula Vennells" “lwrote:

Hi Alasdair, did you get the clarification you asked for?

Talso left a message with Chris as his note on insurance cover raised two questions for me.
Firstly, that there could be an impact re future costs across several policies. I understand D&O
but which others - may be obvious to the experts but it isn't to me. And secondly, his note
seemed to imply we were going to check if we are covered - does that mean we may not be/ we
don't know?

Chris' reply to my two questions is below. The line which bothers me slightly is 'D&O appears to
be the policy which would cover...

Am I being too hawkish? I would have preferred to read 'D&O is the policy which (if needed)
will cover...’

POL-0098914
POL00099331
POL00099331

Does Chris' reply to you give more comfort? I don't want to pile the pressure on Chris by going
back again unnecessarily.

Hope your Sat was good.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

From: Chris M Day,
Date: 20 July 201

pdate after Tuesday’ 's Board meeting - insurance
Sorry if not clear; there are two points - firstly D + O appears to be the policy

which would cover this eventuality, and our understanding is the first 25k of any
claim is not covered (this is being verified).

Secondly, our broker (Miller) will meet with RM's (JLT) to determine the best
way to engage with D + O insurer/s which will enable us to understand the
possible impact on this (and possibly other) policy premia going forward.

The subtlety here is that we need to inform existing insurers of a potential new
risk (in hand) without 'scaring the horses' into immediately increasing future
costs, and this process is made more complex by being a joint policy with RM
(the only one that is configured in this way).

Will provide a fuller update when we have established all the facts, next week.

Charles - please confirm my understanding is correct.

Chris

Sent from my iPad.

On 19 Jul 2013, at 20:09, "Alasdair Marnoch" GRO

Fyi No need to broadcast loudly but I don't think C has understood the question
on insurance (or I've misunderstood the answer). Either way a quick clarification
will hopefully avoid more mails.

A
Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

POL-0098914
POL00099331
POL00099331

From: "Alasdair Marnoch't_
To: "Chris Day"
Subject: Fwd: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

Chris

Thanks for your msg and do call anytime. As I mentioned I'm
planning to come up Tue pm and be available for a full day on
Wed. If you are around I'd be happy to buy you a beer / dinner
Tue?

On the insurance Q we were keen to know if we have currently got
insurance cover for any claim arising? Don't think your answer
deals with this point - I'm sure Susan will know though.

Regards

Alasdair

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

"Nicholas

Subject: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

Dear All

POL-0098914
POL00099331
POL00099331

On Tuesday the Board asked for information on
three things this week:

A paper on Transitional Support Services
with Fujitsu which we agreed would be considered
by corresponded.

The impact of the Financial Services Junction
insurance changes, and the continued Transitional
Support from Fujitsu, on the strategic plan and
bottom line (including the P&L and cashflow
changes)

The impact on Horizon/Second Sight on our
insurance cover.

The first two points are covered by the attached and
the final one is explained by Chris below

Insurance

We discussed what impact the current Horizon
issues might have on our insurance on which we are
advised by our insurance broker, Miller. Their view
is that whilst other insurance policies may be
impacted the most likely one is D&O - this has the
added complication as it is the only policy we share
with RM and was placed by their broker, JLT. The
excess on this policy varies under different criteria
but the main one is £25k on each and every claim.
A meeting is being set up with JLT and Miller to
ensure they are fully briefed on the issues before
JLT engage with the insurer.

Chris Day

POL-0098914
POL00099331
POL00099331

ECR RR A RR RA CR A I a RR aaa
JF ORR ROI SICIC ICC ICR RR ICIC ICICI ROR RG.

This email and any attachments are confidential and
intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose,
reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or
opinions expressed within this email are solely
those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England
and Wales no 2154540, Registered Office: 148
OLD STREET, LONDON ECIV 9HQ.

HK 28 2 ff kK Rf RR Rf a ao ok a eae

FIC OR RR SI SICIC ICC II RRR SISA ICICI RR RE

<TSS BOARD PAPER _13 07 18 v6 0.doc>
<ATT00001>

<Implications of update on Financial Services and IT Transitional Support.doc>
<ATT00002>

<New_File Strategic Plan_2013_to_2020 190713 v2.doc>

<ATT00003>

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0098914
