POL00144918
POL00144918

From: Ron Warmington{ GRO
Sent: Fri 28/06/2013 5:52:11 PM (UTC)
To: Simon Baker}

Ce: Lesley J Sew
lan Hendersot

Subject: RE: Bug disclosure

Yep... found that one:
1.1.1 Section 2.4.1 of the report: The Calendar Square, Falkirk Problem

I accept that there was an issue with the Post Office in Calendar Square Falkirk as
described in the email reproduced in Appendix C of the report and covered by a
previous Witness statement I made on 8" February 2010. As I stated in the email, the
problem was fixed in March 2006 and so is not relevant to the period of data that I
have examined in this branch. Also, when the problem manifested itself it was clear
from the various logs that there was a problem in the system. There is no evidence of
such problems from the various logs that have been examined for this branch.
Therefore I see no relevance for this problem to the period of data that is being looked
at for this case. In particular, Professor McLachlan says “it demonstrates that there have been
faults with the Horizon system which give rise to discrepancies that can cause losses. It is not reasonable to exclude
the possibility of system problems when considering a case such as Misra. ”. I would dispute that. It was
clear from the Events generated at the time in Calendar Square that there was a
problem. No such events have been seen in West Byfleet in the period in question
and so this cannot be responsible for the losses in that period.

From: Simon Baker [mailto::_
Sent: Friday, June 28, 2013
To: 'ron.warmington¢_
Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Alwen Lyons
Subject: Re: Bug disclosure
Sensitivity: Confidential

The one I was referring to was the falkirk issue that gareth mentions on page 18 of Misra (as a response to a question
on it). I will ask if there are any other examples.

From: Ron Warmington [[. GRO. J

Sent: Friday, June 28, 2013 05:26 PM

To: Simon Baker

Cc: ‘Ian Henderson’ <
Subject: Bug disclosure

Simon: You mentioned in this afternoon's call that the Courts have in the past
been informed, for example in Gareth Jenkins' Witness Statements, about past
POL00144918
POL00144918

bugs in Horizon. I need to mention that in the report. Am right now searching
through the material to find as many of those as I can. If I say: "POL has in the
past disclosed, in Witness Statements to English Courts, the discovery of since-
corrected defects (‘bugs’) in the Horizon code." I'll need two or more, else I'll
have to say "a bug"... I might use the word ‘defect’ as discussed. Have just
searched all our e-docs for the word "bug" and not coming up with much
(including in Gareth's 8th Oct 2010, Witness Statement for the Seema Misra
Trial. Can you find any?

Ron Warmington, CFE, FCA
Director

2nd Sight Support Services Ltd
Tythe Farm

Maugersbury

Cheltenham

Gloucestershire

GL54 1HR

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

