POL00144871
POL00144871

From: Parsons, Andrew{,
Sent: Thur 27/06/2013 8:

32 PM (UTC)

To: Rodric Williams
Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues
Rodric

The issue manifested in around 2011 and those SPMRs that suffered sizeable errors (ie. Ones that were easy to

spot) reported the issue immediately.

However as it was only a few branches, Chesterfield didn't see the pattern in the errors for over 12 months. It
was only as more issues were raised and no individual branch by branch explanation could be found, that

someone (not sure who) realised that it could be an error in Horizon affecting multiple branches.

T presume that it then took time to engage Fujitsu; investigate the technical causes and determine the effect of the

causes; etc.
I'm happy to speak to Andy Winn tomorrow to get more details if that would help?

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
Bond Dickinson LLP
Blackberry:

cesceeee Original message
From: Rodric Williams <t
Date: 27/06/2013 20:15
To: "Parsons, Andrew" <i_

Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues

Thanks again.

When we discussed this yesterday, you mentioned this might have been kicking around for c. 12 months.

Can you give me a couple of bullet points on when this first came up and what POL did next?

Kind regards, Rod
POL00144871
POL00144871

From: Parsons, Andre\
Sent: 27 June 2013 19:43
To: Rodric Williams
Cc: Ben Thorp
Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues

Rodric

As discussed, please find attached a version of the letter for those SPMRs who are currently not aware of the situation.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate

for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Parsons, Andrew
Sent: 27 June 2013 17:51
POL00144871
POL00144871

To: Rodric Williams
Cc: 'Ben Thorp’
Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues

Rodric

I've reviewed the SPMR letters. I've attached mark-ups of two of the letters which show the suggested amendments
that should be made across all the letters.

The amendments are:

To insert an opening paragraph that explains POL's investigation and highlights the fact that we have sought to protect
SPMRs from any harm in the interim period.

To remove the word "problem" and to replace this with the less dramatic word: "issue".

I don't think we should apologise in the letters. I know this sounds hard but in apologising we are admitting some
degree of culpability. I think we should maintain a more cold, procedural approach to correcting what is effectively an
accounting irregularity.

In some circumstances it appears that the error caused a transaction record from a former SPMR at a branch to be
carried over into the records of a later SPMR at the same branch. In my view this is a dangerous admission, as the

complete separation between SPMR records is a cornerstone principle of ensuring Horizon's integrity. Although this
has happened and is completely explainable, I don't think we ever want to expressly document this.

I considered removing some of the technical language around what caused the error. However, on reflection, I think
this level of detail displays transparency and the robustness of POL's approach (even if the SPMRs don't fully
understand it)

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate

for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Ned Hidkdi
POL00144871
POL00144871

Direct: I

“- GRO

Fax:

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Ben Thorp... GRO
Sent: 25 June 2013 11:14

To: Parsons, Andrew

Ce: Rodric Williams

Subject: POL - Horizon issues

Andrew

By way of very brief introduction, my name is Ben Thorp. I am a Bond Dickinson secondee (from the
Newcastle office) currently working with Rodric Williams in POL’s Legal team for the next few weeks.

We have received the attached query from the business regarding historical issues a very limited number of
branches had with Horizon. POL intends to refund any losses caused by these issues, but not seek to recover
any gains.

Could you please review the letters and let Rodric and me have any comments you may have, particularly in the
context of the Spot Reviews?

If you would like to discuss anything arising from your review, please do give either Rodric or me a call.

Kind regards,

Ben
POL00144871
POL00144871

Ben Thorp I Legal I Tel. :

1* Floor, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH SS IS IDI II IO II IIS IOS IID II ISI III IOI IIS III II II III

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

1 and any attachments is confidential and
hments. If you are not rodric..williams!
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, public:

The information in this e

access

nly is authorised to

-mail and any att soon as possible and delete any

d to this e

which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment
Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability istered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our r

office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Up
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equi

‘yne, NE1 3DX, where a list
alent standing. Our VAT registration num

ames is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer toa
er is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and fed by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
