POL00098336
POL00098336

Message

From: Alice Perkins {

on behalf of — Alice Perkins +

Sent: 22/05/2013 07:56:14
To: Paula Vennell
Subject: Re: JA update

Thanks Paula.

I had an honest note from Alwen too.

Perhaps we can talk about the lessons from this at our 1:1 tomorrow?

In the meantime, your email is helpful and somewhat reassuring!

I do hope you can retrieve this as we are running out of lives on this issue and as Neil said, quite
coincidentally yesterday, the timing would be terrible if this were to go wrong.

Good luck.

Alice

cae Original Message _-
From: Paula Vennells
Sent: Tuesday, May 21, 2013 09733" Pm
To: Alice Perkins
Subject: JA update

Alice, I had a very useful conversation with Alwen.

In her defence, there had been only partial communication from James' office, with no detail shared on
whether next steps were underway. SS thought they were taking direction from JA re the 2/3 cases approach
to get to a close. But they were only cc'd in the letter to JFSA. No detail of what they needed to do was
ever communicated to them, nor confirmation from James that the approach had been accepted by JFSA. So SS
continued to work on the basis of (their too wide and too detailed interpretation of) 'keep JFSA on
joard’.

It feels that everyone has taken some things too literally. As you know, there is an art to this as
well...

1 do think there is a way through. Frustratingly, it is what James suggested but which he didn't
communicate to us, so that although we knew about it informally, we didn't feel empowered to own.

We should have. And we should have led a way through as soon as we spotted it was going nowhere. And we
should have had off the record conversations to help if necessary.

I think it's retrievable but I have a bit of a tightrope to walk with James. Mark will work on a
stakeholder plan with Alwen and Martin E. Lesley is going to be brought back in. And I am working up an
idea, which might save face for JFSA, and which in turn would help James, and us going forwards.

Susan is also (assuming Alwen can brief her) going to speak with SS tonight. Alwen and Simon had a
conversation with Ss earlier - they believe it achieved the right outcome. I want Susan to check with
Ron.

I hope that helps. I should get a speaking note tomorrow and will call you if I need to. If you want to
discuss - no problem, just say.

BW

Paula

Sent from my iPhone

FHI I IE TI ESS IOI ICICI RESCH SE SEERA SES SCHEER
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Se egestas dra rae ara aera asia rarest ae

POL-0097919
POL00098336
POL00098336

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0097919
