POL00069766
POL00069766

Page 1 of 2

Stephen Dilley

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent: 15 November 2006 11:03 .
To: ‘mandy talbot ___... GRO H

Ce: Tom Beezer; ‘Richard Morgan’

Subject: FW: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Dear Mandy,

By way of update, please see below from Rowe Cohen. Since their email, I've spoken to

Mr Castleton's solicitors this morning and have persuaded them to send us their comments on
the Tomlin Order plus a draft form of wording of the dishonesty letter on the basis that these
are subject to them obtaining Mr Castleton's instructions (i.e they may change). This should
keep the momentum going. I'll revert to you as soon as I hear further from them. Ideally I
would like to get the Tomlin Order signed off today so that we can wrap this up.

Kind regards.

Stephen

Sent: 15 November 2006 10:45
To: Stephen Dilley
Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Dear Mr Dilley

I have just tried to speak to Mr Castleton but have been informed by his wife that he is rather unwell. is in
bed on his doctor's instructions, and is on some pretty strong medication to treat the stress-related conditon
that lead to his hospitalisation last week. As a result of the medication, he is somewhat "out of it” and
apparently not in any fit state to provide me with instructions.

I have explained to his wife that the form of order to conclude these proceedings needs to be resolved as
soon as possible but have agreed with her that, given Mr Castleton's condition at present, it is unlikely that I
am going to be able to make any progress with him today. It has been agreed that I will speak to her first thing
tomorrow to see what the position is and whether he will be in a better position to provide me with instructions
then.

I recognise that this is obviously less than ideal and, while I share your desire to get the Tomlin Order finalised
as soon as possible, there is in reality not very much that I can do for the time being. It has been left that if Mr
Castleton does feel up to it later today, he will call me. Otherwise, I will update you tomorrow.

I should be obliged if you would bear me with for a short while longer while I try to resolve this situation.

Regards,

Mark Turner
Solicitor
Commercial Group

Rowe Cohen Solicitors

15/11/2006
POL00069766
POL00069766

Page 2 of 2

perereet inet trent reeteeeteeeetereret etre intr iii ni rc irc eiieiogd
‘The contents of this email and any attachments are confidential and may contain information that is legally privileged and/or otherwise protected from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, any unauthorised use, disclosure, copying, distribution or any action taken in reliance on it, or other use is
prohibited and may be unlawful. Ifyou receive this email in error please contact the sender immediately and delete this email from your system. Copyright in
this email and any attachments created by Rowe Cohen belongs to Rowe Cohen. The contents of this email may be intercepted monitored and/or recorded.
Neither Rowe Cohen nor the sender accepts any responsibility for viruses and it is your responsibility to scan the email and any attachments. If this message is

transmitted over the internet be aware that it may be intercepted by a third party for which Rowe Cohen exclude any liability in negligence or otherwise.
preevsevenvnensvanwenrtvonnirrerreny tres rrc stent y fet tirt tithe r re tired

Rowe Cohen
Solicitors
Quay House
Quay Street
Manches!

GRO I

Also ai Condom

Partners:
S.E. Cohen - D.J. Horwich - ILN. Lewis - M.V. Hymanson - G.P, Small - A. Dennison - B.T. Coghlan - J.V. Dwek
A. Farley - A. Sacks - A. Taylor - M. Woodall - R. Sproston - A. Curwen - S. Room - R, Myer - H. Burs - S. Sutton
This firm is regulated by the Law Society

15/11/2006
