POL00006707
POL00006707

Minutes of Meeting Confidential / Legally Privileged/ Do not Share

®

GLO CONTINGENCY PLANNING GOVERNANCE
Finsbury Dials
[9 May 2019; 4.30 pm]
Attendees: Ben Foat (BF), Zoe Brauer (ZB), Rodric Williams (RW), Angela Van-Den-Bogerd (AVB), Rawa Hussain
(RH)
Apologies: Mark Underwood (MU)

Agenda
1 I Operational Focused Updates
2 Litigation Focussed Updates
3 AOB
4 Actions

1 Operational Focussed Updates
e BF needs weekly updates for GE.

¢ BF explained what MU needs in terms of the pillars.

e ZBhada meeting with Julie today — New plan: 3 working groups. She reassured that legal have
prepared well.

1. Input sessions — checklist - they can call out where they have concerns, etc. should set out a new
world of guidance with comms to send to their teams.

2. Suspensions and terminations workshops.

3. Residual mock-up of residual actions as a result of J e.g. onboarding.

e ZB emphasised this is not just a Judgment impact, this is what we should be doing.

@ BF-2 months and nothing has been done. Al and I will get level of comfort when we see that
report to present to board next Monday.

e¢ ZB-Iwill get that report done tonight.

BF explained Al has to justify the delay — he had a board meeting in March and then in May and
doesn’t seem anything has changed in the business.

e ZB-onthe contract piece — recommendation is clear at the moment with regards to the
operational impact - approach should be we transcribe Judgment into the contract. That is my
recommendation.

* RW-But then there is an appeal that could potentially overturn these changes.

e AVB-Do we need to change the contract at all?

@ RW-High Court has said those words mean x and included extra words. So the contract can
continue to be issued and will be interpreted in this way.

* AVB—Contract should stay intact in the interim whilst we do the appeal but processes should
come back to the Judgment — this approach should be fine.

@ RW-we shouldn’t vary the contract because in doing that we are saying Judgment is right.

e BF- let us forget the Judgment- what is the right contract that we think should be issued?

e ZB-are we comfortable issuing a contract that doesn’t say what it should say.

 _BF- operationally, it doesn’t look very good. What is the business comfortable with? This needs
to be considered by WBD and HS. RW to get advice on this.

BF left at Spm. The meeting continued with a discussion around processes.

2 Litigation Focussed Updates
None discussed.

POL00006707

POL00006707
Minutes of Meeting Confidential / Legally Privileged/ Do not Share
4 AOB
None.
Actions
No Description Owner Status
1 Board Report zB
2 WBD and HS to provide advice on what the business should do now RW
with the contract.

Author of Minutes: RH
Date: 9 May 2019
