POL00102005

POL00102005

Message

From: IRH f GRO I

on behalf of [RH tee vee om

Sent: 16/01/2015
To: Chris Aujard {
ce: Belinda Crow ; Paula Vennells

Subject: Re: Second Sight's Investigations

Many thanks Chris
--lan

Sent from my iPad

On 16 Jan 2015, at 17:51, Chris Aujard
Thanks lan — just got this. Will obviously respond more substantively next week when the team is back in
the office. Hope you have a good weekend. Regards Chris

From: Ian Henderson {_
Sent: 16 January 2015 17:
To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Paula Vennells
Subject: FW: Second Sight's Investigations
Importance: High

Sensitivity: Confidential

Privileged and Confidential —- Created for the purpose of obtaining legal advice
Chris

When Second Sight was first appointed by Post Office and Members of Parliament in July 2012, a
number of undertakings were given by POL in order to satisfy MPs that Second Sight would be able to
conduct a truly independent investigation into the matters of concern.

Those undertakings included the following:

e  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Unrestricted access to documents held by POL (including
documents subject to confidentiality and legal professional privilege)

e  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->No limitation in the scope of work determined necessary by
Second Sight

Those undertakings were reflected in the “Raising Concerns with Horizon” document signed by POL on
17 Dec 2012 (Attached). A key paragraph was:

In order to carry out the Inquiry, Second Sight will be entitled to request information related to a
concern from Post Office Limited, and if Post Office Limited holds that information, Post Office Limited
will provide it to Second Sight.

1am sure that many Subpostmasters and Applicants to the Mediation Scheme will have relied on that
paragraph, when reporting matters to Second Sight.

As we have discussed in the context of POL’s incomplete response to our Part 2 questions, POL is now
seeking to challenge those undertakings and so far has not provided the information requested on a

POL-0101588
POL00102005

POL00102005

number of critical matters, including the Bracknell emails, prosecution documents and full details of
transactions relating to the Suspense account.

Second Sight takes this matter very seriously and will not hesitate in raising this important non-
compliance and integrity issue in the next version of our Part 2 Report and in written and oral evidence
to the BIS Committee.

All of this can be resolved by POL taking all practical steps necessary to answer the questions put to it by
Second Sight. If any questions raise particular difficulties, we are of course, happy to discuss an
alternative approach.

I would be grateful if you would consider these matters before our meeting with POL’s Finance team
next week.

With best wishes

Ian 8 Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Email: i

Websites}

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
ivi jot the intended recipient, please notify me at
‘and delete the email and any attachments.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0101588
