POL00150165
POL00150165

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd:
Sent: Sun 14/12/2014 12:09:16 PM (UTC)
To: i “ Belinda
Ce:
Subject: RE: BBC - One Show [CMCK-UK.FID8673510]
Mark,

I wouldn’t be available on Tuesday as the mediation is likely to run into early evening (the recent one
myself and Rod were at concluded after 630pm). I could be available from Wednesday onwards and could
travel to London immediately after the mediation finishes on Tuesday evening so that I’m London ready for
Wednesday morning.

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

@ Ty Brwydran House, Atlantic Close, SWANSEA SA7 9FJ
© Mobilef,

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Mark R Davies
Sent: 14 December 2014 10:39
To: Belinda Crowe .
Cc: Rodric Williams; Susan.BARTY:
Bogerd; Stuart.Helmer‘:
Subject: Re: BBC - One

$ Patrick Bourke; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X Barker; Angela Van-Den-
‘owe
-UK.FID8673510]

ow [I

Thanks - so all are clear I don't expect the One Show to agree to an interview on Tuesday.

Rod's answers to NW questions are v good and I would like us to (once cleared) prepare them at this
level of detail to return to Nick Wallis but at the same time copy to the series editor and BBC legal.
They are getting into some very dangerous territory here which must start to border on defamation.
POL00150165
POL00150165

To unfairly suggest our legal processes are unsound would surely lower a third party's opinion of us.
Mark
Mark Davies

Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobile: } GRO {

Sent from my iPhone

On 14 Dec 2014, at 10:33, "Belinda Crowe" {__ GRO wrote:

I think it highly unlikely that Angela can be around late Tuesday (but she can speak for herself) because
of the mediation meeting.

I agree a legal letter tomorrow. I am still of the view that I do not want to be too specific about actually
mediating. I really do not want any applicant to be in a position where they think that the fact of their
mediation is being made known.

Best wishes

Belinda

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Sunday, December 14, 2014 10:26 AM
To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Belinda Crowe; BARTY, Susan ‘
Ruth X Barker; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd;
Subject: Re: BBC - One Show [CMCK-UK. FID8673510]

lelanie Corfield;

That works for me. I think we should say Angela could be available on Tuesday late
afternoon/evening (assuming she can!) in order to underline our willingness here.

I plan a further round of emails to the BBC today myself so suggest legal letter goes first
thing tomorrow? Views?

Mark

Mark Davies

rporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone

On 14 Dec 2014, at 09:21, "Rodric Williams" {~~ wrote:

Hi — subject to the timing point Belinda has made, my only comment was we have at least
two mediations taking place next week, as well as finishing off all our investigation reports
etc.

Could we therefore make this change while staying consistent with Belinda’s comment:

Not only is this the busiest time of the year for our client, but our client
is still in the process of conductingmediatiens its work under its
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme,one-of-whichis-being-
eonducted-atthebeginning including conducting mediations during
the course of next week.

Rod

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer
<image001 .jpg>

<image002.png> 148 Old Street, LONDON,
EC1V SHQ

<image003.png> 5 Postline:{

<image004.png>

<image005.png>

<image006 gif> Post Office stories
<image007 gif> @postofficenews

<image008.png>

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 14 December 2014 09:09

To: BARTY, Susan

Cc: Mark R Davies; Rodric Williams; Patrick Bourke; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X Barker;
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Helmer, Stuart

Subject: Re: BBC - One Show [CMCK-UK.FID8673510]

I think the comms guys are still considering as there have been a number of
developments over the weekend.

I think we will revert on Monday when we have all the information on where
we are now. However, I just wanted yo respond on your formulation.

Best wishes

Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

On 14 Dec 2014, at 08:59, BARTY, Susan ‘-
wrote:

Thanks Belinda.

Shall we send it out tomorrow?
Best wishes

Susan

Sent from my Windows Phone

POL00150165
POL00150165

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 14/12/2014 08:36

To: BARTY, Susan; Mark R Davies; Rodric Williams

Ce: Patrick Bourke; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X Barker; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd;
Helmer, Stuart; Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: BBC - One Show [CMCK-UK.FID8673510]

Many thanks Susan.
That works.

Best wishes

Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

From: BARTY, Susan {
Sent: 12 December 2014 18:53

To: Mark R Davies; Belinda Crowe; Rodric Williams

Cc: Patrick Bourke; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X Barker; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd;
Belinda Crowe; Helmer, Stuart

Subject: RE: BBC - One Show [CMCK-UK.FID8673510]

T agree.

I will be out of the office on Monday, but should be on email. In
any event I am copying in a colleague, Stuart Helmer.

Belinda — I sent my draft before seeing your letter - we can say “The most
appropriate spokesperson is engaged in the mediation scheme work at the start
of next week, so would not be able to contribute before Wednesday next week.”
Kind regards

Susan

Susan Barty
Partner

<image001.jpa>

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP I Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street I London EC1A 4DD I
United Kingdom

www.cms-emek.com
www.law-now.com

POL00150165
POL00150165
POL00150165
POL00150165

From: Mark R Davies
Sent: 12 December 2014 18:43
To: Belinda Crowe

Cc: BARTY, Susan; Rodric Williams; Patrick Bourke; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X
Barker; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Belinda Crowe

Subject: Re: BBC - One Show [CMCK-UK.FID8673510]

Can I suggest that we hold off on legal letter till we hear back to
my email? Starting to build line of comms above nick wallis and it
could irritate

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobile

Sent from my iPhone
On 12 Dec 2014, at 18:40, "Belinda Crowe"
wrote:

Thanks Susan. My only comment is that I prefer not to indicate
specifically that we are actually mediating at the beginning of
next week. I would not want the applicant concerned to in any
way be exposed or feel exposed should anything we say become
public. My concern is even if no-one else knows who she is, she
might pick this up if the one show were to say that there is a
case being mediated on Tuesday. It is a particularly sensitive
case.

Best wishes

From: BARTY, Susan
Sent: Friday, Decembs ,
To: Rodric Williams; Patrick Bourke; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X
Barker; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Belinda Crowe; Mark R Davies
Subject: BBC - One Show [CMCK-UK.FID8673510]

Dear all

I attach a draft letter to the BBC and set it out below,
for ease of reference.

Best wishes

Susan

Susan Barty
Partner

<image001.jpg>

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP I Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street I London
EC1A 4DD I United Kingdom

www.cms-cmck.com
POL00150165
POL00150165

www.law-now.com

Dear Sirs
Post Office Limited - The One Show
As you will recall, we act for Post Office Limited.

We understand that our client has been contacted by
you in relation to a further piece you are proposing to
broadcast next week, again on the One Show. Our
client was first informed by email shortly before midday
that the story was to run "at around the same time
next week". Our client was also asked for a substantive
response to the extensive issues raised by noon on
Monday 15 December 2014. From this our client
understood the broadcast was to run not before
Tuesday next week. However, our client now
understands that it is likely to be broadcast on

Monday.

In any event, the email raises a number of new and
serious allegations, and refers to further contributors
including Geoffrey Sturgess and Sandip Patel QC. We
consider that you must have known that you were
proposing to run a further story on these issues and, in
the circumstances, should have given our client proper
notice before any intended broadcast. Not only is this
the busiest time of the year for our client, but our client
is still in the process of conducting mediations under its
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme, one of which
is being conducted at the beginning of next week. You
have asked for a spokesperson to appear on the
programme. The most appropriate spokesperson is
engaged in the mediation process at the start of next
week, so would not be able to contribute before
Wednesday next week.

There is no urgency in reporting on this matter such
that the broadcast needs to take place on Monday or,
indeed, Tuesday next week. To go ahead with the
broadcast without our client having a proper
opportunity to respond, in the light of the serious
allegations raised in the email sent to our client, would
run a serious risk of significant inaccuracies and
damaging statements, which would be likely to
misrepresent the facts and cause serious harm to our
client.

We would also remind you that any reference to the
Horizon system needs to be seen in the context of the
approximately 6 million different transactions
conducted through the system every day and the tens
of thousands of people in the different subpostoffices
who carry on their business using the system with no
difficulty. As we have made clear, a tiny percentage of
Post Offices have reported problems and there is no
evidence of any negative impact on consumers.
POL00150165
POL00150165

All of our client's rights remain reserved.

Yours faithfully

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP

CMS has 59 offices around the world, located in Aberdeen, Algiers, Amsterdam,
Antwerp, Barcelona, Beijing, Belgrade, Berlin, Bratislava, Bristol, Brussels,
Bucharest, Budapest, Casablanca, Cologne, Dubai, Duesseldorf, Edinburgh,
Frankfurt, Geneva, Glasgow, Hamburg, Istanbul, Kyiv, Leipzig, Lisbon, Ljubljana,
London, Luxembourg, Lyon, Madrid, Mexico City, Milan, Moscow, Munich, Muscat,
Paris, Podgorica, Prague, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Sarajevo, Seville, Shanghai, Sofia,
Strasbourg, Stuttgart, Tirana, Utrecht, Vienna, Warsaw, Zagreb and Zurich

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a member of CMS Legal Services EEIG (CMS
EEIG), a European Economic Interest Grouping that coordinates an organisation of
independent law firms. CMS EEIG provides no client services. Such services are
solely provided by CMS EEIG's member firms in their respective jurisdictions. CMS
EEIG and each of its member firms are separate and legally distinct entities, and no
such entity has any authority to bind any other. CMS EEIG and each member firm
are liable only for their own acts or omissions and not those of each other. The
brand name "CMS" and the term "firm" are used to refer to some or all of the
member firms or their offices. Further information can be found at

www.cmslegal.com

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England
and Wales with registration number OC310335. It is a body corporate which uses
the word "partner" to refer to a member, or an employee or consultant with equivalent
standing and qualifications. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors
Regulation Authority of England and Wales with SRA number 423370 and by the
Law Society of Scotland with registered number 47313. A list of members and their
professional qualifications is open to inspection at the registered office, Mitre House,
160 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4DD. Members are either solicitors or
registered foreign lawyers. VAT registration number: 974 899 925. Further
information about the firm can be found at www.cms-cmck.com

The contents of this e-mail (including any attachments) are confidential and may be
legally privileged. If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, any disclosure,
copying, distribution or use of its contents is strictly prohibited, and you should
please notify the sender immediately and then delete it (including any attachments)
from your system. Notice: the firm does not accept service by e-mail of court
proceedings, other processes or formal notices of any kind without specific prior
written agreement.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,

disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If
you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and
then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed
within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL00150165
POL00150165

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If
you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and
then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed
within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
