POL00024270

POL00024270

Strictly Confidential — Subject to Legal Professional Privilege

Postmaster Litigation Advisory Board Subcommittee

Purpose & Responsibilities

1.1 Post Office is the defendant in Alan Bates & Others v. Post Office Limited, High Court
of Justice Queen’s Bench Division, Claim No. HQ16X01238 (the “Claim”).

1.2 Asubcommittee of the Post Office Limited Board is established to receive legal advice
on the Post Office’s Defence in the Group Litigation as it proceeds to final resolution.

1.3 The subcommittee will be disbanded at the final resolution of the Group Litigation, or
upon the instruction of the Board, whichever is sooner.

Membership

2.1 At its meeting no 29 January 2018 the Board appointed Tim Parker (Post Office
Chairman) Chairman of the Subcommittee, Ken McCall (Senior Independent Director)
and Tom Cooper (Non-Executive Director and Shareholder Representative) as
members, together with Paula Vennells (Group Chief Executive) and Alisdair Cameron
(Chief Finance & Operating Officer).

2.2 The Company Secretary (Jane MacLeod) will act as Secretary to the subcommittee and

may nominate a deputy in her absence.

Organisation

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

The subcommittee shall meet as often as required.

The quorum shall be two Non-Executive Directors.

The subcommittee may meet in person, by telephone or by electronic means so long
as each member can contribute to the business of the meeting simultaneously.

Meetings may be convened by the Secretary, at the request of the Chairman, or by
any member at any time. Notice of each meeting shall be given to all members and,
unless there are special circumstances, shall be given at least three working days
before each meeting.

The Secretary (or a nominated deputy) shall attend meetings and keep minutes. Other
Post Office employees and or relevant external consultants and lawyers may attend
for part or the whole of the subcommittee meeting at the invitation of the Chairman.

The Secretary shall be accountable to the Chairman for the provisions of relevant and
timely information and for ensuring regular reporting from the subcommittee to the
full Board.
