POL00152164
POL00152164

Roger W Gale!
Sent: Sun 14/06/2015 6:38:39 PM (UTC)

To:

Peter Markey{_

Ce: Richard R Weaver;
Subject: RE: Panorama
Mark

Thanks for this. I think your desire for a very robust and fact based response is absolutely what is needed. I think we
need to get that response published and visible as widely as possible is important to tell the truth about this issue and
also to show that we have nothing to hide.

I think a call with all the Crown team would be a very helpful and positive thing to do and I would be very happy to host
that jointly with you. We should also include the WH Smith field team in the audience as well.

I actually have the Regional Managers in FD on Tuesday and Wednesday so a call on the Wednesday would be good as
well as meaning it would be in a less busy time from a branch perspective.

If you want me to do anything more , please let me know.
Regards
Roger

Sent from my Windows Phone

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 14/06/2015 19:11

To: Kevin Gilliland; Roger W Gale; Michael Larkin; Peter Markey

Ce: Richard R Weaver; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Melanie Corfield; Jane Hill; Nick Beal; Thomas P Moran
Subject: Panorama

All

As you will probably know, Panorama is planning a piece on Post Office and Horizon, repeating many of the allegations already
made in various programmes. Angela is fully engaged and the programme is due to air on June 29 (though this may change).

If it does air, I am proposing a robust response, primarily aimed at informing and reassuring our people. I will be discussing this
with colleagues tomorrow but wanted to outline my preferred approach.

In advance of the programme (which we would expect Panorama to try to publicise) I would like to:

- hold a conference call with Crown regional/area and branch managers to inform them about the programme and offer opportunity
to ask questions

- do the same with relevant network teams, inc FCAs but to be guided by Michael and team
- send a message from Paula to whole business alongside a filmed interview with Angela

= use our internal channels (Subspace news etc...) social media proactively to publicise our messages
POL00152164
POL00152164

- engage with MPs

- consider paid media channels (ie full page newspaper ads - Mel is working on possible copy while Pete's team has costed this
option up)

I would be keen to get your input to this approach and support in executing it: the critical thing for me in this (apart from vigorously
rebutting the allegations and defending the business) is to make sure we reach the front line with reassurance and information.
Given Panorama's reach and influence we can expect colleagues to have questions and I would like to reach as many as possible in
advance.

Please do come back to me and thanks in advance for your help.

Best wishes

Mark

Mark Davies
Communicati

‘orporate Affairs Director

