POL00423210
POL00423210

Message

From:
Sent:
To:

! Jason G Collins

:
ennenennan BRO ji Andy Hayward
Dave Pardoe

ce:

Subject: FW: Grapevine Internal fraud/Security Breach Service
Attachments: Grapevine Int Fraud Reporting Master Process Oct 11.doc; Int Fraud Process Map V2 061011.doc

All,

Further to my earlier e mail, I've re-sent the process as I've made a couple of minor changes to the last embedded
document (process map) within it. I've also attached the said document separately so you will be fully aware which one it
is.

The rest of the document is exactly the same as previously sent.
Apologies for any inconvenience.
Regards

Wayne

From: Wayne Z Griffiths

Sent: 06 October 2011 12:29

To: Lesley Frankland; Allison Drake; Jason G Collins

Cc: Helen Rose; Dave S Pettitt; Andy Hayward; Sally Smith; Dave Pardoe
Subject: Grapevine Internal fraud/Security Breach Service

All,

I'm writing to make you aware of a new service launched through Grapevine which allows individuals to report instances
of internal fraud or security breaches through the Grapevine helpline number. Although this isn’t a full blown whistleblower
line (‘Speak Up’, run by Group currently fulfils this need), we are still governed by the principles of the ‘Public Interest
Disclosure Act 1998’ (PIDA), which states that individuals raising a genuine concern should not suffer from reprisal or
recrimination in any way, therefore the individuals anonymity and call confidentiality are of paramount importance.

The attached document details every aspect of the new service, including process maps, the final one of which will be
pertinent to you and your teams potentially. Although these types of issues should be dealt with through the relevant line
management structure already in place, individuals may not feel comfortable doing this under certain circumstances, and
the attached process gives a couple of such examples. Therefore any intervention activity resulting from the initial call
should always be dressed up as ‘business as usual’ to fully protect the individual making the initial call.

From a Physical security perspective, it is anticipated that regular security breaches may entail a safe being constantly left
ajar, or perhaps a parcel hatch. Mitigating security Team activity may involve a ‘Torch’ type visit to assess the office and
progress as necessary, but again as BAU activity.

A lot of the attached documentation relates to the initial call and how it is progressed by Grapevine. However I would
recommend you read the whole process to digest the intentions and potential outputs of the service, this may then require
a further cascade to Team members.

If you have any questions or issues after reading through the documentation, please do not hesitate to contact me.

Regards
POL00423210
POL00423210

Wayne

Wayne Griffiths

Security Manager
Security Operations - North
Post Office Ltd

cen bdestal and privieged is
Ifyou are not the intended rei

1a message is for He sole une oF the in waded recieient'
fen. Any unav terized revien, use, Sacesure or de rbu
by reply o-mal and destroy al cop

Please connder the enuronmentbetire printing thir e-mail

