POLO0066624
POL00066624

Recenved (me)
te fat del),

For Second Sight use only

Casere: A(O2/

Your Details

Surname: KHANNA Forenames: SONte . PAOL

Your address:

Telephone number 1: i "
Telephone number 2:

My current Member of Parliament is: .
Nick — Brown

Your:Branch

. Please.insert the details of the branch where you worked. If you worked at more.than one ‘branch,
" please provide details on an extra sheet of paper.

Name of branch: FAD Code of branch:

Jesmond Fost Office 41s 32 Al -

Address of branch

Your role at the branch (i

Subpostmaster, Subpostmistress, clerk, etc.):

Subpostmasér

When did you begin in this role? Are you still in this role?

Apil 1996 wes

ONO

If no, when did you leave this role:

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

Initial Case Overview

To the best of your knowledge, is your case (or any part of it) currently subject to any on-going criminal
investigations or proceedings (including the issue of a summons, sentencing hearings or a confiscation
order)?

C YES - you may still submit your case, but Second Sight may not be able investigate it whilst criminal
investigations or proceedings are on-going.

wio

The purpose of the ‘initial Case Overview’ is to summarise the main issues you wish Second Sight to
consider. If your case is accepted for mediation, you will then have an opportunity to supply much more
detail together with supporting evidence.

The following Key Questions may help you with this Initial Case Overview but please feel free to supply
any information that you consider may help explain your complaint.

What is the main issue or issues you wish us to consider that relate to Horizon or ie
¢ 7

processes? > . or
act offe2 auditors — claumed thot the “cas

Trend. » held in Ge ost offte was E46 049.16 shor€

compared fo what Horrzon thovar Should hose been

there in my PO.

When did the incidents relating to the main issue or issues occur?

18” Seplemler 2008

What prior contact have you had with the Post Office in regard to the incidents/issues that you are now
reporting?

None af all. The auddors Gmed yp che

igh September 2008 ah bld me chat te

cosh TL was holding ia my PO was Shor€ £46, 049-lE
at the tinte they occurred? ond Sd it od rot

JT had fo repr the goyee with whot

LUG OUT AG monthl, over Horizon sod L

three yecrs J Should hwe inmy

How was the issue or issues resolve

What is the monetary value of the issue or issues you are now reporting?
Fubo4tle rs whet TL wilh fe reclimtep

The LO. ever proved ne mone, hak beer taken

wees

or Stolen but they asiked +tHer~ Hon2 Sy shen

was correct '\

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

Were you the subject of either civil recovery action or criminal prosecution regarding the main issue or
issues you are now reporting?

Jb, £ was nk but ng a, mM Peter Holmes

who ran the offte a L basis was. He
war taker fo lour€ by thew £0. but Hee
Was No prof against Aun phat dhe more

had ben shhkxX ad fe cose wos chopper
How were these actions against you (if any) resolved?

ng money! ie
T had ope He “miisong cy

6 ont (6. Wo of was con firma
Ze, al mits _ The £.0. teled

ok Hh one
oo ” He fac “lod Hat positon was alreiys cored.
wte is your explanation for the events forming the main issue or issues you are now reporting?

TA view of all fe recard publee in fle Mews
drat Horizon mo he at fault 4/450 man ,
Subpostma.siea hae fallen viehm of a Similar
scerato I belwe L hve bee winraly aaused
of takug He messung” money. I donot bekeefhe mare

LuAas Aer puis
Did you request assistance from the Post Office regarding the issue or issues you are now reporting?

Yes, My [lobe € Da “a put Ww?

of nvechigockig 1 fhis mafee . wet I ele
about oe but tard no enh cohen F
fay a, Lon even Wi MOE, wer
Whe it tab at Yepor Ga nen
Gee missing
The aciilncge KX was (gwen ted ” ore Pokey

war clesgnated a therogh inv He fodigh
Vinoey Haak Hh € sd, pre missing. Tad
he fond no evidence i Dh & cwofim Hat Ke

Horn Syfern wot correct
Please attach additional sheets of paper if you require more space. . fle
Saga Money Wat

ww (chor E.

3

POL-0063103
POL00066624

_ POL00066624

Declaration
I acknowledge that:
° As part of the Scheme, I must promptly provide information about my case to Second Sight. If I

do not provide full information in a timely manner, I accept that it may not be possible to

investigate or mediate my case.
° Information I provide about my case or the findings of Second Sight's investigation may help

reach a resolution with Post Office but that it may also reveal further claims against me.
. !am only entitled to financial support from Post Office if I have signed a Funding Agreement.

I confirm that:
. My case relates to the Horizon system or an associated issue.

. Post Office may communicate details of my case to Second Sight, JFSA, my Member of
Parliament and/or its professional advisors.

. The facts and matters set out in this Application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

I confirm that I am:

mCurrently serving as a Subpostmaster and have already raised my case with Post Office and have
completed all Post Office's internal complaint processes.

O Not currently serving as a Subpostmaster.
(Please tick one box)

If you are unable to give all the above acknowledgements and confirmations, your case may not be
eligible for the Scheme. In that circumstance, please contact the JFSA for assistance.

This Application Form and your involvement in the Scheme do not create any legally binding contract or
obligations between Post Office and you.

The Working Group, its members and their advisors owe no obligations or duties, and accept no liability,
to you in connection with the Scheme.

Pp lease See

Signed

enclosed
Name

docum ects
Date

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

®

Confidential
Mr Sunil Khanna

www.postoffice.co.uk

19" September 2008

Dear Mr Khanna

Suspension

This is to confirm that your contract for services as Subpostmaster at Post
Office®, Jesmond branch has been suspended with effect from 18"
September 2008.

The suspension is precautionary pending further investigations and your

“remuneration will cease from this date. Any outstanding remuneration will
also be withheld for the period of the suspension and the question of
payment of remuneration to you for this period will be determined in
accordance with Section 19 paragraph 6 of your Contract For Services on the
termination of the period of suspension.

I will contact you again about this matter as soon as possible.

Yours sincerely

Brian Trotter

Agents Contract Manager
Post Office Ltd

1st Floor Admin Block
Manchester Mail Centre
77 Oldham Road
MANCHESTER

M4 SAA

Post Office Ltd. Registered in England and Wales no: 2154540, Registered office: 2 - 86 Old Street, London, EC1V SNN.
Post Office and the Post Office symbol are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd

Post Office Lt is an appointed representative of The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland, which is authorised by the trish Financial Reguiator and the Financial Services Authority,
regulated by the Financial Sesvices Authority for the conduct of UK business. Bank of Ireland, incorporated in the Republic of ireland with limited liability. Registered in England and Wales with
branch number 82000458,

Card Account offered by JP. Morgan Europe Ltd through Post Office Ltd. P. Morgan Europe Ltd is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, Registered in England & Wales
No. 938937. Registered Office: 125 London Wall, Landon EC2Y 5A.

POL-0063103
POL00066624

POL00066624
®
Confidential
Mr Sunil Khanna
Subpostmaster
Jesmond Post office www.postoffice.co.uk

10 October 2008 \s :

\o
al"
Dear Mr Khanna

Thank you for attending the interview on 9 October 2008, to discuss reasons
why your contract for services should not be terminated.

Please find enclosed 2 copies of my notes of the salient points raised at the
interview, which will be taken into account before a final decision is reached.
I also enclose a copy of the recording made of the interview. I would be
grateful if you would sign and return one of the copies of these notes in the
envelope provided.

I will contact you shortly with my decision.

Yours sincerely

Michael Haworth
Agent Contract Manager

Post Office Ltd

1* Floor Admin Block
Manchester Mail Centre
77 Oldham Road
Manchester

M4 SAA

Post Office Ltd. Registered in England and Wales no: 2154540, Registered office: 80 - 86 Old Street, London, EC1V SNN
Post Office and the Post Office symbol are registered trade marks of Post Office Lt.

Post Office Ltd is an appointed representative of The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland, which is authorised by the irish Financial Regulator and the Financial Services Authority,
requiated by the Financial Services Authority for the conduct of UK business. Bank of Ireland, incorporated in the Republic of Ireland with limited lability. Registered in England and Wales with
branch number BROOO4SS.

Card Account offered by 1. Morgan Europe Ltd through Post Office Ltd, P, Morgan Europe Ltd is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Registered in England & Wales
‘No. 938937, Registered Office: 125 London Wall, Lindon EC2Y SAY.

POL-0063103
POL00066624

POL00066624
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL ftem 3
Interview Notes
Interview Type RTU Interviewer Michael Haworth MH
Date 9 October 2008 Interviewee Sunil Khanna SK
Accompanied by Anil Khanna
Start End 10.45 12.00 Note Taker Interview recorded
Introduction/Purpose:

MH introduced himself, and established how Mr Khanna would like to be addressed throughout the
meeting. Mr Khanna confirmed he would like to be called Sunil.

MH clarified Anil’s name & confirmed his role was to support SK at the interview.

MH explained to SK that:

® this was his opportunity to respond to the charge, to put forward reasons as to why this
happened and what facts MH should be taking into account when making his decision in this
case

® so that an accurate record was made of the interview, it would be recorded and notes produced
giving a summary of the meeting. A copy of the notes would be provided to SK along with a
copy of the recording on disc.

¢ MHsaid that he would like agreement to the notes from SK before making his decision.

that if, as a consequence of the meeting, any further investigation is required these
investigations would be completed prior to the decision being made

@ SK had the right to appeal the decision he made
¢ MH stated that if anyone wanted to take a break at anytime then they should let him know

Jesmond RTU interview notes Oct 08.doc Page 1 of 3

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL Item 3

1 MH Provided SK with details of the case history as he understood it and detailed the
following, referring to the charge letter sent 25 Sept 2008:

An audit was performed at the branch on 18 Sept 08.

Examination of the cash declarations showed that there was one, ‘declaration ID
06’, for a total of £39632.16, made the previous night by user PHOOO1 (Peter
Holmes), and also another, ‘declaration ID 09’, for a total of £46400.00 (£34000 x
£20 and £12400 x £10 only), also made by user PHO001 at the end of August,
when the last Branch Trading Statement had been completed; this had then been
left in the system, and would automatically add to the other declaration, to show
amuch higher figure of cash than what was actually on hand.

The Office Snapshot showed that the system expected there to be £85199.90 in
cash on hand at the branch.

Because of the existence of two separate cash declarations, and the fact that one
was from weeks ago, the auditor asked Peter Holmes if there was in fact cash on
hand to the value of both declarations; he said that there was only cash totalling
around £39000, as stated on the previous night's balance. He informed Peter
Holmes and also Sunil Khanna that this would almost certainly mean that the
branch was about £46000 short and that they would have to keep the branch
closed until they fully completed the audit. Sunil Khanna had to leave the secure
area and later the branch, and the auditor told him that he would phone him with
the result. Peter Holmes did not offer a proper explanation as to why there were
two cash declarations.

On completion of the audit, the resulting discrepancies confirmed that the branch
was £46,049.16 short, the vast majority of the shortage being in cash.

Robert Daily, Fraud Advisor, conducted interviews the following day.

The branch was transferred to Thelma Crerand as temporary Spmr.

The case was passed to MH to deal with the contractual issues, letter sent 25 Sept
‘08 to SK detailing the charge & interview arranged.

2° SK~ ‘Agreed that this was an accurate understanding of the case.
3 MH Askedhow long SK had been a Subpostmaster and branch located on premises.
4 SK Approx 11 yrs and explained the background to the branch relocating into their

premises when appointed.

personal service he provided.

6 SK Thelma, Doreen, Vicky and Noel.
Personally doesn’t work in branch but keeps in close daily contact, discussed
discrepancies, monitored customer service and branch performance monitored
with Peter Holmes.

ee ___ All PO assistants have User IDs. a

7 MH ___ Asked SK how he deployed his contractual obligations & managerial controls?

Jesmond RTU interview notes Oct 08.doc Page 2 of 3

POL-0063103
POL00066624

POL00066624
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL Item 3
(8 SK I Work on shared stock basis but now planning to change to individual stock units.

I Relied on Peter's experience, trust and integrity.
Maintained regular daily contact with PO.
Balance discrepancies discussed regularly but only approx £100.
Has been meeting regularly with Thelma since his suspension.

9 I MH Asked about controls in place in the pharmacy and expectations of staff.
10) SK/AK Referred to staff training manual, going through each section in detail and copies
hot provided of 2 sections which were pertinent to the PO, although whole manual

I was applicable.
I I Deployment monitored in individual staff members copy.

I
(11) MH Asked about ongoing staff management.

12 SK/AK _ Provided evidence of customer flow management survey, detailing transactions

I per hour, plotted on charts to identify peaks, troughs and areas needing attention.

I13 I MH _ Asked about branch performance and development.

[147 SK/AK Discussed various examples implemented for growing sales and the good working
I relationships with the BDM.

115) MH Asked how this could have happened and what could have been done to prevent
Lo it?

I 16) SK/AK Totally unaware until auditors discovered the discrepancy.
I Trusted Pant Qt Holme 2c
I Assumes that it must have happened over a period of time but have been
I deceived.
17 I MH Explained contractual responsibilities and asked for proposals for repayment of
the £46,049.16. Also explained that any criminal proceedings would be
i _ progressed by the Fraud team. I
18 SK/AK Agreed to a £6K lump sum payment followed by monthly instalments to spread

L the repayment over 2uyrs,
_19 I MH I Asked if there was anything else that SK wanted taking into account.
20 SK I Provided a copy of written submission which MH agreed to take away and read in
I _ detail. I
© 21) MH _ Thanked SK & AK for attending and confirmed next steps. j

Please note we wee suppled a cO whith oes

Interview notes received and agreed I Sheva et bal th war blank

svppeceh fe here aw py ¢

GRO Date: ! zo loe

Signed:

Signed: I G RO Date: yee

Name: Anil Khanna

Jesmond RTU interview notes Oct 08.doc Page 3 of 3

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

‘st Floor Admin Block, Manchester Mail Centre
77 Oldham Road
Manchester

ay - Your Ref:

Mr Sunil Khanna Our Ref:
Subpostmaster

Jesmond Post Office

° “Confidential
31 October 2008

Dear Mr Khanna,

I am writing following our meeting on 9 October 2008, in which you put forward reasons why
your contract for services should not be summarily terminated. The disc sent to you following
the meeting does actually contain a copy of the recording made, however, there is a period of
silence at the beginning of the disc with the recording commencing after approx a couple of
minutes.

I have reviewed the papers relating to this case very carefully and have taken into account the
points you have put forward.

After consideration I have decided not to summarily terminate your contract for services as
Subpostmaster Post Office® Jesmond branch. I do feel however, that the situation at the
branch is partly due to the fact that you did not have appropriate effective controls in place to
ensure the efficient operation of the branch. However, taking all the mitigating circumstances
into account, I am prepared to give you another opportunity to improve your performance as
Subpostmaster of Post Office® Jesmond branch.

Reinstatement is on the condition that you make yourself available for Post Office Ltd
refresher training at your branch and that you ensure a fully trained manager is in place to
run the branch in your absence and sufficient fully trained staff in place to meet customer
demand. You are also required to make good the outstanding debt of £46,049.16, which is
currently held in Chesterfield for your branch.

As we discussed during our meeting on 9 October, I am prepared to accept a proportion of
this amount to be repaid over a period of time provided there is a lump sum payment made
prior to reinstatement. My proposal is for £7,049.16 to be paid by cheque prior to
reinstatement and the remaining £39,000 to be repaid over 30 equal monthly instalments of
£1,300 which will be deducted from your remuneration. Please can you arrange for a cheque
for this amount, payable to Post Office Ltd, to be forwarded to me with your reply to this

letter by Monday 10 November 2008.

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 80-86 Old Street, London, EC1V 9NN.
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.

POL-0063103
. —_ © i
I €2. 20f3
I

POL00066624
POL00066624

A

Michael Haworth
Agent Contract Manager (Northern England)
Post Office Ltd

{ have made provisional arrangements for the branch to be transferred back to you on
Wednesday 19 November 2008. I have also requested that a Post Office Ltd trainer attends
the branch to run through with you management controls and good working practices that
should help you meet your contractual obligations. The date this will take place will be advised
to you shortly by a member of our scheduling team. This arrangement is dependant upon
you accepting the conditions of reinstatement and agreement to the proposal for settlement
of the outstanding debt. if you are unable to meet the repayment terms as detailed above,
then I will require your proposal for settlement of the debt supported by documentary
financial evidence to prove your inability to do so.

Please sign and return one copy of this letter by the date stated above and I enclose a second
copy for your retention. I wish to thank you for your co-operation during the course of this
investigation and wish you well for the future.

Yours Sincerely,

enc:
ce:

@

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 80-86 Old Street, London, EC1V 9NN.
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

INVESTIGATION REPORT

DATE: 22/09/08 TIME: 2.00PM

PRESENT: ANIL KHANNA, SUNIL KHANNA, PETER HOLMES.

Peter attended on his own without a work colleague or a trade union
representative

Sunil explained that this was an investigation meeting following a visit by the Post
Office auditors where it was discovered, by them, that there was a large
discrepancy in the amount of cash held in the Jesmond Post Office. This
discrepancy was showing a shortfall in the region of £46,000.00 and that we were
here today to try to establish how this shortfall came about.

Sunil asked Peter if he understood the seriousness of the matter. Peter
acknowledged that he did.

Q; Do you accept that that there was a shortfall in the region of £46,000.00.
or do you believe the auditors may be wrong?

A; I agree its short but I don’t know how.

Q: Peter please explain what you think has happened to show a shortage of
over £45,000?

A: It must be a computer error. I have been waiting for error notices.

Q: How can a Post Office have a shortage of over £45,000? Can you explain
this?

A: I don’t know. I can only think it's the computer.

Q; Did you seek advice from the helpline or Horizon or even myself about
the possibility that the computer was faulty?

A; No but we were having problems with Horizon.

Q How long were you having problems with the computer?

A; Two or three days off and on. Sometimes we would be doing a transaction and
the system would crash. We called out BT and Horizon but they kept on saying

nothing was wrong. At one point we changed the fax machine.

Q So that may explain a shortage for that one week, how much would you
say your balance was showing for that week?

A; About £3,000 short.

Q Did you contact anyone telling them that the computer system, Horizon
may be responsible and try to resolve this shortage?

A; No

POL-0063103
Q Did you contact me

ANo

Q Do you not think you should have?

A Yes but I thought an error notice would have come through.
Q But it didn’t?

ANo

Q Despite an error notice not coming through did you later think to inform
me or anyone at the Post Office?

A No.

Q Following that particular cashing up period what was your balance like
ie. in the next four weekly cashing up period?

A It was about £4,000 short.

Q On top of the previous £3,000 shortage?

A Yes

Q Had the computers gone down in this period?
ANo

Q So what was the explanation for this shortage?
A I was waiting for an error notice to come through?

Q While waiting for the error notice to come through did you inform me or
anyone at the post office?

ANo. I just buried my head in the sand. It was stupid. I know.
Q; Why did your four weekly balance sheet not show these shortages?

A; I used to do two balance sheets. The first would tell me the balance and if it
was short I would adjust the second balance sheet to show that it balanced.

Q; Did you actually put the money in to make it balance.
ANo I would just add a figure for the amount it was short of.
Q So you signed and declared false accounts.

A Yes. I've even admitted that to the Post office investigators.

Q: Over how many months has this cover up been taking place?

POL00066624
POL00066624

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

A: Nine — Ten months approximately. I was waiting for error notices which I know
can take up to ten months.

Using the horizon I put the shortage in a 2 cash declaration. I did this on each
occasion expecting the error notices to be received at any time.

I admit I did falsify the accounts, but I was waiting for the error notices.

I had problems with the horizon. Sometimes it crashed. This I suspect cleared
data or did not record certain transactions. I am sure it is a software problem.

Error notices can take up to one year to come through!
Q: When did you last receive an error notice?

A: I haven't received one for sometime.

Q: Was your balance ever showing a surplus?

A: No.

Q: Are you sure it was never over?

A: No it was never over.

Q: Did you do the monthly balance?

A: yes it was only me.

Q: So you signed each document as being correct i.e. the accounts
balanced?

A: Yes only I did it and I always signed the balance sheets.

Q: If there was over £45,000 short over ten months- that was over £3,00 -
£4,000 per month. Why did you not consult with your co-workers, or seek
assistance from your Sub Post Master or from helpline of the Post Office?

A: Yes I should have sought assistance earlier. I just buried my head in the sand.

Q: Have you ever banked money personally belonging to you using the
pose Office?

A: Yes

Q: Do you know it is against company policy to undergo personal
transactions yourself?

A: Yes I did know but I am the manager and my position is such that I considered
that I am exempt from this procedure.

Q: How do you think the amount of over £45,000 has disappeared?

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

A: well it couldn't have been paid out to customers.
It couldn't have been paid in short as we check even sealed bags.

It has to be a computer error. Perhaps a card transaction error, A department or
departments must be missing in the horizon in which the money is located.

Q: Assuming that an error notice is not forthcoming for whatever reason,
did you take the money? .

A: No. I would never steal. I have not taken the money
Q: Do you have an outstanding debt, gambling issues, expensive hobbies?
A: No.

Q: You are aware that neither I nor Anil ever entered the Post Office without
a member of staff being present?

A: Yes.

Q: You also know that neither I nor Anil know of the Post Office alarm code
number?

A: Yes I know.

Q: You also know that we neither have used the horizon system. We do not
even possess an I.D card?

A: yes I am aware of that.

Q: You previously, on a monthly basis, supplied me with the monthly
balance sheets allowing me to see overs and the shortages?

A: Yes.

Q: Since October 2007 to the current date you have never presented to me
the monthly balance sheets why?

A: You would notice that their were substantial deficits. I thought that the error
notices would sort themselves out.

Q: How are things at home?
A: Fine.
Q: How is your wife’s business going?

A: It's okay. I have got all the receipts for all outgoing and incomings. My bank

accounts are not showing anything which I cannot account for. Everything is in
order.

Q: Any thing spent on buying expensive Items such as a new car,
improvements to your house?

POL-0063103
POL00066624
POL00066624

A: I have not got a new £45,000 car. I have replaced my bedroom carpet at a
cost of £200.00. I have not spent any money that did not belong to me.

Q: Did anybody else complete the balance sheets?

A: No just me.

Q: Why just you Peter? We try to encourage that all staff should be familiar
and confident in completing all tasks since you never know when they may
be expected to do it e.g. if you are ill or perhaps on vacation.

A: I am the manager. It is the manager’s role to do it. I am also must quicker in
doing it. Even Doreen does not know how to do this. I have never shown her how
to do this. I’m the manager it’s my duty to do the four weekly balance.

Q: Has any member of staff been shown how to do the four weekly
balance?

A: No just me.

Q You are telling me that the deficit is due solely to error notices.

You are telling me that it is a computer malfunction and that you have not
taken the money.

You have admitted that only you do the monthly balance sheets, and
knowing that the accounts did not tally, you signed the sheets every month
to show that they did.

You acknowledge the fact that this amounts to false accounting, a criminal
offence, applying your signature to such a document on several occasions.

A: Yes I agree with the above. I was stupid to do such a thing, in hind sight I
should have sought help. I just buried my head in the sand. But I did not take the
money. It has to be a computer error.

Peter was asked to sign after reading the notes. Peter declined.

Peter was given a copy of the original rough notes.

Peter was advised that we would be investigating further and would be in contact
very shortly.

Meeting closed at 3.20pm 22/09/08

POL-0063103
