POL00094151
POL00094151

SEARCHING

Investigation Managers who are to carry out searches should understand the provision of
the PACE Codes of Practice A and B and the Search Policy contained within the Group
Security Database.

PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS DURING SEARCHES

SEARCH EQUIPMENT

The following items should be the minimum contained within a search kit:

/tem bags and labels CS035 - CS037 Torches
Search forms CSO05 Overalls
Notice of Powers and Rights form CS004 Gloves
Without prejudice receipts CS025 Big plastic bags
Camera Plain paper (for sketch plans)
Search record logs Mirror
Pens and pencils Sharps box
GENERAL

Searching can be extremely stressful for the suspect and this is particularly so if he is
confronted with clear evidence found during the search.

In view of this, prior to any searches, Investigation Managers should make checks with
Group Security and the local police. By checking with the police, you will not only gain
any relevant intelligence known about the address and suspect, but you will also alert
them to your intentions and location should you need urgent assistance. Group
Security will be able to do a PNC and a voters check. If there is any indication of a
threat of violence or offensive weapons then police assistance should be sought.

Searches should be thorough and systematic and the recommended order for them
to be carried out is: clothing, official locker, vehicle and home address or place of
residence. Confirmation of locker use, car registration and home address should be
obtained prior to the interview.

When requesting permission to conduct searches the suspect should be given an
explanation of what the searches will entail. Be certain that the suspect fully
understands the search procedures and is content to allow them to be conducted. Ask
the suspect to hand over keys for locker, car and horne before leaving the interview
room.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 1
Ref: Searching IIW/26
‘Search handout

POL00094151
POL00094151

POL00094151
POL00094151

Whilst conducting searches, with the exception of the clothing search, at least three
Investigation Managers should be present. The roles of the three Investigation
Managers should be clarified before the search and should be as follows:

Lead Investigation Manager - usually called “The Officer in the Case”

1) should always chaperone the suspect.

2) should be the only one communicating directly with the suspect. He should alert
his colleagues to any apparent changes in behaviour, including any attempt to
leave the part of the premises being searched.

Second Investigation Manager - usually called “The Number Two Officer”

D) should carry out the role of scribe/exhibits officer.

2) is responsible for the security of the exhibits and search equipment

3) is also responsible for recording and bagging the exhibits and recording any
relevant information/conversation.

Third Investigation Manager ~ usually called “The Number Three Officer”

1) carries out the searching.

Numbers two and three Investigation Managers should alternate with each other
after 20 minutes. The lead Investigation Manager, however, should always remain
with the suspect as he will hopefully have established a rapport with him.

The clothing search should be conducted on tape with a third Investigation Manager
in the vicinity on standby. However, there are circumstances where the clothing
search takes place prior to the tapes being tumed on and these will be discussed
during the search day.

Additionally, on all searches, do mot put your hands where you cannot see and wear
two pairs of gloves.

Whilst searching vehicles, remember to check that the handbrake is applied and be
aware that some surfaces may be hot.

Irrespective of whether there has been voluntary agreement to a search, if, in the
opinion of the Investigation Manager, the presence of police officers is felt to be
warranted, contact with the local police should be made without delay. If possible this
should take place out of the hearing of the suspect, but it is appreciated that this may
not always be possible.

In respect of transport to and from searches:

D) Do not let the suspect drive his own vehicle for reasons of safety and preservation
of evidence.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 2
Ref: Searching IIW/26
Search handout

POL00094151
POL00094151

POL00094151
POL00094151

2) Do not let the suspect sit behind the driver - he should be on the back seat behind
the front passenger seat with an Investigation Manager sat behind the driver.
Ensure that seatbelts are worn by those in the back of the car. Child locks can be
activated.

3) Make sure the seat where the suspect sits is searched before and after journies, to
ensure nothing has been hidden hy him.

CLOTHING SEARCH
1) Ask the suspect to empty their own pockets and turn them out.
2) Work from top to bottom by patting gently and looking.

3) Think, where would I hide things?

VEHICLE SEARCH

1) Search the vehicle systematically, covering the exterior, interior, boot, engine &
underneath.

2) Consider - “Area, Depth and Access” and the following:

What are we looking for on the exterior?

Roof rack boxes, compartments, fuel filler cap area - also look for finger
mark smudges around the vehicle.

How do we search the interior?

Top to bottom. Driver's seat and area, passenger's seat and area followed
by the back seat. Do not forget to look in the sun visors, underneath the
dash, and under carpets. Whilst looking, pay attention to screws which look
like they have wear marks on them and screwdriver leverage marks on
“snap off compartments.

How do we search the boot?

Search the contents, then in doing so empty the boot so you can check the
spare wheel area and tool compartments. Don't forget the boot lid.

How do we search the engine compartment?

Look for finger marks and remember the actual bonnet.

Finally there is underneath, what are we looking for?

Magnetic boxes underneath, finger smudge marks on the vehicle.

3) Think, where woutd I hide things?

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 3
Ref: Searching !IW/26
Search handout

POL00094151
POL00094151

POL00094151

POL00094151

PREMISES SEARCH

1) Try to establish how many people or dangerous pets will be at the premises prior to
arrival.

2) Prior to entry, telephone another Investigation Manager and let them know you are
about to enter - have a call in plan.

3) Key the number of the local police into your mobile phone ready to call if needed.

4) Initially on entry, the Lead and Second Investigation Manager, and the suspect,
enter the house and invite everyone present into one place. Then ask the occupant
to invite non-residents to leave.

5) Explain to the people who remain what is to happen.

6) Create a sterile area by searching and invite persons present into it.

1 If any illegal firearms, ammunition or drugs are found, isolate them and call the
police out of the hearing of the suspect if possible.

8) The correct way to search a room is to go in and survey it and firstly recover any

evidence that is obvious. Then search the door, walls, ceiling, furniture and
floors by going around the room systematically. Consider “Area, Depth and
Access” and the following:

What are we looking for in the door?

When searching doors, consider the frame and architrave. You should be
looking for signs of access such as tool marks and worn screws and also be
aware of hollow doors and grooves cut into the top of them.

What are we looking for on walls?

A search of the walls includes everything that forms part of the walls,
including items hung on them. Examples are skirting boards, fireplaces,
windows, electrical sockets, heaters, pictures, shelves etc.

What are we looking for with the ceiling?

/s the ceiling false, and if it is, watch the weight you put on it also consider
things like the lighting and smoke alarms.

How do you think we search furniture?

The furniture should be searched from top to bottom, thinking area, depth
and access. Be aware of hidden compartments and things stuck to the
underside of furniture.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 4
Ref: Searching IIW/26
Search handout

POL00094151
POL00094151

POL00094151
POL00094151

What should you be considering about the floor?

You must consider under the floor covering and underneath the floor
boards. You must however think of access, so look for lifted carpet edges or
loose floorboards.

9) The suspect should be present in the area which is being searched, with the
lead Investigation Manager, for safety and for evidential purposes.
10) Do not forget lofts, cellars, sheds or other out buildings.

11) Think, where would I hide something?

DAMAGE

It is important that when conducting a search, damage should not be caused to the
suspect's clothing or property. If, in exceptional circumstances, some damage was
inevitable, the facts should be fully covered in your report.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 5
Ref. Searching IiW/26
Search handout

POL00094151
POL00094151

