POL00149296
POL00149296

From: Patrick Bourke[/”
Sent: Tue 21/10/2014 6:48:16 PM (UTC)
To: Belinda Crowe!”

Cc: Mark Underwood1f{
Subject: Re: Horizon access
Belinda

Many thanks.

I would probably add a question designed to ensure we had absolute clarity about the governance structure and
processes through which requests for access must follow. Who authorises the request to FJ at the PO end etc.

In addition, I would like FJ or someone at PO to provide a worked example (whether real or hypothetical) to illustrate the
circumstances in which this might happen and what the practical outcome is/can be - eg effects in single branch/multiple

branches.

Given there seems to be a before and after of Horizon Online, what happened or was possible before and after would
also be of interest.

We might do well to ask for confirmation that no such access has taken place in respect of the terminal at any branches
which are in the scheme.

Not sure this all goes in what you plan to circulate but just a few things I think may be worth pursuing.
Reds

Patrick

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: Tuesday, October 21, 2014 05:34 PM
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Parsons, Andrew

c Rodric Wil jiams; Melanie Corfield; Tom Wechsler; Patrick Bourke
Cc: Mark Underwood1; Andy Holt

Subject: Horizon access

In anticipation for our call tomorrow I wanted to send you, before passing to FJ, what I thought I might send round in
advance of tomorrow’s meeting. Grateful for comments.

Dear all
In advance of our call (time/date) I thought it might be helpful if I set out what I think we need to discuss. Iam
referring to the issue in question as ‘Horizon Access’ as a catchall for what may be a number of related matters.

The issue of access to Horizon data has arisen again in relation to two cases in the Scheme on which Second Sight
have completed a report. We anticipate that there will be more as Second Sight maintain a spreadsheet of what they
consider to be ‘themes’ one of which is entitled ‘Transactions or Transaction Corrections not entered by the Sub-
postmaster or staff ‘and shows this issues has been referenced in 50 cases.
POL00149296
POL00149296

What I would like to achieve on the call is:

1. Acommon understanding of what is and is not possible in relation to Horizon

2. In light of 1, above, whether we have in the past used the right terminology when explaining what can and
cannot happen

3. What we should say in each of the cases before us at the moment in response to what Second sight has said
in the draft CRR, and

4, How should we deal with this matter going forward to ensure we have a robust statement we can stand
behind and close the matter down as far as we are concerned.

l attach for information:
a) The Spot Review 5 extract from Second Sight’s interim report (Doc1)
b) Relevant extracts from each the two cases referred to above — the application, PO’s investigation report and
Second Sight’s draft report

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

belinda.crowe:

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
