INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

TO:

TERESA BERRIDGE
SENIOR LAWYER
CRIMINAL LAW DIVISION

FROM: STEVE BRADSHAW

SECURITY MANAGER

suBjEcT: LISA MARGARET BRENNAN

PAPER NOS: 7746/3415

DATE: 31 JULY 2002

Your reference: PD/27507/TB
Your memo dated 12" July refers.

1. The results of the further checks to date are as follows: Discrepancies with a value of
£1055.24 have been found.

1. No error notices (copy of error notices issued to this office has been requested) have
been received that can be attributed to Brennan. Also the giro deposits and withdrawals
are checked each night. NSB are checked the following morning before despatch. The
MVL’s are checked weekly before despatch. The pensions and allowances are checked.
by the individual, however if there is a discrepancy in the stock, all pensions for that
stock will be checked and machined.

1. The office operates the MUTE system and in theory any member of staff may use the
till by logging on with their personal password. However in this case, there is no
missing dockets, the total on the dockets has been inflated. Therefore if any other
member of staff had stolen money, they would have to logged on in Brennans password,
reversed out of the horizon system the docket, then re-entered the docket via the horizon
system and then taken the difference between the true value of the docket and the
inflated value of the docket.

1. There is a total of 16 staff at the office, each member of staff apart from the Branch
Manager and Assistant Branch Manager have their own individual date stamp. Each
member of staff will log on and log off the system with their own individual password.

1. Due to the working practices of the office, during busy periods all tills could be in
constant use. All clerks log on and off the system.

1. A true shortage figure would not be known until Wednesday when the cash and stock
would be balanced. A cash declaration is normally taken towards the end of duty each
day. This is a guide to how much cash should be in the tills and is not a true account of
the cash and stock on hand. Dockets have been inflated on a Thursday, Friday and
Monday and this would indicate that the money has been taken dishonestly and not for
the purpose of covering up shortages in the cash and stock. Brennan has a favourably
balancing record is considered to be one of the top clerks within the office. Brennan will

POL00047335
POL00047335
POL00047335
POL00047335

also help in the checking of other stocks. Due to the wide range of transactions, if a
person was considered incompetent then mistakes would appear in other transactions
apart from pension and allowances.

1. Apart from seeing a recent giro statement slip at interview no further financial checks
have been made.

1. Brennan was considered to be one of the more experienced clerks with a good
accounting record.

1. Brennan has not received any warnings or extra training. Brennan was used by the
Branch Manager to check other clerks stocks which had discrepancies and she also
helped the assistant Branch Manager to prepare the office balance account.

1. The office will not know the level of discrepancies for other counter clerks. The office
will only know of discrepancies when they receive error notices (I have asked
chesterfield to send me a copy of all error notices issued t this office). With the 205a
sent from Lisahally it may be possible to determine the stock and what type of error has
occurred.

Any queries please phone on the numbers below.

Steve Bradshaw

(Mobile,

[= I“ Floor Lyceum Building I Bold Street Liverpool L1 4HQ
