POL00098782
POL00098782

Message

From: Paula Vernels eT
on behalfof Paula Vennelis! _

Sent: 28/06/2013 10:

To: Alice Perkins Cl

Subject: Fwd: JA?

Alice, the team are currently reviewing all options and Alwen has a meeting (for as long as she needs) with

Janet on Monday - J has af "GRO I today.

The note below from Martin is also helpful - just to reassure we have the best brains on it.

We will get a note from Alwen later today on who is doing what/next steps.

Susan has cancelled the last day of her holiday and is coming in on Monday as soon as she lands, to meet SS.
All very tricky but I am happy at least that the team are working closely and with pace.

Paula
Ps. Ignore the cryptic comments re transient data etc. You don't want to go there! (I am.)

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Martin Edwards < GRO p
Date: 27 June 2013 21:5
To: Paula Vennells {
Subject: Re: JA?

I'm glad you thought I looked thoughtful - in truth it was primarily a look of bafflement and
slight concern at Lesley's explanation of "transient data" and "archiving processes"! (I think we
got there in the end on that one - we obviously need a plain English explanation of why no wider
implications can be extrapolated from the 14 cases).

My only other concern at the meeting was around the feasibility of some of the options/levers
that were raised. As discussed we need to think about a Plan B given the likelihood that James
won't agree to delay the meeting/report. We also need to be very careful not to overplay our hand
with SS - they could turn out to be quite dangerous if we threaten them with legal action or
attempt to replace them with another firm. Easy for this to be portrayed in the media as heavy
handed tactics because we don't like their findings (it plays directly into the existing perceptions
we're trying to counteract).

So I think we're stuck with the softer option of explaining to JA calmly but firmly why he cannot
allow SS to disseminate a misleading interim report - it either needs to be delayed or repositioned.

as a very neutral status update (with more detail on the one case that has been resolved).

And backing this up with a robust plan to get our messages out to the media (Mark, Alwen and I
are catching up on is tomorrow).

We can think through a more detailed handling plan and lines to take once we've seen the draft
report on Monday.

POL-0098365
POL00098782
POL00098782

Will give this more thought and staying closely involved over the next week.

Thanks,
Martin

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive
Post Office

On 27 Jun 2013, at 20:02, "Paula Vennells"

Martin, I wondered if you had any further thoughts on JA?

You were looking thoughtful throughout the meeting. Although I didn't get the
sense you were holding back - you asked some good questions.

Don't hesitate to flag anything you think we have missed!

Thanks for your support as always,

Paula

Sent from my iPhone

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0098365
