CT02014 July 2023

POL00448123

POL00448123

SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0

Personal banking and
Payment Exception Service (PES)

Cash withdrawal (Chip and PIN cards)

Initiate the transaction by selecting ‘Chip and PIN’ on the
‘Home Screen’

» Select the ‘Cash Withdrawal’ option and ask the
customer how much cash they wish to withdraw

» Input the required value and press ‘Enter’

* Horizon will inform you that the PIN pad is prompting
the customer to insert their card

» Ask the customer to follow the instructions on the
PIN pad

«The PIN pad will notify the customer of the outcome,
and Horizon will notify you

» If the cash withdrawal is authorised, ask the
customer to remove their card, count out the cash
value agreed, and hand it to them with the receipt
facing down

» Settle the transaction to ‘Fast Cash’

Cash deposit (Chip with or without PIN)

Initiate the transaction by selecting ‘Chip and PIN’ on the
‘Home Screen’

«Select the ‘Cash Deposit’ option and ask the
customer how much they wish to deposit

» Accept the cash from the customer, count it and
confirm the deposit value with the customer

«Enter the value of the deposit and press ‘Enter’

Re-enter the value of the deposit and press ‘Enter’
* Horizon confirms the cash deposit and amount:
If it is correct, press ‘Confirm’
If it is incorrect, press ‘Re-enter Amount’
» Horizon will inform you that the PIN pad is prompting
the customer to insert/swipe their card
» Ask the customer to follow the instructions on the
PIN pad
«The PIN pad will notify the customer of the outcome,
and Horizon will notify you
» Ifthe cash deposit is authorised, secure the cash and
settle the transaction to ‘Fast Cash’

» Hand the customer their receipt facing down

pee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee
1 Note: For some transactions, the customer will be
required to swipe their card through the PIN Pad

1 themselves, and some customers will need to enter

1 their PIN to confirm the value of a deposit.

6 Si iii
' Remember: An online cash withdrawal can
only be used when the customer has

1 confirmed they wish to withdraw cash.

Declined transactions !
If a cash deposit transaction is declined, il
acknowledge the Horizon screen message 1
and Horizon will print two receipts: i
» Ask the customer to sign inthe receipt 1
box to confirm that the transactionhas I
been declined and all funds have been!
returned 4

» Hand the customer the declined transaction 1
receipt and advise them to use an alternative !
card and/or contact their bank/other financial}
institution (phone numbers are availableon I
Horizon Help) 1

» Remember to return the cash to the {
customer 1

» Retain the signed receipt in branch fortwo I
years i
Always check that a cash withdrawalhas 4
been approved before counting any cash 1
out to the customer. If a cash withdrawal is !
declined: H
* Acknowledge the Horizon screen fl
message and Horizon will print one !
receipt !

1» Hand the void receipt to the customer 1
FA

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post

Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082
POL00448123
POL00448123

SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0 CTO2014 July 2023

Cash deposit (barcoded deposit slip)

» Obtain the barcoded deposit slip and cash from the
customer

* Count the cash to be deposited and verbally confirm
the amount of the cash deposit with the customer F

» From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the barcode on the
deposit slip
» Enter the value of the deposit and press ‘Enter’

» Re-enter the value of the deposit and press ‘Enter’,
then ‘F7’ to confirm when prompted

» Settle to ‘Fast Cash’ and put the cash in your till I Note: Santander stomers may have two }

» Horizon will print the receipt. Hand the customer 1 barcodes on their deposit slip. Always scan '

. . aihece a 1 the top barcode first, followed by the second 4

their receipt face down, along with their barcoded 1 barcode. i

deposit slip. Please do not date-stamp the deposit TG mitiaicarssniiees Sioa raster cattarnees estar is aatnesste
slip

Manual cash deposit (Using personalised Giro
Credit deposit slip/Lodgement slip)

» Check that the value of the cash agrees with the
value entered on the personalised Giro Credit deposit
slip

» From the ‘Home Screen’, select ‘Banking’, then
‘Manual Cash Deposit’

» Select the relevant bank from the list displayed

» Enter the Sort Code and the 8 digit Account Number.
Confirm the customer's bank details and press ‘Enter’

Note: For 9 digit account numbers drop the first digit
For 7 digit numbers add a zero as the first digit

» Follow the Horizon on-screen prompts for any other
details required

«Enter the value of the deposit and press ‘Enter’

© Re-enter the value of the deposit and press ‘Enter’, Sos ae abank gle creat
then ‘F7' to confirm when prompted vores’:

» Settle the transaction to ‘Fast Cash’ and put the cash rancor] MRS ACOSTONER
in your till aad

» Hand the customer their receipt and the original Q-- a---q@- overs

11-22-33 98761234 85
2OOASGre—‘Na22SS et 9O76ITIAR OS

deposit slip. Please do not date-stamp the deposit
slip
peeeene---e
"Important:
1 Banking transactions cannot be reversed, so please
take extra care when keying in the value of the
transaction

i
1

!

i » All banking transactions can only be completed
1 with the customer present (Unless they are
!

',

'

!

.

1. 6 digit Sort Code

2. 8 digit Account Number
3. 2 digit Transaction Code
4. 6 digit Serial Number

This slip should not be accepted if
any of the above is handwritten

TimeSaver or Santander Black Pouch deposits)

Never retain a payment card or deposit card on the

.
!
1
'
1
!
1
1
1
!
1
customer's behalf }
Fy

The contents of this document are cla
fon behalf of Post Office and forth

Operational Training & Development
Detvering Operational Excellence ©
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082_0001

Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
ded, is not permitted.

POL00448123
POL00448123

CT02014 July 2023 SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0

Payments Exception Service:
i-movo voucher

Customers using the i-movo voucher service for
a cash withdrawal

Customers can use the i-movo voucher service to complete
acash withdrawal of Government payments. i-movo send
customers a voucher on either a card, a text message or a
PDF document in an email. When a customer presents an
i-movo voucher:

» From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the barcode on the card/
voucher or text

» For card and PDF document vouchers, the customer*

needs to provide ID. Confirm the name on the voucher H Top Tip: If an i-movo voucher does not scan i
matches the ID they have provided and press ‘Enter’ or swipe, press the ‘Banking’ menu button I

* Horizon will display the voucher details. Confirm these 4 followed by ‘i-movo (PES) Barcode’ Type in I
with the customer and, if correct select ‘Enter’ to 1 the barcode number, press ‘Enter’ and follow
redeem (cash) the voucher 1 the prompts to complete the transaction 1
ee ee or ne I

Note: The balance showing is the remaining balance on
the card/voucher, please do not pay this to the customer;
the amount due to the customer will be confirmed in the
customer basket

© Areceipt will print, and a message will be displayed
on Horizon confirming that the transaction has been
approved. Press ‘Enter’; the redeemed voucher will now
be recorded in the customer basket

» _ Ifthe customer has further vouchers to redeem,
scan the barcode and repeat the steps above. Each
redeemed voucher will be recorded in the customer
basket

» With the redeemed vouchers in the customer basket,
count out the total cash due to the customer

» Select ‘Fast Cash’ to complete the transaction

» Hand the customer their receipt face down

Bapseceeeenecwaree

Important:

» *A representative can present the customer's voucher and ID on their behalf
» _ i-movo voucher transactions can’t be reversed

«If there is a Horizon system failure, i-movo transactions can’t be recovered

i-movo helpdesk for all voucher customer enquiries:) ~ GRO

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082_0002
POL00448123
POL00448123

SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0 CTO2014 July 2023

Payments Exception Service:
i-movo voucher continued

1, PDF document vouchers:

» Contain one single use voucher per PDF
document, up to a value of £100 each

2. Payment card:

1
i 1
1 1
' '
1 i
i 1
1 I
} Has both a barcode and a magnetic stripe, and i
1 either can be used to start the transaction 1
1 © Can contain multiple vouchers, up to a value of I
1 £100 each 1
1 1
1 i]
1 1
1 1
! 1
i 1
LJ i
1 1
! 1
1 1

r]

w

}. Text (SMS) vouchers:

Contain one voucher per barcode, up to a value of
£100 each

There is no daily limit on the number or total value
of i-movo vouchers that can be redeemed.
All i-movo vouchers expire after 90 days.

-movo voucher can’t be redeemed

2) i

Horizon will display a message to show the reason

why the voucher cannot be redeemed and will print a
“Voucher Enquiry Declined’ receipt which is handed to
the customer. The receipt shows the i-movo helpdesk
number which the customer can call if they have any
queries with their vouchers.

Temporary i-movo vouchers

Some customers may present a reusable temporary
payment barcode voucher, which is sent to the
customer via SMS text or a PDF in an email.

Despite their similarity to the standard Text (SMS)
vouchers and PDF document vouchers, these
temporary payment barcode vouchers are processed
in the same reusable way as the i-movo Payment
card, and require the customer to provide the relevant
ID.

1D CHECK REQUIRED 1234 5678 90

MrAN Other

on behalf Office and for th

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082_0003
POL00448123
POL00448123

CT02014 July 2023 SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0

Personal banking: Cheque Deposits

Cheque Deposit

«Ask the customer for the sealed cheque deposit
envelope, making sure the sort code and account
details have been completed by the customer

» From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Banking’, then
‘Cheque Deposit Envelope’ and enter the Sort
Code and Account Number

» Check the bank displayed on Horizon matches the
envelope being presented. If not, advise the customer
that they need to use the correct envelope

*  Date-stamp the front of the deposit envelope and
place it in your drawer. Give the Horizon receipt to
the customer

Cheque deposit envelopes

If a customer requests a cheque deposit envelope,
please ask them which bank they bank with and
provide them with the relevant envelope.

If a customer presents a plain envelope to
deposit cheques:

Ask the customer which bank they wish to deposit
their cheque into and offer them the correctly branded
envelope for their bank. There should be a supply of
envelopes kept in branch or you can refer the customer
to their bank for more envelopes.

Note: To check which bank envelopes you can stock,
go to Horizon Help, ‘Stock Codes’, ‘Transaction Stock
Catalogue’ ‘Banking Services’ or look on Branch Hub

Northern Ireland Branches - There is an option
for ‘Danske’.

' Remember: If a customer wishes to present a sealed envelope without a pay-in slip, this should be
I accepted and processed, Please make the customer aware that they should include their sort code and
1 account number on the reverse of the cheque and advise them that it could delay the credit to their account. 4

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082_0004

POL00448123
POL00448123

SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0 CTO2014 July 2023

Additional Business Banking services

Plastic Bank Note Envelopes (PBNEs) -
Santander customers only

Some customers have an indemnity agreement in
place with Santander which allows them to deposit
cash in plastic bank note envelopes (PBNEs).

To check if a customer has an indemnity agreement in
place:

» Select ‘Banking’ and then select ‘Indemnity Check’

» Enter the customer's 8 digit account number and
press ‘Enter’

» Horizon will display a message advising if an
indemnity agreement is in place

» Ifthe customer's account does not appear on the
indemnity list, the PBNE has to be opened and
checked in front of the customer

The customer will present you with a magnetic stripe

card, paying-in book or slip and the cash, which can

be a mixture of PBNEs, coin or loose notes sealed in wenk= I

an oddments envelope — you can’t accept a mixed cories q

cash and cheque deposit. 7 i 5

* Take the deposit value of the sealed oddment . j
envelope and value of PBNEs and check the value EIDDDInEXOnotes SOnotes
against th ing-in book 3 ~~

gainst the paying-in bool ; ae oe oO

» Check that the customer has completed sections
1, 2 and 3 on the PBNE (see image right) 1. Customer's name and account number

» Date-stamp and initial section 4 (see image right) 2. Customer's site name/reference

* Swipe the magnetic stripe card and enter the 3. Customer signature to say they have checked
deposit value onto Horizon and sealed the PBNE

» Give the customer their card, paying-in book and 4. Date-stamp and initial

Horizon receipt

' Remember: Contents of sealed oddment envelopes and PBNEs don't need to be opened and counted at

the time of acceptance, however:

» PBNEs need to be opened and checked, or remitted to the cash centre for checking, within seven
calendar days of the transaction taking place. This is to ensure that the customer is notified of any
discrepancy within the seven-calendar day indemnity period

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
(on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Detvering Operational Excellence ©
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082_0005

CTO2014 July 2023

Black pouch deposits — Santander
customers only

The customer presents you with a black pouch with a
‘sealed container advice’ barcoded book or magnetic
stripe card

Check the number of pouches agrees with
number recorded on the ‘sealed container advice’
and there is no evidence of tampering

Check the sealed container advice is filled in (see
image)

Sign and date-stamp the barcoded book and
return it to the customer or swipe the magnetic
stripe card and give the customer the Horizon
receipt

When you open and check the pouch, if there

are cheques included, these are to be processed
separately as a cheque deposit envelope

Any black pouch deposits should be opened by
the end of the next trading day

POL00448123
POL00448123

SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0

1. Name of the account holder, account
number, branch reference (if any)

2. Number of bags received
3. Customer's signature

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
‘on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082_0006
POL00448123
POL00448123

SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0 CTO2014 July 2023
Change giving

All change giving transactions are a notes for coins exchange service.

Business banking customers of participating banks can visit any branch to request change. You should
provide the service if you can operationally spare the change, providing the customer produces the correct
change giving card or barcoded document for their bank.

To guarantee that change will be available for either of the change giving services, a business banking
customer needs to be registered by their bank and visit their assigned Post Office. If a customer has been
assigned to your branch, you will receive a change-giving mandate that identifies the customer and advises
their initial change order and frequency. If a customer is not registered for the change giving service, ask
them to speak to their bank directly to register for the service.

Change Giving Standard

«Swipe the magnetic stripe change giving card
through Horizon or scan the barcoded document
presented to you by the customer

© Check the notes against the value of change
requested by the customer — they should provide
you with a breakdown of what change they need

» Input the total value into Horizon and complete
the transaction § ‘onving

* Count out the bags of change to the customer and
give them the Horizon receipt

Change Giving Lite

Select ‘Banking’ and ‘Change Giving Lite’ snc @

» Select the customer's bank from the list of ne
participating banks and follow the on-screen ?
prompts

» Check the notes against the value of change
requested by the customer — they should provide
you with a breakdown of what change they need

© Input the total value into Horizon and complete

the transaction ~snasmt
» Count out the bags of change to the customer and ar
give them the Horizon receipt _

I Note: £5 notes can be included in the change orders for both Change Giving Standard and Change
I Giving Lite customers.

The conten
con behalf of

Operational Training & Development
Diliveriig Operationaliedencs ©
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082_0007

tributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
POL00448123
POL00448123

CT02014 July 2023 SECTION 4 Banking & PES V4.0

Miskeys

If you input a value greater than the cash received and you have settled the transaction, please inform the
customer that unfortunately an over-credit has been made to their account and it needs to be corrected.

Please ask the customer:

«If the value of the over-credit is less than the withdrawal limit on their card
» If they are aware of the PIN to allow a withdrawal to take place
«If they are happy to perform a withdrawal that corrects the over-credit

If these apply, a withdrawal can be made to balance the over-credit amount.

If it is not possible to correct the over-credit, please follow this process:

» Ifthe customer is still in the branch, inform them that unfortunately an over-credit has been made that
cannot be reversed in branch

© Contact the Branch Support Centre. They will take the transaction details and provide you with a
reference number for the incident

» Inform the customer (if they are available) that their account will be adjusted by their bank/financial
institution

» Print off a duplicate receipt

«Write the Branch Support Centre reference number on both the customer’s and the duplicate receipt

» Keep the original receipt

«Record the appropriate information on a Miscellaneous Receipt P1091 and ask the customer to sign it

«Keep the undercopy of the signed Miscellaneous Receipt P1091 and the original receipt in branch as this
may be required as part of the investigation to reclaim miskeyed funds

Please note: Under no circumstances should a direct approach be made to the customer at their home/
business location or via social media to recover the funds, even if you know the customer well.

By following the correct process, Post Office will be able to support you and we'll work with the Partner
Banks to try to recover any miskeyed funds. There is no guarantee that the funds will be recovered and
the customer will have to confirm the error with their financial institution.

For more information go to Horizon Help: ‘Banking & Financial Services’, ‘Banking Services’, ‘Errors
(Including Error Messages and Transaction Errors)’, ‘Keying Errors’

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000082_0008

