POL00294852

POL00294852
From: Rod Ismay[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ROD.ISMAYB8406224-7AE7-4FF 1-B8E6-
F1A8E506F2E5]
Sent: Thur 29/09/2011 10:45:00 AM (UTC)
To: Matthew L

Kevin Lenihan

Bec:
Subject: Data Issues Review (Re: Camelot - Missing Data in POLSAP)

Hi - I spoke with Lesley yesterday afternoon and she is tasking Kevin to review the data issues we are experiencing.
See below.

Martin — please can you be the lead P&BA person here to coordinate info from parts of our team and to give a
consolidated view to Kevin. I know you, Marie and Michelle have stats already on aspects of this. I think others
including Paul Lebeter may have contributions to add too following our recent chats. Please can you call Kevin and co-
ordinate this around P&BA. There may be some questions that Kevin has that will guide the data gathering before it
goes any further so please do give him a call.

Matt — for info following yesterdays discussions. The note we discussed on Camelot issues yesterday needs to form
part of this exercise.

Thanks, Rod

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 29 September 2011 11:33

To: Kevin Lenihan

Cc: Dave Hulbert; Rod Ismay

Subject: FW: Camelot - Missing Data in POLSAP

Kevin

I would like you to pick up a piece of work on behalf of Rod and I — Rod has concerns that we are seeing a number of
data issues and the perception is that this is getting worse. Can you please work with one of Rod’s team to
quantify/qualify what these issues are — I would like to understand if we have any systemic issues.

I would like this to be a quick piece of work — not chapter and verse but enough for Rod and I to sit down and discuss.
Can I please have this completed within the next two weeks.

Many Thanks

Lesley J Sewell

Head of IT & Change

Post Office Ltd

148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ

be proud of

Building a Pos‘

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Gary Blackburn
POL00294852
POL00294852

Sent: 28 September 2011 17:39

To: Anne Allaker; Dave Hulbert; Alison Bolsover; Matthew L Hibbard; Lesley J Sewell
Cc: Duty Manager

Subject: Camelot - Missing Data in POLSAP

All

What has happened:-

The root cause is still to be determined but P&BA colleagues have identified that there is data missing within POLSAP.
The missing data relates to multiple rems undertaken on the 4", 5", 6, & 7 Sept. The affected transactions are when
the Rem was for the same product, same value and completed on the same day. (Appears like a duplicated Rem)

The data is zero value stock data, which is Rem in / Rem out products such as Camelot scratch cards and MVL tax
discs.

In total we have 71 products that are classed as zero value stock data.

Impact:-

Because the data is missing within POLSAP, P&BA have understandably issued Transaction Corrections to branches
that appear to have not conformed to business process.

309 Branches within Branch Trading group C have received TC's inappropriately.

90 of those branches have complained to P&BA and explained that they will not be processing the TC.

Resolution:-

Fujitsu are presently working on the identification of the missing data and devising a plan to get that data into
POLSAP.

At the moment the fix is not expected to be available until the middle of next week at the earliest.

In the meantime P&BA are going to issue credit TC's to those 309 branches.

It was decided by P&BA and myself that we would not communicate this wider at this stage as we do not wish to raise
concerns about Horizon integrity.

Next Steps:-
There is a further conference call between Fujitsu, POL DM and P&BA planned for tomorrow PM, when I expect to be
able to firm up the timescales to resolve.

Anne

If you are uncomfortable with our decision not to communicate to branches at this stage, please could you call me to
discuss?

Regards,

Gary

Gary Blackburn
IT & Change

Live Service & Business Continuity Manager

© Dearne House, Cortonwood Drive, Brampton, Barnsley, South Yorkshire, S73
OUF

® www.postoffice.co.uk
POL00294852
POL00294852

Building a Post Office® we can all be proud of

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged

information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
