POL00103360
POL00103360

Message

From: Veronica Branton

on behalf of — Veronica Branton

Sent: 29/10/2018

To: + Thomas Cooper
4 Alisdair Cameron

cc:

Subject: Board/ARC briefifig

Dear all

Please see below a message from Paula about tomorrow’s ARC and Board meetings, as Jane is not going to be
there.

Best wishes

Veronica

“Dear all,

She has flown to Australia with our thoughts and

prayers.
We shall miss her around a few elements of the ARC/Board agendas, so I thought it might be helpful to explain
beforehand - see notes below.

Any questions please ask me or Ben.

Best wishes,

Paula

Board

1) GLO: Common Issues Trial (CIT) commences next Monday. In Jane’s absence, I have asked David
Cavender QC (lead counsel) and Andy Parsons (lead lawyer from WBD) to come to the Board and brief us on
the strike out judgement, ‘tone of voice’ challenge from the judge, claimants’ draft CIT opening submission,
and if we have time - Horizon trial preparation. We have made good progress on contingencies - Al can update.

ARC

5) ARC Directors FYI: Jane would have provided some colour around the areas noted below. My thanks to Ben
Foat (deputy GC) for the updates on live industry legal risks/read-across to Post Office and for a short summary
on PCI status since the paper:

- PCI Non-Compliance: we have an technical solution (encrypting PCI-DSS at source (ie encrypting our PinPad
estate)) which will take 9-12 months to deliver and cost approximately £8-£10m. We will seek to
leverage/negotiate the front loading of this with Ingenico given that an upgrade would need to have been done
in 4 years time. It is also important to note that there is no known security exposure because it is a closed
system but POL will conduct a data audit by the end of the year to provide assurance regarding the security

POL-0102943
POL00103360
POL00103360

status whilst remediation measures are undertaken. Progress has been made remedying approximately 90% of
the issues identified by the QSA.

IRRELEVANT

DA Misuse: POL needs to ensure that it uses NDAs appropriately and they are not used to cloa
example, criminal behaviour. The risk area that we will consider further is in relation to Whistleblowing. Il

Comms and contingency plans are in place and we

continue to monitor the situation.”

Get Outlook for iOS

POL-0102943
