POL00111257

POL00111257

Private & Confidential: Subject to Litigation Privilege

Postmaster Group Litigation — Briefing Note ahead of the Board Meeting on Tuesday 30 October 2018

The agenda for the Post Office Board Meeting on Tuesday 30 October 2018 allows for a 20 minute
update on the Postmaster Litigation. Andrew Parsons from our instructed solicitors and David
Cavender QC (DCQC) as our Lead Counsel will attend the Board. They have been asked to provide an
update which focusses on the Common Issues Trial (CIT), which begins on Monday 5 November 2018

and will determine, as a matter of legal construction, the proper meaning of the contract between

Post Office and its agents, and whether certain additional terms should be implied into the contract.

Suggested Agenda (11:45 — 12:05)

1. Trial Timetable (AP — very briefly)

Although the CIT begins on Monday 5 November, the Court does not actually ‘sit’ until
Wednesday 7 November, during which both parties’ respective QCs will have half a day for
their opening submissions.

Witness evidence and cross examination will begin on Thursday 8 November. The Claimants’
witnesses will ‘go first’ (6 witnesses over 4 hearing days) and Post Office witnesses second
(14 witnesses over 6 hearing days).

2. Preparations for the CIT (DCQC)

e

Issues / concerns.
Tone and approach: opening submissions and cross examination.

3. Comms and Media Handling (MD)

.

A comprehensive communications plan and media handling strategy, in collaboration with
Portland, is in place and includes: briefings to the NFSP, L300, operational and field teams,
helplines and heads of client relationships / partners. With the exception of the NFSP, key
groups will be signposted and have access to a SharePoint page which will contain our media
statement, background fact sheet and Q&As.

The Brands Campaign is also now live and a research study will measure / track the CIT’s
impact on Post Office’s brand and reputation.

4. Horizon Issues Trial Update (AP — if time allows)

The legal team is also preparing for the Horizon Issues Trial, which will begin in March 2019.
The majority of the issues to be determined at this trial will be determined via expert opinion
evidence but some require factual evidence.

The claimant's expert (Jason Coyne of IT Group) has now submitted his expert report. Absent
finding a ‘smoking gun’ he has listed out a number of bugs, without analysis of their effect
or extent, before concluding “it was highly likely for bugs / errors / defects to have the
potential to" cause shortfalls and undermine the reliability of Horizon.

Post Office’s expert (Dr Robert Worden of Charteris) has until 30 November 2018 to submit
his report, supported by Fujitsu, the legal team and Post Office more generally.

Witness evidence has also been exchanged. The claimants submitted 9 statements — 3 from
witnesses who have previously criticised Horizon (Richard Roll - an ex Fujitsu employee who
appeared on Panorama; Charles McLachlan - defence expert in the Misra prosecution; and
lan Henderson - Second Sight) and 6 statements from former postmasters.

Post Office has until 13 November to provide its response to these statements.
POL00111257
POL00111257

Private & Confidential: Subject to Litigation Privilege

Appendices: Further detail on the items discussed on the call of Friday 26 October 2018
1. Contingency Planning

From our high level business assessment of ‘impact’, three areas have been identified as of greatest
concern: shortfalls; liability for losses; and Post Office as agent. Whilst we believe Post Office has the
stronger of the arguments in these areas, the business impact of an adverse finding would be material.
The following mitigations are in place / being considered:

¢ Contract Variation — any changes to the contract would only be made if the judgment were
to go against Post Office. The precise contract wording change is dependent on the judgment
from the CIT, which is expected to be received in late December / early January. The process
to manage the contract variation and the issuing of new/amended contracts to our existing
postmasters has been designed and could be implemented at relatively short notice.

e Losses Investigation — an end to end investigation process from the point of an issue or
discrepancy being identified, to the findings of a subsequent investigation being produced
and shared with the postmaster, has been designed.

The CIT is unlikely to change the basic principle that postmasters have to make good any
losses they cause. An adverse judgment may however require us to do much more than we
currently do to demonstrate that the postmaster caused the loss (and not something outside
their control, such as a bug in Horizon), before we ask him/her to make it good. There is
therefore a risk that an adverse judgment may lead postmasters to change their behaviour:

= Many postmasters make good their losses immediately. They accept that they are
liable for any shortfall recorded in their branch accounts, and pay the sum required
to balance their account rather than declare or challenge the loss.

= Those postmasters may start to declare all losses and demand that Post Office show
positively what caused the loss, and / or discount any other possible causes for it,
irrespective of value or what they know about its cause.

= This would require us to review thoroughly the branch accounts and Horizon reports
to confirm that only the postmaster could be liable for the loss, before she / he is
asked to or agrees to make it good. This would be a significant exercise.

= Further scenario planning is being performed with SMEs from Network Ops, Finance
and the contingency planning team to model the impact of such potential
behavioural changes from our network and our operational response to each

scenario.

* CCTV- owing to the cost and operational complexity (e.g. data storage and privacy issues),
CCTV would only be installed in all post offices if the judgment were to go against Post Office.

2. Post Office Witnesses at the Common Issue Trial

Broadly speaking, our witness statements cover the structure of Post Office as a business, the
appointment of postmasters, and claimant specific evidence. Each witness:

e Has now received their witness familiarisation training, as provided to them by Bond Solon.
The feedback from witnesses has been that the training was excellent and, conversely, Bond
Solon had no significant concerns regarding how witnesses performed. However, some areas
POL00111257
POL00111257

Private & Confidential: Subject to Litigation Privilege

for improvement have been identified and we will re-inforce to witnesses that they should
not give opinions, nor provide explanations that go further than the questions posed.

e Has received ‘bundles’ of relevant documents tailored to their specific areas of evidence,
including the formal court documents and general documents relating to their contact with
the Lead Claimants.

e Will be staying at Apex Temple Court Hotel on:
= The day and night before giving evidence;
"Each day and night they are giving evidence; and
= For some witnesses, on the days that the Claimants / other witnesses are giving
evidence.

The following individuals are giving witness evidence on behalf of Post Office:

Business Improvement
Director

Witness Coverage of evidence
Angela Van Den Post Office as a business: public ownership, commercial operating model, network size
Bogerd and coverage, brand, market change and competition, technological change, client

products and requirements, change programmes.

Head of Agent’s
Development &
Remuneration __

GRO i Postmasters and their branches: Postmasters’ businesses, operating a branch, assistants,
oneness horizon, training and support, causes of shortfalls, Post Office’s reliance on postmasters,
responsibility for shortfalls.
Nick Beal Overview of Post Office’s contracts with postmasters and the role of the NFSP.

The risk of fraud and dishonesty in branches, including: fraud in branches, concealing
shortfalls, shortfalls caused by dishonesty, monitoring assistants.

I John Breeden”
Head of Agency
Contracts Deployment

The selection and appointment of postmasters and the circumstances in which a
postmaster’s contract may be suspended or terminated with or without notice,
including: the appointment of postmasters, vacancies, business plans, interviews,
suspensions, and termination with and without notice.

Paul Williams
I Restrictions Advisor

The appointment of new postmasters in the 1990’s and Lead Claimant Alan Bates’
conditions of appointment

“Sarah Rimmer
Agent Remuneration
and Expenses

Post Office’s appointment process for postmasters from around 2007 to May 2017 and
the checks that Post Office undertakes regarding the appointment of assistants,
including: the vetting of Post Office assistants, advertising a vacancy, the application
process, the paperwork and contracts provided to applicants.

Tim Dance
Retail Transformation
Integration Manager

Business plans and investment in branches, including: the purpose and content of
business plans, investment in NT and non NT branches.

POL00111257

POL00111257
Private & Confidential: Subject to Litigation Privilege
Witness Coverage of evidence
David Longbottom Transfer audits when a new postmaster takes on a branch and Lead Claimant Elizabeth
Training & Audit Stockdale’s transfer audit.
Advisor
Michael Shields Temporary postmasters, including: the appointment process and their number.
Temporary Postmaster
Advisor
Michael Haworth Lead Claimant Mohammad Sabir’s interview.
Network Engagement
Manager

Lead Claimant Mohammad Sabir’s transfer audit in respect of the Cottingley branch.

Lead Claimant Louise Dar’s interview

Andy Carpenter Lead Claimant Elizabeth Stockdale’s interview.
Agents Contract
Advisor

Elaine Ridge (no Lead Claimant Naushad Abdulla’s interview.
longer a Post Office
employee - was

Contract Advisor for

3. Mediation

Mediation, which is a form of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), is a voluntary process and an
established part of the litigation process which parties to a dispute keep under consideration at all
times as it often helps resolve a dispute without the need for full trials.

Although in February 2018 the Judge ordered that both parties should “use their reasonable
endeavours to attend a mediation as soon as practicable after receipt of the Judgment on the CIT ...”
it is difficult foresee how engaging in mediation prior to a judgment on the Horizon Issues Trial could
resolve the dispute or even narrow the issues. Indeed, at the most recent hearing on 10 October 2018
Judge Fraser himself made reference to how, currently, he feels any mediation is “highly likely to fail”.

Nevertheless the Court order remains and we have therefore contacted mediation groups to assess
how mediation in or February 2019 (or later) could be shaped.

4. Settlement

Settlement has also been regularly considered by the legal team and at each meeting of the Board
Litigation Subcommittee. However, to date management and the Board have been of the view that
settlement will not satisfactorily address the issues at stake as there are a series of issues which make
settlement problematic at present:
POL00111257

POL00111257

Private & Confidential: Subject to Litigation Privilege

The Claimants’ costs are funded by Therium Capital Management Limited, an off-shore
hedge fund which specialises in litigation funding. Our expectation is that based on the
known level of costs incurred by the Claimants (in excess of £10 million), Therium would
expect to recover a multiple of at least 3 times the costs under any settlement or award, and
that their ‘fee’ would be paid before any amounts are paid to the Claimants themselves. As
the Claimants have not yet been required to articulate their claim for damages, Post Office
has no clear view of the scale of the amount that might be acceptable through a settlement.

A settlement is only binding on the parties to the action. While it is usual that the terms of
asettlement are confidential, the fact of a settlement is unlikely to remain confidential. This
is likely to be construed by media and followers as a capitulation by Post Office, and is
therefore likely to give rise to further claims by other former or current agents who believe
they have been wrongly treated.

Settlement will not resolve the questions posed by the claimants as to the correct
interpretation of Post Office’s obligations under the contract or the robustness of Horizon.
This would mean that agents will continue to challenge the veracity of data from Horizon
which is relied on by Post Office in recovering losses, and will at least perpetuate the current
issues Post Office faces whereby branch losses are increasing significantly. It is unlikely that,
absent litigation funding, any single agent would be able to afford the necessary legal costs
to have the Horizon issues fully determined; whereas the current group litigation structure
and funding allows those issues to be addressed.

Post Office currently enjoys the confidence of both customers and ‘clients’ to whom it
provides services. An outcome which does not address the robust operation and resilience
of Horizon risks undermining that public and commercial confidence in Post Office.

5. Common Issues Trial Timetable

Date Day Month Description
5 I Monday November Court Not Sitting. Reading Day
6 I Tuesday November Court Not Sitting. Reading Day
7 I Wednesday I November Openings. Half Day Each
8 I Thursday November Claimant's Evidence (likely: Bates & Stubbs)
9 I Friday November Court Not Sitting.
10 I Saturday November I Weekend
11 I Sunday November Weekend
12 I Monday November Claimant's Evidence (Likely: Stubbs, Sabir, Abdulla))
13 I Tuesday November Claimant's Evidence (likely Abdulla, Stockdale)
14 I Wednesday I November Claimant's Evidence (Likely Stockdale, Dar)
15 I Thursday November Post Office Evidence (Likely Beal, Williams, Rimmer)
16 I Friday November Court Not Sitting.
17 I Saturday November Weekend
18 I Sunday November Weekend
19 I Monday November Post Office Evidence (Likely Rimmer, Breeden, AVDB)

POL00111257
POL00111257

Private & Confidential: Subject to Litigation Privilege

Date Day Month Description

20 I Tuesday November _I Post Office Evidence (Likely AVDB, Dance, Dickinson)

21 I Wednesday I November Post Office Evidence (Likely Dickinson, Shields, Ridge)

22 I Thursday November Post Office Evidence (Likely Ridge, Longbottom, Webb)

23 I Friday November Court Not Sitting.
24 I Saturday November Weekend
25 I Sunday November I Weekend

26 I Monday November Post Office Evidence (Likely Webb, Haworth, Carpenter, Trotter)

27 I Tuesday November Court Not Sitting.

28 I Wednesday I November Court Not Sitting.

29 I Thursday I November _I Court Not Sitting.

30 I Friday November Court Not Sitting.
1 I Saturday December Weekend
2 I Sunday December I Weekend
3 I Monday December Closing Submissions
4 I Tuesday December Closing Submissions
5 I Wednesday I December Closing Submissions
6 I Thursday I December Closing Submissions
7 I Friday December Court Not Sitting.

