MISC2025 Dec 2020 1

Postal Orders

Postal Orders are sold and encashed at all Post Office
branches. The value of a Postal Order can be between
50p and £250. Although Postal Orders do not show a
value until they have been processed through Horizon
Online, they should be treated as secure stock and stored
securely at all times. Cash is the only acceptable method
of payment.

Selling a Postal Order

+ — Ask the customer the value required and confirm
to the customer it is a cash only transaction and
there is a fee

+ — Obtain a blank Postal Order from your stock.

+ From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the barcode on the
back of the Postal Order, and select ‘Sell Postal
Order’.

+ Input the value the customer has requested and
advise the customer of the total amount payable
(including the fee)

+ Follow all on-screen prompts confirming the details
with the customer at each stage

Printing the Postal Order

+ Insert the scanned Postal Order into the slip input
slot on the printer, make sure it is face up with the
Queens head on the left hand side. Ensure the
right hand side of the Postal Order is against the
right hand side of the slot.

+ Select ‘Print’
+ Check that the Postal Order has printed correctly
+ Press ‘Settle’ and accept the cash payment

+ Hand the customer the Postal Order and the
customer receipt. Place the second copy of the
receipt in your stock unit

POL00028036
POL00028036

Section 15 Postal Orders V1.1

Top Tip!

Place your thumb
on the Queen's
head as you insert
the Postal Order
face up into the
printer

© Postal Order

3
:

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
Section 15 Postal Orders V1.1

Postal Orders continued

Encashing a Postal Order

When a customer wishes to encash a Postal Order:

Ask the customer to sign the back of the Postal
Order, check the signature against the payee’s
name on the front, and check it hasn't been
altered or defaced

Remember 1

If the Postal Order presented is ‘Crossed’,
dvise the customer that it needs to be paid 1
into their bank account '

From the 'Home Screen’, scan the barcode on
the back of the Postal Order, and select ‘Encash
Postal Order’

Check the value on the screen matches the
value on the Postal Order and select ‘Yes’

Settle the transaction, and hand the customer
the cash value as well as the first printed receipt

Datestamp the Postal Order, attach the branch

POL00028036
POL00028036

MISC2025 Dec 2020

Joyeessignaure

gifiaidit @

‘Gt nc cecarsvon

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document

to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.
