POL00107127
POL00107127

CBatote

\ iris document contains confidential information relating to Post Office Limited. It is intended for

ble ab pabracters’ jaseer >

Nucl gare 4 “Lis we thet

the named recipients only and should not be disseminated further.

Review of Key System Controls
H in Horizon

System

Controls Post Office Limited

Legally Privileged & Strictly Confidential
Assurance Review

March 2012

se EE SE ST Internal Audit & Risk Management LT

Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

POL00107127
POL00107127

—<—= Context and Objectives :

The Post Office Limited (POL) network of approximately 11,000 branches processes client and business transactions in excess of £100 billion annually. The
majority of transactions are conducted on behalf of third parties, for example, receiving payment for domestic utility bills and paying out from National Savings
accounts,

Customer transactions are captured on the Horizon (HNGX) electronic point of sale system in branches and transmitted to central systems (utility payment,
external banking and POL finance systems) throughout the day. Overnight, daily summaries are transferred into the central accounting system, POL SAP. The
translation process between the two systems is enabled by the Reference Data System (RDS). An overview of the component parts of the HNGX system is
provided at Appendix A. :

The overall objective of the review was to provide assurance that appropriate IT management disciplines provide a stable IT platform, and that suitable internal
controls operate over HNGX transactions and the extraction of these for central systems. In the area of management disciplines the review assessed controls
Over: access to software; change management; capacity monitoring; and system resilience and disaster recovery. With regards to internal controls over
transactions the review covered: master data controls; transaction data; SAP Middleware; and batch updates.

The review also assessed the degree to which actions to address the issues raised in the 2011 Ernst & Young (E&Y) Management Letter regarding the HNGX
control environment have been progressed by management.

Key Findings and Conclusion i

IT Management Disciplines and HNGX Transaction Controls

The following control weaknesses were identified:

1. System access: Access to HNGX in branches is by means of individual user accounts and passwords. However, particularly in sub-post offices, the same user
accounts and passwords are often shared between branch staff. The use of individual user accounts is not always practical, e.g. in the case of single
terminal branches where time would be lost continually switching between user accounts, and the number and geographical spread of sub-post offices
makes it difficult for POL management to ensure access controls are enforced.

Implication: The ability to identify an individual user responsible for inputting a transaction may potentially be compromised.

2. Resilience and Disaster Recovery: Fail-over from the live data centre to the back-up has not been tested since June 2009, although disaster recovery
arrangements were tested during the migration to the new system in October 2009. Testing of the business continuity plan has been scheduled for the 24t
and 25 of March 2012.

Implication: The period of any inability to trade as a result of a major system outage may be greater than anticipated.

Internal Audit & Risk Management 2 sth TST

Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

POL00107127
POL00107127

Key esa

3, Master data: No audit trail exists for change requests received by Fujitsu from the Network Business Support Centre (NBSC). Not all 'approved' requesters
are documented or referred to on receipt of a change request. The membership of the Lotus Notes email groups, which are used to authorise the Master
Data Teams to make changes to standing data, is not known and has not been subject to recent review. One of a sample of 10 change requests was found
to have been handled via the “Fast track” process when it should have come through the normal process, resulting in reduced oversight of the change.

Implication: It is difficult to detect and prevent inappropriate changes being made to master data.

4. Transaction data: One of a sample of 5 monthly reconciliations between HNGX generated client transaction summaries and those created by the clients
dQ themselves was found not to have a second level review signature. Period-end Senior Management review is not formally signed-off, although it appears to
be undertaken.

Implication: Transaction discrepancies may not be identified resulting in third party clients being undercharged or overcharged for transactions.

Conclusion: IT disciplines around functional changes and capacity monitoring were found to be appropriately designed and also operating effectively. However,
access to the system in branches, particularly sub-post offices, can be by means of shared accounts. In addition, fail-over from the live data centre to the back-up
centre has not been tested since June 2009. This requirement is of particular importance, as highlighted by an outage in the system in December 2011. Testing
of the business continuity plan has been scheduled for March 2012. Controls designed to maintain the completeness, accuracy and integrity of transactional data
flows within HNGX were effective, with minor weaknesses noted around manual processes for the validation of master data and transaction data. No evidence
was found of material discrepancies arising from these issues.

Control Environment: Some improvement required.

E&Y Management Letter 2011

The 2011 E&Y Management Letter identified a number of areas for improving HNGX and other POL IT system controls. This current Internal Audit & Risk
Management (IA&RM) review assessed the degree to which management action plans have progressed to address the issues which related to HNGX. Progress
has been made in completing the actions arising from the ERY Management Letter. The E&Y recommendations that require most additional work relate to:
inappropriate access to software change management duties (incomplete segregation between software development and migration roles); the process for the
identification and resolution of incidents; the recommendations that POL undertakes an architectural review, configure passwords in line with policy and perform
periodic scan of passwords as part of a penetration testing schedule. The penetration testing originally planned for January 2012 has been postponed to March
2012 as the business had to prioritise a test to meet Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance during January.

The findings, summarised in Appendix B on page 9, have been shared with E&Y and reflect our assessment as at the end of January 2012.

We agree with this report and its findings, and will act to progress the action plan within the agreed timescales — Lesley J Sewell
so SOOO Internal Audit & Risk Management srr
Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

POL00107127
POL00107127

Access to Software:
Walked through and sample tested access
arrangements for branch, POL and Fujitsu technical
support staff.

HNGxX access in branches, particularly sub-post offices, is often
via shared accounts. Access security controls over the “back
end” HNGX environment (including Credence / Tl) were found
to be effective, as were physical security controls.

Change Management:
Inspected testing and release management
processes, walked through and sample tested
completed changes.

Functional changes are initiated and progressed via agreed
processes and appropriately approved and tested prior to
migration to the live environment.

aci ring:
Reviewed and sample tested arrangements for
monitoring processing capacity.

Transaction processing capacity, including processor
utilisation, disk space etc, is proactively managed and
monitored by Fujitsu including forecasting of future

‘ requirements.

Resili. Disaster very:
Inspected, walked through and sample tested
arrangements for ensuring resilience and disaster
recovery.

System design resilience is high with frequent failure testing of
individual components and sub-systems. “Warm” fail-over
arrangements exist between the two data centres, although
these have not been tested since June 2009.

Note: For details of systems and data flows, see “HNGX System Overview” at Appendix A.

aes mre EET TET,
Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Summary Fi

POLO0107127
POL00107127

Master Data:
Inspected master data input process and data
validation routines and tested via walkthroughs and
sample testing of changes.

Minor weaknesses were found around: helpdesk-initiated
change requests; documentation and verification of
“approved” requesters; and use of “fast-track” requests. Data
validation routines have been designed and implemented
effectively.

Transaction Data:
Reviewed and sample tested arrangements for the
reconciliation and validation of transaction data.

Client account reconciliations are reviewed by team leaders
and balances >£400k are reviewed by second line
management. However, no formal senior manager sign-off
exists for month-end probity reviews.

Inspected data validation controls and tested the
reconciliation of inputs to and outputs from
Middleware (which translates HNGX data to POL SAP
readable format).

A detailed functional specification has been defined and
agreed with Fujitsu, covering controls to validate the
completeness / accuracy of the interface to POL SAP. Controls
relating to data transfer between SAP Middleware and POL
SAP appear to be designed and operated effectively.

Verified data flows across key interfaces to assess
whether batch updates are completed accurately and
on time by means of walkthroughs and sample
testing.

Effective batch processing / interface monitoring controls are
in place, automated and managed via Tivoli Workflow
Scheduler (TWS). Automated error alerts are raised by TWS to
the Service Management team who escalate to either the
Logica Application Management team or Fujitsu for resolution.

Note: For details of systems and data flows, see “HNGX System Overview” at Appendix A.

FT
Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

POL00107127
POL00107127

Access to software

a
>
o
©
5
Cr)

1. Complete an analysis of the potential misuse of individual Horizon user accounts and passwords in branches. Communicate to branch staff the requirement
that accounts and passwords must only be used in accordance with Post Office policy. Priority 2 (Dave M King — May 12)

Resilience and disaster recovery

2. Agree with Fujitsu a date for full fail-over testing. Priority 2 (Lesley Sewell ~ Completed)

Master data

3. Develop and deploy a formal process for change requests identified and communicated by the NBSC Helpdesk. Priority 2 (Lesley Sewell —- May 12)

4. Confirm the current membership of Master Data Change and Property Projects Lotus Notes email groups, ensuring that only current team member
addresses are included. Priority 2 (Lesley Sewell — May 12)

ere ES TCE
Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

No of
Importance actions Completed __ by Jun 12
Priority 1 - - :
Priority 2 4 1 3

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Susan Crichton, Legal and Compliance Director
Christopher Day, Finance Director

Kevin Gilliland, Network and Sales Director

Andy J Jones, Quality and Standards Manager
Dave M King, Senior Security Programme Manager
Neil Lecky-Thompson, Head of Programmes and Planning
John M Scott, Head of Security

Lesley J Sewell, Head of IT and Change

Paula Vennells, Managing Director

Mike Young, Chief Operating Officer

Alice Perkins, Chairman

Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

POL00107127
POL00107127

Derek K Foster, Internal Audit & Risk Management Director
Moya Greene, Chief Executive

Matthew Lester, Chief Financial Officer

Emily Pang, Chief of Staff

Peter Tansley, Head of Risk & Assurance

Ernst & Young

POLO0107127
POL00107127

Appendix A - HNGX System Overview

Client Files

APOP (Automated
Payment Out Payment) APS Harvester

(Automated Payments
Service)

Service

TPS Harvester XI Middleware r
Branch Database (Transaction (converts HNGX data POL SAP
Processing Service) _ to SAP data)

HNGX
(Horizon Online)

3! Party Kit
Data (Non
Horizon}

ra
Q
=
£
2
B
a
£
8
a
3
2
©
£
3
ES

TI (Transaction integrator)

2 nea nm EE Internal Audit & Risk Management nro ESTEE ey ms
Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

POL00107127

POL00107127
'
‘
Appendix B date on Actions A g from 20 &Y Aud
eae E&Y
Finding p
Rating
1 High Governance of outsourcing arrangement with Fujitsu: POL is responsible for the governance and risk and control Substantial
e frameworks and should have visibility and assurance over their design and operating effectiveness. progress made
2 High Segregation of change management duties: Inappropriate access should be revoked and roles for development and I Further work
B migration to live environment should be segregated. required
3 High Change management process: All changes should be appropriately authorised, tested and approved prior to Substantial
é deployment to live environment. progress made
. aye a ‘ Cf - let . Substantial
4 High Privileged access: Privileged access to IT functions should be reviewed to determine whether it is appropriate.
progress made
5 Med Periodic POL-owned review of user accounts: To assist in the identification of inappropriate access and Substantial
potential segregation of duties conflicts. progress made
User administration: Review the current user access policy and strengthen the existing user administration process Substantial
6 Med re " ‘ A
within POL and third party service providers. progress made
7 Low Infrastructure logical security settings: Undertake architectural review and periodic scan of passwords as part Further work
of a penetration testing schedule. required
8 Low Password parameters: Review and update the Information Security policy and configure all applications in line with Further work
policy requirements. required
9 Med Access to generic privileged accounts: Review across all applications. Consider replacing with individual Substantial
accounts and implement monitoring controls. progress made
10 Lo Incident identification and resolution: Regular review of the problem and incident management process to ensure Further work
w incidents are identified, classified and resolved on a timely basis. required
The findings above reflect our assessment as at the end of January 2012.
TRIES Internal Audit & Risk Management ST
Legally Privileged and Strictly Confidential

POL00107127
POL00107127

