POL00038728
POL00038728

Royal Mail Group

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

2.2 Joint Investigation Protocols -
RMGS and PO Ltd Security

Version 1.0 Final
July 2014

Review Date: July 2015

Rashid Sarwar
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Group Security

oe. I GRO.
Contents

Key Accountabilities
1. Introduction
Change Control
Glossary

POL00038728
POL00038728

OuRwW
POL00038728
POL00038728

Key Accountabilities

Who is — What do I have [When do I How do I do I
accountable? to do? I have to do this? I
All members of Ensure you Ongoing As detailed
Royal Mail Group I comply with within these
Security these procedures procedures

1s RMGS and PO Ltd Security Vi - Page 3 of
POL00038728
POL00038728

Joint Investigation Protocols RMGS and PO Ltd Security

1.
Lea

Introduction

These Procedures and Standards (P&S) detail the protocol underpinning the
relationship between Royal Mail Group Security (RMGS) Criminal
Investigation Team (CIT) and Post Office Limited (PO Ltd) Security Team
in regard to criminal Investigations that affect both businesses.

Since the separation of PO Ltd and Royal Mail Group (RMG) it has become
increasingly necessary to formalise the relationship between the two
respective investigation teams. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
exists between our two teams and from time to time investigation staff
from either side will need to liaise with their counterparts and exchange
intelligence, seek information or jointly work together on crimes of
mutual interest. Embedded below is a copy of that MOU which
Investigators must familiarise themselves with.

MOU RMGS PO
Ltd.doc

Bi-monthly meetings will take place between Derek C Pratt RMGS and Dave
Posnett PO Ltd to ensure each party is aware of live investigations on
hand, review current casework and resolve any matters of concern.

Liaison Protocol

Both RMGS and PO Ltd Security will initiate enquiries in line with their
respective trigger points. Where the reported incident impacts across the
other business then, within seven days, the affected business will be
advised of details of enquiries made. This is irrespective of the
triggers applied by the parent business.

When a RMGS enquiry suggests the offence has taken place on PO Ltd

premises (Crown or Sub offices) and/or involves PO Ltd staff the initial
point of contact for RMGS Investigators is the PO Ltd Security Casework
Team on or post.office.securit hould PO
Ltd Secu ontact RMGS their initi ct is RMGS
Helpdesk or security.helpdesk’

To ensure intelligence sharing takes place and that neither party takes
unilateral action that might impact negatively on existing or planned
lines of enquiry, initial discussions about the suspicions will take
place between investigators from both parties. Following this discussion
the lead Investigator will be agreed.

The lead Investigator (RMGS or PO Ltd) must then complete a Terms of
Reference (TOR) form GS046. The completed GS046 should outline the
proposed actions and accountabilities of each party and be updated if
changes occur as the case progresses.

A copy of the completed GS046 must be emailed to the identified
counterpart in the other business on completion and whenever the form is
updated. In RMGS a copy of new or amended GS046 should be forwarded to
the Investigator’s line manager, the relevant Head of Investigation (HOT)
and Derek C Pratt.

tion Protocols RMGS and PO Ltd Security Vi - Page 4 of 7
1

POL00038728
POL00038728

The investigation will then proceed accordingly with support from both
parties as necessary.

In some cases the GS046 form will serve only as a way of ensuring PO Ltd
Security are aware of our activities and require no further involvement
on their part.

Should an offender be apprehended, a copy of the Exec Summary should be
served on both the POL/RMG counterpart and Derek Pratt.

While it is appreciated that this will add a layer of bureaucracy to
current ad hoc arrangements, the nature of our relationship with PO Ltd
Security has necessarily had to become more prescribed as a consequence
of the separation of the organisations and privatisation of Royal Mail
Group. What remains however is a shared enthusiasm to remove offenders,
resolve crimes and to work together for the mutual benefit of each
organisation and we will continue to share intelligence and work closely
with our colleagues in PO Ltd.

Obtaining Horizon & Credence Data

Should it become necessary to acquire Horizon data (the computerised
accounting software used in all PO Ltd outlets to record transactions on
the counter), the request should be submitted by e-mail to Paul Ackroyd
the Acquisition and Disclosure Manager and SPOC, RMGS with specific
details of what is required. Please be aware that such data is only
available via Fujitsu who make a charge for data retrieval. Less
comprehensive data (‘Credence’) is more readily available from PO Ltd
Security at no cost which may be sufficient for your needs and this too
can be accessed via Paul Ackroyd. (In most cases a phone-call before
submitting the request will enable him to determine the best source of
information.)

In the event of a joint enquiry where PO Ltd Security has the lead, it
would be expected that such requests and the subsequent charges would be
met by PO Ltd. Alternatively it may be necessary to include this
expenditure in the investigation costs on any subsequent prosecution
case.

Escalation Process

If despite best efforts there are issues which cannot be resolved then
the matter should be escalated through the line to HOI level. Thereafter,
these should be referred to Derek C Pratt to seek resolution with his
counterpart in PO Ltd Security.

© Royal Mail 2014 - 2.2 Joint Inv

5 RMGS and PO Ltd Security Vi ~ Page 5 of 7

Change Control

POL00038728
POL00038728

Final

1.0

Derek C Pratt

Michael F Matthews

July 2014

Internal

Authorisation

Security Rashid Sarwar

July 2014

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via vi
Security Sharepoint

July 2014

Document History

v.l

Final

Jul 2014

Jul 2014

Document Change History

vi Document Produced in RM Format

© Royal Mail 2014 - 2.2 Joint Investigation Protocols RMGS and PO Ltd

Security V
Glossary

POL00038728
POL00038728

in

Procedures and Standards

RMGS Royal Mail Group Security
cIT Criminal Investigation Team
Po Ltd Post Office Limited

RMG Royal Mail Group

MOU Memorandum of Understanding
TOR Terms Of Reference

HOI Head Of Investigation

Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews
Royal Mail Group Security
Room G54

Gatwick Mail Centre

James Watt Way

Crawley

RH10 9AA

Postline:
Mobile:
STD:

E mail

3 RMGS and PO Ltd Security V

