POL00069537
POL00069537

Page 1 of 3

* € phen Dilley

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent: 28 September 2006 15:16

To: ‘Richard Morgan’

Subject: RE: (1) Opening audit (2) Proving the losses: P.O -v- Castleton

ok will call you then

To: Stephen Dilley
Subject: RE: (1) Opening audit (2) Proving the losses: P.O -v- Castleton

Shall we talk about this tomorrow? Just give me a call when convenient.
Richard

To: Richard Morgan
Cc: Tom Beezer
Subject: (1) Opening audit (2) Proving the losses: P.O -v- Castleton

Dear Richard,
(1) Opening audit

One of the things you have been seeking is an opening audit in the theory that we can then
deduct the stock and cash in the closing audit from the stock and cash in the opening audit and
that the difference would be the shortfall. The aim of this would be that we would not therefore
need to rely on information from Horizon and it would be an academic issue.

I've been chasing lots of people at the P.O to get a copy of the opening audit. Iam told that:
1. There is no opening audit report available as they were not required to be kept at this time.

2. However, when the subpmr before Castleton left office, we can see from the attached
document that there was no transfer of a deficiency or surplus.

3. I asked whether there was a transfer of cash or stock. Apparently, what actually happens
when there is a change of spmr, is that the audit team for the outgoing spmr "rem out" the
stock and cash from the computer and the new spmr or his trainer "rems in" any cash or stock
handed over. We have the stock rems for January to March 2004 and I have asked the P.O to
provide all cash and stock rems for the entire period that Mr Castleton was in office. I have
also asked the P.O if we can find out who was the actual auditor who on or around 18 July
2003, so that I can confirm with them that they definitely would have remmed out the stock
and cash. I'll update you when I hear further on these points.

Even if we had the opening audit, I anticipate we'd still need to rely on the Horizon transaction
logs to see what transactions were performed between the two audits because surely our case
is "from Horizon we can see this is the amount of cash and stock the spmr has received, the
Horizon transaction logs show what transactions were done, we can therefore calculate the
amount due to the P.O from the transactions done and consequently that the Marine Drive
branch has a shortfall." In other words, I don't think we can take Horizon out of the picture by

28/09/2006
POL00069537
POL00069537

Page 2 of 3

relying mainly on opening and closing audits.

(2) Proving the losses

You've asked for someone from the P.O to give evidence to say "there are £25,858.95 of
losses" So far, people seem remarkably coy about saying that. The auditor (Helen Rose) says
that it would be inappropriate for her to say that. The RLM (Cath Oglesby) is not familiar with
the document which has the losses on it. I've asked the P.O to identify a witness to say that. I
am informed that the Former Subpostmaster team collate all the information to start the case,
but the information on losses either comes from the final audit (Helen Rose) or from errors
outstanding at final account or arising after final account (i.e. our "procedural" witnesses such
as Gillian Hoyland, Michael Johnson, Ken Crawley). I have been told that if I take a statement
from the final account auditor (Helen Rose - done) and all the error people, that I have the
losses "fully covered." In other words, this means that there won't be any one single person
dealing with all the losses. However, Helen Rose's audit picks up most of them.

Happy to discuss any of the above if this would assist.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged
and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and
delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this
communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond
Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
0C311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to
Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law
Society.

This email has been scanned by the MessageLabs Email Security System.
For more information please visit http://www.messagelabs.com/email

This email has been scanned by the MessageLabs Email Security System.

28/09/2006
