POL00039960

POL00039960

Investigation Policy Page 1
Appendix 16

INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION POLICY

1. PURPOSE
The aim of this policy is to set out the criteria against which we investigate crimes and
suspect crimes committed against our Business and also define when actions proceed under
criminal law.
2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES
Security Managers
3. POLICY
3.1 INTRODUCTION
Our Business and reputation depends on the integrity of its employees and its procedures.
It has rules and processes designed to enable it to meet its obligations to protect the items
and resources entrusted to it and, where crimes or suspected crimes are committed against
these, its policy is to investigate them and take appropriate action.
3.2 REPORTING OFFENCES
Crimes or suspect crimes against the following must be reported to Corporate Security or
the appropriate Business Security and Investigation Unit, for investigation or liaison with the
police:
© Property, cash and revenue belonging to Royal Mail Group (including Post Office
Limited )
Its employees in the course of business
* Mail in course of transmission by post
Customers whilst their transaction documents are in the custody or control of Royal Mail
Group (including Post Office Limited) e.g. pensions and allowance books, TV Licences.
© Organisations or individuals by misuse of any of our services e.g. fraudulent mail
redirection or PO Box used for unlawful purposes.
© The relevant procedures may be found in ‘Business’ Standards and Operating Protocols.
3.3 Each case will be dealt with on merit and action taken (if any), will be in accordance
with the disciplinary code of the business.
Where evidence of crime committed by an employee of Royal Mail Group (including Post
Office Limited) against Royal Mail Group (including Post Office Limited or its customer is
Policy Title: Investigation and Prosecution
Version: 5.0
Date: February 2003

Investigation Policy
Appendix 16

Page 2

POL00039960
POL00039960

INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION POLICY

established, the offending employee may also be dealt with in accordance with criminal law.
The prosecution guidelines of the business will be used in making any decision to proceed
under criminal law, in consultation with Legal Services Criminal Law Division.

3.4 INTERFACE WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
Our main interface with other agencies e.g. police, customs, Interpol, DWP etc., is
Corporate Security. There are occasions where a Corporate Security investigator or an
investigator within a Business Unit will necessarily hand an offender into Police custody. In
these cases the decision to instigate prosecution is made by either Corporate Security or the
business unit security team concerned.

4. Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version Type Policy No.

41

5. Document details

5.1 I Author : Law & Legislation Programme Manager

5.2 I Owner : Head of Policy & Performance, Corporate Security

5.3 I Audience: Security Community

5.4 Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,

4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ

5.5 Effective from : March 2003

5.6 Review date : February 2004

5.7 I Last updated : February 2003

6. Assurance Details:

6.1 I Name: Tony Utting

6.2 Business Unit: Post Office Limited

6.3 I Assurance Date: February 2003

7. Final Review

7.1 I Approved by John Messenger

7.2 Documented (Hard Copy) YES/NO Location:

7.3 “ YES/NO Location:
(Electronic )

Policy Title: Investigation and Prosecution

Version: 5.0

Date: February 2003
