POL00294528
POL00294528

POST OFFICE LTD —~ CASE REVIEW

R. v. JERRY KWAME HOSI

Snaresbrook Crown Court

Trial — 11" October 2010 to 21% October 2010
Sentence 11" November 2010

Preamble
This case was prosecuted by the Royal Mail Group and outside counsel instructed directly
by RMG Legal Department. Accordingly Cartwright King played no part in this

prosecution.

T have been provided with the prosecution file but have not seen any transcripts covering
the trial itself; accordingly my advice is based upon the trial papers (Witness statements,
Exhibits, Unused Material e/c.) and not the evidence given in court. Necessarily therefore,

this Full Review takes a different form from the general.

Offences

1. During the period 8" — 12" November 2010 this defendant was tried at Snaresbrook
Crown Court and convicted of one offence of theft and three of False Accounting: he
was sentenced to a term of 21 months immediate imprisonment on each count, to run
concurrently. The charges alleged that between 1“ September 2005 and 30" November
2006 Mr. Hosi stole £72,107.78 from Post Office Ltd. The remaining three counts

alleged that Mr Hosi had made false entries in the Horizon accounts, on the 5" July

2006, 10 August 2006 and the 8" November 2006.

2. The defendant was also made the subject of Confiscation proceedings under the
Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 — I am unable to comment on this aspect of the case as I

have not seen any papers relating to that application.
Case history

POL00294528

POL00294528

3. Jerry Kwame HOSI faced an Indictment containing 4 counts. Count I alleged the theft,

over time, of a total of £72,107.78. Counts 2 to 4 on the indictment alleged False

Accounting, in that on specified dates within the time-span contained in the first count,

Mr Hosi made false entries in the Horizon accounts to cover the theft alleged in Count

1. I proceed on the basis that Mr Hosi pleaded Not Guilty to all four counts on the

indictment.

4. I list below my understanding of the chronology of this case — there are gaps, for the

reasons set out in the preamble.

9" May 2008

4" July 2008

27 August 2008

28" August 2008

11 September 2008

26" February 2009

4" March 2009

24" April 2009
10" July 2009
23" July 2009

24" August 2009

27" November 2009

1* December 2009

First__appearance: Barking Magistrates Court. No
indication of plea; Jurisdiction declined; for committal 4"
July.

Committal Proceedings: Barking Magistrates Court Case
committed to Snaresbrook Crown Court for trial: PCMH
listed for 28" August 2010.

Defence Statement served. Inadequate.

PCMH. Snaresbrook Crown Court. No pleas taken.
Adjourned to the 11" September 2010.

Adjourned PCMH. Snaresbrook Crown Court. Not Guilty
pleas entered. Trial fixed to commence 3" August 2009.

Schedule of Non-sensitive Unused Material served.

Counsel advises nothing to disclose. (but says not yet seen
Defence Statement)

Pre-trial Review. Snaresbrook Crown Court...
Defence Statement served. (see below)
Trial date moved — defence wish to instruct an expert.

Additional Schedule_of Non-sensitive Unused Material

served.

Defence serve preliminary Expert Report. Defence expert
wishes to “...conduct a review of the Horizon System...”

Defence solicitors seek disclosure of other POL cases
under prosecution, so as to arrange for joint-expert in
those cases.
POL00294528

POL00294528

7 December 2009 -  Snaresbrook Crown Court. Trial moved to enable defence
to make disclosure requests.

8" January 2010 - Charles McLachlan is defence expert (as in R. v. Misra).
He seeks access to Fujitsu.

19" January 2010 - Defence experts seek disclosure of numerous items.

There then follows a period of ‘sparring’ between Post
Office Legal and the experts on the issue of access to

Horizon.
2-12 February 2010 - Email chain re: DISCLOSURE — see below
26" March 2010 - Mention — Judge directs defence to make more focussed

disclosure requests.

17" May 2010 - Disclosure Orders — Snaresbrook Crown Court.
DISCLOSURE ISSUES RESOLVED.

8-12 November 2010 - TRIAL

13" December 2010 - SENTENCED

Prosecution case

5.

Jerry Kwame HOSI was the SPMR at the Porters Avenue SPO in Dagenham, London,
for a 20-month period commencing on the 31“ March 2005. On the 29 November
2006 an audit was conducted; this revealed a shortage of some £74,000 in cash, with
minor surpluses. The overall loss was £72,107.78. On the day of the audit Mr Hosi told
investigators that he had been experiencing problems with balancing since the
introduction of Balanced Trading; he also said that Horizon had been

“ malfunctioning.”

Mr Hosi was interviewed on the day of the audit and again on the 17" April 2007. At
the first interview Mr Hosi did not require the assistance of a solicitor or other
representative; at the second he had the attendance of a Post Office Friend. Both
interviews were conducted under the provisions of the Police and Criminal Evidence

Act 1984 and the relevant Codes of Practice.
POL00294528

POL00294528

Interview 1 - 29" November 2006

Upon appointment Mr Hosi had one week at a counter training school and a

further week in his Post Office.

He produces a daily cash declaration by entering cash-on-hand. Initially said
that he did this by obtaining a snapshot and entering the matching cash-on-hand;
later he said that he would accurately enter the physical amount on-hand. He

reported any discrepancy to the Helpline.

Since the start he had experienced “....incredible discrepancies...” at the office.
He had received error notices for losses and gains and could not understand

why.

At the end of the Trading Period he would produce a trial balance. From this he
would ascertain the amount of cash-on-hand he should have to balance and then
enter this figure into Horizon; thus he would balance. Once he had rolled over
into the next TP, he would enter physical cash-on-hand, thus showing the
discrepancy. He would then report this loss to the Helpline but said that

“"..sometimes they are no help...”

He last contacted the Helpline two months ago (i.e. late-September 2006). He
operated this system of balancing because the system did not permit the transfer
of shortages to a suspense account and he had insufficient funds to make good

He had followed this practice since taking the office on in September 2005.

He admitted inflating cash to cover losses, since about February 2006. Later he

said he had being doing so since September 2005.

A consistent theme of this interview was Mr Hosi’s insistence that Horizon was

somehow responsible for the losses.
POL00294528

POL00294528

7. Between the two interview dates (November 2006 and April 2007) the two Horizon
counter processing units were removed and returned to Fujitsu for examination — see
paragraph 12 below.

8. Call logs were obtained from both the Helpline and Horizon Support Desk (HSD);
neither revealed any calls related directly to Horizon losses declared following the TP.
Fujitsu produced a statement dealing with the processing units, for which see paragraph
10 below.

9. Mr Hosi was again interviewed, in April of 2007.

Interview 2 - 17" April 2007

— Mr Hosi said that he had contacted the Helpline “sometimes” rather than upon
the occasion of every shortage as stated in the first interview. Later he said that
he did not contact the Helpline.

— He was taken through the accounts and shortages and again insisted that
Horizon was at fault.

RELEVANT WITNESSES
Andrew Paul DUNKS

10. Employed by Fujitsu Services Ltd. as an LT. Security Analyst on the Post Office

account. Reviews and produces Horizon Help Desk (aka Horizon Support Desk
(HSD)) call logs relating to Porter’s Avenue Post Office. Thirty-three calls reviewed —
weve all are of a routine nature and do not fall outside the normal working parameters
of the system.....and would have had no effect on any counter discrepancies.” I have

reviewed the logs and note the following call statistics and content:

Call topic Number
Power cut 1
System freeze 3
Loss of network 5

Connectivity
HSD Call Log Review

POL00294528
POL00294528

N

Date

Narrative

Outcome I

“1 I 10/11/2005 I Failed to Roll over Passed on to NBSC for
__fesolution.

I 11 I 18/1/2006 I Screen freeze mid-transaction. I Reboot advised. Thereafter
normal operation.

/ 19 I 9/5/2006 On-line services not available. I PO may have briefly lost
connectivity — no fault
located.

(20 12/5/206 Critical error — Remote Counter rebooted.

__ Procedure call failed,

I 25 4/9/2006 On-line services not available. I Connection successfully
_ pinged and ok.

I 26 I 4/9/2006 Error Code 00000111 showing I Not stated.
with message to contact
Horizon. Code indicates loss of
communication.

27 5/9/2006 On-line services not available. I Connection successfully

—____I ______I pinged and ok. __

“28 5/9/2006 On-line services not available. Counter reboot. BT lines
Online services intermittent checked (no fault). Base
since previous morning (4/9). I Unit replaced.

(29 13/9/2006 I Frozen screen _I Rebooted. _ _

30 21/9/2006 Frozen screen Rebooted.

Phil BUDD

. Employed by Fujitsu Services Ltd. as a Counter Development System Engineer.

Examines two Horizon counter processing units removed from Porter’s Avenue. Does

not interrogate the encrypted message-store for transactional data. Copies the hard

disks and examines for additional files which should not be present. Satisfied that

“ there was nothing unusual on the [counter processing unit] hard disks. The

software was complete and should be expected to operate as required.”
14.

POL00294528

POL00294528

Stephen TANKARD

. Employed by RMG/POL; engaged in the reporting and analysis of data captured at

NBSC. Produces NBSC Call Logs for Porter’s Avenue. Whilst I do not propose to

record all of the many calls appearing in the logs, the following points emerge:

i. It is plain from the number and type of calls that this SPMR has a significant
training and skills deficit. Many of the calls relate to the seeking of advice on
the correction of errors, or on the correct procedure for executing a transaction.

ii. On 16/6/2006 the SPMR asked if POL provided a loan facility to SPMR’s.

iii. The only calls relating to Horizon system error appear on and after the 3“
August 2006 and then there were only 4 such incidents (1/9; 4/9 (4 calls); and

5/9 — all 2006).

Louise SHERIDAN

. Also employed by RMG/POL; an Advanced Customer Advisor. Deals with SPMR calls

into the helpline. Looks at NBSC call logs for Porter’s Avenue office produced by
Stephen Tankard:

i. No record of calls relating to losses or gains at the office.

ii. Six calls between 12/10/2005 and 7/12/2005 and relating to ‘Branch Trading’
and ‘Balancing’, none of which would affect the office balance. Thereafter no
further calls on these topics until 13/9/2006, again with no effect on balancing
the office.

Mandy LAWLESS

Area Intervention Manager for RMG/POL. Duties included visiting SPO’s and dealing
with issues such as balancing, errors and PR. Speaks of several visits to Porter’s
Avenue: Mr Hosi never approached her to assist with balancing and she was never
made aware of any large losses. Additional training was provided to Mr. Hosi on the 4"

and 5 May 2005: topics covered included ‘Weekly Balancing’ and ‘Cash Account’
POL00294528
POL00294528

with an outcome described as “To understand the importance of weekly balancing and

cash account procedures”

Defence Statement
15. Two Defence Statements were served in this case: the first on the 10" July 2009 and
the second in 2010. I have seen the first Defence Statement, however the second does
not appear in the papers. The following points are to be noted:
i. The July 2009 Defence Statement is plainly inadequate as a matter of law. It
discloses no defence other than a bare denial, together with a sentence to the effect
that the defendant will rely on the account advanced in interview as being his

substantive defence.

ii. The July 2009 Statement contains a long list of disclosure requests, most of which
appear to have been met, albeit only after much correspondence and a nudging by

the court.

iii.

From such references as I have seen, the second Defence Statement appears to have
been more detailed and again contained the same long list of disclosure requests as
the first Statement. The defence advanced in the second Statement appears to have

remained as set out in the interviews.

16. For these sources I can infer that the defence appears to have been thus:
i. The defendant did not steal POL monies;

ii. The defendant was inadequately trained to perform his tasks as SPMR;

iii. POL backup was inadequate or insufficient;

iv. Whilst he admitted to having made false entries into Horizon, he did not do so with

any dishonest intent;
POL00294528

POL00294528

v.Such false entries as he did make were made because:

a) he was unable to explain the losses accruing to the office;

b) he had insufficient funds to make good the losses; and

c) by reason of his inadequate training and POL’s inadequate or

insufficient backup, so that he fell into repeated (but unidentified) error;

vi. Those losses accrued as the direct result of some undefined Horizon failing or error

which he was unaware of and unable to explain.

17. Included in what was essentially a ‘cut-and-paste’ list of disclosure requests was a
request for:

i. All Horizon accounting records, for the period 1/9/2005 to 30/11/2006;

ii. Full itemised stock list covering stock and cash;

iii. An itemised list of all transactions executed at the office.

Disclosure

18.1 have considered the extensive correspondence on matters of disclosure and passing
between the defence solicitors and the RMG/POL Legal Department. I do not propose
to recite that material here: my conclusions, derived from a detailed consideration of
that correspondence, may be readily summarised. It is clear to me that the following

may be said:

i. The approach to disclosure taken by solicitors for both the defence and the
prosecution in this case was unrealistic, ill-informed as to the law and, from the
prosecution side, unnecessarily obstructive. In terms, the defence asked for too

much and the prosecution sought to provide too little.

ii. Such disclosure as was ultimately made was properly made, in accordance with the

relevant legislation;
POL00294528
POL00294528

iii. The defence in fact received that which the court and parties agreed they should

have received, albeit after some considerable and unnecessary delay;

iv. Material relating to the so-called ‘Callender Square’ or ‘Falkirk’ bug was not

disclosed but should have been (see paragraphs 36, 40, 48 & 51 below).

DEFENCE CASE

19. The defendant gave evidence at trial. I have not seen any note of what he said and so
for the purposes of this Review I have assumed that he reiterated those matters
advanced in his two Defence Statements. Some support for this approach may be found

in those papers I have seen.

20.The defence lawyers also agreed Formal Admissions, read to the jury and as follows:

“3. The defence have (sic) been provided with access to all material that was

seized from the Porters Avenue Sub Post Office on 29" November 2006.

4. The defence have (sic) been provided with the discs containing the three
months of transactional data that was extracted from the Porters Avenue
Horizon system ............ ” [NB: In fact they received 3x Monthly TP’s, amounting

to just under 4-months of data (see Davidson, DRAFT Expert Report, para. 4.4)]

Expert witnesses

21.1 have seen material which suggests that the defence had proposed to call two Expert
Witnesses to trial to support the defendant’s contention that something was ‘wrong’
with Horizon. Jeffrey Davidson, a Forensic Accountant (of Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP,
Chartered Accountants) and Professor Charles McLachlan, Computer expert, were
instructed by the defence to prepare reports dealing with Horizon issues. In the end,
neither witness was called by the defence nor was any report presented to the jury. I
have not seen a report (or draft) from Professor McLachlan, however I have seen a
both a “Preliminary report” dated 19" October 2009 and a “DRAFT Expert Report”
dated October 2010, each compiled by Mr Davidson.
POL00294528

POL00294528

“Preliminary report” complied by Jeffrey Davidson — 19 October 2009

22.

23.

In his Summary and Conclusions Mr Davidson makes the following points:

- RMG/POL appear to have proceeded on the basis that Mr Hosi is guilty of the
offences charged;

- Insufficient data has been disclosed, so that he is unable to perform a full audit;

- He does not understand some of the data;

- There had been no exploration by RMG/POL into whether the ‘missing’ money was

in fact missing, rather than the imbalance was due to a Horizon error;

- RMG/POL had provided no evidence as to the integrity or reliability of Horizon;

- No check had been made to see whether individual transactions had been correctly

made, nor had there been any analysis of the discrepancies;

- No evidence of Mr Hosi’s competence on Horizon had been provided by
RMG/POL.

Mr Davidson did not identify any Horizon failing. He noted however that a number of
other SPMR’s had complained that Horizon may be unreliable, and suggested that by

reason of these additional complaints there must be some question over Horizon.

“DRAFT Expert report” complied by Jeffrey Davidson — October 2010

24.

Here Mr Davidson repeats and expands upon the comments made in his “Preliminary
report”. Whilst he concedes that he has been provided with further material to assist
him, he laments that he still has not had sufficient material dealing with transactional
data, Horizon systems data, or a sufficient depth (in terms of timescale) of such
material. Mr Davidson also expresses his concern at not having been provided with the

opportunity to audit Horizon.
25.

26

27.

28.

POL00294528

POL00294528

Under the heading “DEFENDANT'S KNOWLEDGE OF HORIZON” (DRAFT Expert
Report, para.3) Mr Davidson speculates that Mr Hosi “...may not have been adequately
trained on the system.” Mr Davidson founds this proposition on the basis of what he
believed to be a lack of understanding on the part of Mr Hosi of the questions asked of
him; his “...very confused demeanour” as revealed by the various call logs; and what he
asserts to be a failure by RMG/POL to investigate Mr Hosi’s level of competence. Mr
Davidson goes on to conclude that:

“.,.It may be possible that the discrepancies have arisen due to errors being made

by the defendant.....in processing transactions.”

Gareth Jenkins — Fujitsu Services Ltd.

. I have seen in the correspondence file a document prepared by Gareth Jenkins of

Fujitsu, which Mr Jenkins describes as being “...intended to indicate [his] thoughts on
[Mr Davidson’s draft report]”. In his document Mr Jenkins: notes that Mr Davidson
received all of the data agreed as being that to be disclosed; explains matters not
understood by Mr Davidson; and agrees that, having looked at the NBSC call logs, Mr
Hosi sounds like someone who is confused and notes that POL need to address the

issue of lack of help/training.

Mr Jenkins does not comment on Mr Davidson’s suggestions (see para.23 above) that
RMG/POL has proceeded on the basis of guilt; whether the ‘missing’ money was in
fact missing; the alleged absence of any evidence relating to the integrity or reliability of
Horizon; or whether any checks had been made to see whether individual transactions
were correctly made. In the context of this Full Review, the absence of any comment by
Gareth Jenkins on matters of Horizon integrity and reliability is important, for it goes
directly to the issue for this Review, i.e. whether or not the Second Sight and Helen
Rose Reports ought now to be disclosed. It is to be noted that this Gareth Jenkins

document was disclosed to the defence expert.

Tn an email dated 1 November 2010 Mr Jenkins notes that the import of the defence
report “...seems to be that the defence are saying that there is a system problem but
with nothing to indicate where or when there was such a problem. ...there is very little

substance to the report other than details of what further info he would like!!”
POL00294528

POL00294528

Professor Charles McLachlan

29. Whilst the correspondence seems to suggest that Professor McLachlan was instructed
by the defence in this case, no report was served under his name and he did not appear
at trial. It is useful to note however that Professor McLachlan has been instructed by
defendants in several RMG/POL cases, most notoriously the Misra case, and
accordingly he has knowledge of Horizon and those issues then arising, e.g. the so-
called “Falkirk” bug. It is to be noted that in Mrs. Misra’s trial, conducted between the
11" October 2010 to 21° October 2010, Professor McLachlan both provided a report

and gave evidence, as indeed did Mr Jenkins.

Expert witnesses at Trial

30. Correspondence dated the 4 and 5" November indicates that neither party called any
expert witness at trial. On this topic it is important to understand the role and duties of
expert witnesses and the tactical decision-making processes involved in decisions to call
or abandon expert witnesses. Any expert witness must be independent of the party
calling him: he is a witness to the court and must assist the court on his area of
expertise. Thus where an expert witness provides a report adverse to the party hoping
to call him, they need not, and usually will not, call him, for to do so would be to call a
witness adverse to their case. It is within this framework that the defence in Mr Hosi’s

case decided not to call their expert witnesses.

Other matters

{GRO J He also carries considerable debt.

32. The trial commenced on the 8" November 2010 and ran for five days. On the 12"
November Mr Hosi was convicted by unanimous verdict on all four counts on the

Indictment.

Discussion

33. The sole purpose of this Review is to determine whether or not the Helen Rose report

or the Second Sight Interim Report ought to be served on Mr Hosi’s lawyers so as to
POL00294528

POL00294528

correct what would have been a failing had RMG/POL been possessed of those
documents in 2010. It is certainly not the purpose of this review to determine whether
or not Mr. Hosi’s convictions are unsafe: that decision is reserved to the Court of
Appeal only. Issues of whether or not that material might cast doubt on the safety of

the convictions do however fall to be considered.

. In determining the issue reserved to this Review I have identified two separate strands

of the disclosure process: firstly, those matters of disclosure repeatedly raised, and
litigated, by Mr. Hosi’s lawyers; and secondly, those matters considered in the Helen
Rose and Second Sight Reports of 2013. Whilst the first of those topics is, strictly
speaking, not in consideration for the purposes of this Review, I will nevertheless
briefly comment on the topic. Thereafter I will consider the central part of this Review,

that of the two reports.

1. Pre-trial and on-going Disclosure

35.

36.

37.

From audit to the day of his trial Mr Hosi’s defence relied upon alleged but unspecified
Horizon-related failings. A further line of defence suggested that Mr Hosi was not
competent to operate the system and accordingly the losses could be attributed to

errors made by him in operating the system.

A considerable amount of disclosure was sought by Mr Hosi’s appointed expert witness
and a substantial quantity was provided, although I have seen no reference to the
disclosure of material relating to the so-called ‘Callendar Square’ or ‘Falkirk’ bug. This
omission is worrying, although militating against such concerns is the fact that
Professor McLachlan had litigated that issue only a few weeks prior to Mr Hosi’s trial,
when appearing as a defence expert witness in the Misra trial. Nevertheless I take the
view that material relating to the ‘Callendar Square’ or ‘Falkirk’ bug should have been

disclosed to the defence in this case.

It is also correct to note that not all that was sought was provided, and this “failure”
gave rise to a sustained correspondence trail and intervention by the court, the outcome
of which was limited disclosure relevant to the issues to be tried, save as is mentioned

in the preceding paragraph.
POL00294528
POL00294528

38. It is equally important to note that, in the end, no expert witnesses were called to give
evidence at trial and no expert evidence was presented. Whilst I am unable to say why
this was the case, I assume that Mr Hosi was competently represented and properly

advised.

39. In coming to my conclusion on this aspect of the disclosure process, I have considered
Mr Hosi’s patent lies in interview, to the effect that he had reported discrepancies to
the NBSC and HSD lines when he had not; the decision by the defence not to call
previously instructed expert witnesses (for which see para.31 above); and the duties relating
to disclosure placed upon the shoulders of any prosecutor. I am reminded of the
opinion of the House of Lords in R. v. H; R. v. C, [2004] 2 AC 134] where the

Committee expressed the view that:

“The trial process is not well served if the defence are permitted to make general
and unspecified allegations and then seek far-reaching disclosure in the hope that

material may turn up to make them good.”

40. This view neatly encapsulates the approach taken to Horizon by those acting for Mr
Hosi. I have however concluded the following:
a) The obstructive approach taken by RMG/POL to disclosure in this case was
both unnecessary and regrettable;
b) Material relating to the ‘Callendar Square’ or ‘Falkirk’ bug should have
been disclosed to the defence: it was incorrect to merely rely upon Professor
McLachlan’s pre-existing knowledge (if that be the case) of the topic;
c) Tn all other respects, no meaningful criticism can be made of the disclosure

process itself.

2. The Helen Rose and Second Sight Reports of 2013
41. At one point or another during the investigation, prosecution and trial process Mr Hosi
raised issues of training, support and Horizon fallibility, all matters considered in the

Second Sight Interim report.
42.

43

44

POL00294528

POL00294528

Whilst it is correct to note that no disclosure was sought on the subject and none was
provided, prosecution duties of disclosure on this topic do not end there. Where the
topic is raised as a meaningful and tenable defence, then disclosure of material which
may support the contention that RMG/POL’s training was inadequate would meet the
test for disclosure. It is plain too that there was a deficit in Mr Hosi’s skills relating to
Horizon usage. Whilst it was clear from the interviews that this was the case, this issue
seems to have been abandoned by the defence when they discarded their expert
witnesses, one of whom, Mr Davidson, made specific reference to the matter. It is also
interesting to note that in his informal document, disclosed to the defence, Gareth
Jenkins noted that “...Mr Hosi sounds like someone who is confused” and noted that
POL needed to address the issue of lack of help/training. To that extent therefore, there

was some disclosure on this topic.

Although I have been unable to consider any transcripts of this trial, given the way in
which this issue was raised and litigated, I have come to the conclusion that the
proposition that other SPMR’s had complained about the quality and adequacy of their
training in the period 2007 — 2013 may have met the test for disclosure in this case.
Matters do not end there however, for the test to be applied in determining whether or
not the Second Sight Interim report now falls to be disclosed is as was described by

Brian Altman QC in his General Review document of the 15" October 2013:

“Although the test for disclosure in past conviction cases is not that under the
CPIA, at common law the issue is one of “materiality”, which is not a very different
thing, ......outside any post-trial period criminal proceedings, ...... there remains a
common law duty to disclose material that might cast doubt on the safety of the

conviction” (para.127)

. In my view the Second Sight Interim report material, as it relates to training issues,

does not meet that test: even on a generous interpretation I am of the firm view that the
Court of Appeal would have no hesitation in dismissing any suggestion that the Second
Sight Interim report might cast doubt on Mr Hosi’s convictions for false accounting,

particularly given his admissions in interview to having done just that. As for the theft
POL00294528
POL00294528

conviction, whilst the issue of training remained a ‘live’ issue throughout the process,
again I cannot see the Court of Appeal entertaining any argument that a failure to
disclose the fact that other SPMR’s had complained about training quality could
undermine this conviction. Accordingly I am of the view that the Second Sight Interim
report material, as it relates to training issues, cannot found any sensible appeal against

the sentence imposed in this case and thus does not fall to be disclosed.

45. The Helen Rose report does not bear on this issue.

Support

46. In his second interview, in April 2007, Mr Hosi said that, contrary to his earlier
assertions that he had contacted the various helplines for support whilst enduring his
ever-repeating but unexplained losses, he had not in fact done so. Call Logs
corroborate this assertion. Thus whilst the Second Sight Interim report goes to this
issue, it is clear that Mr. Hosi lied to investigators on this topic and did not seek any
support from RMG/POL on the issue of false balances, losses or an inability to balance.
In those circumstances it cannot reasonably be said that there was a failing in support,
because in fact, none had been sought. For all of these reasons and applying the test
identified by Brian Altman QC as the appropriate approach, I conclude that, on this

aspect of the case, the Second Sight Interim report does not fall to be disclosed now.

47. Again the Helen Rose report does not bear on this issue.

Horizon

48. Whilst the suggestion that Horizon was in some way at fault in producing the losses
complained of was the central plank of Mr Hosi’s case, it is not and cannot be the
function of the prosecution to respond to general and unspecified allegations and
requests for disclosure in the hope that material may turn up to make them good. The
fact that (for whatever reason) the defence abandoned their experts in this case is
telling. One would have assumed that, had they had anything meaningful to say, they
would have been called by the defence to give their evidence and opinions — this course
was open to the defence and they did not avail themselves of it and their decision not to

do so was made by no doubt experienced lawyers in knowledge. The one concern I do
49.

50.

POL00294528

POL00294528

have however is that of the failure to disclose material relating to the ‘Falkirk’ bug.
This was a serious omission and one which, had it not occurred, may have provided the
defence with reason to call their expert witnesses. For that reason alone I am driven to

the conclusion that the Falkirk material should have been disclosed.

As for the Second Sight Interim report, I am of the view that, given the failure to
disclose the Falkirk material, the Second Sight Interim report should also be disclosed,
if only because, when taken together with the non-disclosed Falkirk material, there is a
possibility that it might cast doubt on the safety of the conviction for theft but not false

accounting (although it may go to the issue of sentencing on these charges).

The Helen Rose report goes solely to Gareth Jenkins’ knowledge of Horizon concerns
arising some 5 years after the events considered in Mr Hosi’s trial, and his credibility as
an expert witness in 2013. Given that Mr Jenkins did not appear as a witness in Mr
Hosi’s case, did not provide an expert witness statement and did not comment on issues
of Horizon integrity and reliability in his informal note, I conclude that material which

might undermine Mr Jenkins’ credibility today cannot now meet the test for disclosure.

Conclusion

51. For the reasons set out in the preceding paragraphs I advise that:

59) Material relating to the so-called “Callender Square’, or ‘Falkirk’ bug, should be
disclosed to Mr Hosi’s representatives;

I) The Second Sight Interim report should be disclosed to Mr Hosi’s representatives;

Ill) The Helen Rose report does not meet the test for disclosure in this case and should
not be disclosed to Mr Hosi’s representatives.

Simon Clarke 1“ May

2014 Barrister

Cartwright King Solicitors
