POLO0100577
POL00100577

Message
From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To:

ce:
Subject: RE: Published mediation scheme docs

Attachments: 140423 - Horizon JFSA letter submission (letters).doc

Hi Belinda

Many thanks for your time yesterday. Please see attached two draft letters, one that we are proposing to
send to Alan Bates, and one to Sir Anthony Hooper (on the assumption that the JFSA is unable to provide a
reason for us not to forward the letter).

We've included the final paragraph on the letter to Sir Anthony as a means of giving Jenny a future hook into
the process (for example in the event that she feels she needs to intervene). I would be grateful for your
views on the benefits of including this hook, versus the risks of perceived infringement on Sir Anthony's
independence.

Jenny's box closes at midday tomorrow, and any comments by then would be much appreciated.

Best wishes
Peter

ment for Business, Innovation & Skills I
I www. bis.gov.uk I

The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is building a dynamic and competitive UK economy by creating the conditions
for business success; promoting innovation, enterprise and science; and giving everyone the skills and opportunities to succeed. To
achieve this we will foster world-class universities and promote an open global economy. BIS - Investing in our future

Sent: 23 April 2014 06:50
To: Batten Peter (ShEx)
Subject: Published mediation scheme docs

Peter

Please find attached, as discussed, a copy of the published documentation for the Scheme. There is a
flowchart but there is little about actual timescales although it says that SS will take between 1 and 3
months to investigate a case. However, as discussed, the Scheme allows for the Working Group to vary
the process as necessary for the proper administration of the Scheme. It has done that. Specifically the
Post Office investigates the case in the first instance and then passes its investigation to Second Sight to
review.

Let me know if you need anything further.

POL-0100160
POLO0100577
POL00100577

http://www. jfsa.org.uk/Documents.aspx

JURE III OI SUII IISA IOI IO IRI I III IID IDI I OS ORI IOI OIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

THEI IOI ODIO III IO ODIO OI TDI DIDI RDI IIIA IIA

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes

POL-0100160
