POL00297804
POL00297804

From: Martin Edwards[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MARTIN EDWARDS1F838E9D3-CC99-4040-
B432-33552E99ED2DDD]

Sent: Fri 19/07/2013 3:04:41 PM (UTC)
To: Mark R Davies?
Subject: Re: briefing note for Paula / JA meeting

Susan already had a call with her at 430 so I guess she wanted some back up.

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Friday, July 19, 2013 02:45 PM

To: Martin Edwards

Subject: Re: briefing note for Paula / JA meeting

Yep a civil servant might work
Do you know what has prompted the Paula call at 430pm?
Sent from my iPhone

On 19 Jul 2013, at 15:16, "Martin Edwards"

} wrote:

It was more a comment on my own stereotype than yours!

Yes, an ex MP might be an option, but can you think of anyone who would be mad enough to do the job
and have widespread support from existing MPs? Would it be better than the alternative of an
establishment type figure, one of those retired senior civil servants who end up doing this kind of thing?
Cheaper than a QC, although does again look a bit like a public enquiry.

Horribly difficult as you say...

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Friday, July 19, 2013 01:16 PM

To: Martin Edwards

Subject: Re: briefing note for Paula / JA meeting

You just made me laugh out loud! (Though not a little ashamed at my sometimes simplistic and
crass SPAD approach!)

It's all horribly difficult. I just had a call with lawyers who warn that a QC taking it all on will cost
a fortune and essentially create a public inquiry.

My worry, apart from the obvious re SS, is the MPs who I don't think will like our plans and see
them as us trying to fix things for ourselves.

So it may be mad, but what about asking an ex-MP to oversee the MP element of the process - in
that way, they and SS would be in the room (it could be chaired by the ex MP).

Sent from my iPhone
On 19 Jul 2013, at 13:34, "Martin Edwards"

Anyhow, I think I agree with you, provided we can get the right individual quickly enough

From: Martin Edwards

Sent: 19 July 2013 13:33

To: Mark R Davies

Subject: RE: briefing note for Paula / JA meeting

You can tell which of us was the nerdy civil servant wanting to document all the options
with pros/cons, and which was the spad wanting to cut to the chase!

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 19 July 2013 13:29

To: Martin Edwards

Cc: Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons; Simon Baker
Subject: Re: briefing note for Paula / JA meeting

All
Thanks for this.

I have a preference for a position where we appoint a QC to oversee whole process from
now, including marshalling SS.

I think this helps board positioning, would manage MP expectations and helps to provide
over-arching oversight.

Mark

Sent from my iPhone
On 19 Jul 2013, at 13:24, "Martin Edwards"

Susan, Alwen
We discussed a number of options on the call in relation to the MPs cases:

-  §S to lead the overall process, but with us working closely in
partnership with them to ensure they take an orderly and impartial
approach - this is probably closest to what MPs are expecting, but
carries the risk of repeating the issues we've experienced with SS to
date;

- PO to lead the case reviews, but with SS providing independent
support in terms of reviewing the evidence - gives us more control,
but might not wash with MPs;

-  Anindependent third party such as a QC to chair the process,
directing us and SS how to marshal the evidence etc. This then also
leads into the linked option Simon mentions below that we might
have the sam individual chairing the overall process, i.e. including the
thematic review.

We didn't reach firm conclusions on these options, but agreed we needed to
document each of them with pros/cons to arrive at a carefully considered
recommendation.

POL00297804
POL00297804
POL00297804
POL00297804

We then discussed the linked question of how do we manage other cases
which come out of the woodwork over the coming months. Do these go to
the new independent adjudicator/mediator (as suggested in Simon's original
email below), or do we want to give that a blank slate and keep it focussed
only on new live cases? If so, what's the process these for 'new historical’
cases?

In terms of the briefing for the JA meeting, I'm happy to review/input as
required, but not sure I can hold the pen at this stage - need advice from you
on how we're tackling the above questions and also the meeting handling
questions set out below.

I'm going to be tied up until 3.30, but happy to review anything then if that
would be helpful. Also happy for you to send direct to Paula if you prefer,
whatever works for you.

Thanks,
Martin

From: Simon Baker

Sent: 19 July 2013 13:07

To: Mark R Davies; Martin Edwards; Susan Crichton

Cc: Alwen Lyons; Lesley J Sewell; Andy Holt; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Ruth X
Barker; Sophie Bialaszewski

Subject: RE: briefing note for Paula / JA meeting

Susan

At our update call today we discussed the need to clarify the role of Second
Sight for both the October thematic report and the MP case review.

Although the POL board have given a strong steer to minimise the
involvement of Second Sight, it is not realistic to remove them, as they have
the trust of the MPs.

The proposal is that we counter balance Second Sight by having the
Independent Adjudicator, presumably a QC, take an overarching role in both
reviewing the MPs cases and the thematic report, with Second Sight
providing input into these. Obviously it will depend on the timing on getting
Adjudicator in, but if you agree to this approach we should raise it with Paula
as an item to cover with JA on Monday.

Regards, Simon

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 19 July 2013 11:30

To: Martin Edwards

Cc: Simon Baker; Alwen Lyons; Susan Crichton; Lesley J Sewell; Andy Holt;
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: Re: briefing note for Paula / JA meeting

Ahead of the call it is worth reminding ourselves of commitments the
minister made in the House relating to this and testing whether we are
meeting them;

- any further work must be independent and seen to be so
- imperative that cases are looked at speedily

- the working party will be independent (in response to request for
independent chair of working party )

- must be a procedure for new cases

Mark
Sent from my iPhone

On 19 Jul 2013, at 10:42, "Martin Edwards"

Thanks Simon, looks good.

I think it would be helpful to discuss the process for MPs' cases
in further detail on the call, as this is still sounding a bit woolly
and potentially unconvincing. Realise we need to retain a
degree of case-by-case flexibility, but if we could come up with a
unifying mechanism which provides reassurance on impartiality
in all cases I think that would be helpful in getting this agreed
upfront.

My only other question on the substance below is whether we
want to commit now to putting new MPs' cases through the
adjudicator. Do we need to do more work first on the gateway
and terms of reference for the adjudicator? Again, let's pick up
on the call.

Alwen (and Susan) - anything else to add to the brief? Would be
good to have a few lines on handling upfront, i.e. what are JA
and SS expecting from the meeting (how was it left last time),
and what approach should Paula take? Is she initiating the
conversation along the lines of the script below, or does she
start with listening/ open questions etc?

Thanks,
Martin

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive
P

Martin, Alwen

POL00297804
POL00297804
I think you picked up the action to pull together
the briefing note for the Paula / JA meeting.

My thoughts on content for the briefing:

Key Points:

1.

Following the meeting on the 8" July Post
Office has already implemented many
changes and is serious about fully addressing
all the issues raised in both the interim and
final reports [some examples might be useful]

To ensure we make this investigation a
triumph, we need to agree the best way of
conducting the rest of investigation. There
are two main objectives and we need to agree
how best to deliver both of them. The two
main objectives are:

a. "getting to the truth" on the key
problem themes identified by JFSA
and Second Sight

b. Provide an independent review of the
cases submitted by MPs

We propose that the Second Sight report, due
in October, should focus on "getting to the
truth" on the themes that Second Sight have
heard from subpostmasters. Second Sight
believe is the best use of their time. We have
also discussed this with JFSA [Alwen I think
you should include this in you conversation's
with Alan]. This will also allow Post Office to
get to the bottom of what we need to do to
improve quickly.

We propose that we provide each MP and
independent review of their case. This will
need to be after the October report, as those
finding will be an important factor in the MPs
cases. The exact nature of each review with
vary depending on the nature of the case (eg
evidence availability, alignment to key
themes, nature of the problem). In essence
each review will be tailored to the
requirements of the MP and their case.
Second Sight will be involved in these. We
propose that we meet with every MP during
the summer and agree with them how we will
best provide an independent review of their
case.

POL00297804
POL00297804
5. Post Office is defining the independent
adjudication process. This will provide sub
postmasters the facility for an independent
party to examine their cases going forward.
We propose that those MP cases that were
submitted after the cut off are submitted to
the independent adjudicator.

Regards, Simon

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and
Assurance

<image001.png>

2" Floor, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ.

ostolice.co.uk
@postofficenews
<image002.png>

POL00297804
POL00297804
