POL00152166
POL00152166

From: Thomas P Morani_
Sent: Sun 14/06/2015 7:01:09 PM (UTC)
To:

Cc:

Subject: RE: Panorama

Mark

Thanks from me, as well — looks like absolutely the right, front foot approach. I suggest it would be good for you to
send our unions a pack with all the briefing material and me to organise a phone call with Brian/Andy shortly before
issue. We know that CWU has jumped on the bandwagon, but to date our briefing with Brian Scott has managed to
keep him broadly supportive (or at least understanding) and not commenting in public.

If we did this, we would at least be making sure our messages had landed and avoid any ‘you didn’t even tell us’
responses, which we know is sometimes the union response.

The only additional work here would be the sending of the briefing docs and the follow up calls, both of which I’m
happy to arrange.

Thanks
Tom

From: Roger W Gale

Sent: 14 June 2015 19:39

To: Mark R Davies; Kevin Gilliland; Michael Larkin; Peter Markey

Cc: Richard R Weaver; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Melanie Corfield; Jane Hill; Nick Beal; Thomas P Moran
Subject: RE: Panorama

Mark
Thanks for this. I think your desire for a very robust and fact based response is absolutely what is needed. I think we
need to get that response published and visible as widely as possible is important to tell the truth about this issue and

also to show that we have nothing to hide.

I think a call with all the Crown team would be a very helpful and positive thing to do and I would be very happy to
host that jointly with you. We should also include the WH Smith field team in the audience as well.

I actually have the Regional Managers in FD on Tuesday and Wednesday so a call on the Wednesday would be good as
well as meaning it would be in a less busy time from a branch perspective.

If you want me to do anything more , please let me know.
Regards
Roger

Sent from my Windows Phone

POL00152166
POL00152166

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 14/06/2015 19:11

To: Kevin Gilliland; Roger W Gale; Michael Larkin; Peter Markey

Cc: Richard R Weaver; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Melanie Corfield; Jane Hill; Nick Beal; Thomas P Moran
Subject: Panorama

All

As you will probably know, Panorama is planning a piece on Post Office and Horizon, repeating many of the allegations already
made in various programmes. Angela is fully engaged and the programme is due to air on June 29 (though this may change).

If it does air, I am proposing a robust response, primarily aimed at informing and reassuring our people. I will be discussing this
with colleagues tomorrow but wanted to outline my preferred approach.

In advance of the programme (which we would expect Panorama to try to publicise) I would like to:

- hold a conference call with Crown regional/area and branch managers to inform them about the programme and offer
opportunity to ask questions

- do the same with relevant network teams, inc FCAs but to be guided by Michael and team

- send a message from Paula to whole business alongside a filmed interview with Angela

- use our internal channels (Subspace news etc...) social media proactively to publicise our messages
- engage with MPs

- consider paid media channels (ie full page newspaper ads - Mel is working on possible copy while Pete's team has costed this
option up)

I would be keen to get your input to this approach and support in executing it: the critical thing for me in this (apart from
vigorously rebutting the allegations and defending the business) is to make sure we reach the front line with reassurance and
information. Given Panorama's reach and influence we can expect colleagues to have questions and I would like to reach as many
as possible in advance.

Please do come back to me and thanks in advance for your help.

Best wishes

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

