POL00349924
POL00349924

Strictly Confidential

POST OFFICE LTD Executive Committee

Branch Support Programme

1. Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to:

1.1. Update the Post Office Executive Committee on the improvements to the training
and support provided to branches made and being made by the Branch Support
Programme and particularly in relation to Sparrow.

2. Improvements to training and support already introduced

2.1. The content of the training provided to new Subpostmasters has been refreshed
with more focus on balancing and how to look for discrepancies when they occur
within branch. A further review of this is being undertaken as part of the on-line
training scheduled to go live in pilot in January 2015.

2.2 Arevised balancing guide has been produced to help new postmasters balance
their accounts correctly; this is a hand-out from the initial training provided to new
postmasters and assistants where appropriate. A further best practice guide to
identify discrepancies in branch has been produced This is a hand-out at on-site
training for new postmasters and follow up visits where branches are experiencing
balancing difficulties.

2.3. Arefreshed approach to supporting branches with discrepancy issues has been
introduced by the Branch Support Team. Where NBSC is unable to resolve a
caller's query/issue the Branch Support Team is able to provide more in depth
telephone support to the branch. This team will also assess whether on-site
additional support or further training is required and will organise if appropriate.

2.4 The volume of calls from branches is now assessed by the Network Business
Support Centre (NBSC) with the branches that have a higher than average call
volume being proactively contacted by the Branch Support team to understand
the reason for the high level of calls; establish what extra support can be offered
and whether any changes need to be made to training etc. The response has
been positive from the branches contacted to date.

2.5 Compliance testing is a precursor to new Subpostmaster training and is an
annual regulatory requirement for all branch staff. Traditionally this training and
testing has been delivered by paper workbooks. After a successful pilot, this is
now being provided on-line to the branch network. User satisfaction in the pilot
scored very highly at 88%.

3. Training and support improvements in development
3.1 On line training is currently being developed for new postmasters that will

reduce the requirement for classroom training and enable postmasters to
complete the training when it’s convenient for them and at their own pace.

Branch Support Programme Update - 20" Nov 2014 Angela Van-den Bogerd Page 1 of 2
POL00349924
POL00349924

Strictly Confidential

Competency will be assessed throughout the on-line training with the
requirement for additional training assessed on completion of the initial training.
The on-line training is being developed and tested by current postmasters

and branch staff and will launch in pilot in January 2015.

3.2 The on-line training will be available to all branch staff to enable refresher
training to be accessed by experienced branch staff and as a training package
for postmasters to access for new employees.

3.3 A new approach has been developed to analyse the calls received by NBSC to
identify the root cause of the issue; to identify the solution for the branch in the
first instance and implement wider business changes if appropriate eg content of
and method of delivering new product training

4. Other Branch Support Programme Improvements

41 Subpostmaster Contract Breaches - The suspended termination approach
was launched in April 2014 to deal with subpostmasters where mitigating
circumstances are such that it is inappropriate to terminate the contract. The
subpostmaster remains in post on the condition that if a further material breach
of contract occurs in an agreed period (set by the nature of the first breach and
typically a year) then the contract termination may be triggered. Postmaster
suspensions are less than half year on year (26 at period 7). 81 postmasters
have been kept in post that would probably been suspended pre policy change.

4.2 Horizon system transaction improvements

e The transaction for customers paying by debit or credit card for bureau
transactions was changed in Sept 2014. The transaction now includes an
automatic re-print of the receipt which includes the card and identification
details of the customer, which needs to be presented in case of fraudulent
use of the card. Previously, the branch would have to remember to request a
reprint and would be liable for the loss of they failed to provide it to Finance
Service Centre. Postmasters were held liable for £65k in 13/14 (average per
branch £2.5k)

e The end of day cheque remittance process has been reviewed and a new
solution to drive out errors has been identified. This is scheduled for the next
software release in March 2015 reducing calls into NBSC (650 per month)
and the Transaction Corrections (c.570 pm periods 1-5 2014) issued by
Finance Service Centre.

5. Recommendation

5.1 ExCo is asked to note the update set out above.

Angela Van Den Bogerd
20th Nov 2014

Branch Support Programme Update - 20" Nov 2014 Angela Van-den Bogerd Page 2 of 2
