POL00299609

POL00299609
From: Susan Crichton[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SUSAN CRICHTONCS5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-
BE4237A4AD4F]
Sent: Mon 23/09/2013 4:43:34 PM (UTC)
To: ‘alan.bates¢” Paula

ngela Van-Den-Bogerd_”

Vennells[pa_

Ce: ‘

‘james.arbuthnot.mpi

‘janet.walker(~

‘ron.warmington¢

‘rhe ays.
Subject: Re: POST OFFICE READ THIS.

Alan, I was very concerned about the contents of your email, I am travelling at the moment but wondered if I could call
you later to discuss.

Hopefully speak later

Regards

Susan

From: Alan Bates [mailto:
Sent: Monday, September 23, 2013 04:02 PM

To: Paula Vennells; Susan Crichton; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Andy Holt
Cc: swinsonmpstcorresI
james.arbuthnot.mp!

janet. walker!”

S

This afternoon I received the following email, it is a prime example of the thuggery being exerted on defenceless
subpostmasters (as POL deny legal representation) by arrogant and uncontrolled Post Office personnel. Despite
assurances from on high that this type of thing is in the past, it is clear from POL's actions, it is still alive and active
through the ranks.

Hello Alan

lam writing on behalf of my son-in-law Martin Griffiths who has recently been in touch with you about the treatment
doled out to him by the hierarchy at the crown office in Chester. He had an armed raid in May, and the faceless
wonders at the crown office have intimated he was culpable. Had him at the Kangaroo court where he was not
allowed any representation of his own, he was a broken man then.

However, he was sent for last Friday to attend a meeting with the crown post office personnel again, and all week-
end he has clearly not been himself.

This morning he drove off to work, got out of his car and walked in front of a bus.
He is dangerously ill 4 the post office had driven him to suicide.

All the family are at the hospital, I am alone waiting by the phone for further news of him.
I would urge you to publicise this, another incident that has been caused by the Bully Boys at the crown office.

May God forgive them.
POL00299609
POL00299609

I am aware of Martin's case, and I know he was terrified to raise his shortages with POL because of just this type of
thing happening to him, but POL got him in the end. Regardless of what may or may not have occurred with him, why
did POL have to hound him to the point of trying to take his own life? Why?

Despite numerous warnings of never to attend any discussion with POL without legal representation, Martin, trying to
be helpful, didn't take anyone with him as per the conditions POL demand. If POL cannot control their personnel,
then the very least they can do is authorise and insist on a subpostmaster taking legal representation with them to
any meeting with POL.

lam very, very angry about this, and as per the wishes of the family I will be contacting many of the media contacts
we have built up over the years.
