POL00035834
POL00035834

Release 1
Training Needs Analysis

Version 0.2
Page 1
1 Document Administration

© 29th April

2016

POL00035834
POL00035834

Revision Number Revision Date Summary of Changes

V_0.0 (DRAFT) 15" April 2016 DRAFT Version — structure only

V0.1 224 April 2016 Section 1 - Introduction - Risks added
Section 2 - Lessons Learned - Summary of Findings
added

V0.2 29% April 2016

This document requires input from the following stakeholders, who are required to review and/or
approve the document, as listed:

Name Title Reviewer  Approver
Shaun Turner Business Readiness Lead - Release 1 Y N
Dawn Brooks Business Readiness Lead - Release 1 Y N
Neil Haydock Business Readiness Lead - Release 1 Y N
Angela James Business Readiness Lead - Network Y N
Paul Garnham Business Readiness Lead - Network Y N
Gayle Peacock Head of Branch and Customer Support Y N
Andrea Horner Business Readiness Lead - BTTP Y Y
Marc Reardon Release 1 Manager N Y
Jackie Newton Post Office Sales & Customer Services Y Y
Training Manager
Sarah Malone Head of Learning and Development N Y
Kevin Seller General Manager of Network and N Y
Transformation
Angela Van Den Bogerd Director of Support Services N Y

Date Action

15 April 2016 V0.0 (DRAFT) submitted for approval
22 April 2016 V0.1 to be submitted
29 April 2016 V0.2 to be submitted

Reviewer feedback required by 4? May

6 May 2016 V0.3 to be submitted

Reviewer feedback required by 13'" May
18 May 2016 V0.4 submitted for final approval
27 May 2016 V1.0 approved

Version Date Document Ref.

Location

Version 0.2
Page 2
POL00035834

POL00035834

2 Contents

1 Document Administration ........ cece eset eeeeeeeeetee tees cent eeeeeeeeeenneeeeeeeeeeesteaseeeeeeseneeneeeeeeee 2

3 IMCOMUCEION oo... eeeeeeeeseeteeeeteeeeeeeeeeeeeessneeeeneeesneeeeeeeeeseeeecnseeesneeeeeseeeeneeesnseeesnseeeeneeeenneeeennaes 4
3.1 Executive Summary / High Level OVErVieW ........cccceeesessseeeeceeesssseeeeeeseeessaeeeeeeseeeeseseeeeeeeeeee 4
3.2 Training Needs Analysis SUMMALY.........cccecceeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeesseaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeteteeeeneaaee 4
3.3. Training Scope. 5
3.4 — Risks 6

3.5 Design Principles

3.6 Training ODjeCtiVeS 0... eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeesseesseeeeeeseaeeeeeeeeseeeeeeseeneageg 9
3.7 What good 100KS JiK@ ...ceeeceeeeeeeessreeeeeeesstsseeeeeeeeeeeseaeeeeeseessseaseeeeeeeseesseeeeeeeeeenaeeaeeeeeeesee 9
4 Lessons Learned

5 Release Specific Challenges and Activities
5.1 Learning Management System (LMS)...
5.2  US@r MaMaGeMeNt .......cececeeeeescceeesessessseeeessseeessueeeeescecesseeeeeeseeeeseasseeeesseeesseeeeeeeeersaaeeees
Bo Fae BI 3) 90) 091 0 DEEP EEES OEE E EEE EEEESEEESSSOOOOOO OOOO OOOO SSSSSSISOSOOOOOOOOOSOOOSSSSSSSSSOSSIIOOSSOSOS 14
5.4 Procurement

5.5. Training material setup
5.6 Ways of working
6 Audiences
7 Training Outcomes, Delivery and Evaluation ........cccccceseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeseseseeenereseneeeeenneees 18
8 Business AS Usual IMPact 0.0... ceeecseeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeneeeeenseeeeeeesenseeeeeaaeeeeeaaeeeesaeeeeeneeres 21

8.1 Release 1 Overview
9 Dependencies
10 Path to Training Strategy .......ccccccesssssccesseeeessseeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeceesesseeeeseceesssseeeeeeeeeseeaeeeeereee® 24

Version 0.2
Page 3
POL00035834
POL00035834

3 Introduction

NOTE: This section may eis as the aaanient is duasiabal and will be finalised for v0.3

Post Office is undertaking a major transformation of its systems, hardware and networks. Release 1
forms part of the broader Branch Technology Transformation Programme (BTTP), and is focused on the
following functionality:

Screen Share

Enhanced Online Help
Enhanced Branch Messaging
Enhanced User Management
Simplified Transaction Journeys
Enhanced AML ID Capture
Improved Speed to Market

This Training Needs Analysis (TNA) is focused on supporting the successful implementation of Release
1. There are critical interdependencies with the other programmes, both within the BTTP and the
broader transformation landscape. However, training needs, delivery and co-ordination of anything
outside of the Release 1 solution is not in scope.

This document does not provide detailed information regarding specific content of training materials,
deployment plans or timelines, which will be covered in the Training Strategy Document, to be
developed at a later date.

sis Summary

NOTE: This section may EUAN as the document is developed, and will be finalised for v0.3

This TNA document is to support the successful delivery of Release 1. The TNA is part of the wider
programme of activities under the BTTP, preparing colleagues for the upgrading of branch technology.

The TNA identifies who needs training and in what form, in order to successfully:

e implement this rollout, and
e use any new functionality of the Horizon system, post-implementation, and
e support users of Horizon, post-implementation

A programme of communications will need to support the training programme to ready those who will
need training, and to provide context and updates for those who will be affected by implementation or
any changes. This TNA document will highlight which areas fall under the scope of “Training”, and
which fall more comfortably into Communications.

The TNA document identifies the audiences, and a draft high-level solution for training delivery and
evaluation. It also identifies any risks, challenges and issues specific to this Release and their
associated mitigation strategies.

In addition to ensuring the effective training of existing colleagues, the Training team is also
responsible for ensuring all BAU materials

Version 0.2
Page 4
POL00035834
POL00035834

NOTE: This section may evolve as the document is developed, and will be finalised for v0.3

e Training material will focus on training changes to the current system processes and
presentation where these changes are introduced. Training provided to existing colleagues is
not designed to be a solution for new entrant training.

¢ Updates to new entrant training will be managed as part of the training team responsibilities
and will be addressed in this document

e Training in the fully technologically integrated end to end process e.g. system integration with
PO clients and other PO systems is out of scope.

e Colleagues will be trained so they can use the system to perform their roles on day 1 of go-live
and have access to material to support this usage.

The training will focus on training:

e current active users of Horizon i.e. those who have completed business as usual product and
system training and are already in branch

e colleagues providing support and training to current users of Horizon (such as NBSC advisors or
Field Support Advisors)

e other colleagues affected by process changes, resulting from work packages included in this
Release

Training will be developed in line with the Post Office’s strategic approach to training, which is:

e Adrive to greater use of eLearning.

e Arecognition of the continued need for workbooks to meet the needs of different learning styles

e An intention to make training available to all agency colleagues as well as postmasters (though
postmasters will still be responsible for ensuring that their staff are trained appropriately).

Version 0.2
Page 5
POL00035834
POL00035834

NOTE: A number of risks have been identified through the development of Training Needs Briefs. These
risks will be discussed as part of the information gathering process for this document and will be

finalised for v0.3.

Key for Impact: H - High, M- Medium, L- Low

There is a risk that a lot of branches
will be experiencing a lot of change
over a short period time because BTTP
is a large programme - hardware,
network and software are all changing.

The consequence is that every release
will involve all active users learning
something new in a short space of
time.

The training solution needs to consider the
impact all the changes are having on active
users, ensuring the language used and the
message is positive and the benefits are being
sold.

There is a risk that Simpler to Run
Network (STRN) will impact the content
and timelines for BTTP, including
Release 1.

The consequence of this is that Release
1 content could potentially change
dramatically, be cancelled or be pushed
back.

The training team needs to be aligned with
STRN to gain an understanding of how STRN
outcomes might affect Release 1 content, so
that we are aware at the earliest possible time.

There is a risk that End User Computing
(EUC) rollout will coincide with the
expected rollout of Release 1.

The consequence of this is that learners
will have to learn using new hardware
and have less support, for example
Help systems, which are part of
Release 1.

The training team needs to remain aligned with
the EUC branch of BTTP and consider
alternative support for learners.

There is a risk that due to Post Office
being unable to verify with any degree
of certainty how many branch
colleagues work in the agency network
or who they are, there could be far
more learners than has been
estimated.

The consequence is that we don’t have
an accurate understanding of how
many people we need to train.

The training team needs to ensure the training
solution is robust enough to handle more users
than the estimated figures.

Version 0.2
Page 6
POL00035834

POL00035834
ee a
_ __
There is a risk posed by the relocation The training team must work closely with the L
of the NBSC from Dearne to NBSC and identify the new learners as a
Chesterfield due to the recruitment of separate audience; communication with the
new staff in high volumes. new learners to prepare them for the changes
. could alleviate engagement issues.
The consequence is that nearly half of
the NBSC staff will either be
undergoing or will have only recently
completed new learner training when
they are being introduced to the BTTP
release changes and this could cause
confusion and issues with engagement.
There is a risk that the user The training team must work closely with BTTP H
management solution will be released to update and revise timelines for user
independently ahead of Release 1. management deployment.
The consequence is that the training Additionally the user management training
outcomes will have to be delivered outcomes must be developed as standalone
early and completely separate from the I training independent of all other Release 1
Release 1 training. training.
There is a risk that the accurate The training team will need to make sure there L
tracking and reporting of training is a solution whereby training uptake can be
uptake will be difficult before the new measured.
user management system is in place
because Postmasters are currently
responsible for training staff in agency
branches.
The consequence is that branch
colleagues won't be adequately trained
in time for the release of the new user
management system.
There is a risk that there will be a In addition to process and system training the M
backlash and widespread negativity training team must develop and deliver
from postmasters who will view the objection handling material for support service
process change to the user colleagues
management system as Post Office
taking control and removing flexibility
from the branch.
The consequence is that support
service colleagues such as NBSC,
counter trainers, branch auditors etc
will need to respond appropriately to
the challenge from branch colleagues.
Version 0.2

Page 7
POL00035834

POL00035834
There is a risk because at this stage the I The training needs should assume that IT M
details of how Computacenter Support engineers, Northern Ireland branch
engineers, Northern Ireland branch colleagues and BFPO personnel will be treated
colleagues and all BFPO user ID’s will differently. The training team must work closely
be processed has not been defined. with BTTP to update and revise the training
The consequence is that the training needs for IT Support engineers and BFPO and
outcomes defined in this TNB may not seve needs as the process design Is
be suitable and further training will .
have to be developed to cover these
populations.
There is a risk that branch users will be
reluctant to allow the use of Screen The training and communication must sell the M
Share in the light of ‘Sparrow’. benefits of the new Screen Share system and
. reassure branch users that NBSC advisors can

The consequence of this is that the __ I only view the PoS system, they will not be able
enhancement to the branch support will I to complete any system transactions or affect
not be fully utilised. the branch balance.
There is a risk that NBSC advisors will The training team should benchmark with other L
use the Screen Share function too organisations how Screen Share has been used
often. effectively, lessons learned and best practice

and use this to develop the behavioural training
The consequence of this is that the session for NBSC advisors.
average call handling times will
increase.
There is a risk that the system Training team to work closely with the L
enhancement to product journeys could I programme throughout the development cycles
be complex. so that changes to the estimated training effort

can be revised as soon as they are identified.
The consequence is that the estimated
times for training development and
delivery could be insufficient and
impact the implementation of the
change.
There is a risk that the new Help BTTP must ensure that the Help content is L
system does not live up to expectations I updated ready for go-live.
such as the content not being up to . oo
date. The training and communications must sell the

benefits of the new system and make system
The consequence is that users will users want to find the answers on the help
quickly go back to ringing NBSC for the I System before ringing NBSC
answers

3.5 Design Principles

To maintain a common approach across the organisation as a whole, training will be developed in line
with the general design principles used across the broader Post Office L&D function. This will ensure a
consistent presentation and set up systems to support further deployment of training across the

broader Branch Technology Transformation Programme.

1. Training material, including existing training materials which will require updating, will

accurately reflect the new EUC kit as much as possible

Version 0.2

Page 8
POL00035834
POL00035834

2. Training will be delivered in ‘bite-size’ modules. This will allow for completion over a period of
time and in parallel with operational requirements

3. Training material is made available a minimum of 4 weeks prior to go-live for end users to
complete their training in good time

4. Any training material will be easy to access and repeatable. This will support an end user’s
need to repeat modules and reinforce learning

Training will be designed once

Classroom training will be kept to a minimum and reserved for the most complex needs and
The look and feel of all training material will be in line with Post Office corporate branding
Training completion will be tracked and evaluated for effectiveness

yp Onan

Training will be role-based and will follow an 80 / 20 rule. Training material will prioritise its
focus on what an end user needs to know to do their job (i.e. 20% of the things they need to
know to do 80% of their job)

10. Post Office colleagues will be involved in the design and / or review of training materials

11. Training will be positive and current, supporting communications and helping colleagues feel
confident about the associated benefits of the change

3.6 Training Ob $
Overall, the training provided for Release 1 is an enabler to help the Post Office meet its modernisation
objectives, specifically:

« Reduce costs

e Grow and Support the Network
e Improve end user productivity
e Improve customer experience

These feed directly into Post Office’s Strategic goals to be:

e Simpler to Run
¢ Better for Customers
¢ Great to Work For

good jo Ke

e Training will have minimal impact on time away from counter, service or operational delivery

e Postmasters and branch managers will be trained to a level where they are able to support their
colleagues

e Support colleagues will be trained to a level where they are able to continue to deliver their
current role

e The in-branch Migration Support Managers (role details to be confirmed) will be trained to a
level of competence where they are able to effectively support postmasters and branch
colleagues, and complete any additional duties required of this role

external suppliers will be trained to a level where they are able to fulfil their responsibilities,
with minimal impact on Post Office staff, customers or operational delivery

e All colleagues undergoing training will be able to prove their competence by conducting a test /
knowledge check

e From a colleague perspective, the training will feel aligned and integrated with the

communications and support which has also been made available

Version 0.2
Page 9
4 Lessons Learned

POL00035834
POL00035834

Research has been carried out into previous Post Office initiatives that have either been learning based
or involved a high degree of learning, in order to understand the lessons learned. The research
included interviews with parties involved and analysis of user feedback.

Summary of Findings

7

Training Material

Development . .
Keep it simple and with

clear step by step
instructions.

To allow for the very
broad user base with
differing IT skill set.

Success of the compliance
training is seen as down
to simple instructions and
layout.

e-Learning: Develop for
different operating
systems / devices /
releases, e.g. iOS /
Android / Windows 7 /
Windows 10. Allow the
flexibility to incorporate
new/future releases.

To avoid problems
accessing e-learning,
and users getting error
messages that detract
from the learning
experience

Online Product Training
deployment (lots of IT
related help calls before
training can be accessed).

Develop in bite-sized
chunks, E-Learning
should have the ability
to pause and resume.

Supports business
operations, e.g. able
to train and pause
while serving
customers.

Horizon Next Generation
(HNG) User Feedback

Build understanding
around the associated
benefits for the system
change.

Increases colleague
buy-in and training
uptake.

Online Product Training

A mixture of training
methods and materials
are beneficial to support
training.

Help for a user that is at
their fingertips and easy
to access and reference
is very important when
serving customers.

Workbooks have been
very effective for both
users without e-
learning access, and
those uncomfortable
with e-learning. Very
much part of the
culture of training and
product updates at the
Post Office today so
would be expected by
end users.

HNG deployment and new
product updates are
supported by workbooks
and mixed training
material.

Version 0.2
Page 10
POL00035834
POL00035834

B
Training must conform So it can be accessed All training material
to the Disability by all users. confirms to the principles
Discrimination Act and of the DDA
be accessible in all
appropriate formats.
Develop training To help colleagues Online Product Training
modules that are identify the training
specific to each branch- I that is relevant for
type i.e. content specific I them.
to the products and
services sold in the
different branch types,
such as Main and Local.
Thorough checking and I Avoids the situation HNG User Feedback
testing of all material is I where training
vital before it is released I material does not
for use. reflect reality.
Use modern user By using engaging Online Product Training
experience / images in I designs we may
the material to reflect increase colleague
user expectations for buy-in and training
current/ modern completion rates.
training design.
Training Consider deploying to For quick wins and E-Learning
Deployment Crown branches first. quick lessons learned.

Training Material
Delivery

Training material should
be available all the time
- whether hard copy,
soft copy or e-learning.
E-learning should be
available not just from
office locations / Post
Office devices.

Avoid impacting
customer service and
working hours.

Colleagues can train at
their own speed and
time on a device that
is familiar to them.

Encourages culture
change regarding e-
learning.

Online Product Training
HNG - During the
deployment 6370 out of
11700 branches accessed
e-learning, with 15,366
colleagues creating an
account. There were also
865 registered back-office
users i.e. non branch
colleagues.

Provide training material
that can be accessed on
slow / limited internet
connections.

Enables everyone to
benefit from e-learning
and doesn't leave
some colleagues in
rural locations feeling
frustrated /
abandoned.

HNG User Feedback

Include active user
engagement, navigation
and FAQs in the
material. For E-learning
include Show me, Help
me, Let me scenarios

To encourage
confidence and prove
ability.

HNG User Feedback

Version 0.2
Page 11
POL00035834
POL00035834

-e.g. name/email to
create unique log-on

-use personal email
addresses if Post Office
ones not available

ability to use the
system.

To assure readiness
for go-live.

B
Lo
Early engagement with I To avoid delays in the I Compliance Training
Multiple agencies to training of Multiples
agree any firewall agencies colleagues.
changes that might be
required to allow
colleagues to access
Post Office learning
through the one store
computer.
Training may be given Would keep to Used for communications,
during weekly Worktime I branches allocated particularly for product
Learning (WTL) sessions I schedule and not changes.
for Crown and Multiples I disrupt time spent
branches. serving customers.
Training Track training at an Gain a full picture of Network transformation
Completion / individual level skill level per branch tracks individual training
assessment (colleagues per branch) I and per individual to completion, including
tracking increase confidence in I Multiple agencies where

end users have provided
personal email addresses.

Training progress
monitoring before go
live.

Gain a full picture of
skill level and business
readiness prior to go-
live, to avoid heavy
demand on go-live
support resources.

HNG online deployment

Version 0.2

Page 12

POL00035834
POL00035834

5 Release Specific Challenges and Activities

Under the original Front Office Application solution, IBM were responsible for delivering the programme
training work stream in collaboration with the BTTP training team. Specifically, IBM were responsible
for; providing resources for the design, development, testing and delivery of training modules and
materials, the delivery of training to support service colleagues, the IT infrastructure to host and
deliver ELearning and reporting on training completed. In the current Fujitsu solution, these training
responsibilities now fall to Post Office.

To deliver all elements of the training work stream, that IBM were due to provide, there are a number
of challenges specific to the deployment of Release 1 that must be addressed before the training can
be developed and delivered. The areas are summarised in this section. Once they have been defined or
sourced they will be re-used for all subsequent BTTP releases

54

5.1 arr 1a ents (LMS)

Under the original BTTP approach, the hosting of all eLearning materials on a Learning Management
System (LMS) was to be the responsibility of our supplier partner. Without this LMS to support
eLearning and user reporting, the Branch Technology Transformation Programme (BTTP) will be
responsible for providing one. For Release 1, this creates the particular challenge of determining an
appropriate solution and ensuring that it is established in a way that is fit for purpose.

This raises several challenges which will be dependent on timelines and cost.

5.1.1 Suce "actors

Post Office is in the process of implementing an HR solution, Success Factors, which amongst other
things will be functioning as a Learning Management System. At present, there are some questions still
unanswered around the alignment of the implementation dates of Success Factors and Release 1.

If the release of Success Factors LMS is confirmed to be in advance of the Release 1 training schedule,
then it will be the best option for the implementation of the BTTP eLearning and reporting platform.
Using Success Factors will still involve a certain amount of set-up activity to ensure that the platform of
suitable for use for BTTP.

Without the benefits of Enhanced User Management, which is to be released as part of Release 1, a
significant piece of work will need to be completed to identify potential users of the system, and ensure
that are able to register and complete appropriate training using the LMS.

The training team must also develop a solution to combine reports from a number of sources (Success
Factors, and Horizon Online test data) to provide accurate data around training completion, in lieu of a
single integrated solution.

5.1.2 Alternative Soluti
If Release 1 is scheduled to be implemented before Success Factors, the release of any eLearning
training will require us to consider alternative LMS platforms, such as Totara, which currently supports.
BAU eLearning, or the procurement of an external LMS specifically for this release. Any such
procurement will require the team to develop a set of business requirements, in conjunction with the
Learning Academy and business needs, to identify a suitable supplier. Any such solution will incur
additional costs to the programme which will need to be factored into these decisions.

Once procured, there will be considerable work required to ensure the LMS is appropriately branded for
BTTP, that users can be registered to access the platform and that there is a reporting tool in place to
track learning throughout the implementation of training.

In addition to these setup requirements, once Success Factors has been implemented, there will be an
additional piece of work around the migration of information from the Release 1 LMS onto Success
Factors, so that training results can be accessed and audited, and that materials can continue to be
accessed for future training needs.

Version 0.2
Page 13
POL00035834
POL00035834

Enhanced User Management is currently under consideration for implementation as part of Release 1.
At present, there is no single means of identifying all colleagues who work within our branches, which
present a significant challenge when delivering and reporting on widespread training across the
Network.

Prior to the commencement of training for Release 1, the team will need to complete a significant
amount of research to identify the number of colleagues in each branch, so that we are able to report
and record training data to the best our capacity. The completion rates of all training assessment
activities will need to be compared against this data, to ensure that we can properly identify were
training has not been successfully completed and ensure appropriate follow-up is completed.

Until the implementation of both Success Factors and enhanced User Management, there is no way of
being able to integrate data from training delivered through eLearning and Horizon into a single data
set, meaning that additional manual reporting will need to be completed to ensure that our reporting is
adequate for auditing purposes.

5.3 Pre

For enhancements made to the Point of Sale (PoS) system, the design, development, testing and
implementation of all eLearning training modules is now the responsibility of Post Office. As a
result, the BTTP training team need to work with Post Office Learning Academy to identify and
procure the services of an eLearning provider who will have the expertise to build, test and report
on the eLearning deliverables.

5.3.2 Printing
There is a business requirement to print and distribute workbooks that mirror the training content
available on any eLearning modules. The BTTP training team need to identify and procure the
services of an external printer for Release 1 and all future releases. The high level printing
requirements need to be documented. The internal communications team will assist with the
identification and procurement of a suitable supplier.

3 Training Consultants

Some of the changes to the branch PoS system will also impact Support Centre colleagues. Where
this involves significant behavioural change or technical elements, additional resources and
expertise may be needed to develop this training and deliver it through a mix of face to face or
train-the-trainer events. BTTP training need to procure the services of external training consultants
to assist with this work and, specifically for Release 1, there may be a requirement for a training
consultant with expertise in behavioural training to train NBSC advisors on the appropriate use of
the new Screen Share functionality.

5.4.1 eLearning system design
In line with the Learning Academy ways of working and design standards, BTTP training need to
define the high level requirements of the eLearning system and work with the new eLearning
supplier to agree the system layout, design and functionality. This includes the development of
standard templates for eLearning material, which will be branded specifically for the BTTP and will
be available for use for all future releases.

5.4.2 Workbook templates
BTTP training must work with the eLearning supplier and printer to develop a workbook template
that can mirror the eLearning training content. These must adhere to learning principles and brand

Version 0.2
Page 14
POL00035834
POL00035834

standards, and must be developed in advance of any content development. Once completed, these
templates will be used throughout the remainder of future BTTP releases.

Nays of w g
To ensure that the training work stream can be delivered for the programme to time, cost and quality,
it is now the responsibility of the BTTP training team to define how to engage with the programme,
training stakeholders and external suppliers. This work will include; defining the ways of working,
roles and responsibilities, creating process maps, setting up a standard document set and templates,
developing an outline training plan showing milestones, critical path and indicative timelines and also
having indicative costs. All of this will inform decisions and inform planning for future releases.

5.5.1 Training team ways of working
IBM were responsible for the development and delivery of all the training documentation including
the Training Needs Analysis (TNA), Training Strategy and Training plans for BTTP. This
responsibility now falls to the BTTP training team and additionally the team need to define how they
will work with BTTP to deliver the training work packages. Specific deliverables are:
e Define and document the training processes and procedures and how they link to the
specific stages of the release life cycle
e Create template documents for:
o Training Needs Brief (TNB)
o Training Needs Analysis (TNA)
o Training Strategy
e Define and document a training plan with key milestones and critical path activities to
inform the BTTP plan

5.5.2 eLearn supplier ways of working
BTTP training team will be procuring the services of an eLearning supplier and as a result need to
define and document the agreed ways of working. Where this involves engaging a new supplier,
this should include:

Processes and procedures for the design of the eLearning templates

Processes and procedures for the development and delivery of training modules

Indicative timelines for development and delivery of training content

Indicative costings for development and delivery of training content to help inform decisions

on training delivery method used.

5.5.3 Printing supplier ways of working
BTTP training team will be procuring the services of a printer and as a result need to define and
document the agreed ways of working. This should include:
e Processes and procedures for getting training materials printed and distributed
e Indicative timelines for printing and delivering training materials
e Indicative costings for printing and distributing training materials

Version 0.2
Page 15
POL00035834
POL00035834

6 Audiences

NOTE: These tables have been drawn from an earlier document, and are used as an example only.
Further research will be completed as part of the information gathering process. This section will
evolve throughout the life of this document and will be finalised in v0.3

Front Office Managers ~ use the Horizon system to serve customers and balance

I in
Front Office Manager Crown Branch Managers 321
Front Office Manager Agency Postmaster 9200
Front Office Manager Agency - WH Smith 109 branches
Front Office Manager Agency - Multiples 1909 branches
e.g. McColls, One Stop, Tesco
etc.
Front Office Colleagues~ use the Horizon system to serve customers
Front Office Colleagues Crown Colleagues 3400
Front Office Colleagues Financial Services & 280
Mortgage Colleagues
Front Office Colleagues Agency Colleagues circa 50,000
Support Functions - use the Horizon system in a support capacity but also review product and
balancing transactions to help / provide support services to branch colleagues
I
se
Support Function - Active Use Network Business Support 70
Centre
Support Function - Active Use Finance Service Centre 155
Support Function - Active Use Branch Standards 30
Support Function - Active Use Mails Development cé
Managers
Support Function - Active Use Model Office 2
Support Function - Active Use Supply Chain 56
Version 0.2

Page 16
POL00035834
POL00035834

Support Functions ~ do not use the Horizon system as part of daily tasks, but may be affected by other

changes to process

Support Function - Awareness POEX 32
Support Function - Awareness Complaints 24
Support Function - Awareness Fraud Analysis Team 20
Support Function - Awareness Managed Services TBC
Support Function - Awareness Product Managers 90
Support Function - Awareness Business Change 4
Support Function - Awareness Contract Managers c10
Version 0.2

Page 17
POL00035834
POL00035834

7 Training Outcomes, Delivery and Evaluation

NOTE: The following tables will be provided for each work package (along with additional information)
to provide an overview of identified changes and training needs; affected populations, and proposed
training method. This information has been taken from the Training Needs Briefs for each package, and
will be expanded upon during the information gathering process.

This section will also begin to identify potential methods of evaluating the effectiveness of training in
line with Kirkpatrick principles. For some audiences/outcomes, this may require the identification of
reports and may highlight new dependencies.

This section will evolve throughout the life of this document, and will be finalised in v0.3

EXAMPLE - Enhanced User Management

Training Outcome Detailed training content if known

New User ID process & reporting ¢ New process explained

Self-service - reset a password

Self-service - unlock a user ID

Reporting

Process for new IDs and passwords explained
How to submit a P250 for all new users

Creation of a user ID with training access only
Creation of an initial user password
Processing of P250

Assigning a role(s) to a user ID

Assigning access rights to a user ID
Reporting: Non-conformance on required
training

Reporting: Compliance training completed
Restricting access rights on an existing user ID
Re-activation of archived users

Remote reset of a password

Remote unlock of a user ID

Add a user to the branch

Allocate a role to a user ID

Restrict transactions on a user ID

Reports available to support investigations
showing user ID against transactions
Objection handling principles

The benefits of the new process

What branch colleagues can do for themselves
New process explained

Self-service - reset a password

Self-service - unlock a user ID

Reporting

Migration process for all existing users
Submitting P250’s electronically
HR - user administration

NBSC - user administration

In branch - user management

Security/ Audit investigation - reporting

Objection handling

Fujitsu: New User ID process & reporting

Version 0.2
Page 18
POL00035834

POL00035834
Training Audience
8 3
3 5 I 3 e 3
E 2/6 x Py fa
El» aes) 2 £}3/3
</ 3 sie 9 ole/£I3 ie
=) oa oO fe & ve a vo o
oI s iS * a ers > cs}
ei2 I //218 Bg nie E22 e
sis i#ie le £i¢ FiEIE EL  @
Mae 6 2 8 ee ajsi/si4ie o
Wess Pie 6 2 $$ eee a
ajec]Is sI5 i oO Bina I On Ae 5 #
Bal@ lS (PI SiIE le si alolale els 8
Training Outcome qi a a O .e a 2 = = a a = qj is
New User ID process 30 IX xX x x x x x xX xX xX Xx
& reporting
Migration process for 5IxX Xx xX xX xX x x Xx x x Xx
all existing users
Submitting P250’s 5 x x x x xX x x x
electronically
HR - user 240 x x
administration
NBSC - user 30 x x
administration
In branch - user 15 X IX IX IX Ix xX IX Ix xX
management
Security/ Audit 60 x x x x x x x x x
investigation -
reporting
Objection Handling 60 xX IX IX x
Fujitsu: New User ID 60 x x x
process & reporting
Version 0.2

Page 19
POL00035834

POL00035834
Training Delivery Method
e 8 €
= Sole
a G ff 8 ie
a oO £ Py @
Beets te eG
£ Be \¢ 8 & I 8sie
s =¥e fe c ais
2 182 pF oe Bee
Training Outcome 2 Be I > - ee ro
New User ID process & reporting x x
Migration process for all existing users x
Submitting P250’s electronically x x
HR - user administration x x x
NBSC - user administration x x xX
In branch - user management x x
Security/ Audit investigation - reporting x x
Objection Handling x x
Fujitsu: New User ID process & reporting x x x
Version 0.2

Page 20
POL00035834
POL00035834

8 Business As Usual Impact

NOTE: Learning Materials have been identified as requiring updates as a result of the changes expected
from Release 1. This section will identify these files, and the processes required to ensure they are
updated in a timely fashion.

This section will also identify any additional impact which the Release will have, for example where
changes to workshops are significant enough to warrant delivering new Train-the-Trainer sessions, or
where changed transaction flows may have an impact on CTO emulators

This information will be researched throughout the life of this document and will be finalised in v0.2

BAU (Business as Usual) Learning Materials have been identified as requiring updates as a result of the
changes expected from Release 1 and future releases. These materials will require updating to ensure
that new colleagues have access to current and correct information as part of their training from Day 1

This section will also identify any additional impact which the Release will have, for example where
changes to workshops are significant enough to warrant delivering new Train-the-Trainer sessions, or
where changed transaction flows may have an impact on CTO emulators

8 lease 1 Overview

A total of 45 BAU Training material files have been identified as requiring amendments as a result of
the changes caused by Release1. These files are varied in type and include word documents, excel
spreadsheets, eLearning modules or videos. The complexity of change also varies in that it can range
from changing one word in a document to a whole document needing rewriting. As a result timescales
for making amendments could range from minor changes to around 8 weeks depending on the amount
which needs changing, the type of document it is and the complexity of signoff required

It has been identified that changes to documents held on the EASE SharePoint can be amended by the
Network support team and ELearning files will to be reviewed by the product owners

It is envisaged that Release 1 will cause no wide scale changes which will mean that changes to
existing material can be communicated by means of memo updates, branch focus, and emails.
However future releases may warrant Train the Trainer and potentially affect classroom training
material.

8.1.1 EASE SharePoint

35 unique BAU files held in 65 different locations on the EASE SharePoint site have been identified as
requiring changes due to Release 1. These are made up of word documents, excel spreadsheets, pdf
documents and a link to the Post Office Horizon Online Help on the Intranet site.

The majority of these documents are to be reviewed by Sandra McBride, Network Change Support
Advisor, unless it is an operation manual or workbook when it would need to be reviewed by the
relevant product manager. The Horizon Online Help link is covered in 6.23 below.

8.1.2 E Learning
5 modules on Learning and Development E Learning site have been identified as being impacted by
Release 1. They contain references to User Management and Mails Transaction journey paths.

8.1.3 HNG online
HNG online is held on the Post Office Intranet site and it is the one stop place to find branch
operational information. It contains 7 links to various aspects of operational information for branches.
There is historical information contained in Branch Focus Online, Branch Focus Online Archive and
Weekly Activity and would not be changed. There is a Telephone List which contains useful telephone

Version 0.2
Page 21
POL00035834
POL00035834

numbers and will not be impacted by Release 1 or future releases. The remaining 3 links, Stock Codes,
Compliance workbooks and Horizon Help are all impacted by Release 1 and would need major

amendments made in each.

8.1.4 Compliance Workbooks

Compliance workbooks are accessed via the Post Office Intranet Homepage. 5 workbooks have been
identified as being impacted by Release1. Review and signoff of these would be done by the
Compliance Team

Version 0.2
Page 22
POL00035834
POL00035834

9 Dependencies

NOTE: Throughout the research for this document it is expected that a number of dependencies will be
uncovered, which will be listed here.

This section will evolve throughout the development of this document, and will be finalised for v 0.3

Version 0.2
Page 23
POL00035834
POL00035834

10 Path to Training Strategy

NOTE: The Training team is required to provide the programme with a detailed Strategy and Plan as
part of Business Readiness. Once the research for this TNA has been completed, we will be able to
identify any information which is still required in order to create an effective Strategy and Plan.

In many cases, at this stage of the programme, this information does not yet exist - rollout
timeframes, detailed confirmed changes, stable design etc.

This section will be finalised for v0.3

e What is missing?
e How do we get there?
« Next steps

Version 0.2
Page 24
