POL00214323
POL00214323

From: Parsons, Andrew.

Sent: Tue 09/12/2014 5:01

To:
Wechsler\__ .
Underwoo ‘Angela Van-Den-Bogerd}_

Ce: Brooks,
Victoria”

Subject: FW: Second Sight Questions for POL [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Attachment: _DOC_29898390(1)_SS Questions for POL.DOCX

All

I've converted SS' questions into a Word doc (attached) as I thought this might be a little easier to use / edit and
embedded some comments.

There are some sensible questions in here but there is also a massive fishing expedition for information that does not
address issues raised by Applicants. I've highlighted all the questions that I think are just fishing for info ff
There are also a number of questions that are outside the scope of the Scheme. Most telling is the fact that there are
only a handful of questions about Horizon; nearly all the questions are about accounting practices.

My guess is that it is going to take quite a lot of work to answer all these questions. We may want to follow the
approach we used for the Factfile ie. break the questions into sections, identify the key technical person in POL to
answer those questions, prepare draft answers and then have a senior and separate sign-of team. Just a thought...

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

Direct: }
Mobile’
Fax:

Follow Bond Dickinson

in}

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Ian Henderson
Sent: 09 December 2014 15:24
To: ‘Belinda Crowe’

Cc: ‘Christopher Aujard’,

‘Angela Van-Den-Bogerd'; rjw! GRO} ‘Chris Holyoak';
Parsons, Andrew

: Second Sight Questions for POL

: Confidential

POL00214323
POL00214323

As agreed yesterday, I now attach the list of questions prepared by Second Sight.
Please revert to me in due course with any questions that you may have.

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA

Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Email

Website: http: //advancedforensics.com

Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at
and delete the email and any attachments.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential a privileged and protected by lay. belinda.srowel nly is authorised to
access this e-mail and an achments. If you are not belinda.crowe. GRO, Jease notify andrew.parsong, GRO is soon as possible and delete any

copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not refate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered

is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where en to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
