POL00023913

POL00023913

WOMBLE
BOND
DICKINSON

Bates & others v Post Office Limited
{[DRAFT}Recusal Note

Introduction

Post Office is actively investigating its legal options for responding to the Common Issues trial judgment
(CIT Judgment). The orthodox response to an adverse judgment is an appeal on legal and / or
procedural grounds. It is recommend that Post Office pursues both these appeal routes.

A more immediate and potent option is to consider whether Mr Justice Fraser's findings are so unfair as
to warrant recusing him on grounds of bias. We set out below the grounds for, and effect of, a recusal.
Advice has also been sought from the Rt Hon Lord Neuberger, who was until 2017 the President of the
Supreme Court, being the most senior Judge in the UK. His advice is summarised below.

Basis for seeking a recusal

The test for recusal is ‘whether the fair-minded and informed observer, having considered the facts,
would conclude there is a real possibility that the [Judge] was biased’.

In the words of Lord Neuberger, Post Office's concern is that "the Judge made findings of fact [...] in such
a way as to betray a prejudice against the PO which justify the PO objecting to his continuing to hear
these proceedings."

A recusal application is also consistent with, and lends support to, any wider appeal that Post Office may
wish to make.

Effect of recusal

If successful, the application for recusal would remove Mr Justice Fraser and he would be replaced with a
new Judge who had overall conduct of the Post Office Group Litigation.

If the application for recusal is successful it is likely (although not certain) that parts (at least) of the
findings made in the CIT Judgment would be struck down. We anticipate that the CIT Judgment would
remain binding until considered by the Court of Appeal, who should be able to make their own
determination on the issues. A further plausible outcome of the recusal application (if successful)
together with an appeal of CIT Judgment could be a full re-trial of the CIT—Effectively, effectively starting
again before a new Judge.__We consider this unlikely as what the Court should have done at the CIT is to
determine issues of law (i.e. interpretation of the contracts and determining any terms to be implied) and
the Court of Appeal is in as good a position as the trial judge to do this.

Depending on when the recusal application is heard, it may also cause the ongoing Horizon Issues trial to
be suspended and / or re-tried by a new Judge.

‘AC_154825881_1 1
POL00023913
POL00023913

Prospects of success

Post Office was represented at the CIT by David Cavender ac who has been engaged foro over a year.

Given the seriousness of a recusal application, Post Office has sought a further opinion from an
independent lawyer, Lord Neuberger. His Lordship is well placed to advise on these matters having been
a Supreme Court Judge and, during that time, having given a number of seminal judgments on matters of
contractual interpretation that are at the heart of the CIT.

Having been briefed by Mr Cavender and read the CIT Judgment, Lord Neuberger's view is that:

“For all the reasons set out above I consider that there are reasonable grounds for PO to bring an
application to recuse the Judge in these proceedings."

In his advice, he also offered a cursory and impressionistic view of the wider matters that could be
appealed and commented that:

“at least some of them raise quite significant points on which the PO has a reasonable case, and
at least on the face of it, some points on which the PO has a pretty strong case.”

Post Office has also briefed a further senior silk, Lord Grabiner QC. Post Office has taken such a step as
Lord Grabiner can appear as an advocate for Post Office at any appeal / recusal application whereas
Lord Neuberger, being an ex-Judge, cannot.

Advantages of a recusal application

Most critically, if the Judge is prejudiced against Post Office and remains the Judge presiding over the
proceedings then it is unlikely that Post Office will get a fair hearing on any issue. Any small weakness in
Post Office's case will be magnified into a major problem and any points of dispute will be tilted against
Post Office. This leads to-a-significantly.increased-risk.of. adverse judgments.

al 20n ng. in future trials, including the
ongoing trial Spout Povizon and the ‘thd and fourth trials Scheduled or NovemberAutumn 2019 and
March 2020.

Adverse judgments in these trials, like the CIT Judgment, could have a profound, potentially existential,
impact on Post Office.

41. There may be findings that would severely constrain Post Office's ability to operate and develop
its business and / or cause Post Office to incur significant costs of operational change. For

AC_154825881_1 2
POL00023913
POL00023913

example, an adverse finding in relation to Horizon could make recovering losses in branches very
difficult and force Post Office into spending significant sums re-designing the system.

2. Post Office could be exposed to significant compensation claims dating back 20 years. It is
difficult to value such claims, but they could be in the hundreds of millions of pounds. Before the
CIT Judgment radically altered the landscape, we were content that there were well-established
legal principles that would have substantially limited compensation claims to a lower level.

3. The brand damage for Post Office could be severe and irreparable.

4. Further adverse judgments might ultimately call into question the convictions of dozens of
Subpostmasters, potentially leading to those convictions being overturned.

Importantly, part of any appeal of the CIT Judgment would be for "procedural unfairness". The CIT
Judgment was meant to be about contractual interpretation. In law, what occurs after a contract is
formed cannot be relevant to an enquiry as to what the contract means. Yet Mr Justice Fraser makes
wide findings of fact on post-contractual matters and this seems a fundamental flaw in his judgment. If
Post Office is to forcefully assert procedural unfairness, it would be inconsistent to not apply for recusal
too as the prejudicial findings of fact and adverse comments of the Judge are evidence (Post Office says)
of both bias and procedural unfairness. To make one application without the other being made is
inconsistent and weakens each position.

Lord Neuberger also notes in his advice that if Post Office wishes to rely on the ground of procedural
unfairness at an appeal with the hope that the Court of Appeal might direct a different Judge to conduct
future trials, then "PO has little option but to seek to get the Judge to recuse himself at this stage”.

Risks of a recusal application

The principal risk is that the recusal application is unsuccessful (at first request and in the Court of
Appeal) and then Mr Justice Fraser becomes emboldened and openly hostile to Post Office. This
increases the risk of further adverse findings.

It should however be noted that even making the recusal application may have the opposite effect — it
may make the Judge more cautious and receptive to Post Office's arguments because he will be under

greater scrutiny-.and this is likely to be the case whatever the outcome of that application. It may well.
have an immediate effect on his behaviour in the current Horizon issues trial,

If the recusal application is unsuccessful, any consequential costs incurred by the Claimants would need
to be paid by Post Office. These could be significant if the Horizon IssueIssues trial is delayed (we

estimate up to £2m). However. ihe.more.likely seenatie is. that the. Horizon lssues. tial is-not delaved —

Also, any re-trial ordered will inevitably cause double trial costs to be incurred and if Post Office were to
lose the re-t tried matters, then the adverse costs against Post Office could be sizeable._As we note_
h

Process & timing

AC_154825881_1 3
POL00023913
POL00023913

An application for recusal needs to be made to Mr Justice Fraser himself. He may hear the application or
ask another Judge to hear it — the latter is unlikely. It is highly unlikely the Judge will recuse himself on
the first application, so Post Office should not proceed with this course of action unless it is prepared to
appeal the refusal to the Court of Appeal immediately.

Post Office should make the decision on recusal urgently - preferably not later than Monday with a view to
setting the wheels in motion with both the Court and the Claimants’ solicitors early to mid-next week. The
urgency is driven by the unfortunate trial sequencing ordered by the Judge and the fact he handed down
the CIT Judgment on the Friday before the Horizon Issues trial commenced on the Monday. A delay in
making the application could undermine its prospects of success, because it would be inconsistent to
continue with the Horizon Issues trial if Post Office believes the Judge to be acting unfairly.

ThereatterOnce the application is made, the actual steps in any recusal process are harder to predict as it
depends how the Judge decides to deal with the matter and, indeed, how the Court of Appeal decides to
approach the issue too.

WOMBLE BOND DICKINSON

4DRAFT][16 March 2019]

AC_154825881_1 4
[Document 1 ID

IOffice - Recusal Note.DOCX

[Description DOC_154825881(1) Post Office - Recusal Note
[Document 21D _IC:\NRPortbl\Active\ALP1\154825881_1.docx
[Description \C:\NRPortbl\Active\ALP 1\154825881_1.docx

Rendering set

Standard

Style change

Format change

Moved-deletion.

Inserted cell

Deleted cell

Moved cell

Split/Merged cell

Padding cell

(Count

Insertions

Deletions

Moved from

Moved to

Style change

Format changed

Clo/ol/oj/oIN

‘Total changes

26

POL00023913
POL00023913
