POL00298010
POL00298010

LEGALLY PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL

Terms of Reference for the Appointment of Brian Altman QC

To review past and current criminal prosecutions on behalf of the Post Office Ltd (POL) and to review
and advise upon the steps being taken on behalf of POL in relation to the CCRC.

Instructions

1 To review and advise POL in a written report on its strategy and process for reviewing
past/current criminal prosecutions given the findings of the Second Sight interim report dated [8
July 2013].

2 To advise POL on its response to the CCRC and any subsequent action required in
dealing with or responding to any actual or potential appeals.

3 To advise POL, where not covered by 1 above, on the role of Dr Gareth Jenkins and the
impact on possible appeals.

4 To meet with the Board at the first available opportunity to explain the background to
the criminal process including appeals and how you intend to fulfil the remit.

5 To present to the Board the draft report on past prosecutions and draft
recommendations on the future approach to prosecutions.

Process
1 To fully understand the Horizon system — reviewing training and materials.
2 To meet with Jarnial Singh and Cartwright King [Dr Jenkins?] to understand the past/current

procedure for prosecutions.

3 To meet and interview as a fact finding exercise anyone else you or POL consider relevant to
the process of the investigation and commencement of prosecutions.

4 To review a statistically significant number of past prosecutions in which Horizon was an issue in
the proceedings to identify any flaws in the process or evidence of those prosecutions.

Output

1 To assist POL in reaching the appropriate resolution of any investigation by the CCRC and to
advise POL of any further steps it may need to take in relation to any appeals against conviction
that may be presented.

2 To prepare an interim review of the process being undertaken by Cartwright King of cases
prosecuted and to report to the Board on the [efficacy] of the process being adopted by
Cartwright King. This written report to be legally privileged and confidential.

3 To report to the Board on the [efficacy] of past prosecutions including the preparation and
conduct of past and current prosecutions. This written report to be legally privileged and
confidential.

4A_27200780_1 1
POL00298010
POL00298010

Timing

1 The interim review on the process being adopted by Cartwright King to be completed by 5
August.

2 The draft report on past/current prosecutions and recommendations as to the future process to

be delivered to the Board in time for the Board to consider that report and meet with you at its
October Board Meeting on [INSERT] October 2013.

4A_27200780_1
