POL00021424
POL00021424

Strictly Confidential

POLARC14 (1°)
1411 - 14/3
POST OFFICE LIMITED
(Company no. 2154540)
(the Company)

Minutes of a meeting of the AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE SUB-COMMITTEE held
on Tuesday 11 February 2014 by conference call

Present:

Alasdair Marnoch Chairman of Committee
Neil McCausland Senior Independent Director
Tim Franklin Non-Executive Director

In attendance:

Alice Perkins Company Chairman

Paula Vennells CEO

Chris Day CFO

Chris Aujard General Counsel (GC)

Belinda Crowe Project Sparrow Programme Director
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd Head of Partnerships

David Oliver Legal Consultant

Alwen Lyons Company Secretary

POLARC INTRODUCTION

1411

A quorum being present, the Chairman of the Committee opened the
meeting and welcomed all those present.

POLARC PROSECUTIONS POLICY
14/2
(a) The Committee received a report which outlined the proposed changes to
the prosecutions policy and the way in which Post Office would prosecute
criminal cases in the future. The GC explained that the recommended
policy would limit criminal prosecutions to cases of egregious misconduct
taking into account the factors laid out in the paper.

ACTION:

Company (b) The ARC discussed the three options as laid out in the paper and

Secretary supported the recommended option, asking for a review in a year's time.

(c) Angela Van-Den-Bogerd explained her work on Business Improvement

and the effect this had on reducing cases coming to prosecution. The
ARC asked if this had increased the risk in the business, but it was
explained that earlier detection of possible problems along with a more
pragmatic approach to suspensions was having a positive effect.

ACTION: (4) Angela Van-Den-Bogerd clarified that this would not stop criminal

Angela VDB prosecutions through the civil courts. A detailed paper on Business

ACTION: Improvement would be provided for the next Board meeting.

Mark Davies (e) The ARC asked for a paper to explain the most appropriate way to
communicate the prosecutions policy to be provided for the next Board.

Page 1 of 2

POL00021424
POL00021424

Strictly Confidential

(f) IThe Committee approved the recommendations outlined the paper.

POLARG CLOSE

1413
There being no further business, the meeting was declared closed.

I Alasdair Marnoch

Page 2 of 2

