POL00142282
POL00142282

Message

From: Matthews, Gavi

on behalf of Matthews, Gavin £

Sent: 13/03/2015 15:10:

To: Martin Smith

cc: Rodric Williams [~~ 3

Subject: Brian Altman QC Report/ Anticipated request for documentation by CCRC [BD-4A.FID26231777]

Attachments: POST OFFICE LTD REVIEW DOCUMENT ([1]v.2.pdf; _DOC_30332913(1)_Updated schedule of documents from BA
QC_s report pf 15.10.2013..DOCX

Dear Martin
I hope you are well.

As you are aware I have been working with Rodric and Jarnail in relation to the ongoing correspondence between POL
and the CCRC.

We have recently disclosed to them (pursuant to their s17 Criminal Appeal Act 1995 notice) a copy of Brian Altman QC's
report dated 15 October 2013 (attached for ease of reference). We anticipate that they will request further documentation
referred to in Mr Altman's report in due course and are seeking to be proactive in the interim period.

We have prepared the attached schedule of documentation which is referred to in Mr Alman's report. The column headed
"referenced" states the page and paragraph number where the document is referenced in the report.

The colour coding is as follows:

Green = document in possession of Bond Dickinson

Yellow = document in possession of Cartwright king

Blue = document in possession of POL.

Could you please review the schedule and confirm that you do indeed have the documents coloured yellow and please
collate them together and forward copies to us so that we can keep a central bundle. The aim is that we will be in a
position to respond to the CCRC's reasonable requests speedily.

If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me.

Kind regards

Gavin Matthews
Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin

www.bonddickinson.com
POL00142282
POL00142282

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

'} only is authorised to

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be I }
"JS Soon AS Possible and delete any

access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rodrie. williams @f-
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this

rivileged and protected by law. rods
“5 please notify gavin.matthews@i™
‘ommunication or attachments is prol

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
