Notes and Actions from 3 May 2012 discussion, on James Arbuthnot and Oliver
Letwin meeting

Present: Alice, Paula, Susan and Alwen

On the 17" May we have JA and OL arriving at 10.30 with OL leaving at 11.30 and
JA leaving at 12.00.

The best outcome of this mecting would be a position where they believe our
evidence in their individual constituent’s cases and support how we are handling
the current situation.

Longer term, once they are assured by the review of Horizon they could ‘help’ to

win others round.

Suggested meeting flow for the meeting

Thank them for coming, and acknowledge that we understand why this is
important to them. Stress that we want to be open and give them confidence
that we take this very seriously

Give some factual context about scale of the Network and the amount of
money and transactions it deals with. Explain the number of subpostmasters
and relatively small number of issues with losses, but the need to protect
against losses as this is public money.

NOT SURE IF THIS FITS HERE BUT NEEDS TO BE NEAR THE
BEGINNING Explain the softer systems including the appointment, induction,
training, support systems over the first few weeks, and the ongoing support for
balancing through the helpline. Including the support if money is missing and
the time given to pay back any losses. (in fact JA case had done so over a
previous 12 month period)

Small number of cases brought to prosecution and how seriously we take this.
Explain the process we go through before prosecuting.

Explain the old and new Horizon systems and that any live system review
would have to be on the new system, although we have an audit trail of every
key stroke in the old system kept for 7 years

Talk about JFSP cases and explain that most off these cases were on the old
system and how each one is dealt with and prosecution was a last resort?

Take each through the detail of their case (separately). (Papers required)

Back together suggest a way forward. Suggest that it is right that the Business
reviews the new system and is intending to do so using Deloittes as they have
the technical IT forensic expertise. (Introduce the independent retail banking
expert if that is decided)

POL00057656
POL00057656
.

If this comes up with a clean bill of health would this convince them?

Visit to model office to show them what a subpostmaster sees especially
around balancing

What we need (We have a team pulling this together)

Alwen

To understand, and be able to show the chronology, and chapter and verse on
both cases. (Susan and Alwen visiting the Helpline and Chesterfield next
week)

Clear evidence no more than 4 or 5 key pieces of paper if possible

What work we have done on the softer side, eg training, balance support, cash
holdings monitoring — including any lessons learnt

All the answers to the questions in the JA note eg what happens in Crowns
when they have losses. (NEED TO THINK IF THESE FIT IN ABOVE
FLOW)

Feedback from Lesley on why we are using Deloittes

Feedback from Lesley on her view of Computer Weekly and what we are
doing with them

4" May

POL00057656
POL00057656
