POL00448663

POL00448663

cS

Equality, Diversity
and Inclusion

Policy

CONTENTS

8.

9.

Introduction
Scope
Principles

Responsibilities

How do we demonstrate our commitment

Our customer and business community

Monitoring equality, diversity and inclusion

What to do if you have a complaint

Everyone needs to know about our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion

10. Related policies and documents

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

POL00448663
POL00448663
1. INTRODUCTION

Post Office is committed to embedding
equality, diversity and inclusion in all of its
practices and aims to establish an inclusive
culture, that celebrates diversity, is free from
discrimination and based on values of dignity
and respect.

Post Office recognises diversity as one of our
most important resources because we believe
that diversity in our workplace helps us:

= Attract, retain and motivate employees
from the widest possible pool of talent.

= Foster a culture that reflects our Ways of
Working.

= Improve innovation, creativity and inspire
critical thinking.

= Create a dynamic environment that leads
to higher performance and well-being and
greater employee engagement and
satisfaction.

= Improve the connection between our
people and the communities we serve.

To demonstrate our Ways of Working and
achieve our aims, this Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion policy reinforces the behaviours that
we expect to see in everyone employed by
Post Office. We and our customers will benefit

POL00448663

POL00448663

from a diverse employee base that reflects the
diversity of people that we serve; one that is
inclusive, flexible and responsive.

We see equality legislation as setting the
minimum standards and we want to go
beyond just ticking boxes. In promoting
equality, we want all of our people to be
treated fairly and to be given the same access
to jobs, training and development
opportunities.

By inclusion we mean valuing the contribution
of everyone who works for Post Office, and
encouraging an environment that is receptive,
welcoming and inclusive for all our people. For
example, we use MS Teams for calls to reduce
employee travel, we have flexible working
which can allow employees who have caring
responsibilities to look after people who
depend on them, and we make reasonable
adjustments so that employees with
disabilities or long term health conditions
(both visible and non-visible) are supported to
work here.

By making sure we promote equality, diversity
and inclusion we will be helping everyone to
perform at their best and realise their
potential.

2. SCOPE

This policy applies to all Post Office Limited
employees, contractors, temporary workers
and job applicants including people working
on Post Office premises via a third party.

It applies to all aspects of employment which
will include for example; recruitment and
selection, terms and conditions of
employment, access to training opportunities,
access to promotions and transfers, conduct,
grievance and dignity at work processes,
selection for redundancy, work allocation and
other employment related activities through to
termination of employment.

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

3. PRINCIPLES

Our objective is to be an open, diverse and
inclusive company. To realise this, we are
committed to providing a great working
environment which recognises that people
from different backgrounds, and with different
experiences and abilities can bring fresh ideas
and innovation to improve our business and
practices.

We acknowledge the role that our Trade
Unions can play in working jointly to develop a
more diverse and inclusive culture in the
organisation. The Company commits to
working within the existing agreements or to
develop these by working together
collaboratively in order to help deliver this
equality, diversity and inclusion policy.

We want to ensure that equality, diversity and
inclusion is embedded in our culture, and
reflected in our people and behaviours, all of
which will help us to better serve our
customers.

We will endeavour to:

= Provide fair and open access to
development opportunities in order to fully
utilise the talents of all Post Office
employees.

* Improve the recruitment and retention of
people from diverse backgrounds.

= Ensure that employment decisions are
objective.

= Enhance decision-making and innovation,
by encouraging positive interactions and
involvement throughout the business.

= Increase our ability to relate to existing
and potential customers wherever they
exist.

* Build effective and productive
relationships in the wider community
through partnerships and community-
based groups and stakeholders.

= Be committed to exceeding the minimum
legal requirements.

= — Ensure that people are treated fairly and
protected from discrimination, bullying,
harassment or victimisation and to take
appropriate steps where complaints arise.

= Be committed to reviewing all existing
policies within Post Office to ensure they
demonstrate our equality, diversity and
inclusion values.

4. RESPONSIBILITIES
Everyone working at Post Office is responsible
for ensuring that our values and behaviours
are demonstrated through our actions and the
way we conduct business.

THE BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT

The Board has responsibility for:

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

POL00448663

POL00448663

* Leading by example and promoting an
organisational culture that is supportive of
the benefits of equality, diversity and
inclusion.

= Ensuring that this policy underpins all
aspects of our work by implementing it in
their particular business areas, including
business plans and objectives throughout
the organisation.

The Talent, Diversity and Inclusion Director
through the Diversity and Inclusion Manager
has responsibility for:

* Developing the culture in which this policy
can operate effectively.

= Ensuring that this policy is implemented.

= Reporting annually to the Board on its
effectiveness.

"The operation, monitoring and review of
the policy.

= — Promoting the value and importance of
equality, diversity and inclusion.

PEOPLE TEAM

The People team is responsible for ensuring
that managers and employees alike are aware
of the commitment to equality, diversity and
inclusion and to work to achieve a more open,
inclusive and diverse organisation. The People
Team are expected to:

= Lead and support Post Office in creating
an inspriational, inclusive and diverse
environment.

* Be the customdians of equality, diversity
and inclusion and provide constructive
challenges when behaviours do not
promote or demonstrate equality,
inclusion and diversity.

= Coach and support managers to take
responsibility of their own behaviours and
the behaviours of those they manage.

* Ensure regular reviews and development
of this policy are consistent with the
equality, diversity and inclusion principles.

= Lead Post Office in meeting its statutory
responsibilities. In particular, to lead Post
Office in fulfilling its Public Duty under the
2010 Equality Act which includes annual
equality information reporting, equality
analysis, monitoring and consultation.

MANAGERS.

Additional and specific responsibilities apply
to those who manage employees and to those
who are involved in recruitment, promotion,
training and development. Managers are
expected to:

= Ensure that policies and procedures
relating to equality, diversity and inclusion
are implemented and communicated to all
existing employees and new employees
when they begin working for us.

= Ensure that employees are encouraged
and supported to reach their full potential,
identifying appropriate development to
meet the needs of their respective areas.

= Promote a professional and positive work
environment by being inclusive and open,
and challenging behaviour or decisions
that breach this policy.

* Raise awareness of equality, diversity and
inclusion, act as a role model for others
and develop personal skills to promote
diversity and inclusion.

= Take accountability for the timely and
appropriate action to address and resolve
discrimination, bullying, harassment, or
victimisation in the work area, in line with
People policies, including the dignity at
work and conduct code policies and
procedures where appropriate and
necessary.

= Ensure that contractors and suppliers
receive a copy of this policy and agree to
comply with it.

* All hiring managers must complete
Unconscious Bias training on
SuccessFactors.

* Complete the Dignity at Work training on
SuccessFactors.

EMPLOYEES

All employees are expected to put this policy
into practice. We require a personal
commitment from every employee to treat
each other with respect and dignity and set an

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

POL00448663

POL00448663

excellent standard of behaviour for others to
follow.

Each individual employee has a responsibility
to:

= Understand the value and benefits of
equality, diversity and inclusion.

* Promote a professional and positive work
environment and be a role model at all
times.

= Promote a culture of inclusivity where
differences are accepted, valued and
celebrated.

= — Inform their line manager of any instances
of apparent discrimination or any
perceived problem in relation to
employment or to the provision of
products and services.

= Comply with, and promote, Post Office
policy and procedures with regard to
equality, diversity and inclusion.

5. HOW WE DEMONSTRATE OUR
COMMITMENT

We will ensure that this policy is put into
practice be developing an overarching
equality, diversity and inclusion strategy,
linked to our business plan and strategy. We
will take the following steps:

* Provide regular communications about
equality, diversity and inclusion via ‘One’,
Yammer, team meetings, notice boards
and other appropriate channels.

* Establish monitoring systems that enable
the business to understand where it is
making progress and where it needs to
improve.

* Provide support to our existing diversity
and inclusion networks (acting as
representatives for employees across the
business) and facilitate the introduction of
new employee led diversity and inclusion
networks.

* Provide ongoing training and development
on the positive impact of equality, diversity
and inclusion.

= Create an environment where people can
challenge potentially discriminatory
behaviours, in particular we will have zero
tolerance of ageism, classism, disablism,
homophobia, racism, sectarianism, sexism
and any less favourable treatment of
those employee's belonging to a trade
union.

"Managers and key decision makers will be
trained about equality legislation and its
key implications on the business.

= Managers will receive unconscious bias
training and diversity and inclusion
awareness training to ensure their
decision making related to people (with
specific regard to recruitment, promotion
and providing access to opportunities) is
free from any prejudice or bias.

= Opportunities for employment and
promotion opportunities will be advertised
widely and decision making will purely be
based on merit. All applicants will be
welcomed, irrespective of gender or
martial/family status, race, colour,
nationalist, ethnic or national origin,
disability, age, sexual orientation, religion,
belief or any other characteristics
protected by law.

* Complaints about discrimination, bullying,
harassment or victimisation will be taken
seriously and investigated, which may
result in disciplinary sanctions with Post
Office.

= Employee complaints of harassment by
customers will be taken seriously and
addressed as outlined in the Harassment
by Customer Policy.

= Working arrangements such as working
hours, maternity and other leave
arrangements, performance review
systems and any other conditions of
employment will not unlawfully
discriminate against any employee in a
way that cannot be justified on the basis
of the protected characteristics.

= Where appropriate, Post Office will
endeavor to provide appropriate facilities
and working arrangements which take
into account the specific needs of
employees which arise from their having
any of, or being associated with, the
protected characteristics.

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

POL00448663
POL00448663

* — Training and development opportunities
will be provided in a non-discriminatory
way.

= The effectiveness of the policy and the
diversity and inclusion strategy will be
monitored at regular intervals and
progress published annually to the
relevant bodies.

* We will ensure that suppliers are aware of
our standards and expectations of their
practices in diversity. We will seek to use
agencies or companies who have clear
values on equality of opportunity and
diversity.

6. OUR CUSTOMERS AND BUSINESS
COMMUNITY

We are committed to promoting equal
opportunities and valuing diversity in all our
roles as service provider, employer and
community champion. We believe that value is
created and maximised when we meet the
needs of our customers, employees, and the
communities where we live and operate.

This means we will:

* Actas community champion.

* Promote cultural and community harmony.

* Maximise opportunities for communities to
live, work and learn together so that
individuals can reach their full potential.

= Seek customers of all backgrounds and
meet their individual needs, fostering
enterprise in minority groups.

= Consult with community leaders listening
to people's views and responding to them.

= Work with other key organisations in the
business community to tackle institutional
racism, sexism, classism and other similar
kinds of unfair treatment.

= Encourage and support people to be
active in community life.

= Encourage others to adopt this policy,
including those who provide goods and
services on behalf of Post Office.

= Celebrate and respect the variety of
lifestyles, culture and religions within all
communities.
= Listen and respond to the views of our
communities through appropriate and
widespread public consultation.

7. MONITORING EQUALITY, DIVERSITY
AND INCLUSION

We will regularly collect, monitor and analyse
diversity data, including information about the
gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation and
disability of employees and job applicants to
make sure our employment processes are fair
and are achieving the aims of this policy. In
particular, Post Office will as appropriate and
where possible, monitor and record:

= The protected characteristics and whether
someone has caring responsibilities. This
information is collated on a voluntary basis
via SuccessFactors which securely holds
age, gender, disability, ethnic and national
origins, sexual origination, religion or belief
and disability data for employees and
partners.

= The number and outcome of any
complaints of unlawful discrimination
made by employees in relation to the
company and its business.

The information will be held in the strictest
confidence and will only be used to illustrate
and promote equality, diversity and inclusion
and prevent unlawful discrimination.

Any patterns of under-representations, for
example, where people with certain identities
consistently appear to have reduced chances,
of recruitment, promotion or training, will be
fully investigated in conjunction with the
People team and positive steps to remove any
barriers or discrimination and promote
diversity and inclusion will be taken.

We will monitor the impact of re-
organisations to check that the approach has.

been fair.

We commit to undertaking a formal review of
this policy every two years.

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

POL00448663

POL00448663

8. WHAT TO DO IF YOU HAVE A.
COMPLAINT?

All employees should treat each other with
dignity and respect whilst at work. Any
employee who feels they have been bullied,
discriminated against, harassed, or victimised
should raise the matter through the Dignity at
Work Policy.

All complaints will be dealt with seriously,
promptly and confidentially.

If an employee is found to have breached the
equality, diversity and inclusion policy they
may be subject to disciplinary action via the
Conduct Code which could result in dismissal.

9. EVERYONE NEEDS TO KNOW ABOUT
OUR COMITTMENT TO EQUALITY,
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

All employees, including those newly
appointed will be made aware of this policy
and the responsibilities of both Post Office
and the individual to observe and commit to
its aims. We will ensure that access to a copy
of this policy is provided to all employees upon
joining the company.

We will ensure that all employees, job
applicants and customers have access to this
policy through the Post Office intranet and
website.

This policy will be further communicated to all
employees through induction, management
training and displayed on notice boards.
Whenever appropriate this policy will feature
in relevant training courses and guidance
notes and booklets.

All our policies, including those relating to
equality, diversity and inclusion, will be
monitored for clarity and plain English.

10. RELATED POLICIES AND
DOCUMENTS

This policy is part of our Code of Business
Conduct.
Other Policies

= Conduct Code

= Dignity at Work
= Flexible Working

The Equality Act 2010

The Act makes it unlawful to discriminate
directly or indirectly in recruitment or
employment because of:

Age

Disability

Gender reassignment

Marriage and Civil Partnerships
Pregnancy & Maternity

Race (which includes colour, nationality
and ethnic or national origins)

OAEWNE

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

POL00448663
POL00448663

7. Religion or Belief
8. Sex (formally Gender)
9. Sexual orientation

These are known as "protected
characteristics".

In addition, the Act also defines specific types
of discrimination.

For further information on protected
characteristics and types of discrimination see
Equality Act Guidance and the Dignity at
Work Policy.
POL00448663
POL00448663

DOCUMENT CONTROL RECORD

SUMMARY

GE Policy Sponsor Policy Owner Policy Implementer Policy Approve
Group Chief People People Director — E,D and I Manager Policy Sponsor

Officer Talent and Capability on Spencer-White Policy Owner

Karen McEwan Hawa Abdul-Sydique Ps v
Version PESTA Policy — effective d olicy location
Period
1 24 Months 19/11/2018 UK

REVISION HISTORY

Date hanges oved by
9 07/01/20 UPdated ‘GE Policy Sponsor’ and ‘Policy Janene Mellor
Approver'’ contact
- Updated ‘Policy Owner’ & ‘Policy
Implementor’
5 06/11/20 7 UPdated references of HR to People Ben Spencer-White

- Removal of reference to the previous
Valuing Diversity Policy, which was
replaced by this policy

4 09/02/21 — Updated HR references to People Janene Mellor

- Updated section 1 title from ‘Outline’ to
‘Introduction’ (section 1, pg3)

- Updated values (section 1, pg3)

- Changes conference call to MS Teams
(Section 1, pg3)

- Clarity policy is for POL (section 2, pg3)

- Added completion of DAW training in
manager responsibilities (section 4, pg5)

- Link to Flex working and leave policies
(section 10, pg8)

- Updated to new POL branding

6 26/09/22 - Updated policy sponsor Janene Mellor

- Updated review date

5 29/06/22 Janene Mellor

7 05/10/23 - Updated policy Sponsor Juliet Lang

8 01/07/24 I - Updated policy Sponsor Hawa Abdul-Sydique

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY 9
POL00448663
POL00448663

DOCUMENT DISTRIBUTION STATUS

Internal x Non-sensitive x

External Sensitive

QUALITY STATEMENT

‘ol

Quality C

This document is periodically reviewed, and at least every 24 Months from
the effective date.

November 2024

EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY 10
POL00448663
POL00448663

