POL00158062
POL00158062

From: Paula Vennells; wnneGRO_
Sent: Fri 06/09/2013

To: Alwen Lyons:

Subject: Re: Update on the independent chair process
Attachment: image001 gif

Attachment: image002.png

Attachment: image003.png

Attachment: image004.png

Attachment: image005.png

Attachment: image006.gif

Attachment: image007.png

Really helpful. From what I have heard about Hooper - he sounds a good prospect, esp in view of who
nominated him, provided we can be reassured that he will be even-handed because of that nomination
provenance.

Tt would be good if you were involved as you have a sense of the individuals. I am waiting to hear when I can
speak to Alasdair. And had a nice note tonight from Alice re RH - all ok from her point of view now. . I see him
on Monday.

Enjoy your weekend. Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Sep 2013, at 18:02, "Alwen Lyons i

Paula
I have spoken to Susan about the independent chair process and the answer as to which prospective

candidates know what is a mixed bag, because the names have come from different sources in the
steering group.

Neither of the two recommendations coming from BiS - Catherine Bell and Stephen Bligh (Catherine
is/was a civil servant and; Stephen is an accountant — KPMG partner and had done work on Eurotunnel)
have been approached.

Kay Linnell suggested Anthony Hooper, he does know and is interested in being considered, although we
do not know how much he would cost

Andy Parsons (BD) suggested Alan Hylton and has discussed with his clerk.

James Arbuthnot suggested Stephen Sedley who would be interested, but at a cost of £5k a day which is
more than we were hoping to pay..

Susan sent through the TOR as part of the briefing on the 3” but I have attached again

My understanding is that the selection process is a conversation with you and Alasdair to test capability
requirement against those laid out in the document, and to ascertain availability and cost.
POL00158062
POL00158062

So I think the next step would be for you both to meet maybe a couple, I would suggest Hooper and one
other.

Having read the attached document and having been in a couple of the meetings with JFSA, SS etc. it
really is essential that we get the right person for the Chair. They have to be seen to be independent so
that the various interest groups can have confidence in the scheme.

I know Susan thinks we have made a reasonable start but that the wrong chair in the eyes of the JFSA or
JA would take us backwards and if we are going to transition SS out of the equation a chair who is strong
and will take a decision based on facts whether it will be in POLs favour or not would be a great asset.

Hope that helps, if you want me to be involved in the ‘interviews’ just let me know
Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons I Company Secretary
<image001 .gif>

<image002.png> 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V S9HQ

<image005.png> _alwen.lyon:

<image003.png> Postline:

<image004.png>

<image006.gif> @postofficenews

<image007.png>

<Sparrow Briefing.doc>
