POL00391120

POL00391120
From: Mark R Davies[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=8FAF308A93C4421 9BDC872E0F 17857AE-MARK
R DAVI]
Sent: Mon 30/01/2017 9:23:50 AM (UTC)

To: Alisdair C:
Lyonsf,
Hussey:
MacLeod}
Jonathan C
Gulliverf,
Edwardsf..
Natasha Wilsonf~

Cc:

Bec: Louise Chatfiel

Subject: Communications weekly update
Attachment: Key messages. pptx

Attachment: 27 Jan Public Affairs report.docx
Dear all

My weekly communications update begins with the media team successfully launching Post Office’s
banking services arrangements with partner banks last week. An integrated online, print and broadcast
campaign attracted a high level of interest in the media, helping to raise the profile of a key business
opportunity. This was supported by an internal campaign including an email from Nick, a case study of
Ashburton branch on One, and sharing key facts and stats on screens across FD. The internal campaign
will continue for the next few weeks. Follow up briefing notes were sent to all MPs, devolved
Governments and regional stakeholders.

The first Court hearing in relation to the Postmaster litigation took place last week. This was a
preliminary hearing to deal with procedural matters. Communications have been prepared to ensure that
internal stakeholders are equipped for any resulting enquiries and reactive lines are ready for external
use. The issue was covered with a small item on the BBC One Show but no other media coverage.

Following the Project Finch announcement, the team are preparing messaging for branch colleagues at
DMBs with financial specialists, in case of customer enquiries once the FS has left. We are also
identifying DMBs that will be getting tablets over the next month or so, as well as a number of CRMs,
with a view to featuring them in One magazine and other communications. Finally we are preparing an
article with Owen Woodley for the next issue of One magazine to explain the changes.

The switch from weekly to monthly pay takes effect on 3 February, and a direct mailing has been sent to
800 Supply Chain and directly managed branch employees. The mailing includes details of an improved
POL00391120
POL00391120

loan offer, with greater flexibility over repayment terms.

As Royal London prepares to become our new life assurance provider, an internal campaign has been
running throughout January, to ensure branches and FS colleagues are aware of the change.

Forty-two postmasters in remote branches have been contacted to outline how we will be switching them
to our new IT network provider. The process involves installing new satellite dishes and routers, and the
project is targeted for completion by March.

Interest remains high in franchise and hosted proposals and the Public Affairs Team continue to work
closely with MPs and local politicians to manage stakeholder reaction. Today, Jane Hill will be meeting
Tan Murray MP regarding the Morningside franchise which has attracted press and stakeholder interest.

Also, the temporary closure of Epsom Post Office has attracted interest from Chris Grayling MP and local
press — we are currently exploring the feasibility of a temporary location to restore service. Plans are
now underway for the Public Affairs Team to hold an MP drop in event for the Scottish Parliament,
scheduled for 7 March.

In relation to other issues:

The media team is responding to a query from BBC One Show regarding Ofcom’s upcoming review of
the home phone sector for elderly and vulnerable customers

The Network Transformation team are finalising communications for the second round of individual
consultations meetings, including meeting scripts to cover the range of outcomes.

T hope this is helpful and as ever please do let me know any questions. I attach the key media
messages and public affairs report.

Cheers,

Mark
Mark Davies
Group Communications, Brand and Corporate Affairs Director

Ast Floor

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London EC2Y 9AQ

POL00391120
POL00391120
