POL00297873
POL00297873

From: Parsons, Andrew.
Sent: Mon 22/07/2013 1:01:43 PM (UTC)
To: Rodric Williamsf; }
Ce: Matthews, Gavin{_.
Subject: Director's Duties
Rodric

Please find below a short note on directors’ duties. Does this cover the points you were considering?
In summary:
¢ The risk of a POL director being personally liable to anyone outside of POL is very low.

* POL's directors are subject to various personal duties (see below). As long as they make fair and reasoned
decisions in good faith, they are unlikely to breach these duties.

e Each director owes their duties to POL (as a company). Only POL (as a company) can enforce a director's
duties. Employees, contractors and SPMRs cannot sue POL's directors directly for a breach of their duties.

e Ashareholder (ie. BIS) can step into POL's shoes and sue a director on behalf of POL (a derivative action) -
though this is difficult and quite rare.

¢ Outside of a director's general duties, directors should be careful when externally commenting on specific
SPMRs / cases (either publically or in private but still external settings ie. speaking to JFSA, MPs or Second
Sight). Directors, like anyone else, can be held personally liable for any defamatory comments they make
regardless of whether those comments are made in a personal or a business context.

Key directors’ duties

Duty to act within powers (section 171 Companies Act 2006)

A director must act in accordance with the company’s constitution and must only exercise his/her powers for their
proper purpose.

Duty to promote the success of the company (section 172)

A director must act in the way he/she considers, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the
company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.

Duty to exercise independent judgment (section 173)

A director must exercise independent judgment. The duty will not be infringed by a director acting in accordance with
an agreement entered into by the company that restricts the future exercise of the directors' discretion or in a way
authorised by the company's constitution. This duty will not prevent directors relying on advice, as long as the
directors exercise their own judgment in deciding whether or not to follow the advice.

Duty to exercise reasonable care, skill and diligence (section 174)

A director must exercise the care, skill and diligence which would be exercised by a reasonably diligent person with
both:

e The general knowledge, skill and experience that may reasonably be expected of a person carrying out the
functions carried out by the director in relation to the company.

e The general knowledge, skill and experience that the director actually has.
POL00297873
POL00297873

Bad faith

Please note that should a director take a decision in bad faith or maliciously (highly unlikely) this may give rise to a
number of personal liabilities for that director ie.

e — Liability for triggering a malicious prosecution against an SPMR.
e Liability for breach of the Data Protection Act in misusing personal / Horizon data.
¢ Inducing a breach of contract between POL and an SPMR.

I don't believe that we are anywhere near this territory but include this concept for the sake of completeness.

Criminal

I'm just checking with one of our criminal lawyers to see if there is any way a director could be liable for POL's failure
to disclose something in a prosecution case. I suspect not but will double check and then confirm.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

“as soon as possible and delete any
Be uniavvfl

access this,
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publi

mail and any attachments. If you are notf

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neithe

fen nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our 1
is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a m
LP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
