POL00167367
POL00167367

From: jane.m.owen! GRO i

Sent: Thur 29/07/2010

To: adrian.morrisi..
colin.pricet__
graham.brant

john.longmant.

7 Pi (UTC)

Ce:

Bcc: "Thomas Penny" <:

Subject: Fujitsu - Duplication of Transaction Records
Attachment: Fujitsu priorities.xIs

All

As you are aware, due to the recent problems with Fujitsu all ARQ requests have

been suspended. I can now advise that the enhancement to delete duplicated
records from the returns has been developed and is due to be tested by Fujitsu
at the weekend.

The attached spreadsheet highlights all requests as follows:-

Tab 1 - Duplicate entries Fujitsu have supplied this list of requests that
have been despatched to you but contain the duplicate data

Tab 2 - Already ordered An ARQ request has already been submitted to Fujitsu
by PO Security

Tab 3 - To be ordered Requests that have been sent to PO Security but are
being held until problem has been resolved.

I realise that you all have dead lines but we now need to be realistic in how
we expect Fujitsu to deal with the outstanding requests. Can I ask that you all
please look at your cases and advise the actual dates that you require the
information by. Court cases and committals will need to take priority
especially those on the 1st tab as the incorrect data could already have been
submitted.

Ideally I would like to be in a position to supply Fujitsu with the priorities

on Monday, to avoid any further loss of time. Could you therefore please reply
to the Post Office Security inbox with the dates. I am away from the office on
Monday but Maureen will collate all the information and will help with any
queries.

Regards

Jane

Jane Owen

Security Team Advisor
Post Office Ltd

3rd Floor, Clippers House
POL00167367
POL00167367

Clippers Quay
Salford
M50 3NW

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may
contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
