POL00070135
POL00070135

Nicola McSherry

From: mandy.talbof_

Sent: 06 December

To:

Ce:

Subject: Callendar Sq (FAD 160868)

Anne Chambers conducted the analysis for Fujitsu. She can give evidence on this. She will not say that no
problem has arisen with the HORIZON system since Castleton was sacked but will say that no serious problem
have been elevated to their team to deal with.

Fujitsu say that this particular software glitch was known about in 2004 and the initial response to a problem by
the helpdesk would usually be to suggest user error but that if it continued the problem had a pretty firm footprint
which could be picked up by Fujitsu. Further that this glitch is limited to counters which have more than one stock
unit and as Marine Drive only had one stock unit and the foot print did not appear it cannot explain Castleton's
problems. The glitch would also be observed as a mismatch in the receipts and payments records.

This particular glitch was known to Fujitsu prior to 2004 and as such it was one of the things which would
automatically have been checked for by by Fujitsu when conducting their analysis.

Brown did not do anything bar make repeated complaints.

Steve Parker icted the investigation with Anne is available to talk to us this afternoon on

and Anne ot

Dave Hulbert can anybody in your team give evidence about the response of POL to this and the actions taken,

On that basis the error was withdrawn and the unit removed.

Due to the urgency they have not investigated the other branches mentioned in the statement. Do you want them
to do this? If so please get back to me asap.

Mandy Talbot

Dispute Resolution
Company Secretary's Office
Royal Mail Legal Services
148 Old Street

London EC1V 9HQ

External Email: mandy.talbot_
tone Forwarded by Mandy Tall

“Parker Steve
(PostOfficeAccou
nt)"

<mandy.talbot
inder Brian"

(FELO1)" {
Subject: Callendar Sq (FAD 160868)
06/12/2006 11:20

Mandy,
As discussed on the phone today:

Calendar square demonstrated a software problem within Horizon. This problem has been present prior to 2004.
For an unidentified reason Callendar square was badly hit by it from Sept 05. Problem was fixed during release

1
POL00070135
POL00070135

39. of the Horizon software.

The incidents at Marine Drive show no symptoms of this problem. In
particular:

1) Problem occurred when transferring stock between stock units. Marine Drive had only one stock unit so couldn't
do transfers.

2) Problem caused an event storm (large numbers of notifications at the Horizon data centre) with specific details.
There were none of these at Marine Drive.

3) Problem caused a receipts and payments mismatch which showed on the cash account. This didn't happen at
Marine Drive.

Regards

Steve Parker

JES IB EOE SEI SEIS OSI IDI IDSI SS IOS OSES IOSIORIIDII SSI IBAA IBEAGRAISI AGRA ARA
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JESSE OSES IESE IS SOR ORI OS CIOSI OES IESE ARI III ORIISISEA ASIA ASK
