POL00167251
POL00167251

ROYAL MAIL SECURITY
ROYAL MAIL SECURITY INVESTIGATION CIRCULAR 2-2011

Date: 7th March 2011
Issued to: All Royal Mail Group Investigators
SUBJECT: REVIEW OF P&S 7.4 INTERVIEWING SUSPECTS

As a result of a review of Procedures & Standards 7.4 Interviewing Suspects Investigators
should note the following.

Amendments to the PACE Codes of Practice. The Home Office have reviewed the PACE
Codes of Practice to reflect the advancements in recording technology. The specific codes
concerned are Code E, dealing with the Audio Recording Interviews with Suspects & Code F,
dealing with the Visual Recording with Sound of Interviews with Suspects. The purpose of the
review was to clarify the position in respect of the use of recording media such as CDs, DVDs
and Secure Digital Networks. In the main the changes will not affect the way we work however
Code E now requires that “The interviewer should tell the suspect about the recording process
and point out the sign or indicator which shows that the recording equipment is activated and
recording”.

Accordingly Investigators should be familiar with the particular lights on the specific machines,
(Neal or Rolex), especially the ones which indicate when the recording equipment is activated
and explain these to the suspect at the outset of the interview. The revised Codes of Practice
are on the Royal Mail Security Sharepoint site.

Legal Rights of Suspects in Scotland. As a result of the Judgement in the Supreme Court in
the case of “Cadder” suspects in Scotland are to be informed that they are entitled to obtain
legal advice and consult a solicitor. In addition suspects are to be informed of their arrest status
at interviews. Full details of the new requirements are contained with Sections 2 and 4 the P&S.

Correct Practice. Finally Investigators should reacquaint themselves with the correct
procedures to be followed in all circumstances but in particular;

1. At the outset of the interview. Investigators must inform the suspect of the nature of the
enquiry and explain in detail the reasons why they wish to interview the suspect. (See
Paragraph 4.1).

2. When Investigators complete the GS001 prior to commencing a recorded interview. They
must reiterate in full the legal rights when the interview recording commences. (See
paragraph 4.7)

3. When a nominated solicitor is not available or the suspect changes their mind about legal
advice. The GS002 must be completed. (See Paragraph 4.11 & 4.12).

The revised P&S, Appendices and the relevant GS forms are on the Royal Mail Security
Sharepoint site. For further informati is Circular
please contact: Mick Matthews Tele:

