1.

POL00031411

POL00031411

Confidential PAPER TWO

POST OFFICE LTD
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Project Zebra - Horizon review by Deloitte

Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to:

14

1.2

Summarise the work undertaken by Deloitte, their approach, key findings, and
their recommendations; and

Outline POL management's proposed actions in light of the above.

2. Background

24

2.2

2.3

Deloitte were engaged by Chris Aujard General Counsel and Lesley Sewell,
CIO, at the request of the Board, to conduct a desktop review of certain
matters as part of project Sparrow. The terms of reference for the review
were based around the following direction provided by the Post Office legal
team:

e “POL is responding to allegations from Sub-postmasters that the Horizon
IT system used to record transactions in POL branches is defective and
that the processes associated with it are inadequate. POL is committed to
ensuring and demonstrating that the current Horizon system is robust and
operates with integrity within an appropriate control framework”

Over 100 items of documentation were reviewed by the Deloitte’s team who
also interviewed management from Atos, Fujitsu, IT, Information Security,
Legal and the Finance Service Centre. (Internal Audit was not involved at this
stage)

A detailed (72 page) report has been issued but subject to legal privilege.
Management reviews and discussion have since followed. A summary Board
Briefing paper has also been issued.

3. Approach

3.4

Deloitte structured its work around a number of key control assertions made
by POL over the environment prior to 2010, the changes made to Horizon in
2010 (HNG — X) and the transactions and control environment operating
today.

The review considered the risks and controls in the following three areas.

e System Baseline Assurance- original Horizon implementation and 2010
activity.

« IT provision assurance — current IT management activities (security, IT
operations, system changes)

« System Usage assurance — Controls around the business processes, their
design and operation.
POL00031411

POL00031411

Confidential PAPER TWO

The assertions they considered included the following:

The system was fit for purpose and worked as intended when first put in.
Major changes since implementation have not impacted the design
features adversely

Supporting IT processes are well controlled

Transactions from the counter are recorded completely, accurately and on
a timely basis

Directly posted “Balancing Transactions” are visible and approved

The Audit Store is a complete and accurate record of Branch Ledger
transactions

Information reported from the Audit Store retains original integrity
Database administrators (DBAs) or others granted DBA access have not
modified Branch Database nor Audit Store data.

Data posted from other systems and teams is visible to and accepted by
sub-postmasters

The work was desktop and interview based using information that was
No direct testing of control
Deloitte did not test any of the relevant Horizon
features and were not required to revalidate the assurance work supplied to
them. The exceptional use of the Balancing Transaction process event in

3.2

available to POL and the parties involved.

assertions were made.

2010 was noted and verbal assertions from Fujitsu relied upon.
3.3. The documentation review

included considerable technical information
provided by Fujitsu plus third party work assurance undertaken by E&Y (ISAE
3402 report on the Horizon managed service), Bureau Veritas (PCI DSS
compliance report on Horizon and SO 27001) and Royal Mail Internal Audit
(Security controls, 2011, 2012. The POL IA team was not in place until June
2013).

Key Observations and Findings

4.1 The table below summarises the observations documented on pages 4-5 and
25-26 of the full report.
Strengths Areas for attention

Technical Horizon system documentation
is extensive

Documentation is not in a risk and
controls perspective

Audit Store integrity maintained through
digital seals and signatures and
verification processes during extraction of
data from the store.

POL reliance on Horizon features to
operate as described limited to the IT
provision areas of ISAE3402, PCI DSS
and 1SO27001. These may be sufficient
for the purposes of those standards but
may not be enough for full POL reliance
over operation of Horizon Features and
additional testing may be needed.

Governing controls over key day to day
IT management activities independently

Business use of documentation not
complete or up to date.

POL00031411
POL00031411

Confidential PAPER TWO

Strengths Areas for attention

tested.(ISAE 3402)

Independent reviews (ISAE, 27001, PCI) I Pre-2010 baseline assurance work not
provide good coverage for Information I available.

Security, fair coverage for Information
Systems and Change Management

4.2 Recommendations proposed by Deloitte
Deloitte provided detailed recommendations across three areas:

e Actions that may assist project Sparrow.
e Actions for Future Systems requirements.
¢ Actions for more holistic approach to risk and assurance over Horizon

"These are detailed in appendix 1.

= They centre upon improved documentation, specific review of the
privileged access controls around Balancing Transactions, detailed
analytical testing of historic transactions, system requirements for any
new system and a proposal for a holistic programme of risk and
assurance for POL’s overall risk and control framework.

4.3 These recommendations should be considered by management to consider in
light of:

Overall business risk.

Risk Appetite.

Future of the Horizon System

Current POL Assurance capacity (1°, 2" and 3% lines)
Legal imperatives

eooeee

o The work should also be considered in light of POL senior
management commitments to 10 priority actions and behaviours
(The 10 Accelerators). Whilst these should not take precedence
over key risks to information and the Post Office reputation,
management will need to judge priorities, capacity and financial
resources.

o Regard should be given to other initiatives being undertaken
across the business. (E.g. the risk and change assurance work
with PwC).

44 The actions that should be taken with respect to these recommendations have
been discussed by Legal, Risk, Information Security, Finance Service Centre
and Internal Audit.

Ref Summary of recommendation Business View

A1 I Perform a detailed review of Balancing I Yes.
Transactions use and controls.

A2 I Perform implementation testing of Horizon I Only if resources are available
features. and on agreement of scope.

5.

Confidential

POL00031411
POL00031411

PAPER TWO

Ref Summary of recommendation Business View
Consider if can be done by
E&Y as part of 3402 testing.

A3_ I Analytical Testing of Historic Transactions No. Considered to be a large

exercise for which the benefit is
questionable.

A4

Update/Create documentation for adjustment
and reporting processes at FSC.

Yes - but see proposed scope
from Head of FSC in appendix.

B1

Produce Future Systems Requirements
Document.

At appropriate time when new
system is considered.

Ci
C4

Risk Workshop, Construct risk and control
framework, Test Controls, Ongoing
Assurance delivery and pro-active monitoring
across Horizon and full POL business.

Head of Risk recommends that
C1-C4 should be carried out
within the confines of the
Horizon system to establish a
robust control framework. The
wider organisational piece is
already being addressed
through the existing work of the
Risk & Compliance team, and
the partnership for strategic
assurance activity with PwC.

Head of ISAG recommends
that current —_ Information
Security Assurance activity
should also be considered.

Required Action

5.1

The Risk and Compliance Committee is required to note the activity that has
taken place and support the proposed actions, namely;

e Test of controls around the Balancing Transactions,

* FSC documentation, and

e Risk and control framework around Horizon.

Chris Aujard
General Counsel
POL00031411

POL00031411

Confidential PAPER TWO

Appendix 1

Further details of Recommendations from Deloitte.

Ref

Details

Al

Perform a detailed review of Balancing Transactions use:

Use suitably qualified party independent of Fujitsu to review controls around the
need to use the Balancing Transactions functionality, communications with Sub —
post masters, reasons for making adjustments and full review of procedures and
policies.

Perform implementation testing of Horizon Features

Use party independent of Fujitsu to conduction implementation testing of Horizon
features. Use the review to confirm features are operating as described from
documentation.

A3

Analytical Testing of Historical Transactions

Audit Store documentation asserts the system holds seven years of branch
transactions and system event activities. In addition assertions over data integrity,
record and field structure and key controls such as JSN sequencing. Not validated
by parties outside of Fujitsu.

Analytical techniques using modern technology for Big Data sets could allow POL to
conduct detailed risk analytics of Audit Store data to verify that the data is as
expected and derive other insights or exceptions.

This may identify Horizon features that could be automatically monitored.

A4

Update / create documentation formalised for all key adjustment and reporting
processes in operation over Horizon in the FSC.

Identify and document all key activities in the FSC for adjustments to Sub
Postmaster ledgers, control activities that reconcile transaction data visible to the
Sub-Postmasters to the Audit Store’s “High Integrity” copy of Branch Ledger
transactions.

This can be used to verify the completeness of the Horizon Features in place that
have been verbally asserted and perform implementation controls verification in A2.

B1

Produce Future Systems Requirement Document

Produce system of requirements for any future Horizon platform to deliver against.
This should include Key Control objectives, current day control activities. Schedule
to include matters that help design preventative, detective and monitoring control
activities. Longevity of data retention in Audit Store and cryptographic requirements
should be applied.

POL00031411

POL00031411

Confidential PAPER TWO

Ref Details

C1 Risk Workshop. Conduct an exercise with Key Stakeholders in POL to create
baseline understanding of risk and risk management concepts, share examples of
other companies, and determine how POL can become more risk intelligent
organisation.

c2 Construct a risk and control framework

Extend and confirm the completeness of the Horizon Features and use the
framework to prioritise areas for improvement. Extend the framework to POL’s
overall risk and control framework, not just those areas relevant to Horizon

c3 Test Controls.

Use the framework to test controls across POL’s risk environment. Use a third party
to operate against a recognised assurance standard.

C4 Sustain Assurance Delivery and Implement more proactive monitoring.

Longer term assurance map to sustain assurance delivery for POL over key risks.
Consider continuous controls monitoring using automated alerts if key behaviours in
the system are identified.

Proposed alternative actions for A4 — Rod Ismay Head of FSC
Ensure comprehensive documentation of:
Key processes in FSC which identify or respond to accounting issues in branches
- Key controls in the data pipeline from point of sale to central finance systems

This can then be used to provide assurance as to the processes and controls around data
transmitted from Horizon and around corrections notified to Sub postmasters.

Reasons for revised proposals:

The FSC does not directly make adjustments to Sub-postmaster ledgers. Instead it identifies
or responds to issues and then sends Transaction Corrections to branches such they are
able to see and satisfy themselves about changes.

Data is held in very different structures in different places which would make the
reconciliation proposed by Deloittes a challenge and may not be beneficial or time efficient

The branch has data in a trial balance list. The audit store has individual transactions. The
FSC will have data batched by client to drive the settlement runs.

e Therefore an action can be to update documentation of the data harvesting and
interface checks down the pipeline and control testing down that pipe. That could
help test the completeness, timeliness and accuracy of data moving down the pipe.
