POL00374852

POL00374852

Branch Support Programme Performance Narrative - Gayle Peacock — In confidence

Transformation Committee - Narrative on Branch Support Programme Slide - August

Overall status of the Programme
The “time” and “benefit” elements remain for the following reasons:

@ We have obviously had delays with HORIce and we have yet to understand the true impact
of these delays on the overall benefits. We’ve lost nearly 6 months of activity in this area
due to delays from Fujitsu which may have had an impact. However, we have been having
weekly calls with Fujitsu and we are on track for a go-live date of 2’ September 2014.
Testing has already started, training has been delivered and we are happy that things are
now progressing.

* We have been told that Dynamics is the Case Management Tool of choice and we are
currently working with Finance Service Centre to pilot it. We won’t know until the end of the
pilot of it’s true capability and whether it will deliver what we need. The solution is also
reliant on the data centres being available to support it and at this point in time, they were
due for go-live in January which moved to April and then to September.

The quality measures for the Programme are to do with the Agent Engagement Survey and the
satisfaction with on-line training modules. The PULSE survey results we were tracking should be out
by the October board. The feedback we received from the on-line regulatory compliance training
prototype was extremely positive.

Performance (Benefits)

Suspensions

In Period 4, there have been 7 suspensions (5 in the South and 2 in the North). 3 of these were
down to audit shortages. Regarding the other 4 cases:

1 due to Security investigation into MVL fraud

1 case where customer service has been withdrawn
1 case due to bankruptcy

1 case due to postmaster losing property rights

0000

Reduction in agent net debt

The YTD net reduction on debt is c£235k. Whilst this is near to where we need it to be (£250k), I
haven’t marked it green due to the fact that HORIce is due to go-live on September 2"° and we may
find more problems with shortages due to a different focus of activity.

Satisfaction with training

When testing the on-line regulatory compliance training prototype we built in a survey which asked
users what they thought of the system in terms of look and feel, functionality and ease of use. We
also asked some preliminary questions about use of on-line systems generally to understand usage.
We asked the question of how easy they found the system to use, and 88% said either easy or very
easy to use and that is the figure I’ve entered here.
POL00374852

POL00374852

Branch Support Programme Performance Narrative - Gayle Peacock — In confidence

Reduction in calls to NBSC

The training workshops have been held in NBSC and from the 11** August, the advisors have been
capturing the data to understand the biggest issues. The analysis on the call types has started and
we will work during September to find potential solutions to the problems identified. We are also
linked with Business Transformation and the commercial SME who is doing some work on the
different product areas which are causing some pain. Hopefully this will accelerate some of the
changes that need to happen regarding product design.

Reduction in audit shortages over £10k

This KPI is dependent on the implementation of HORIce so therefore we probably won't be ina
position to know this until October (Period 7) when we’ve had a month of testing the system and

understanding the impact of the interventions we’ve made as a result.
Risks and Dependencies

There is no change to the risk regarding VR and the fact that most of our savings are driven by a
reduction in FTE.

The new risk highlighted is the dependency on the data centre to support migration to Dynamics.
This has been moved three times from January and is delaying NBSC, Freedom of Information and
also development of a replacement of the scheduling tool which is used by the Field Support
Advisors. We are having weekly calls with IT regarding Case Management and are keeping close to
up-dates regarding data centre migration.

The biggest dependency for the Programme continues to be Business Transformation. The “as-is”
stage has been completed and we are now involved in new initiatives to bridge the gap between the
numbers already in flight and where we need to be. The BTr programme are fully aware of our
business case so we are not double counting the benefits. Every activity we are doing is in line with
the principles of the Btr Programme.

Delivery plan (RAG) status

No change from the position in August.
