POL00105213
POL00105213

Fraud Risk Security Pro-forma - Guide To Obtaining Reports From Horizon

Balance Snapshot

The Snapshot can be obtained in relation to verification of cash, saving stamps on
hand, saving stamps redeemed, cheques, rejected postage labels and spoilt postage
labels.

Balance Snapshot Office Snapshot

From the Home Screen: From the Home Screen:

F4 (Stock balancing) F2 (Reports)

F5 (Balance Snapshot) F11 (Office Snapshot)

This details activity (transactions, stock, I This amalgamates balance snapshots into
payments, receipts) ina till or stock unit I one report reflecting the office

Finding Entries on the Snapshot

There are 4 main areas on a Snapshot; 1) Value Items & MOP, 2) Receipts, 3)
Payments and 4) Stock Volumes. In relation to the Fraud Risk Security Pro-forma,
the following indicates where, on a Snapshot, details can be found.

Cash: Value Items & MOP

Saving stamps on hand: Stock Volumes
Saving stamps redeemed: Payments
Cheques: Value Items & MOP
Rejected postage labels: Receipts
Spoilt postage labels: Payments.

Transaction Logs
Transaction Logs will enable further drilling down for information in relation to
saving stamps redeemed, cheques and rejected postage labels.

From the Home Screen:
F2 (Reports)

F3 (Transaction Log)

F1 (Stock Unit)

F4 (Product)

NB: Searching by Product will cut down on time and paperwork. To drill down to
relevant Products; Saving Stamps Redeemed (Product number 5956), Cheques
(Product number 2).

There are also various parameters that can be entered once within the Transaction
Log screen. These can reduce the criteria for obtaining a Transaction Log e.g. Date
From/To, Time From/To, Transaction Values From/To, etc.

Postage Label Report
The Postage Label report (available from the A4 printer) provides details of postage
labels accepted and rejected across the office.
POL00105213
POL00105213

From the Home Screen:
F2 Reports

F6 Office weekly

F15 Postage labels

F4 Print

F16 Exit

Suspense Report
This report (available from the A4 printer) will show if there are any remittances
(cash in pouches) within the office that are awaiting collection by Cash Services.

F2 Reports
F6 Office weekly
Suspense Report.
