POL00028473
POL00028473

Acceptance Update Mecting'4
Tuesday 31* August 1999

Attendees:

Bruce McNiven
Chris French
Andrew Simpkins
John Meagher
Min Burdett
Keith Baines
Ruth Holleran
Naresh Mohindra
Dave McLaughlin

eee eee eee

Agreed Output and Actions:

Output and Actions

Action by

1, Release management to ensure rectification plans are integrated with overall

release plans
* Andrew Simpkins to attend Acceptance Workshop on 6" Sept when the
overall plan will be a topic

AS

2. Workshops with Pathway

* distribute agreed workshop minutes to: participants of workshop, Update
participants and Dave Miller, Dave Smith and Andy Radka

«NB Peter Copping will be attending all workshops

3. A Plan for all key meetings (including Acceptance, RAB, delivery meetings
etc) has been prepared

feedback comments to Andrew Simpkins by close of play 31" August
distribute latest plan with these minutes

4. Tdentify additional monitoring and Live Trial activity
* ensure signposts from Live Trial areas are being gathered

5. TP and other POCL rectification plans (AS)
* NB workshop 8" Sept on TP Pivot and Class processing implications
¢ _NBother areas as discussed at HPB

6. Review Pathway readiness for roll-out
* circulate paper to this group

AS

7. BSM outlet ring-around

* define requirements and discuss way forward with DMcL.

* send Pathway’s “Unauthorised Reboot” report to JM and Don Docherty
¢ NB BSMcontinuing this activity impacts their preparations for roll-out

.© DMcL,

8. Re-enforce need for conformance at outlets in phoning help desks

DMcL

9 Dave Miller to meet Christou on 8” September
«Arrange Peter Copping to attend (but only available p.m.)

KB

10. _I Speak to Ruth Holleran about producing a clearance plan for 376 and ensuring,
fast-track monitoring/reporting process

JM

Ti. _ I 408 HSH performance is on the High side of Medium

* ensure that the dependency of the rectification plan of the training AI (218)
on 408 is addressed in the Workshop

* speak to Adele Henderson about caution in discussing any POCL
involvement in the level 3 cash account support

* talk to Tony Oppenheim about importance/severity of 408 and relationship
with 218

12. I 369 OBCS Scanner - circulate Karen Rogers’ Plan

JM

13. _ I Contingency plans are required in case decision on 10” is not to start roll-out

in September

CCF

