POL00294728

POL00294728
From: Tracy Marshall/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=TRACY.MARSHALL 19548BD2-3DDB-4C7E-8B30-
284776AD7CB4]
Sent: Wed 05/01/2011 4:59:30 PM (UTC)
To: Gilliland ™

Kevin

Ce:
Subject: Horizon system issues

Kevin/Angela,

Following conversations with both Andy Mclean and Dave Hulbert yesterday evening I believe I have made progress
with the outstanding questions raised

1) Horizon Network Performance

Our contract with Fujitsu and the associated SLA is based on a 99.45% service across the network as a whole. The
most recent statistics reveal that the system is performing at 99.62% and so we can comfortably say that we are
performing ahead of target. Of course this is a network wide measure and not branch specific.

2) POL or Fujitsu having remote access to individual horizon systems

POL cannot remotely access systems and make changes to specific stock units etc. Fujitsu can remotely access
systems and they do this on numerous occasions on a network wide basis in order to remedy glitches in the system
created as a result of new software upgrades.

Technically, Fujitsu could access an individual branch remotely and move money around however this has never
happened yet. The authority process required and the audit process are robust enough to prevent this activity from
being undertaken fraudulently. The authority process itself would take several days and would require a number of
representatives from the business to provide concurrence to the activity (including Head of Network Services). If a
change were made remotely and to an individual branch it would be flagged on the business’ data ledgers and would
appear as a ‘mismatch’ in P & BA in chesterfield. P & BA would then investigate to determine whether the mismatch
was authorised internally or not.

So although changes can be made remotely, they would be spotted and the person making the change would be
identified.

3 Independent review of Horizon system integrity

Post Office Ltd has allowed an independent review of our Horizon system in the past, on one occasion. The review
was commissioned by the defence lawyers of Mrs. Misra who was suspended and subsequently had her contract
summarily terminated for theft and misuse of POL funds. The case made it to court on the 11" November and after
reviewing all the evidence the Judge exonerated Post Office Ltd in full, finding the horizon system to be
robust. During the course of the independent review, the defence legal team were provided with representatives from
Fujitsu with the knowledge and experience of using the Horizon system. Fujitsu experts helped the defence team
complete their investigation.

The jury in the case of Misra versus Post Office Ltd voted unanimously that she was guilty and as such, she is now
serving time in prison. This has been a high profile case due to the fact that Mrs. Misra is pregnant. Mr. Misra has
made allegations that the defence team were not allowed access to all the information they required regarding the
horizon system but the judge made no such accusation.

Post Office Ltd do not have a copy of the transcript from the hearing but have requested one and as such, have paid
£4k for the privilege.

In addition to the independent review above, the robustness of the Horizon system is audited on an annual basis by
Ernst & Young. Never before has the quality and accuracy of the system been doubted here.
POL00294728
POL00294728

Hope that helps Kevin,
Tracy
Tracy Marshall

Agents Development Manager

Post Office Ltd - Network & Sales

[2] 1* Floor,
@ Postlin

EC1V 9HQ
1

Dw

Royal Mail Group's charity of choice is Barnardo's. Please visit the following website to find out how you
can make a differenge; www.royalmailgroupcharity.com
