POL00091452
POL00091452

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Horizon Issues Judgment

Draft Communications Plan

CONTENTS

Introduction
Purpose of this document ..

Context..
Risks... -6
Worst case scenario hostile narrative... cece cece eeeeeeeseseneseeteneeeeeneneeseesseeeeeeeneee 6
Strategic Objectives oo... eee eee eceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseseeeseeeeceseceeseeeeeseeseeseeeeseeseesseeseseceeseeeneeeneeets 7
Cre SCTIPt ........sceseeseseeeesseeeseeeesseeecsneeneenesesseceesecessesaeeeseeneceseececseseasananesceesasaneeseenesensnneeeseeseas 8
T OPM e os... eee ceceecceeeeeceeecesceeceneeeeceeeseeseceeceeeeeecaecseceeseseesesseceeeeaecsaseseesceeseeeeeseneseesnneseseneen® 8

Tone of voice

Core messages....

Handling Approach... ee eeecceceescesceeseeseeseeeeceeeeeeeeeeeecseeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeaeeaeeneceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereeeeeeee 16
Collateral... cece ecececes eee ceesecececeeseceeeeeeseceeeeeececseeaesneeseeseeeneesensneesensneeseteneeseteneeeeseeeetes 18
Draft media statement
Core media Q&A .
Reactive lines in case of network disruption

Political AUdIONCES .............scesscseeesessesseeeseeeenenenesnssecessesesesneneseeeasseetsnsnestensassesneeeseeeataeeneaeee 31
COMEXE eee ececec ec eeeeeseeeeestecseeseeeeneneneessauensseuseesseesesesesscasieiensesesesesesesensseesesisesisieeteeeeeeeneten 31
Handling Approach oo... eee eececececeeeceseeseeeeeeecececeeeesseeaseeeeseeeseeseceeseseeseseseeteeeeteeeeteeeeseee 31
Collateral... ececseesesesesessssssesseessesssssseessessessesssssesesssessnssseessissesesssessesssesseeesisseaesaseeeeten 33

Letter to relevant former MPS ..............c.ccccccccscecececeeeeeseeneeeeeneeeeseesseeeseesseseeseeeeeneneneeeeeee 33
POL00091452

POL00091452
POSEMASEELS..........cscscseseesssssesssseeeensseseesnesssneneatsnensaesnsnsoesneneocsnsneossneneasstensasscensassesnsaeseeeeneneaes 35
COMOXE occ eeec eee ee cece eeeeeeceeseeeseseneseneeesaneneseusesseesssssasisienenenensaesnseseseessessesisecesieieeseeeeeaeeee 35
Handling Approach oo... cece eeeecececeececeeceeeseeeeeceececseeessececeesecseeesecsceeseseecsseseseeeeseeeeneeeeeeee 35
Collateral... ceecceececeesesesseeeeesseeeeesesesseeecaeseeeeacesseenesseesasestseesisieseeisessntieeseeeesesseeesneaeeetee 36
Postmaster Q&A.
Speaking brief for colleagues speaking to postmasters (pre-judgment) ..............eee 51
Speaking brief for colleagues speaking to postmasters (post-judgment)..............:.:e 54

Branch closures: Asking a Postmaster to re-open

We will contact you again in the next few days to agree next steps with you. .................58

MOMOVICW ........ esc eccceeseeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeenseseseseseecseecaesesesenesensseuesesesssseseesseessesssessasseaeieneeeneeseeee 59
Branch hub MeSsage.............ececcceeceseecesceeeeeeeeeceeeececeeseseececeecaeeeseeeesseeecaeeecseeesseeeeeeeteeeeee 60
IVR M@SSAGE... oe. eceeceeeceeeeeeseseeeeeeseceeeessececeesecseeeeeseeceeceeeeesaeeesieceseeeessteceeeseeeeesseeesaeeeed 61

ONE update email
ONE story
Branch support guide

ONE business update special (worst case scenario) .

Handling Approach... eee cceeceescesceeceeseeseeseeeeeceeeeeseesecceseceaeeeeeaeeaeeaeseseeseeaeeesseeeeseeeeseeed 69
Collateral... ececseececseseseeeseeseeseessesesssseeesesseeesecsesesnssseesessseesesessesesessssesisissesesesseeeseseeeeees 70

Speaking brief for colleagues engaging with clients/commercial partners etc (post-
judgment)

Client Q&A oo. eecccecccceecsceesceeseeeeeescscsesescecscecacececacaeseaeseseseseseeescecsceseeesenssesecieeteeeneeeeeee 79
CUSOMESS .......scsessssesesessssssesnssensensaesesssneoeseneotsnessnesnensnenseneaesnsneossesseosseensosaeensaeacansnenenssseneaee 81
CONTEXE «oe eceeecececseseseesesesessesssseesssusissesusssseessasssssessseususiseesussssssusssesssisessesesisseassasseeesed 81
Handling Approach ono... eeceecececeseeseseseeseseeseseeeeseeseseesesecseseeeeseeseseeacseceeeeeseeeceteeeeseeeeeeeeeeeed 81
Collateral
Customer Service team brief ............ccecesccecececescecesseeeneeeeeeeeseeeseesseeeseesseesesieasiseenseeeeee 82
Customer Q&A oo. cceccecs esses eceseseseeseseensssseenssesesesneessnsnssseesesisteersissesietsessnsesisseeesieseentaes 83
Post Office CONMCAQUeS ..........ecssesseseeeeeeeesensneeeessceeseneeeseeeeeatseeesseeesssencessateseaeeesesaneesaneeseneneed 84
COMEXE oes cece ee eceseseseeeeceesestecsseeeesesssesaseeseesssesasssassssseceeseseoaeeecessseesssesetasesesetateciseteaeteeeeea 84
POL00091452

POL00091452
Handling Approach ono... eee ececeeceseseseeseeeeseseeeceeseceeeeesecseeeseeseceeeeeceeseeeeeeeeeeeteeeaseeseseeeeeeed 84
Collateral... eee ececc eee eesesceeseeeseeeseneneeeseeseeseesseesesseessseensnenensesesnseseseesseesesssecaseeseeeeeseaeeee 85
PO fact SHeCt.... ee ceeecececee cscs ceeseeeseeceseceescessenenenensnseeseseesssecesscesssasicasieuseeeseeseseeeeseeased 85
Horizon factsheet .............eccec cece cece eseeceeseneseneneseneneeeneceeseesseseessenessaesensienersnenecseseenseed 87
GLO factsheet oe cece ceeeceeseseeecseeeeeceeeeeneeeeeeeesenseesenenensesseeseecenseesenseeseteeeecaneeeneaes 88
Email to Colleagues ooo... ceeee cece ce ces ee cece ceeeeceeeeeseeceeeecseseceeeecaeeesseeetaeeesseteceeeseseetaeeees 90
Email invite to L300 Call... ee ee eeece cee ceeeeeseeeenenenenseessesssesssesenesenesensneenensesseeseeeeeee 92
L300 call script
Postmaster onboarding team - email & call script in case of PM queries ............... 95
Branch Support Centre/IT helpline brief ...............ccceccececeececeeeeseececeseesceeeseseeseseeseseeeeeeeeee! 96
Customer Service team brief... ecececcceseceeesceeeeeneesteneeseeeseseeeeaseesetesereseeaseneneeeeeeenee 98
Email to Grapevine, King Security, Telco helpdesk ...............ccceeecceeeseeeeseeeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeees 99

HR Service Centre email brief
Unions & NFSP
Context ...

Handling approach

Collateral
NFSP - Core verbal SCTript............-ceccccececcececeececescecesceecseeecseeeeaceecaeseeseeeeseeeesteetsteeteeeseatee 102
CWU/Unite core verbal Script ............ cc ccceeceeeeeceeeeeeeceseeeseeeseeeeceesceeeeeceeseeeeneeseeeesenseeseneee 104
SUpPpHier............sssesecsssesessssssesnssesesnssescsessesesnssesesesssessnsneensnsnssnensnssasesesseensnsecsssnsecsssnseeseeneees 106
CONtEXE occ eececececseeeeeeeeeeseeseesseeeceseesesesseeesasseeesessssesessseetesssiesetesissesesissesetesseeesetsesereteeee 106
Handling Approach oo... eee ceeeeeeesceseseeeeseeeesceeeecseeeceeseeseeeseesecseeeseseseeseseeseseeeeseeeeseeseteeeeee 106

Fujitsu
Other Suppliers ........e.e cece cceecceceseseecseseesesscseeeceesecseseeseseeseescseseeseeeceeeeeseeseeeseseeeeeeee 106

Collateral
Supplier email (excluding FujitSu) 20... ccc cece eceeeeeeeeceeeecaeeeeseescesseeseeeteeeseeeesenee 107
Commercial Partner .........csssccsssssesessssesessssenesnssenesesnsnesnensassnsseaeseeseasseeensacssensseeesaeseaeneaes 109
COMEXE eee ececeeeceseeeeeseceeeeescesesecsescatsenesensssuseesseaesscesssesesisasiensiseseseseeesesessseeseteseseeetecetes 109
Handling Approach... ee eeeceeceecceseeeceseeseeseeeeceeeeeeseeseseeeeeeseesecseeeaeeneceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeens 109
Collateral... eee cee eceec ee eeseeeeesececeeeececececaeseeesaeecseensaseesneesseeneasensneisessnerseseeseseteeseeetecees 110
Retail partners ermal... ee cece eceececeeceeeeeeseseeeeecseesseeeseeeessneeeseeceseeeeeeesseesetes 110
PAYZONE.......scceceeesesseeeecesesseeacecseesecanecsesnesecseeeceeseuessaceesecausasaeeecsaseceseececseuaueaseeeesaasesaneneesses 112
COnte xt eee eee ee eeeee eens eeeceeseeeceteeensasesessacsneeeasessesasssensnsssesensesessneesinsesesitecsnseteeneeeseeees 112
POL00091452

POL00091452
Handling Approach oo... eee cceececeseeeeseeeeseeeeseeeeecsececseeeesecseeeeeeseeeeeeeeseseeeesseeeeeteeeeseeeeteeeee 112
Collateral... eceececccceseseeeseeeseessesesesenesensesesesessssesesesssassenesenenenesnsnenseseeeseesesesieeseeeeetes 113
Payzone employees and agents email 0.0.2.2... cccecceeeceeeeceeeeceeeeceeeeeeeeceeeteeeseeeeeeees 113
POL00091452
POL00091452

Introduction

Purpose of this document

This document sets out the strategy for communicating the result of the Horizon Issues Trial.

The document sets out the context of the Judgment, and the risks it presents to Post Office,
before going on to map out an approach to communicating the Judgment to all of the
organisation’s different stakeholders, geared towards meeting a number of strategic objectives.

For each stakeholder, the document sets out the context in which any engagement will take
place, a handling strategy, and the accompanying draft collateral material which will be
verified/modified against the Judgment during the embargo period.

Context

The subject matter of the Horizon Issues Trial is the complex technical architecture and
functionality of the Horizon system over an 18 year period. This is one part of a wider set of
Group Litigation Order proceedings arising from a long running dispute between the Post Office
and a group of mostly former postmasters who have made serious allegations about technical,
operational and contractual matters. The first substantive part of that litigation (the Common
Issues Trial [CIT], looking at the contractual relationship between the PO and postmasters)
finished on 5 December 2018. The Judgment was handed down on 15 March 2019 and
included strong criticisms of Post Office behaviours. It received little media or political attention,
and had no measurable impact on consumer sentiment.

Judgment in the Horizon Issues Trial is expected in the first half of November. As our legal
advisers note, this is a stepping-stone to other decisions. The reliability and functionality of
Horizon is not, in the context of the litigation, an end result in itself. It will however set a
foundation on which decisions in relation to specific postmasters, both historically by Post Office
and in the future by the Court, will be determined. It may tip the scales for or against Post Office
but it will not be determinative of any individual claim. The full implications of the outcome of the
Horizon Issues Trial will not been known until at least the end of the Further Issues Trial,
scheduled to begin in March 2020. In that further trial, the Court will consider, in abstract but by
reference to some real examples, questions around the recoverability of certain claimed losses
and what damages might apply in such circumstances should causation and liability, in fact, be
established at a later date. However, the Judgment could have immediate reputational
consequences for Post Office if it includes harsh criticism of the Horizon IT system on which
transactions depend, and/or again of the business’s behaviour towards postmasters more
generally.

Across the network of 11,500 Post Office branches, Horizon processes around 47 million
transactions a week, worth more than £60 billion a year.
POL00091452
POL00091452

Risks

The HIT clearly poses a significant reputational risk. In a worst case scenario, where the
Judgment heavily criticises the operation of the Horizon system, there is the potential for
widespread loss of confidence — amongst postmasters, customers and commercial partners —
which, at the extreme end of the spectrum, could undermine Post Office’s ability to operate.
Additional criticism about the culture and behaviour of the business would have the potential to
ratchet up the impact of any criticism of Horizon itself. Given the risk to operations that this
would present, the communications response to the Judgment will be vital.

However, in planning the communications response it would be a mistake to see the short term
risks purely through the prism of Horizon. The wider reputation of the Post Office and the people
running it will be at the heart of any external focus this receives. The HIT is part of a wider
litigation which has not, to date, attracted as much attention as it might have done. But the fact
that the CIT was underreported could pose a risk, as sections of that Judgment could be
dredged up by journalists and presented as previously undisclosed facts. Therefore, in
preparing the communications response to the HIT we must bear in mind broader points raised
in the previous Judgment about the culture at Post Office.

Worst case scenario hostile narrative

In the worst case scenario, a general hostile narrative that we could expect campaigners and
journalists to adopt is set out below. We have categorised each limb (text in brackets) and set
out some topline messaging later in this document:

e the Horizon IT system has been found to be fundamentally flawed and those flaws have
clearly led to postmasters being wrongly accused of theft (Horizon flawed)

e the Post Office was aware of these flaws and risks but attempted to cover them up -
even during the trial (PO culture, PO trial conduct)

e this forms part of Post Office's historic and ongoing vindictive attitude towards
postmasters (PO culture)

e@ the company providing technical support on Horizon - Fujitsu - is also guilty of failure and
incompetence (Fujitsu relationship)

e the deficiencies of the Horizon system call into question its continued usage and suggest
there could be thousands more victims (Future of Horizon)

e senior executives need to take responsibility for this major failure (Accountability)

Below we set out some of the specific questions and further lines of attack that we would expect
to flow from these core points, set within some broad themes. These themes require strong
lines of defence, which will form the basis of a core script.
POL00091452
POL00091452

Strategic objectives

Our communications response will be framed by five core objectives to:

1.

Avoid direct criticism of the court and its Judgment, given that the litigation is ongoing
and the judge remains in situ

Protect the overall reputation of the Post Office and the integrity of its relationship with
postmasters

Reassure, and maintain the confidence of, key stakeholder groups in the overall
reliability of Horizon, the network, products and services

Proactively make clear that the Post Office is addressing the concerns of key
stakeholders and the Court

Minimise any media and political fallout arising from the Judgment
POL00091452
POL00091452

Core script
Topline

The Post Office takes the concerns of the court extremely seriously and is examining the
Judgment carefully. We are confident that the overall Horizon system is robust, comparing well
with similarly large and complex IT systems used by other retail and financial services
companies. Independent experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed this in the course of
the court proceedings.

The shortcomings identified in the Judgment cover events stretching back over two decades,
and the systems involved are either no longer in use or have been repeatedly updated over this
period. However, no large-scale IT system is perfect and we acknowledge the criticisms that
have been made. We will be working very closely with our IT partner, Fujitsu, to ensure that any
specific technical concerns that remain are fully addressed. We are also focusing our efforts on
ensuring that postmasters receive necessary support and training.

Tone of voice

The Judgment is very likely to contain some difficult conclusions for the business. However, no
matter how light or severe the criticism it will be important to maintain a balanced and measured
tone that avoids emotional or confrontational rhetoric.

We should welcome, as far as we can, the careful scrutiny that this issue is receiving and
acknowledge and accept that changes are needed in certain places. These changes can be
presented as part of an ongoing effort to constantly improve processes in tandem with key
partners.

However, this is only one stage in an ongoing litigation and so whilst making clear that lessons
will be learned, there will be a need to maintain core positions and to avoid any signal that the
Post Office is “caving in” in the face of a negative Judgment.

Most significantly, whatever the judgement says, we will need to maintain that the Horizon
system is fundamentally robust/reliable and reference facts that support that position.

Core messages

1. Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion
worth a year.

2. Transactions are reconciled every day, including with the systems of major
organisations such as high street banks
POL00091452
POL00091452

3. But the Judgment underlines to us very strongly the importance of how we need
to do more to help our postmasters operate their Post Office branches.

4. Weare therefore continuing to take firm action to improve that support, alongside
further investment in our technology.

5. Over the last 12 to 18 months we have had a particular focus on providing our
postmasters improved training and operational support, as well as making
changes which further reduce the risk of human errors in branches.

Overarching handling approach

There are a multitude of stakeholders - both internal and external - to be considered in relation
to the Judgment, and to meet the objectives set out above it will be important to adopt a tailored
handling approach for each group.

Broadly speaking, this will mean trying to de-dramatise media coverage and reassure political
stakeholders, while providing strong messages to internal audiences in relation to the
robustness of Horizon and the new support structures in place to support postmasters.

The following section of the document sets out a tailored communications approach for each
stakeholder group, as well as setting out the draft collateral materials that have been prepared
in order to facilitate the relevant approach.

It will be important to maintain an agile approach in the hours and days immediately following
the Judgment, so that any emerging issues can be quickly managed. Therefore, the Rapid
Response Team will operate under protocols that allow for swift sign-off of proposed activity.
POL00091452

POL00091452
Handling timeline
Judgment embargo period
When Audience Delivered by Channel Key messages/activity (tbc) Document number*
Time tbe Board, CEO,GE Ben Foat Email Confirm timing & Communication approach _ I n/a
Time tbe L40 Ben Foat Email Confirm timing & communication approach _I n/a
Time tbe UKGI Patrick Bourke call Confirm timing n/a
Time tbc BEIS Policy Patrick Bourke call Confirm timing n/a
Time tbe BEIS Comms Mel Corfield Call/email Confirm timing n/a
Time tbe Social Media & Ruth Barker/Darren Email Confirm timing n/a
Press Team Jones
TBC Area Managers Marketing/Simon Post Posters for use in closed branches (36)
Philips
Day before Judgment is made public
When Audience Delivered by Channel Key messages/activity Document number*
Time tbe L300 Jonathan Knox n/a Set up conference call for next day n/a
End of day n/a Legal tbe n/a All collateral signed off n/a
Day 1 - Judgment is made public

When Audience Delivered by Channel Key messages/activity Document number*
Morning POL witnesses Angela VDB Call Likely comment on their appearance in n/a

court, OH support
Morning L300 Jonathan Knox One Email Invitation to L300 call - signed by Nick Read I (4)
Time tbe L300 GE L300 Call Post Office response to judgment call script. I (5)

Call hosted by Patrick B/Martine M
As L300 call I POL colleagues Jonathan Knox POL intranet I Live with information documents - Internal I (6) (7) (8) (10)
underway Q&A, Post Office fact sheet, GLO fact sheet,

media statement
As L300 call I POL Colleagues, I Debbie Smith One email Post Office response to judgment plus link (9)
underway including DMBS, to intranet with documents

& Supply Chain

10
POL00091452

POL00091452
As L300 call I Postmasters Jonathan Knox Memoview Direct branches to One website for (11) (12) (13)
underway message important update and more information
Jonathan Knox Branch Hub
message (tbc)
Kim Abbott IVR
As L300 call I Postmasters Jonathan Knox One website Live with information - One story, Internal (6) (15)
underway Q&A
As L300 call I Postmasters Debbie Smith One email Post Office response to judgment, directing I (14)
underway branches to One website for the One Story (
Debbie Smith)

As L300 call I Media Mel Corfield Media Reactive /proactive tbc (7)
underway statement
tbe
As L300 call I Social Media Darren Jones Social media I Pre prepared tweets and messages for (7)
underway Team channels reactive response using media statement
Time tbe Commercial Mark Siviter, Owen Call & Email Post Office response to judgment (16) (18)

partners CEO's Woodley, Shikha

RMG,BOLFujitsu_ I Hornsey
Time tbe BEIS/UKGI Patrick Bourke Face to face Post Office response to judgment (30)

ministers/policy meeting

Possibly include (Brief tbc)

Ministerial &

Perm Sec
Time tbe BEIS Comms Mel Corfield Email Media statement (7)
Time tbe Press office & Ruth Barker/Press I Email Media statement (7)

public affairs Team

teams -RMG, BOI,

Fujitsu
Time tbe DMB Managers Steve Blampied Email Post Office response to judgment (39)
Time tbe Paula Vennells/ I tbc Call/email Post Office response to judgment (31)

Ex-chairman/

NEDs/
Time tbe Payzone Agents I Andrew Goddard Requirements I Post Office response to judgment (21)

tbe doesn’t impact Payzone

11
POL00091452

POL00091452
Time tbe Payzone Andrew Goddard Email Post Office response to judgment (21)
employees doesn’t impact Payzone
Time tbe Multiple Karl Oliver/Amanda Call / email Post Office response to judgment (16) (17)
Partners/WHS Jones (Retail partners)
Time tbe Retail Ops Team I Pam Heap/ Amanda Call & email PMR One story, Internal Q&A, PO &GLO. (6) (7) (8) (10) (15)
Branch Support I Jones Facts sheets, Media statement, link to (34) (35)
Change Manager intranet, reactive Postmaster talking brief,
Onboarding & reopen branch brief
Training teams
supporting
branches
Time tbe Retail Sales Team I Andy Call & email PMR One story, Internal Q&A, PO &GLO (6) (7) (8) (10) (15)
Area Managers Kingham/Amanda Facts sheets, Media statement, link to (34) (35)
Jones intranet, reactive Postmaster talking brief,
reopen branch brief
Time tbe Loss Prevention I Tim Perkins/Julie Call & email PMR One story, Internal Q&A, PO & GLO (6) (7) (8) (10) (15)
Team Thomas Facts sheets, Media statement - link to
intranet
Time tbe Property Team Steve Norris/Julie Call & email PMR One story, Internal Q&A, PO & GLO (6) (7) (8) (10) (15)
Thomas Facts sheets, Media statement - link to
intranet
Time tbe HRSC David Higham Email Talking brief & Internal Q&A (6) (37)
Time tbc BSC Kim Abbotts Email Talking brief & Internal Q&A (6) (29)
Time tbe ECT Laura Tarling Email Customer and Postmaster brief, Internal (6) (29) (28) (7)
Q&A, media statement
Time tbe Onboarding Laura Tarling Email Talking brief & Internal Q&A (6) (38)
Team
Time tbe National Peter Johnson Email Customer Service brief & Internal Q&A (6) (28)
Consultation
Team
Time tbe Horizon Helpline I Ben Cook Email Talking brief & Q&A (6) (29)
(IT service desk)
Time tbe GrapeVine/King I Julie Thomas Email Redirect enquiries to BSC (22)
Security
Telco helpline

12
POL00091452

POL00091452

Time tbe Customer Kim Abbotts Email Post Office response to judgment (6) (28)
Services (External), Q&A
Time tbe IT Supplier Shikha Hornsey Call & email Post Office response to judgment (16) (19)
Management (External)
(exc Fujitsu)
Time tbe Procurement Barbara Brannon Email Post Office response to judgment (19)
contacts (External)
Time tbe Regulators Jonathan Hill Email Post Office response to judgment (16) (18)
(External)
Time tbe Clients Owen Woodley (BOI) Call &letter/ I Post Office response to judgment (16) (18)
Martin Edwards email (External)
(IDP,HO,DVLA)
Chrysanthy Pispinis
(FRES,Moneygram)
Meredith Sharples
(Telecoms),
Ed Dutton (Insurance),
Mark Siviter (One4all,
Camelot, Royal Mail),
Martin Kearsley
(Banking, POCA),
Russell Hancock (Bank
of England)
Andrew Goddard/Paul
Wordsworth ( Bill
Payment)
Time tbe McKinsey Lisa Cherry Email Post Office response to judgment (19)
(External)
Time tbe NFSP. Amanda Jones /Nick Call/F2F Post Office response to judgment (23) (7)
Beal briefing tbe speaking brief, media statement
Time tbe CWU & Unite Lee Kelly tbe Post Office response to judgment (24) (7)
(tbc) speaking brief, media statement
Time tbe MPs Patrick Bourke/Alice tbe Parliament will be dissolved 6/11- (26) (7)
Cookson 12/12/19, media statement

13
POL00091452

POL00091452
Time tbe Citizens Advice Patrick Bourke Call/email Post Office response to judgment, media (26) (7)
statement
Post Judgment Days 2-14
When Audience Delivered by Channel Key messages /activity Document number*
Day 2-14 Postmasters Rina Patel OBU posted POL response, how we supports PMRs, One I (20)
to website link to video
Postmasters
(excl Mults)??
Day 2-14 Postmasters Communication Team I TBC - f2f Reactive responses tbe
tbc/Legal Teams events??
Day 2 -14 POL Colleagues Communication Team I Update Reactive responses tbe
/Legal Teams Intranet page,
f2f events??
Day 2 -14 Client Communication Team I Email via Reactive responses tbe
Teams/Suppliers I /Legal Teams Client/suppli
er teams
Day 2 -14 UNITE,CWU Communication Team I Email via Lee I Reactive responses tbe
tbc/Legal Teams Kelly
Day 2 -14 NFSP. Communication Team I Email via Reactive responses tbe
tbc/Legal Teams Amanda Jones
Day 2-14 Media/Social Communication Team I Media/Social I Reactive responses tbe
Media tbc/Legal Teams channels
Day 2-14 Political ext Communication Team I Email via Reactive responses tbe
stakeholders tbc/Legal Teams relevant team

14
POL00091452
POL00091452

Handling different stakeholders

This section sets out all of the Post Office’s key stakeholder groups, and includes for each
group:

41. The context in which the Post Office will be communicating with them
2. An engagement approach
3. Relevant collateral materials

15
POL00091452
POL00091452

Media

Context

Other than Nick Wallis, no journalists are following the litigation on a detailed, day-to-day basis.
However, the Daily Mail is running an ongoing campaign to save local Post Office branches,
and has dipped into the trial at times, with coverage usually written by Sam Greenhill, the
paper's highly experienced chief reporter.

Broadly speaking, therefore, given that there is not a wide pool of journalists who have followed
the trial in detail; those penning the coverage of the Judgment are likely to have little detailed
knowledge of the issues at hand.

The Judgment is likely to be extremely long and detailed; too long for a journalist at a
broadcaster or daily paper to read, digest and report on within the necessary timeframe.
Journalists are therefore going to be particularly reliant on the parties (who are likely to have
advanced sight of the document) pointing out key parts of the Judgment that support their case.
Based on previous experience, Nick Wallis is likely to brief particular media outlets and offer
himself for interview to some broadcasters.

Depending on the approach taken by the court in providing advance public warning about the
timing of the Judgment, and subject to the claimants’ approach to tipping off journalists, many
newsdesks may learn about the Judgment for the first time when it breaks on another outlet’s
website (or, most likely, on the news wires). Given the time constraints set out above, this initial
coverage is likely to frame the coverage of other outlets.

The claimants will be well advised to ensure that they catalogue the most damning parts of the
Judgment and put them in front of the media at the earliest possible opportunity, to try to frame
the coverage. Therefore it is vital that we consider carefully how proactive we should be in
response to the judgment.

Handling approach

It will not be possible to formulate a precise handling strategy until the embargoed Judgment
has been received and reviewed. However, the nature of our approach is likely to be
conditioned by three key factors:

1. The Judgment: How bad/good it is for the Post Office, and the volume and content of
key quotes that are likely to make headlines

Given we expect to have the chance to review the Judgment ahead of publication, we will have
time to come to a view as to how bad the Judgment is for our position. Subject to the other

criteria set out below, in general terms the worse the Judgment, the more proactive we will want
to be. This is because there is likely to be a significant coverage of an extremely bad Judgment

16
POL00091452
POL00091452

— whatever approach we adopt — and therefore the need to try to control the story takes
precedence over hanging back and hoping it passes unnoticed.

WBD will scope out the document during the embargo process to establish the key findings and
legal ramifications.

2. The extent to which media are aware that the Judgment is coming, and are tee’d up to
cover it

The extent to which the media are primed and prepared for a Judgment will have a bearing on
how proactive the business should be. If it is clear that the media are fully aware of the
publication date of the Judgment, and are primed and ready to cover it as soon as it lands, it will
clearly be in our interests to be as proactive as possible, to try to shape the story in the key first
hours in which the tone of the coverage will be set.

If it is clear that media are totally unaware of the Judgment, and depending on the other factors
identified here, there may be some merit in taking a more reactive approach.

In advance of the Judgment, we will monitor media for any coverage foreshadowing the
Judgment, as well as any social media comment referencing a forthcoming Judgment, and the
tone of these.

3. Knowledge the business has of how the claimants - and other stakeholders - are likely
to react

Intelligence on how key stakeholders such as NFSP, as well as the claimants themselves, are
likely to react will help finalise our planned approach.

It will be important to keep open channels of communication with key stakeholders during the
embargo period, to try to understand their likely approach. While the Post Office will obviously
not be able to share details of the Judgment, it is possible that some stakeholders, if they are
aware of a forthcoming Judgment, may draw up statements that will be essentially the same,
regardless of the content of the Judgment, and so any intelligence we can glean as to how
these stakeholders are likely to react will help us finesse our own approach.

17
POL00091452

POL00091452

Collateral

Draft media statement
DOCUMENT -- 7

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

POST OFFICE RESPONSE TO JUDGMENT IN THE SECOND TRIAL OF GROUP
LITIGATION ORDER

The Honourable Mr Justice Fraser has delivered his Judgment in the second trial of Group
Litigation brought against Post Office by a small proportion of former postmasters. The purpose
of this second trial was to determine a number of technical matters about Post Office’s Horizon
computer system (the electronic point of sale system in branches). This trial forms part of the
stages in the litigation which are designed to establish the context in which the facts and
circumstances of the individual claims can properly be determined. Further hearings to
determine other legal matters ahead of examination of individual cases, are currently scheduled
through to 2020.

Post Office Chairman Tim Parker said:
“We take this Judgment, and the litigation of which it forms part, extremely seriously.

“It is another important stage in working towards resolving the individual cases involved, which
we are of course keen to do.

“We are taking on board the lessons being learned by the litigation about the continuing
improvements we must make but [WORDING SUBJECT TO DETAILED LEGAL ASSESSMENT
AGAINST JUDGMENT: we are confident that overall the computer system in our network is
robust, comparing well with systems used by other retail and financial services companies every
day. This was confirmed by both the independent experts, on opposite sides of the litigation,
during court proceedings.

“Clearly no system can ever be said to be perfect. That is why Horizon’s performance is
continually monitored and why we’re working as hard as ever to make improvements wherever
we can.

“Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year.
There is reconciliation every day, every, month, every year, which includes the systems of major
organisations we work with such as high street banks. This gives confidence in the many
products and services we provide.

“As the Judgment underlines, the way in which we help our postmasters operate their Post
Offices to deliver those services is absolutely central to our joint success. We're continuing to
take firm action to improve that support, alongside further investment in our technology.

18
POL00091452
POL00091452

“Over the past 12 to 18 months, we have had a particular focus on building a stronger
partnership with our postmasters to help them better serve their customers, earn more money,
for less effort, and with improved support from us.

“We are committed to making it easier for our postmasters to deliver vital Post Office services
our customers want and need and build thriving businesses for themselves at the same time.”

[Add in lines re potential next legal steps as appropriate]

-ends-

Notes to editors

[NOTE: MIGHT HAVE TO EXCLUDE THIS LINE, DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS]
The products and services that Post Office’s provide every day to millions of customers are not
affected by the litigation.]

The litigation is part of a long-running dispute between Post Office and a group of mostly former
postmasters who have made allegations about technical, operational and contractual matters.
A High Court claim was issued in April 2016 and in March 2017 the Court issues a Group
Litigation Order (GLO), a procedural tool to enable the Court to manage litigation affecting
multiple parties.

The case is complex and the Judge ordered that it will be heard as a series of trials. Two trials
have been held to date: the first on contractual matters between Post Office and postmasters
and the second on technical matters regarding Post Office’s computer system, Horizon.

Neither of these trials have or will determine liability or the individual claimants cases. Further
Court hearings are scheduled through into 2020.

The Horizon system

Horizon is the electronic point of sale system used across all 11,500 Post Office branches to
record and reconcile each transaction.

Horizon supports approximately 30,000 terminals in branches, with currently around 60,000
users. The system processes 47 million transactions a week.

Horizon was first introduced in 1995 on a pilot basis in a small number of Post Office branches,
before being rolled out more widely. The current version — Horizon Online — was introduced in
2010 and has been continually improved and updated. Investing in technology remains a priority
and in 2018/19 Post Office rolled out new equipment to all branches and transformed its back
office systems.

Transactions in Post Office branches are undertaken on behalf of other large-scale
organisations including high street banks, utility companies and Government departments.
Around £60 billion worth of transactions are processed through Horizon every year.

19
POL00091452
POL00091452

Core media Q&A
DOCUMENT 2

CORE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS — REACTIVE ONLY (FOR MEDIA AND EXTERNAL
AUDIENCES)

TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT
Horizon flawed
Topline

We are confident that the overall Horizon system is robust, processing 47 million transactions a
week. While no system is perfect, independent experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed
during the trial that Horizon is robust and compares well with IT systems used by other retail
and financial services companies.

Key Q&A

Q. The Judge has ruled that the Horizon system is fundamentally flawed and not fit for
purpose. Do you agree with this ruling?

A. The Judgment is very detailed and we are studying it carefully. We are working with Fujitsu
to make improvements and we take the comments made very seriously.

But it is important to underline that, whilst no large-scale IT system is perfect, independent
experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed during the trial that Horizon is robust and
compares well with similar complex IT systems used by other retail and financial services
companies.

Context is also important: Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than
£60 billion worth a year. There is reconciliation every day, every month, every year, including
with the systems of major organisations such as high street banks.

NB For example, banking transactions are correlated back to banks’ individual systems and
have done so for years. It is the banks’ own systems that issue authorisation to Post Office via
an external company called VocaLink for each and every transaction. VocaLink issues a report
each day called an LREC (Link Reconciliation) which tells Post Office and every bank who owes
what to whom for settlement the next day. This is an industry-wide mechanism that mirrors the
standard ATM networks, covering some 3-4 billion transactions a year.

Q. How many bugs have you identified?
A. Bugs exist in any large and complex IT system and the management of a system like Horizon

involves processes for continuous monitoring, counter measures and improvements. We have

20
POL00091452
POL00091452

well established processes in place with our IT partner, Fujitsu, to identify and remedy any
issues with the system, and all of the bugs discussed during the trial were resolved. [Note:
There were 29 — these were various issues arising at different times over the past two decades].

Q. Do you accept that the IT failures identified in the trial could have been responsible for
financial discrepancies at branch level?

A. The purpose of the Horizon Issues Trial was to establish the facts about technical matters
concerning the Horizon computer system, and this Judgment does not determine the outcome
of any individual claims. Independent experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed during the
trial that Horizon is robust and compares well with similarly large and complex IT systems used
by other retail and financial services companies.

[NB: Post Office’s position — as outlined in its closing submission at trial — is that whilst no large-
scale IT system can be perfect, it is overwhelmingly unlikely that any significant amount of the
overall shortfall claimed was caused by the matters the claimants complain of regarding the
system.]

Q. How can you continue to use a system that has been exposed as containing
numerous bugs and subject to other flaws?

A. Bugs exist in any large and complex IT system, and the management of any system like
Horizon involves a programme of continuous counter-measures and improvement. We have
confidence in the system and independent experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed
during the trial that Horizon is robust and compares well with IT systems used by other retail
and financial services companies. We have well established processes in place with our IT
partner, Fujitsu, to identify and remedy any issues with the system.

Context is important: Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60
billion worth a year. There is reconciliation every day, every month, every year, which includes
the systems of major organisations such as the high street banks.

NB For example, banking transactions are correlated back to banks’ individual systems and
have done so for years. It is the banks’ own systems that issue authorisation to Post Office via
an external company called VocaLink for each and every transaction. VocaLink issues a report
each day called an LREC (Link Reconciliation) which tells Post Office and every bank who owes
what to whom for settlement the next day. This is an industry-wide mechanism that mirrors the
standard ATM networks, covering some 3-4 billion transactions a year.

Q. The PO highlights the large number of transactions it completes every day - but in the
context of this Judgment doesn't that underline the scale of risk posed by Horizon?

21
POL00091452
POL00091452

Not at all. Horizon processes 47 million transactions a week with reconciliation which includes
the systems of other major organisations such as high street banks.

Post Office trial conduct
Topline

This was an incredibly complex trial, examining highly technical questions spanning a period of
around twenty years. The Post Office provided extensive disclosure of information throughout
the trial, often in response to late disclosure requests made by the claimants. However, we
respect the views of the Court and will ensure that we take this criticism on board as we prepare
for the next stage of the litigation.

Key Q&A
Q. Why did the PO resist disclosure of so much material and/or provide it so late?

A. The Post Office provided extensive disclosure of information throughout the trial — often in
response to late disclosure requests by the claimants. A lot of this material related to incredibly
complex technical data, some stretching back 20 years into the past, which had to be extracted
from systems.

At every stage of the disclosure process, we have sought to ensure that the claimants are
provided with access to the documents required. The volume of disclosure is very significant,
with searches through 17 million documents to date. Horizon documents are held and supplied
by Fujitsu and we have worked with a specialist disclosure consultancy to assist with this major
disclosure exercise which involves more than 80 classes of documents. In excess of 500,000
documents have been provided by Post Office to date, with around half of these directly related
to Horizon.

[ If asked about recent disclosure issue re Fujitsu: We take our continuing duty of disclosure
very seriously. We were extremely disappointed recently to learn from our supplier, Fujitsu, that
information provided earlier in the litigation regarding the availability of older versions of some
specific technical documents was inaccurate. We immediately notified the claimants and the
Court of this and we have, of course, now made the appropriate further disclosure. We are very
sorry about this development and have apologised both to the Court and the Claimants, through
their solicitors]

Q. Why did the PO witnesses refuse to acknowledge the clear and obvious problems with
Horizon?

A. While the experts from both sides of the litigation agreed on the fundamental issue that the
Horizon system is robust, there were some areas in which they were unable to reach
agreement. But this was an incredibly complex trial, examining highly technical questions

22
POL00091452

POL00091452

spanning a period of around twenty years, and it is not surprising that different witnesses on
both sides expressed different views and perspectives.

Q. The Judge has described the PO as having a ‘culture of secrecy’ and going to extreme
lengths to withhold or delay evidence. Why was that?

A. The events examined in the trial covered a period of around twenty years. At every stage of
the disclosure process, we have sought to ensure that the claimants are provided with access to
the documents required. The volume of disclosure is very significant, with searches through 17
million documents to date. Horizon documents are held and supplied by Fujitsu and we have
worked with a specialist disclosure consultancy to assist with this major disclosure exercise
which involves more than 80 classes of documents. In excess of 500,000 documents have been
provided by Post Office to date, with around half of these directly related to Horizon.

Q. The Judge criticised Dr Worden as careless, saying that he was acting to a pre-
ordained view that favoured the PO. Why is that?

A. We are disappointed that the judge came to this view. As an independent expert witness Dr
Worden provided careful and balanced evidence and made every effort to provide assistance to
the Court and to provide full and helpful answers in response to the questions posed to him
about Horizon.

Post Office culture
Topline

There is nothing more important to our business than our relationship with our postmasters, the
people delivering our services to customers day-in, day-out, and we are committed to making it
easier for them to build thriving businesses. The events examined in the trial covered a period of
around twenty years, and the culture and practices of the Post Office have changed significantly
over this period. We are continuing to improve how we support postmasters — including
onboarding, better training and communications, specific new help using Horizon, and the
creation of a new field team to build closer links with branches. In addition we have taken steps
to improve postmaster remuneration.

Key Q&A

Q. Was the PO engaged in an institutional attempt to cover up the failings of the Horizon
system?

A. Absolutely not. The Horizon system has been a matter of public and political debate for a
number of years and the PO has responded to numerous requests for information, including
from Parliament. We have disclosed extensive information during the course of the litigation and
will continue to do so.

23
POL00091452
POL00091452

At every stage of the disclosure process, we have sought to ensure that the claimants are
provided with access to the documents required. The volume of disclosure is very significant,
with searches through 17 million documents to date. Horizon documents are held and supplied
by Fujitsu and we have worked with a specialist disclosure consultancy to assist with this major
disclosure exercise which involves more than 80 classes of documents. In excess of 500,000
documents have been provided by Post Office to date, with around half of these directly related
to Horizon.

Q. Do you accept that the PO has failed to exercise a proper duty of care towards
postmasters?

A. Our relationship with our postmasters is of the utmost importance and we are absolutely
committed to supporting them to operate their branches. We are working hard to improve,
including taking on board criticisms made during this litigation. We are increasing the practical
support that we provide to them centrally and in the field, as well as implementing measures
that will increase their remuneration.

Q. Why did the PO deny for so long that it was possible to access the Horizon system
remotely, when it turns out that both the PO and Fujitsu could do so?

A. Post Office regrets that fuller information on this point was not made available in the past.
We have always tried to answer questions about this very technical subject honestly. We do
now have more information about it.

To be clear — Post Office has ‘read only’ access to transaction histories and reporting to enable,
for example, work in back office reconciliation.

Fujitsu, as the supplier of Horizon, has remote access capabilities for maintenance and support
purposes. These capabilities, which are strictly controlled, are restricted to specialist personnel
and in the rare and unlikely circumstances where work needs to be undertaken which could
affect branch accounts, postmasters are contacted. Controls also include privileged access
being temporary and revoked immediately after use and a secure audit trail retained which
shows the detail of any Fujitsu intervention, with a record of the contact with postmasters.
There is no functionality that provides the ability to remotely log on as a member of the support
team and carry out any transactions at the branch.

The term ‘remote access’ is often used to refer to malicious tampering by people unauthorised

to enter a system eg hackers. There is no evidence that this has ever occurred.

[NB: During the trial Post Office defined the term ‘remote access’ as the ways in which Post
Office and/ or Fujitsu can access the Horizon system and insert, edit or delete transaction data
in branch accounts without being physically present in a branch.]

24
POL00091452
POL00091452

Q. Why did the PO helpline provide inadequate and inaccurate advice to postmasters?
Does it still do this today?

A. The litigation is about resolving individual claims, which have not yet been examined in detail
by the Court. These claims, spanning around two decades, represent a very small proportion of
people working in our network and using our systems during that time. We do not accept
therefore that our helplines and advice has been inadequate.

That does not mean we've been complacent and we are committed to improving our support for
our postmasters. We've made changes this year that enable us to respond to concerns and
enquires more quickly and effectively.

Q. Why did the PO refuse to fix some bugs for cost reasons?

There is no evidence to suggest that the Post Office or its IT partner, Fujitsu, refused to take
appropriate action to fix bugs because it was too expensive to do so. The trial heard evidence of
Fujitsu’s dedication and professionalism in identifying and fixing bugs.

When considering how to remedy potential bugs, engineers always carefully analyse a range of
factors including the significance of the bug itself.

Fujitsu relationship
Topline

Expert witnesses for both sides in the litigation agree that Fujitsu had good systems in place to
spot and fix problems with Horizon. We have a strong and positive relationship with Fujitsu and
today we are continuing working closely together to ensure postmasters are better supported,
and improvements made to simplify aspects of Horizon

Key Q&A

Q. The Judge reserved some of his strongest criticism for Fujitsu's witnesses. What is
the PO view on their evidence?

A. This is a detailed and lengthy Judgment covering a period spanning two decades and
covering highly complex, technical matters. We will take time to examine it closely.

Q. Given the heavy criticism of Fujitsu during the period analysed by the Judge, will you
be looking to recoup any damages awarded against you from Fujitsu?

A. The purpose of the Horizon Issues Trial was to establish the facts about technical matters
concerning the Horizon computer system, and this Judgment does not determine the outcome
of any individual claims. There are further hearings, currently scheduled into 2020. This is a

25
POL00091452
POL00091452

detailed and lengthy Judgment covering a period spanning two decades, and we will take time
to examine it closely.

Q. What action have you taken to seek redress for some of the poor performance by
Fujitsu revealed in the course of this trial?

A. This is a detailed and lengthy Judgment covering a period spanning two decades, and we will
take time to examine it closely.

Q. Will you sever your relationship with Fujitsu, given the judge's damning comments
about them?

A. No. We are confident that the overall Horizon system is robust, processing 47 million
transactions a week through 11,500 Post Office branches. While no large-scale IT system is
perfect, independent experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed during the trial that
Horizon is robust and compares well with IT systems used by other retail and financial services
companies.

The Judgment covers a very long period of time, during which there have been significant
changes. We are carefully considering its detail but it’s important to underline that overall we
have a strong and positive relationship with Fujitsu and we are working closely together on
making improvements.

Q. Why does the Post Office still trust Fujitsu to provide this service?
A. Post Office has strong governance measures in place in working with Fujitsu.

While no large-scale IT system is perfect, independent experts on both sides of the litigation
confirmed during the trial that Horizon is robust and compares well with IT systems used by
other retail and financial services companies.

It's important to underline the context of the litigation: Horizon processes 47m transactions a
week through 11,500 Post Office branches.

Future of Horizon
Topline

We are confident that the overall Horizon system is robust, processing 47 million transactions a
week. While no system is perfect, independent experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed
during the trial that Horizon is robust and compares well with IT systems used by other retail
and financial services companies. As we continue to use Horizon we are strengthening the
system through further investment in new equipment and in additional training and support for
postmasters.

26
POL00091452
POL00091452

Key Q&A
Q. Will you now scrap this system?

No, we are confident that the overall Horizon system is robust, processing 47 million
transactions a week through our network of 11,500 Post Office branches with reconciliation
which includes other major organisations such as high street banks. While no large-scale IT
system is perfect, independent experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed during the trial
that Horizon is robust and compares well with IT systems used by other retail and financial
services companies.

We will be working closely with Fujitsu to continue to make improvements, alongside the actions
we're taking to better support our postmasters with, for example, enhanced training.

Q. Could the problems identified in this trial be the tip of an iceberg?

While no large-scale IT system is perfect, independent experts on both sides of the litigation
confirmed during the trial that Horizon is robust and compares well with IT systems used by

other retail and financial services companies. We are continuing to make improvements and
there are numerous continuous countermeasures in place, audited on a regular basis, which
prevent or detect technical issues.

Q. Are you expecting more victims to come forward?

The purpose of the litigation is to resolve the cases of the individual claimants included in the
Group Litigation Order.

The Group Litigation Order was advertised and promoted by the claimants’ legal team for eight
months, as specified by the Court. There are [551] claimants with complaints which span the
past two decades, representing a very small proportion of people who have worked in our
network using our systems during that time.

Q. What steps are you taking to reassure postmasters that the system is robust?

We are communicating openly with our postmasters about the litigation and we are also
ensuring that they can easily raise any concerns or queries they have.

While no large-scale IT system is perfect, independent experts on both sides of the litigation
confirmed during the trial that Horizon is robust and compares well with IT systems used by
other retail and financial services companies.

We are continuing to make improvements to the way in which we work with postmasters,
including to training and support.

27
POL00091452
POL00091452

Q. What will happen to any postmasters refusing to use the system?

We want our postmasters to feel confident about operating their branches. Independent experts
on both sides of the litigation confirmed during the trial that Horizon is robust and compares well
with IT systems used by other retail and financial services companies. Nevertheless, we will
have additional support staff on hand in the coming days, to complement the new measures we
have put in place to better support postmasters. These include improvements to training, the
creation of a new field team to build closer links with branches and changes which enable our
helplines to respond to concerns and queries more quickly and effectively.

Q. What steps are you taking to address the problems with Horizon?

We are confident that the overall Horizon system is robust. It processes 47 million transactions
a week, with reconciliation which includes the systems of other major organisations such as
high street banks. We are focussed on continual improvements, working closely with Fujitsu
and our postmasters.

In 2018/19 we completed a roll-out of new equipment to all our branches and transformed our
back office systems. Our current plans include taking action to improve some of our transaction
processes and system design to make life simpler for our postmasters and further reduce the
risk of human errors. Some work is already completed or underway.

Alongside this we are improving our training and support and working hard, through structural
changes we've made, to build a stronger relationship with postmasters.

Q. Will Horizon need to be replaced in the longer term?

Like any business, we constantly review our systems, but we have no plans to replace Horizon.
We are focused on continual developments and improvements, working closely with Fujitsu and
our postmasters. Over the past year we have completed a roll-out of new equipment to all our
branches and transformed our back office systems.

Accountabilit
Topline

This is a detailed and lengthy Judgment covering a period spanning two decades, and we will
take time to examine it closely. The culture and practices of the Post Office have changed
significantly over the two decades covered by the Judgment.

We're continuing to improve the ways in which we work with postmasters and we’ve made
changes this year to provide better onboarding for new postmasters, better training, specific
new help using Horizon, and the creation of a new field team to build closer links with branches.
In addition we have taken steps to improve postmaster remuneration.

28
POL00091452
POL00091452

Key Q&A
Q. How much hasiwill this trial cost taxpayers?

A. We have set out in our ARA 2018/19 the position regarding costs relating to the litigation.
Costs of £20m are included in exceptional items.

Q. Will the PO now move to settle cases with claimants to bring this saga to an end?

A. This is an incredibly complex piece of litigation, examining highly technical questions
spanning a period of around twenty years. The conclusion of the Horizon Issues Trial represents
a positive step along the pathway to resolving the individual claims that have been raised which
have not yet been examined in detail by the Court.

[tbc if timings for mediation remain agreed and dependent on agreed public statement re the
process: We have been keen to engage in mediation with the claimants and we are pleased that
they have now agreed a process/ timetable for this. Mediation will begin on 27 November 2019.
We believe that, by entering into mediation in good faith, both parties have the opportunity to
resolve the individual cases underlying the litigation and bring them to a conclusion.

The process provides for candid dialogue between the parties, facilitated by an impartial and
experienced mediator in a confidential environment.

Whilst we recognise the complexities of the issues involved we hope that, with the positive
participation of both sides, we might be able to find a path to avoid further prolonging the
litigation.

Both parties have agreed that the necessary confidentiality of mediation will be respected and
will not be making public comments about its details during the process.]

Q. Who should take ultimate responsibility for this debacle?

A. The conclusion of the Horizon Issues Trial represents a positive step along the pathway to
resolving the claims that have been raised but it should be underlined that there is no
determination regarding the individual cases which have not yet been examined in Court. Given
that proceedings are still live, it would not be appropriate for us to comment further.

Q. Will any senior executives of the PO be removed from their positions?

A. The conclusion of the Horizon Issues Trial represents a positive step along the pathway to
resolving the claims that have been raised but it should be underlined that there is no
determination regarding the individual cases which have not yet been examined in Court. Given
that proceedings are still live, it would not be appropriate for us to comment further.

29
POL00091452
POL00091452

Reactive lines in case of network disruption
DOCUMENT - 27

NOTE: TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST OPERATIONAL POSITION [FRAMEWORK &
COMMUNICATIONS PLAN FOR NETWORK DISRUPTION IN DEVELOPMENT]

REACTIVE MEDIA LINES TO TAKE IF DISRUPTION TO NETWORK EG SOME BRANCHES
REFUSE TO OPEN

e The vast majority of our 11,500 Post Office branches are open for business as usual.

e Weare sorry that a small minority of branches are closed but we’re doing all we can to
work with those postmasters to re-open as soon as possible. Customers are advised to
use other branches in the area [contact xxxx].

e [NOTE — MAY HAVE TO EXCLUDE THIS LINE DEPENDENT ON JUDGE'S
COMMENTS - Customers can continue to have confidence in Post Office products and
services.] Around 47 million transactions a week are processed through Post Office
branches on behalf of other large-scale organisations including high street banks, utility
companies and Government departments.

e The litigation is part of a long-running dispute between Post Office and a small
proportion of mainly former postmasters.

e@ The case is complex and is being heard in stages, currently scheduled through to 2020.
The Judgment concerning the Horizon computer system covered technical matters
relating to the 20-year period spanned by individual claims, during which time there have
been significant changes, with some of the systems and processes referenced no longer
in existence.

REFER TO MEDIA STATEMENT & Qs and As

30
POL00091452
POL00091452

Political audiences

Context

There is close interest in this issue within Whitehall, specifically within BEIS/UKGI. This will be
heightened by the general election and concerns that this issue could become the subject of
political controversy.

There has recently been limited parliamentary discussion of the GLO or the issues it raises. Ina
debate in April regarding Post Office, the chair, Dame Cheryl Gillan MP, reminded members
that the litigation was still live and that therefore, in accordance with the House's sub judice
resolution, there should be no discussion about the GLO. As a result, while there was criticism
of postmaster remuneration and questions about the sustainability of the PO network, there was
no consideration of the issues at hand in the GLO.

There were 13 PQs relating to the GLO in 2019. The overwhelming majority of these related to
specific issues such as ascertaining the cost of the litigation, the number of meetings ministers
have held with the PO, and the identity of the PO's lawyers. Similarly a few flag cases from MPs
with constituents who are claimants have asked limited questions along the same lines.

Of the distinct pieces of national newspaper coverage relating to the GLO in 2019, none have
featured quotes from any MPs or Peers (save for a limited comment from Lord Arbuthnot). So,
overall, there has been limited parliamentary interest in the GLO itself in recent months -
perhaps as a function of the fact that proceedings remain live.

However, there is significant broader political interest in the Post Office network and in issues
regarding postmasters. Select committees have periodically examined these themes, most
recently the BEIS committee under Rachel Reeves.

More generally, MPs across the political spectrum are highly exercised by any attempt to close
or redesignate an individual Post Office and many on the Labour side have close links to the
CWU. Many have in the past commented on the Horizon issue.

Given their general familiarity with the Post Office and their connections with third parties and in
some cases campaigners, there is the potential for any adverse Judgment in the Horizon trial to
become quickly politicised in the context of the current general election.

Handling approach

The handling with government stakeholders should be proactive and it will be very important to
ensure that Whitehall networks, particularly within BEIS/UKGI, are fully aware of our general
handling plan and messaging in response to the Judgment. Conversations and updates are
continuing.

31
POL00091452
POL00091452

Wider political handling will depend upon the nature of the Judgment and immediate media
interest in the story, but will ideally be reactive only. In the event of a highly critical Judgment
and indications that there is likely to be strong press interest, it may be necessary to write to
relevant members of the Labour and Liberal Democrat front bench teams, setting out our
response, as well as to communicate with other key stakeholders including the former chair of
the BEIS select committee, who may be asked for comment.

32
POL00091452

POL00091452

Collateral
Letter to relevant former MPs

DOCUMENT - 26

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/ POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

LETTER TO RELEVANT FORMER MPs (Patrick Bourke)
Dear

You may have seen reports about a High Court Judgment in relation to the Post Office, which
was issued earlier today. I wanted to provide you with the Post Office position in relation to this.

This is the second Judgment in complex and long-running Group Litigation to resolve a number
of individual claims by mainly former postmasters. Despite attempts to resolve this without
recourse to the Courts, legal proceedings in this case have been underway since April 2016 and
the case is being heard in phases through separate trials about technical, operational and
contractual matters.

The claims span a period of around two decades, during which there have been significant
changes in our business with improvements to our culture, processes and technology.

The latest Judgment in the litigation covers technical matters relating to Post Office’s computer
system, Horizon, including our legacy system which was replaced in 2010. It is another stage
in working towards resolving the individual cases, which we are of course keen to do.

[NOTE —- THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED, DEPENDENT ON JUDGEMENT: The Judgment
is detailed and it will take time to consider it fully but I want to provide reassurance that the
Court's findings do not affect the products and services the Post Office provides for customers
through its network of 11,500 Post Offices.]

[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT: I
can also reassure you regarding our Horizon system. We are confident that overall Horizon is
robust, comparing well with systems used by other retail and financial services companies each
day. Both independent experts, for Post Office and the claimants in the case, on opposite sides
of the litigation, confirmed this.]

Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year.
There is reconciliation every day, every, month, every year, including with the systems of other
major organisations including high street banks, giving confidence in the many products and
services we provide.

Of course no system can ever be said to be perfect and we’re working as hard as ever to make
improvements.

33
POL00091452
POL00091452

What the Judgment underlines [very strongly] is that we must continue to do better in the ways
in which we support our postmasters to operate their branches. We need to make it easier for
postmasters to avoid problems and we need to resolve any issues they do have more quickly.

For the past 12-18 months we have had a particular focus at every level of the business to build
a better partnership with our postmasters. Measures we've taken include improvements to
recruitment, training and operational support, alongside enhancements to our technology.

We're working closely with postmasters in making all these improvements. They are best
placed to tell us what makes it easier for them to operate Post Office branches more effectively.

It’s of the utmost importance to us that our postmasters receive the help and support they need
from us in serving millions of customers throughout the UK every day. We're committed to
continuing to improve.

If you would like more information please get in touch with me.

34
POL00091452
POL00091452

Postmasters

Context

The vast majority of postmasters have shown little interest in the GLO to date. Proactive
communications following the Common Issues Judgment in March resulted in around 50
enquiries/ comments from postmasters (a proportion of whom are disaffected and frequent
negative commentators). In recent postmaster forums and through other engagement led by
the field team issues from the GLO are not registering as a concern and their priorities are
around growing business and remuneration.

However, the Judgment from the Horizon Issues Trial will potentially increase interest, concern
and queries, given that there will likely be greater media coverage about a Judgment which
concerns a large-scale computer system. Postmasters will need to be reassured about the
wider actions Post Office is taking to improve and help support the value of their businesses, as
well as in the robustness of Horizon itself.

The programme of improvements that has been continuing this year — including the new field
team structure and changes to the Branch Support Centre — provide evidence in our narrative
that Post Office is listening to its postmasters and working more collaboratively with them. The
recently announced improvements to postmaster remuneration further underline the business’s
commitment to the relationship.

Handling approach
There will be proportionate and measured communications directly to postmasters (eg
Memoview and One). The communications will underline the programme of improvements and

signpost to further information. Area Managers and other teams engaging with postmasters will
be equipped with briefing and a process is in place for handling queries wherever they arise,

35
POL00091452

POL00091452

Collateral
Postmaster Q&A
DOCUMENT - 6

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

FOR INTERNAL USE AND INTERNAL AUDIENCES

Litigation/ Trial outcome and next legal steps
Q. What is the Group Litigation about?

The litigation is part of a long-running dispute between Post Office and a group of mostly former
postmasters who have made serious allegations about technical, operational and contractual
matters. The Judge has ordered that the case is heard in a series of trials. The first trial
(Common Issues Trial) was primarily about determining the legal construction of the contract
between Post Office and postmasters and the second trial (Horizon Trial) was about technical
matters concerning Post Office’s Horizon computer system. Further hearings are scheduled
through into 2020.

Q. What is the cost of the litigation so far and where is the money coming from?

We have set out in our ARA 2018/19 the position regarding costs relating to the litigation. Costs
of £20m are included in exceptional items (2017/18: £3m).

The Court has and will continue to review costs of both Post Office and the claimants through
the litigation, which is complex.

The Post Office Board and Group Executive continue to keep the litigation under very close
review. At the same time, the business has prioritised a programme of work to improve the ways
in which we work with current postmasters, operating around 11,000 Post Office branches
throughout the UK.

Q. What are the main findings of the Horizon Issues Judgment?
[tbc — from found/ not found document to be agreed when Judgment received]

Q. The Judge has ruled/ commented that the Horizon system is fundamentally flawed and
not fit for purpose. Do you agree with this?

The Judgment is very detailed and we are studying it carefully. We are working with Fujitsu to
make improvements and we take the comments made very seriously.

But it is important to underline that, whilst no large-scale IT system is perfect, independent
experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed during the trial that Horizon is robust and

36
POL00091452
POL00091452

compares well with similar complex IT systems used by other retail and financial services
companies.

Context is also important: Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than
£60 billion worth a year. There is reconciliation every day, every month, every year, including
with the systems of major organisations such as high street banks.

NB Banking transactions are correlated back to banks’ individual systems and have done so for
years. It is the banks’ own systems that issue authorisation to Post Office via an external
company called VocaLink for each and every transaction. VocaLink issues a report each day
called an LREC (Link Reconciliation) which tells Post Office and every bank who owes what to
whom for settlement the next day. This is an industry-wide mechanism that mirrors the
standard ATM networks, covering some 3-4 billion transactions a year.

Q. Do you accept that the IT failures identified in the trial could have been responsible
for financial discrepancies at branch level?

This Judgment does not determine the outcome of any individual claims. The purpose of the
Horizon Issues trial was to establish facts about particular technical matters concerning the
Horizon computer system.

[Post Office’s position — as outlined in its closing submission at trial — is that whilst no large-
scale IT system can be perfect, it is overwhelmingly unlikely that any significant amount of the
overall shortfall claimed was caused by the matters the claimants complain of regarding the
system. Independent experts on both sides of the litigation confirmed during the trial that
Horizon is robust and compares well with similarly large and complex IT systems used by other
retail and financial services companies.]

Q. Will you appeal the Horizon Issues Judgment?
We are studying the Judgment in detail and considering next steps.
Q. Why doesn’t Post Office settle these claims now?

[tbc if timings for mediation remain agreed and dependent on agreed public statement re the
process: We have been keen to engage in mediation with the claimants and we are pleased that
they have now agreed a process/ timetable for this. Mediation will begin on 27 November 2019.
We believe that, by entering into mediation in good faith, both parties have the opportunity to
resolve the individual cases underlying the litigation and bring them to a conclusion.

The process provides for candid dialogue between the parties, facilitated by an impartial and
experienced mediator in a confidential environment.

Whilst we recognise the complexities of the issues involved we hope that, with the positive
participation of both sides, we might be able to find a path to avoid further prolonging the
litigation.

Both parties have agreed that the necessary confidentiality of mediation will be respected and
will not be making public comments about its details during the process.]

37
POL00091452
POL00091452

Q. What does this mean for cases where people have been prosecuted?

The Criminal Cases Review Commission is investigating a number of cases. Post Office is of
course fully co-operating with the CCRC but it is not appropriate to comment whilst their work
continues.

Q. How will the individual cases in the Group Litigation be decided?

The case is complex and is being heard in stages, as a series of trials. The two trials held so far
(Common Issues and Horizon Issues) do not determine liability or the individual claimants’
cases, which have not yet been examined in detail. Further hearings in the litigation are
scheduled through to 2020. [If mediation dates remain agreed: At the same time we have been
keen to engage in mediation with the claimants and we are pleased that they have now agreed
a process and timetable for this. Mediation will begin on 27 November 2019.

We believe that, by entering into mediation in good faith, both parties have the opportunity to
resolve the individual cases underlying the litigation and bring them to a conclusion.

The process provides for candid dialogue between the parties, facilitated by an impartial and
experienced mediator in a confidential environment.

Whilst we recognise the complexities of the issues involved we hope that, with the positive
participation of both sides, we might be able to find a path to avoid further prolonging the
litigation.

Both parties have agreed that the necessary confidentiality of mediation will be respected and
will not be making public comments about its details during the process.]

Q. What is the position regarding the Post Office seeking to appeal the Judgment from
the first trial (Common Issues)?

Post Office sought permission to appeal from the Court of Appeal on 18 June 2019 and the
Court will hear this application on November 12 2019.

Q. Is Post Office now anticipating many further claims?

The purpose of the litigation is to resolve the cases of the individual claimants included in the
Group Litigation Order.

The Group Litigation Order was advertised and promoted by the claimants’ legal team for eight
months, as specified by the Court. There are 555 claimants with complaints which span the
past two decades, representing a very small proportion of people who have worked in our
network using our systems during that time.

Q. If Post Office loses the litigation will all postmasters be potentially entitled to
compensation whether they are part of GLO or not?

38
POL00091452
POL00091452

The purpose of the litigation is to resolve the individual claims that are part of the Group
Litigation Order. It is also important to underline individual claims have not yet been examined /
many legal matters concerning individual cases not yet determined, so it is not possible to
predict the outcomes from the overall litigation.

Q. How are the costs of litigation —- and potential compensation — going to affect
remuneration of current postmasters?

We're committed to improving the remuneration of our postmasters and the litigation does not
affect this. We announced the outcome of a six-month review on 4 November 2019 which
increases postmaster remuneration by £37 million. This comprises a £20m increase during
2020/21 and £17m already announced in August 2019. This means that the fees postmasters
receive for providing Post Office services in 2020/21 will be 10% higher than in 2018/19.

Q. Is Post Office likely to go out of business?

No. We've continued to increase our trading profits (from £25m to £60m over the 2018/19)
period and we’re making steady progress. We have a particular focus on improving support for
postmasters who run our branches — all of our trading profit is invested back into improvements
for postmasters and customers.

We have a strong foundation from which to move forward.

Regarding financial impacts from the litigation, we have outlined the current position in 2018/19
ARA and the Directors continue to keep this under close review.

Q. Will Government step in with financial support?

It’s not appropriate to discuss/ speculate about potential outcomes of continuing litigation.
We have outlined the current position in 2018/19 ARA and the Directors continue to keep this
under close review.]

Postmaster Contracts

Q. What is happening to postmaster contracts, following the first (Common Issues)
trial?

The Judgment from the first trial made criticisms of Post Office which we take extremely
seriously. We are making changes that focus on improving the ways in which we work together
with our postmasters.

We're working closely with postmasters as we make these changes, to ensure they respond to
their needs as well as those of the business, making branches simpler to operate and to prevent
or reduce risks.

A programme of change activities is underway and this includes incorporation of lessons
learned from the litigation. With the involvement of postmasters, the business is reshaping its

39
POL00091452

POL00091452

support offer to them. A new support model has been created which increases face- to-face
time with relationship managers in the field; a new loss prevention function with new leadership
focussing on an early intervention approach to prevent losses from occurring in the first place;
recruitment and onboarding is being improved through better pre-screening questions, a more
user-friendly website and streamlined electronic business plan; a redesigned training offer for
new and existing postmasters reduces the likelihood of operational errors; additional trainers
and classroom capacity are in place; the new field team structure provides the support of an
area manager to every Post Office branch regardless of size or location. Additionally, we’re
committed to improving the remuneration of our postmasters. We announced the outcome of a
six-month review on 4 November 2019 which increases postmaster remuneration by £37
million. This comprises a £20m increase during 2020/21 and £17m already announced in
August 2019. This means that the fees postmasters receive for providing Post Office services
in 2020/21 will be 10% higher than in 2018/19.

Q. Does my contract need to change as a result of the findings of the second (Horizon
Issues) trial?

We are studying the Judgment in detail. We will continue communicating with you about
changes we're making or planning in the business as we continue to improve the way in which
we work together.

Q. What has changed in the way branches are operated/ losses handled?

We're focussed on a more proactive and interventionist approach to prevent losses.

We've established our new field team to build better relationships with branches and introduced
the new Branch Support Centre (replacing NBSC) which works more closely alongside the IT
Helpline team. We've introduced a tiered support system so that issues can be more quickly
and effectively escalated, investigated and resolved. We are receiving good feedback from
branches about the changes.

Our new Loss Prevention team is helping to better protect postmasters from external crime and
security threats, while also refining processes to help reduce human errors and support
postmasters to run compliant businesses. We are also making changes which improve the
quality and transparency of our audit process.

For new postmasters, we are providing a single point of contact through their application and
‘onboarding’ process and Branch Support Managers have been introduced to support new
postmasters for up to six months to help embed their training and ensure postmasters and their
teams are set up for success.

Q. As a postmaster, am I still legally liable for the accuracy of my branch accounts?
Both the Post Office and postmasters have responsibilities and obligations to each other. The
improvements we’re making in the ways in which we work with postmasters are focussed on
providing better support.

Accurate information from branches is essential to help us to do this. Because we cannot be
present in every branch, it is only postmasters and their staff who can tell us how much cash

40
POL00091452

POL00091452

and stock they are actually holding, for example. It is therefore very important that accurate
cash declarations are made each day. This can help identify any discrepancies more easily and
effectively. The monthly branch trading accounts must similarly be completed accurately.

If you have a balancing or other issue, tell us quickly via the branch support centre [contact
XXXxXx].

If you have questions about your contract and/ or obligations you should contact your Area
Manager.

Q. I now want indemnity against any losses — how can I get the assurance that I will not
be held liable?

Postmasters are not responsible for shortfalls caused by Horizon.

Both the Post Office and postmasters have responsibilities and obligations to each other. It’s
very important that if you have a shortfall you are having difficulty investigating or explaining that
you contact us as soon as possible. Contact the Branch Support Centre (formerly NBSC)
[Dxxxx].

If you have technical issues contact the IT helpdesk on [xxx].

We know how worrying it can be if you have a shortfall that you don’t understand. We are
making significant improvements to better support you [point to latest communications].

If you have questions about your contract and/ or obligations you should contact your Area
Manager.

Q. Ino longer trust Horizon and don’t wish to trade. Will I be in breach of contract?

We want our postmasters to feel confident about operating their branches and we’re continuing
to make changes focussing on support. If you have concerns about contractual or other matters
you can raise these with your Area Manager who will work with you to try to resolve them.

Losses

Q. I have a loss which I can’t explain — is this the fault of Horizon?

It's very important that if you have a shortfall you are having difficulty investigating or explaining
that you contact us as soon as possible. Contact the Branch Support Centre (formerly NBSC)
poo].

If you have technical issues contact the IT helpdesk on [xxx]

We know how worrying it can be if you have a shortfall that you don’t understand. We are
making significant improvements to better support you [point to latest communications]

Q. Why should postmasters pay back any losses which can’t be explained?

We know how worrying it can be if you have a shortfall that you don’t understand. We are
making significant improvements to better support you [point to latest communications]

4
POL00091452
POL00091452

It's very important that if you have a shortfall you are having difficulty investigating or explaining
that you contact us as soon as possible. Contact the Branch Support Centre (formerly NBSC)
[xxxx] who will help in finding the reason for discrepancies.

Both Post Office and postmasters have responsibilities and obligations to each other. If you
have questions or concerns about these please contact your Area Manager.

Q. I have past losses that I have not been able to explain — how can I have these
investigated?

[tbc] Contact the Branch Support Centre [xxxxx] who will assist in helping find the reason for a
discrepancy. There is also a new team which can provide additional further support to
investigate branch discrepancies if necessary.

Discrepancies that still remain unresolved are handled by the Support Services Resolution
team.

Q. How do I claim historical losses back?

If you are disputing losses that you repaid you should contact us in writing explaining your issue
and when it first arose. We will aim to respond as soon as possible [Insert contact address.

Q. Will historic transaction corrections be reviewed/ what’s the process for raising
concerns?

If you have a concern about losses contact the Branch Support Centre [xxxx]. Discrepancies
that still remain unresolved are handled by the Support Services Resolution Team.

If you are disputing losses that you repaid you should contact us in writing explaining your issue
and when it first arose. We will aim to respond as soon as possible [Insert contact address].

Q. How can Post Office be confident of reconciliation with clients?

Reconciliation takes place between our back-end accounting systems and those of clients.

For example, banking transactions are correlated back to banks’ individual systems and have
done so for years. It is the banks’ own systems that issue authorisation to Post Office via an
external company called VocaLink for each and every transaction. VocaLink issues a report
each day called an LREC (Link Reconciliation) which tells Post Office and every bank who owes
what to whom for settlement the next day. This is an industry-wide mechanism that mirrors the
standard ATM networks, covering some 3-4 billion transactions a year.

Postmaster training

Q. What is changing to postmaster training?

We've created an improved training offer for new and existing postmasters to reduce the
likelihood of operational errors and improve the overall customer experience. In April we
introduced a Business Support Management Team who support newly recruited postmasters for

42
POL00091452
POL00091452

six months and existing postmasters as needed. Post Office has 58 trainers overall, 18
classroom locations across the UK and 40 trainers providing in-branch training. New training
modules have been developed and have been running from August 2019. These modules
include back office and balancing to further support postmasters with branch accounting.

Q. I have staff who I think need extra Horizon training, how do I request this and is there
a cost to me?

Staff training is the responsibility of postmasters but we very much want to help you deliver this.
There is no cost to the Postmaster for training.

Training is not just available for new Postmasters and can be accessed by all postmasters and
their teams if this is needed. Please contact xxxxx to discuss the training you feel would help
with the operation of your branch.

Postmaster engagement

Q. What are you doing to make sure that postmasters’ views and ideas are heard and
acted upon?

Through our new field team, which provides the support of an Area Manager for every branch,
we have been introducing and trialling a range of additional ways of ensuring increased contact
with our postmasters. It’s vital they are closely involved in planned improvements so that these
properly reflect their needs. Since April our field teams have been using Whatsapp, individual
email/ newsletters, networking events and business development workshops as well as making
visits to branches. In August our regional managers started holding regular business update
calls, drop-in listening sessions/ emails and in London we've started a Facebook trial.

We're continuing to respond to postmaster feedback: Postmasters told us they'd like more
support on using and making the most of social media. Earlier this year we launched our new
social media guidelines which include everything they need to get started on Facebook, Twitter,
Instagram and Snapchat. The guidelines also cover best practice tips and guidance to help
them stay on brand and professional.

They also told us they would welcome toolkits of ready-made images and text to save them
time. In the coming weeks we'll be launching new product toolkits, thanks to great ideas and
feedback from postmasters.

This is currently being piloted using an app of pre-loaded approved content that postmasters
can use.

Postmasters also wanted better retail advice to help grow their business and improve their
store. We have developed new retail basics training which we are trialling in three regions. This
will be rolled out across all regions between now and February. We have also partnered with
food and grocery industry leaders IGD, and all of our Area Managers will be completing the
online training programme.

For members of the NFSP, its Retail team is also available to provide personalised support and
the NFSP will also work with the Area Managers to identify further opportunities for retail
support.

Postmasters have said they want more opportunities to share ideas, discuss issues and also
meet other postmasters to learn about how they run their branch. We have been holding

43
POL00091452
POL00091452

networking events across the country. More than 80 have been held or are planned before the
end of 2019, and 41 are already planned for 2020.

Horizon robustness & reliability

Q. Will you be replacing Horizon?

There are no plans to replace Horizon - we are focussed on continual developments and
improvements, working closely with Fujitsu and our postmasters.

In 2018/19 we completed a roll-out of new equipment to all our branches and transformed our
back office systems. Our plans include taking action to improve some of our transaction
processes and system design. Examples include the new standardised approach to reversing
Parcelforce transactions that we communicated in August; additional reminder prompts to
postmasters for aspects of banking transactions; simplifying reversal process for Scottish Power
Smart Metering.

Q. What does Horizon being generally robust/ not robust actually mean?
SUBJECT TO JUDGMENT: Judgment likely to provide a ‘definition’

[tbc: Robustness refers to the ability of a computer system to operate accurately and cope
effectively with errors. Both independent expert witnesses in the trial agreed that Horizon is
robust, comparing well with similar systems across retail and financial service sectors which
have to be highly reliable.]

Remote access
Q. What remote access is possible, why is it needed and how is it controlled?

Post Office has ‘read only’ access to transaction histories and reporting to enable, for example,
work in back office reconciliation. Fujitsu, as the supplier of Horizon, has remote access
capabilities for maintenance and support purposes. These capabilities, which are strictly
controlled, are restricted to specialist personnel and in the rare and unlikely circumstances
where work needs to be undertaken which could affect branch accounts, postmasters are
contacted. Controls also include privileged access being temporary and revoked immediately
after use and a secure audit trail retained which shows the detail of any Fujitsu intervention with
a record of the contact with postmasters. There is no functionality that provides the ability to
remotely log on as a member of the support team and carry out any transactions at the branch.

[NB: During the trial Post Office defined the term ‘remote access’ as the ways in which Post
Office and/ or Fujitsu can access the Horizon system and insert, edit or delete transaction data
in branch accounts without being physically present in a branch.]

Q. What is the risk of remote access being used maliciously?

44
POL00091452
POL00091452

There’s no evidence that there has ever been malicious tampering. There are stringent security
measures, controls and audits in place.

Q. How can I be sure that my accounts have not been/ are not being changed remotely?

There are strict controls in place and there is no functionality that provides the ability to remotely
log on as a member of the support team and carry out any transactions at the branch.

Fujitsu, as the supplier of Horizon, has remote access capabilities for maintenance and support
purposes. These capabilities, which are strictly controlled, are restricted to specialist personnel
and in the rare and unlikely circumstances where work needs to be undertaken which could
affect branch accounts, postmasters are contacted. Controls also include privileged access
being temporary and revoked immediately after use and a secure audit trail retained which
shows the detail of any Fujitsu intervention with a record of the contact with postmasters.

Post Office has ‘read only’ access to transaction histories and reporting to enable, for example,
work in back office reconciliation.

[NB: During the trial Post Office defined the term ‘remote access’ as the ways in which Post
Office and/ or Fujitsu can access the Horizon system and insert, edit or delete transaction data
in branch accounts without being physically present in a branch.]

Software bugs

Q. What is a bug, why do they occur, is it normal for IT systems to have bugs?

A computer ‘bug’ is a fault in the software (computer programmes) of a computer system which
causes an unintended result. Many computer bugs do not cause significant issues or problems
and there are numerous effective ways of monitoring and fixing them — one of the reasons, for
example, we receive regular ‘software updates’ on our mobile phones and other devices. No IT
system is perfect and there is always the possibility of bugs. That is why effective
countermeasures which prevent or detect and fix them are important and form a central part of
the robustness of a system.

System problems are tracked and focussed on in priority order and, if there is the possibility that
they could cause significant postmaster difficulty, they are treated with high priority as you would
expect. Our Branch Major Incident process is invoked to enable the technical solution to be
worked through more quickly, whilst concurrently the Branch Operations team prepare
communications to branches and ensure the Branch Support Centre team are aware and able
to help.

There is a 24/7 IT service desk for postmasters to raise problems and, additionally, if
postmasters are unsure of anything the Branch Support team are available to help ‘walk
through’ transactions over the phone. Additional training can also be provided.

Both independent experts, for the claimants and Post Office, on opposite sides of the litigation,
agreed that Horizon is robust overall, comparing well with systems used by other retail and
financial services companies each day.

45
POL00091452
POL00091452

Q. How many bugs has Post Office identified — what is the extent of them?

Bugs exist in any large and complex IT system and the management of a system like Horizon
involves processes for continuous monitoring, counter measures and improvements. Many
bugs do not cause significant issues or problems and there are numerous effective ways of
fixing them — one of the reasons, for example, we receive regular software updates on our
mobile phones and other devices. Both independent experts, for the claimants and Post Office,
on opposite sides of the litigation, agreed that Horizon is robust overall, comparing well with
systems used by other retail and financial services companies each day.

All of the [29] bugs discussed during the trial were resolved. These were various issues arising
at different times over the past two decades.

If you have queries or concerns about an issue you are experiencing you should contact the
Branch Support Centre].

Q. What is the monitoring process for bugs?

There are numerous continuous countermeasures in place, audited on a regular basis, which
are prevent or detect technical issues, including bugs.

Counter measures include continual detailed analysis of system performance and of reports
from branches themselves. Many bugs do not cause significant issues or problems and there is
a dedicated team at Fujitsu which investigates any suspected problems. Those investigations
are documented and appropriate fixes rolled out.

System problems are tracked and focussed on in priority order and, if there is the possibility that
they could cause significant postmaster difficulty, they are treated with high priority as you would
expect. Our Branch Major Incident process is invoked to enable the technical solution to be
worked through more quickly, whilst concurrently the Branch Operations team prepare
communications to branches and ensure the Branch Support Centre team are aware and able
to help.

Q. Where can I find published information about the various bugs — including the 29
discussed in Court - so that I know what to look for in my branch?

All of the [29] bugs discussed during the trial were resolved. These were various issues arising
at different times over the past two decades.

If you have a technical issue please contact the helpline so that they can help you resolve it. If
you have discrepancy you do not understand please contact the branch support centre.

We're committed to informing postmasters of issues that could have the potential to impact their
accounting.

Q. What is the Known Error Log that Fujitsu hold and what does it contain?
Known error logs (KELs), now called Knowledge Based Faults (KBFs), are guidance notes for

helpline staff that document known issues, with their workarounds and fixes. They are ‘living’

46
POL00091452
POL00091452

documents that are not designed to provide a history of a particular system or support process
but rather to provide knowledge that may be applicable to potential reported issues (Peaks)
being addressed by Fujitsu.

‘Known errors’ are detected by Fujitsu, through their incident and problem management
processes and additionally through reports from Post Office branches via Post Office helplines/
support functions.

System problems are tracked and focussed on in priority order and, if there is the possibility that
they could cause significant postmaster difficulty, they are treated with high priority as you would
expect. Our Branch Major Incident process is invoked to enable the technical solution to be
worked through more quickly, whilst concurrently the Branch Operations team prepare
communications to branches and ensure the Branch Support Centre team are aware and able
to help.

Q. What are the current Known Faults that are logged?

Issues included in Knowledge Based Faults vary and do not, of course, remain static as they
are investigated and appropriate actions taken. So it’s important to call the IT helpline if you
have a technical issue or the branch support centre for other help.

Q. How confident is the Post Office that bugs are picked up and fixed?

We are confident in the overall robustness of the Horizon system and that is compares well with
systems used by other retail and financial services companies every day. Both independent
experts, for Post Office and the claimants, on opposite sides of the litigation confirmed this.
Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year.
There is reconciliation every day, every month, every year, including with the systems of major
organisations such as high street banks, giving confidence in the many products and services
we provide.

Of course no system can ever be said to be perfect and we're working as hard as ever to make
improvements.

Q. How can I be sure that my branch accounts are not affected by bugs?

We are confident in the overall robustness of the Horizon system and that is compares well with
systems used by other retail and financial services companies every day. Both independent
experts, for Post Office and the claimants, on opposite sides of the litigation confirmed this.
Effective countermeasures which prevent or detect and fix bugs are important and form a
central part of the robustness of a system.

But of course we understand that it can be very worrying if you experience an issue in your
branch. If you have a discrepancy in your branch accounts that you do not understand you
should contact the Branch Support Centre as quickly as possible so that they can assist you in
finding the reason.

Q. Will you now publish detail of all new bugs when they arise?

47
POL00091452
POL00091452

We are committed to informing postmasters of issues that could have the potential to impact
their accounting.

Q. What Horizon improvements postmasters working with POL and FJ on? Are the NFSP.
involved?

We are continuing to make improvements to reduce the risks some human errors can create.
Fujitsu are delivering these changes and further changes as appropriate.

Recent examples: the new standardised approach to reversing Parcelforce transactions that we
communicated in August; additional reminder prompts to postmasters for aspects of banking
transactions; simplifying reversal process for Scottish Power Smart Metering.

Q. Who do I speak to if I think I have a technical problem at my branch?

If you believe there is a technical problem with Horizon in your branch you should call the [IT
helpline on xxxxx]. For other branch queries contact the [new Branch Support Centre on xxxx].

Q. Who do I speak to if I have an idea on an improvement/ want to get involved in
improvement work?

We welcome postmasters sharing ideas and working with us to improve. You can raise this with
your Area Manager.

Q. If the media approach me what should I do?
As usual, please notify the Post Office press office [contact details] / refer media directly to the
press office.

Relationship with Fujitsu

Q. Will Post Office continue to work with Fujitsu?

Yes. Post Office and Fujitsu have a long-standing relationship. Under their contract, Fujitsu
works closely with Post Office maintaining and continually improving Horizon, the electronic
point of sale system which is used by all 11,500 Post Office branches throughout the UK.
Since the system was introduced, two decades ago, there have been not only major
developments in technology but also significant changes in the Post Office’s business. This
includes moving into financial services, expanding our range of Government services and
expanding to cover everyday banking through agreements with the UK’s High Street banks.
Post Office and Fujitsu have developed, improved and adapted Horizon throughout these
changes. The system currently processes around £60 billion worth of transactions a year.
Both Post Office and Fujitsu are very alive to the fact that no large-scale IT system is perfect,
hence the importance of our strong counter-measures to prevent, detect and fix technical
issues, as well as reducing the risk of human errors.

In 2018/19 we completed a roll-out of new equipment to all our branches and transformed our
back office systems. We are also taking action to simplify some of our transaction processes.

48
POL00091452

POL00091452

Q. Fujitsu and its witnesses in Court have been heavily criticised by the Judge, including
about keeping important information from Post Office. How can you trust FJ now?

We are considering the Judgment — which covers a very long period of time, during which there
have been significant changes — in detail. Overall we have a strong and positive relationship
with Fujitsu, with shared ambitions. Both Post Office and Fujitsu are working more closely with
postmasters to better support them.

Q. Will Post Office take any legal or other action against Fujitsu for matters that they are/
were responsible for?

The Judgment covers a very long period of time, during which there have been significant
changes. We are carefully considering its detail but it’s important to underline that overall we
have a strong and positive relationship with Fujitsu and we are working closely together on
making improvements.

Q. How much is the contract with Fujitsu worth and how long is it for?

The contract is until [xxxx]. Its details are commercially confidential.

Business changes
Q. You’re now making changes — so how can you still defend the litigation?

We have been continually improving, recognising the need to change the ways in which we
work with our postmasters and improve our technology. Criticisms made by the Judge have
brought some of this work into sharper focus.

The purpose of the litigation is to resolve a number of individual claims which span a period of
around two decades. The case is being heard in stages and the details of the individual cases
have not yet been examined.

Q. What is the detail of all the various changes being made?

There is a programme of change activity across the business, including:

Better support for postmasters:

A new field team provides every postmaster with access to an area manager. The field teams
can, for example, help identify and provide access to additional training if needed or advise on
issues or concerns raised. Area teams are arranging face to face sessions with postmasters —
so far around 12,000 branch visits have taken place to 85% of the branch network.

Regional managers are holding regular calls and there are also networking events and
business development workshops. For new postmasters, we are providing a single point of
contact through their application and ‘onboarding’ process and Branch Support Managers have

49
POL00091452
POL00091452

been introduced to support new postmasters for up to six months to help embed their training
and ensure postmasters and their teams are set up for success.

The new Branch Support Centre, replaces NBSC and works alongside the IT Digital Service
Desk. BCS uses a tiered support system so that postmaster concerns and queries can be more
quickly and effectively escalated, investigated and resolved. A new team has been established
to handle disputes relating to transaction corrections.

We've created an improved training offer for new and existing postmasters to reduce the
likelihood of operational errors and improve the overall customer experience. Post Office has 58
trainers overall, 18 classroom locations across the UK and 40 trainers providing in-branch
training. New training modules have been developed and have been running from August 2019.
These modules include back office and balancing to further support postmasters with branch
accounting.

Loss prevention:

The new Loss Prevention function are using more root cause analysis and data analytics to look
ahead and make interventions that prevent losses. This provides benefits for branch operators
as well as Post Office, with interventions such as troubleshooting guides through to targeted
training and support to improve compliance and performance. Post Office will use a redesigned
set of KPls, processes, risk assessment tools and case management software to ensure a Clear,
robust and transparent end to end processes.

Horizon improvements:

For example, the new standardised approach to reversing Parcelforce transactions that we
communicated in August; additional reminder prompts to postmasters for aspects of banking
transactions; simplifying reversal process for Scottish Power Smart Metering.

Q. How is my branch affected by the changes?

Our aim is to make operating your branch simpler and to better support you. We're making
some of our processes faster and easier; we’re making changes to Horizon to make some
transactions more straightforward and we're improving the support, help and training we provide
(see previous answers for details).

Branch customers

Q. My branch’s customers are asking if the system is safe and whether their
transactions will be accurately processed — how can I reassure them?

[NOTE — MAY NEED TO EXCLUDE THIS LINE, DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS: It's
really important to reassure our customers that the products and services we provide for them
are not affected by the Group Litigation].

[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT -
Customers can be assured they can depend on our branches and have confidence in the

50
POL00091452
POL00091452

system. As both the independent experts for the Claimants and the Post Office, on opposite
sides of the litigation confirm, Horizon compares well with systems used by other retail and
financial services companies every day.]

Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year.
There is reconciliation every day, every, month, every year, including with the systems of major
organisations such as high street banks, giving confidence in the many products and services
we provide.

Q. What is Post Office doing do to prevent loss of business to branches as a result of
customers losing confidence?

We are communicating widely to reassure our clients and customers. [WORDING SUBJECT
TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT - Our statement to the
media makes it clear that independent experts agree that Horizon is robust, and compares well
with systems used by other retail and financial services companies every day.

Customers can continue to have confidence in the reliability of our branches.]
Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year.

There is reconciliation every day, every, month, every year, including with the systems of major
organisations such as high street banks, giving confidence in the many products and services
we provide.

The litigation involves a small proportion of mainly former postmasters with individual complaints

spanning the past two decades so it is important to understand the context.]
Speaking brief for colleagues speaking to postmasters (pre-judgment)
DOCUMENT: 33

PRE JUDGMENT SPEAKING BRIEF FOR POSTMASTERS/ POL COLLEAGUES - VERBAL
ONLY — NOT FOR EMAIL

POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION
Background

e The Group litigation involving Post Office is part of a long running dispute between Post
Office and a group of mostly former postmasters who have made serious allegations
about technical, operational and contractual matters. It covers a long period of time,
dating back to 2000 in some cases — much of which relates to a period before we
became an independent business.

e  Itis complex and the case is being heard in stages, with a series of trials. The first trial
was about determining the legal construction of the contract between Post Office and
postmasters and the second trial was about technical matters concerning Post Office’s

51
POL00091452
POL00091452

Horizon computer system. The second trial concluded on 2 July and the Judge has
retired to consider his Judgment.

Neither of these trials will determine liability or the individual claimants’ cases. Further
trials are scheduled into 2020.

First Trial (Common Issues Trial)

The focus of the first phase of the legal action was to establish the correct meaning and
interpretation of the contract between the Post Office and postmasters.

The principal finding was that the contract between Post Office and the postmasters is a
relational contract which includes numerous additional obligations that have been
implied into the contract.

Beyond the legal finding, the Judgment also made criticisms of Post Office behaviours,
and we've taken these extremely seriously.

It’s really important to underline that the Court’s findings do not affect the products and
services we provide for our millions of customers through our UK network of 11,500 Post
Office branches

We have also made huge improvements in the culture and practices of the business in
recent years, but the Judge’s comments remind us that we must always continue to do
better. We have taken the criticisms on board and we’re taking action throughout our
organisation

Our first priority is to improve the management of our relationships with postmasters.

This work is already underway with every Postmaster now being supported by an Area
Manager, further improvements are being made to training, ongoing support and a full
review of Postmaster remuneration which is expected to be completed by the autumn.

Our postmasters are the backbone of our business, their involvement is key to the
changes we’re making. Area Managers hold regular drop in and phone in sessions to
update and share information and a forum (Branch User Forum) with postmasters and
colleagues takes place monthly to review product design and changes.

We're also making changes within the Branch Support Centre to enable faster
investigations and responses and improve prevention and resolution of any problems.

Second Trial (Horizon Trial)

The second trial, about technical matters concerning Post Office’s Horizon computer
system concluded on 2 July. The judge has retired to consider his Judgment. This is not
expected to be handed down until the Autumn

52
POL00091452
POL00091452

e@ We don’t know what the outcome of the Judgment will be and we do not expect to be
notified by the Court of the date it will be made public until very close to that time.

e {tis important to underline that all the indications are that Horizon is robust, comparing
well with similar systems across retail and financial service sectors which have to be
highly reliable - this is the view of both independent expert witnesses who have given
evidence in the litigation and is further supported by the fact that the system has been
used successfully by 500,000 postmasters and colleagues since its introduction and
around 47 million transactions every week are successfully processed for customers.

e These transactions are undertaken on behalf of other large-scale organisations,
including high street banks, Royal Mail, Government Depts and major utility companies.
The accuracy of transactions is subject to numerous checks, including reconciliation with
other systems such as those of the banks

e Inrecent years we have improved and invested in technology and this remains a priority
-we've installed new IT equipment in every branch and transformed our back office
systems which handle £60 billion a year in financial transactions.

e But no large IT system is perfect and we accept we need to do more work with
postmasters when problems do arise. Changes we're making include measures to
further reduce human errors in branches (such as mis-keying) and to respond more
quickly and transparently to concerns raised by our postmasters. Our improved training
will also focus on Horizon and back office processes.

e When the Judgment is handed down we will contact you with our response.

e You might see media coverage about the trial around this time which may cause
concern, please be assured we will have plans in place to respond.

Appeal (reactive only)

e Post Office sought permission to appeal the Common Issues Judgment at a hearing on
23 May 2019 where the Managing Judge refused permission. On 18 June we made an
application to the Court of Appeal for permission. We haven't yet received a response.

53
POL00091452
POL00091452

Speaking brief for colleagues speaking to postmasters (post-judgment)
DOCUMENT - 34

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

REACTIVE BRIEF FOR AREA MANAGERS
KEY MESSAGES

e This Judgment is another stage in working towards resolving a number of individual
claims by a group of mainly former postmasters.

e We understand the concerns that everyone working in our business might have about
some of the issues [and criticisms] the Judgment raises. But [WORDING SUBJECT TO
FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT we can have
confidence in the overall robustness of Horizon and that it compares well with systems
used by other retail and financial services companies each day. Both independent
experts, for Post Office and the claimants in the case, on opposite sides of the litigation,
confirmed this].

e Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a
year. There is reconciliation which includes the systems of major organisations we work
with, such as the banks. So we can and should have confidence in the products and
services we’re providing.

e But of course no large scale IT system can ever be said to be perfect and we're working
hard to improve. This year we’ve made some Horizon design changes - for Parcelforce
and banking online transactions for example — to make things simpler and there’s more
of this to come.

e The Judgement underlines [very strongly] that we must continue to do better in the ways
in which we support you to operate branches. We need to make it easier for problems to
be avoided in the first place but if there is an issue we need to help get it resolved more
quickly. You will already have seen, I hope, communications about improvements
underway to do this including:

I. Our new field team structure building stronger relationships with you.

Il. Changes to the NBSC, now the Branch Support Centre, working more closely
with the IT helpline team, and structured so we can investigate concerns more
quickly and escalate them if needed.

tl. Better training — classroom, online, in branch , including refresher training

1V. Our new loss prevention team improving protection of branches from external
crime and security threats and refining some of our processes to help avoid
human errors
POL00091452
POL00091452

e If you have any questions or want further information you can email [xxxxxx] and we will
we be happy to help.

INTERNAL REACTIVE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS TO BE INSERTED

55
POL00091452
POL00091452

Branch closures: Asking a Postmaster to re-open
DOCUMENT - 35

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

REOPEN A CLOSED BRANCH BRIEF (FOR AREA MANAGERS TALKING TO
POSTMASTERS WHO HAVE CLOSED THEIR BRANCH)

POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION — HORIZON ISSUES TRIAL JUDGMENT

I’m sorry to hear that you’ve closed your Post Office. I want to help you and make sure that we
provide the support you need, so can you let me know the reasons for closing your branch?
(Note the Postmaster’s concerns)

If the Postmaster is concerned about losses that have occurred in the branch.

Confirm what has happened - when and how much loss has occurred, what action has the
postmaster taken to seek support from Post Office, have they contacted the Branch Support
Centre. Make sure that the Branch Support Centre has all the information they need to help the
postmaster. Make a note of the branch support reference number so you can track progress.
Reassure the Postmaster we will support them through this process. Share a copy of the
Branch Support Guide with the postmaster.

If the Postmaster has lost confidence in Horizon or is concerned about using Horizon,
bugs in the system and /or remote access to system.

Explore and note what the issue is. If appropriate refer to the IT FAQs to reassure the
postmaster. Identify any training needs — reassure that you will arrange for additional
training/support. If there are losses have they notified the Branch Support Centre and make
sure that the Branch Support Centre has all the information they need to help the postmaster.
Make a note of the branch support reference number so you can track progress. Reassure the
Postmaster we will support them through this process.

Key Messages to reassure Postmaster

The Judgment recently handed down by the court focuses on our Horizon system and it’s
another stage in working towards resolving a number of individual claims by a group of mainly
former postmasters.

I understand that everyone working in our business may have concerns about some of the
issues [and criticisms] the Judgment raises. But I want to reassure you that [WORDING
SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT : we can have
confidence in the overall robustness of Horizon and that it compares well with systems used by
other retail and financial service companies each day.

56
POL00091452
POL00091452

Both independent experts, for Post Office and the claimants in the case, on opposite sides of
the litigation, confirmed this.

[NOTE: THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED DEPENDING ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS: It’s also
important to know that the products and services that we provide every day to millions of
customers are not affected by the litigation].

Horizon processes around 47 million, more than £60 billion worth a year. There is also
reconciliation with the systems of major organisations that we work with, such as the banks. So
we can and should have confidence in the products and services we’re providing.

But of course no system is perfect and we’re working hard to improve. This year we've made
some Horizon design changes - for Parcelforce and banking online transactions for example —
to make things simpler and there’s more of this to come.

The Judgement underlines [very strongly] that we must continue to do better in how we support
you to run your branch. We need to make it easier for problems to be avoided in the first place
and if there is an issue we need to help get it resolved more quickly.

You may already have seen communications about improvements underway to do this:
Our new field team structure building stronger relationships with you.

Changes to the NBSC, now the Branch Support Centre which has been restructured so
we can investigate concerns more quickly and escalate them if needed.

Better training — classroom, online, in branch, including refresher training

Our new loss prevention team improving protection of branches from external crime and
security threats and refining some of our processes to help avoid human errors

Our relationship with you is extremely important, you deliver our services to customers day-in,
day-out, and we want to make it easier for you to build a thriving business.

Reopening the branch

It's important that your customers can continue to get the essential services they need from your
branch, understandably they will be worried about the situation.

We will provide you with the support we’ve discussed and I'll contact you (frequency) to make
sure that you’re happy with the support you're receiving.

Do you feel confident and reassured enough to reopen your branch? If so when do you think
you might want to do this? If yes confirm when branch will reopen.

Postmaster is unwilling to reopen the branch

57
POL00091452
POL00091452

What else can we do to help you so that you are confident and reassured enough to run your
branch? (note the issues to report back to Regional Manager)

Can we display a poster in your shop so that we can reassure customers and let them know
where the alternative Post Offices are that they can visit? And are there any other places in the
local area that we can display a poster?

Can we arrange for a temporary postmaster to run the branch until we have worked through
these concerns/issues with you? This may take some time to put in place but could be an option
for you to consider so that customers can still visit your Post Office. If yes confirm that you will
contact them again with further details and explain that the postmaster will need to agree the
arrangements directly with the temporary postmaster.

We will contact you again in the next few days to agree next steps with you.

58
POL00091452
POL00091452

Memoview
DOCUMENT: 11

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

MEMOVIEW

MBS GLO Judgment

Audience: All Post Office branches

You may see news today about a legal Judgment concerning Post Office in the High Court.

XXXXXXX OUP XXXXXXXX (GE member) provides more information on a video on One
https://www.onepostoffice.co.uk/

You can also listen to an audio message from xxxxx by calling 0845 601 1022, option x and
then option x.

We take the Judgment extremely seriously and lessons being learned through the litigation are
being taken on board. There is nothing more important to our business than our relationship
with you, the people delivering our services to customers every day and we are committed to
making it easier for you to build thriving businesses.

[NOTE THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED, DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS: It's
important to underline that the Courts findings do not affect the products and services we
provide for our millions of customers everyday]

We will communicate any changes to current branch processes and procedures that are made.
Otherwise, please continue as normal.

We'll be sharing further information with you in the coming days and if you have any questions
or concerns, please email xxxxxxxxx-or contact your Area Manager.

59
POL00091452
POL00091452

Branch hub message
DOCUMENT - 12

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

BRANCH HUB MESSAGE TO POSTMASTERS AND LINK TO ONE WEBSITE
Audience: All postmasters signed up to Branch Hub (approx 1200)

Email subject: Important message from xxxxx: Court findings in the second phase of Group
Litigation

You may see news today about a legal Judgment criticising Post Office in the High Court.

I want to assure you that we take the Judgment extremely seriously and lessons being learned
through the litigation are being taken on board.

There is nothing more important to our business than our relationship with you, the people
delivering our services to customers day-in, day-out and we are committed to making it easier
for you to build thriving businesses.

Please take a moment to read the story on One [link].

[NOTE — THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED, DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS - It’s
important to underline that the Court's findings do not affect the products and services we
provide for our millions of customers through our UK network of 11,500 Post Office branches]

We will continue to keep you updated on any developments and the actions we are taking
following this Judgment.

You can also ask us questions xxxxxxxx/ or talk to your Area Manager.

Thank you for everything that you and your teams do every day to serve our customers and
communities up and down the country.

Signature tbc xxxx

60
POL00091452
POL00091452

IVR message
DOCUMENT - 13

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

IVR MESSAGE
You may see news today about a legal Judgment criticising Post Office in the High Court.

I want to assure you that we take the Judgment extremely seriously and lessons being learned
through the litigation are being taken on board.

There is nothing more important to our business than our relationship with you, the people
delivering our services to customers day-in, day-out and we are committed to making it easier
for you to build thriving businesses.

Please take a moment to read the story on One.

[NOTE — THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED, DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS - It's
important to underline that the Court’s findings do not affect the products and services we
provide for our millions of customers through our UK network of 11,500 Post Office branches]

We will continue to keep you updated on any developments and the actions we are taking
following this Judgment.

You can also ask us questions xxxxxxxx/ or talk to your Area Manager.

61
POL00091452
POL00091452

ONE update email
DOCUMENT - 14

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

ONE UPDATE EMAIL TO POSTMASTERS AND LINK TO ONE WEBSITE (email from DS )
Audience: All postmasters registered on One, c 6000 postmasters

Email subject: Important message from xxxxx: Court findings in the second phase of Group
Litigation

You may see news today about a legal Judgment criticising Post Office in the High Court.

I want to assure you that we take the Judgment extremely seriously and lessons being learned
through the litigation are being taken on board.

There is nothing more important to our business than our relationship with you, the people
delivering our services to customers day-in, day-out and we are committed to making it easier
for you to build thriving businesses.

Please take a moment to go one the One website where you can find more information. (link)

[NOTE: THIS LINE MAY BE EXCLUDED DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS - It's
important to underline that the Court's findings do not affect the products and services we
provide for our millions of customers through our UK network of 11,500 Post Office branches]

We will continue to keep you updated on any developments and the actions we are taking
following this Judgment.

You can also ask us questions xxxxxxxx/ or talk to your Area Manager.

Thank you for everything that you and your teams do every day to serve our customers and
communities up and down the country.

Debbie Smith

Chief Executive Retail

62
POL00091452
POL00091452

ONE story
DOCUMENT - 15

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

ONE STORY (POSTMASTERS)
POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION — SECOND JUDGMENT

The second Judgment in the Post Office Group Litigation [link?] has been handed down by the
High Court today. This Judgment focuses on our Horizon system and it’s another stage in
working towards resolving a number of individual claims by a group of mainly former
postmasters.

We understand the concerns that everyone working in our business might have about some of
the issues [and criticisms] the Judgment raises. But I want to reassure you that [WORDING
SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT : we can have
confidence in the overall robustness of Horizon and that it compares well with systems used by
other retail and financial services companies each day. Both independent experts, for Post
Office and the claimants in the case, on opposite sides of the litigation, confirmed this].

[NOTE: THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED DEPENDING ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS: It’s also
important to make clear that the products and services that we provide every day to millions of
customers are not affected by the litigation]. Horizon processes around 47 million transactions
a week, more than £60 billion worth a year. There is reconciliation which includes the systems
of major organisations we work with, such as the banks. So we can and should have
confidence in the products and services we’re providing.

But of course no system can ever be said to be perfect and we’re working hard to improve. This
year we’ve made some Horizon design changes - for Parcelforce and banking online
transactions for example — to make things simpler and there’s more of this to come.

The Judgement underlines [very strongly] that we must continue to do better in the ways in
which we support you to operate branches. We need to make it easier for problems to be
avoided in the first place but if there is an issue we need to help get it resolved more quickly.
You will already have seen, I hope, communications about improvements underway to do this
including:

e Our new field team structure building stronger relationships with you.

e Changes to the NBSC, now the Branch Support Centre, working more closely with the IT
helpline team, and structured so we can investigate concerns more quickly and escalate
them if needed.

63
POL00091452
POL00091452

e Better training — classroom, online, in branch , including refresher training

e Our new loss prevention team improving protection of branches from external crime and
security threats and refining some of our processes to help avoid human errors

There is nothing more important to our business than our relationship with you, the people
delivering our services to customers day-in, day-out, and we are committed to making it easier
for you to build thriving businesses.

You can find today’s media statement on the Judgment here [link]. If you have any questions or
want further information you can email [xxxxxx] and we will we be happy to help.

64
POL00091452

POL00091452

Branch support guide
DOCUMENT 3

From: one post office

Sent: 28 October 2019 08:56

To: Communications Team <communications.team

Subject: a message from Julie: branch support guides
28 October 2019 I Reading time 2 minutes I Please talk to your teams about this

Hello,

As you know we are all working to be better for postmasters and improve their experience with
us.

In Operations, we have been making a number of changes, including:

e Reviewing and improving the support we give branches, based on the type of calls we
get into the Branch Support Centre and the reasons for Transaction Corrections has
been a key focus for us. An early practical improvement was to introduce a dedicated
team as part of the Helpline who can support branches with balancing issues. This team
is now up and running and easy to access via the usual Branch Support contact number.

e Most transaction discrepancy or balancing issues are caused by customers changing
their mind or by a keying mistake at the time of the transaction, but to identify what went
wrong to enable us to correct it, it is always easier for branches if the day-to-day basics
such as cash declarations, balancing and compliance are followed. The Branch Insight
Tool will flag issues or instances of failed cash declarations or balances. It’s important to
encourage branches to get the basics right and any potential issues can be dealt with
quickly, avoiding future discrepancy issues.

e We're also making changes to some Horizon screens to make it easier to avoid
mistakes. We've started with the Parcelforce process and will be moving onto banking
screens next. We will continue to improve screens based postmaster feedback.

New Branch Support guides

An important aspect we have learnt through our dedicated balancing team is that often
branches are unsure how to resolve issues when they face them.

To support postmasters and branch teams, we have created some important guides which
cover information to help them with:

65
POL00091452
POL00091452

e Running an efficient Post Office branch
e Branch Balancing
e Branch Discrepancies and Transaction Corrections

These guides will give you an overview as well as some helpful reminders and useful tips.

As you support postmasters and branch teams, it’s important you make yourself familiar with
this too. You can view these guides on the attached document.

This will also be available to branch teams from Branch Focus this week, and we are sending a
printed copy to each branch so it’s easier for them to refer to.

If you have any questions or feedback on this, or any other aspect of our support for
postmasters, please let us know. Also, please encourage branches to feed back to us directly
using the One website.

Thank you for your ongoing support.

Julie

66
POL00091452

POL00091452

ONE business update special (worst cas

DOCUMENT - 20

NOTE — TONE/ POSITIONING/ MESSAGING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/ NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

CORE NARRATIVE FOR ONE BUSINESS UPDATE SPECIAL [ FULLER ADDITIONAL
CONTENT TO DEPEND ON TIMING OF JUDGMENT] - CENTRAL NARRATIVE BY [DEBBIE
TBC]

We've issued this One Business Update Special because we understand concerns and
questions you may have about issues raised in the latest Judgment in the Post Office Group
Litigation, which focuses on our Horizon system. I hope you have seen our communications
about this [insert how to find them] but I wanted to set out more detail.

Firstly, it is very important to understand the background to the Group Litigation. It involves a
very long-standing dispute with mainly former postmasters with claims which span a lengthy
period, some dating back around 20 years. It’s extremely complex but is, essentially, about

resolving those individual claims being made, which we very much want to do.

We already do many things differently to the ways in which we operated in the past, during the
time periods of many of the claims. We've continued to improve our culture, processes and
technology. But we know we have to do much more — and much faster.

I want to ensure you are confident about the operation of your branch and the Horizon system.
[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT: It’s
been confirmed by the latest Court Judgment/ both independent experts in the litigation that the
Horizon system is, overall, robust. It compares well with systems used by other retail and
financial services companies. It is generally reliable in processing transactions - more than £60
billion worth a year and there is reconciliation which includes the systems of clients such as high
street banks.

Of course it is not perfect - no large-scale IT system can be. That’s why its performance is
continually monitored and we are working as hard as ever to make improvements. If you have
an issue you want to get to the bottom of it quickly — or better still prevent it in the first place —
and we’re acting on that.

This year we’ve made some Horizon design changes - for Parcelforce and banking online
transactions for example — to make things simpler and there’s more of this to come.

The Judgement underlines [very strongly] that we must continue to do better in the ways in
which we support you to operate branches. You will already have seen, I hope,
communications about improvements underway to do this including:

67
POL00091452
POL00091452

Our new field team structure building stronger relationships with you.

Changes to the NBSC, now the Branch Support Centre, working more closely with the IT
helpline team, and structured so we can investigate concerns more quickly and escalate
them if needed.

e Better training — classroom, online, in branch , including refresher training
e Our new loss prevention team improving protection of branches from external crime and
security threats and refining some of our processes to help avoid human errors

In this Business Update Special you'll find further information of what we're doing to better
support you, how you can get involved in working with us on continued improvements and
what's next in the months ahead.

[additional content on key points re support/ technology/ involvement — plus potential case
studies]

68
POL00091452
POL00091452

Corporate clients

Context

Our relationship managers have continued to keep clients updated on the litigation. There
have been no significant concerns raised. Clients will continue to want to be reassured that
Post Office’s plans minimise impact on reputation and that their customers are not affected.

Handling approach

Relationship managers have been in touch with clients to provide an update on the litigation, to
prepare the ground for the HIT Judgment. When the Judgment is made public, clients will
receive a personal call from relationship managers, with follow up email if necessary.
Relationship managers will also handle any queries or concerns (flagging/ escalating these if
necessary).

69
POL00091452
POL00091452

Collateral
Email to clients
DOCUMENT - 18

CLIENT- EMAIL [to be adapted by client relationship managers referencing conversations
they will have had in advance]

NOTE — TONE/ MESSAGING/ POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT
SUBJECT: POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION UPDATE

As you may have seen, the second Judgment in the Post Office Group Litigation has been
handed down by the High Court today. This is another stage in working towards resolving a
number of individual claims by a group of mainly former postmasters.

This Judgment, which focuses on our Horizon computer system used across our network, raises
some issues [and criticisms] so I wanted to reassure you about improvements we’re continuing
to make.

[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT:
Firstly I want to underline why we can have confidence in the overall robustness of the Horizon
system and that it compares well with systems used by other retail and financial services
companies each day. Both independent experts, for Post Office and the claimants in the case,
on opposite sides of the litigation, confirmed this.

Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year,
with reconciliation which includes the systems of major organisations we work with such as high
street banks.

Of course no large-scale IT system can ever be said to be perfect and we're making continual
improvements, including design changes which simplify some transactions for our postmasters.

The Judgment underlines to us the importance of better supporting our postmasters to operate
their branches and over the past 12-18 months we have had a particular focus on making
changes at every level of the business to build a better partnership with our postmasters. These
include very improvements to recruitment, training and operational support.

I hope I have reassured you about how we are responding to the matters the litigation raises — if
you would like any more detail about the considerable improvement work underway then I will
be very happy to provide this. I also attach our response to the media about today’s Judgment
which I hope is helpful.

70
[As you know from our recent conversations about the litigation itself] we expect the case to
take some time to be resolved as there are many legal matters still to be determined. The
individual claims themselves span a very lengthy period, with some dating back around two
decades. Currently there are Court hearings scheduled through to 2020 and I will keep you
updated on relevant developments.

Again, please contact me at any time with any concerns you may have.

POL00091452
POL00091452

71
POL00091452
POL00091452

Speaking brief for colleagues engaging with clients/commercial partners/colleagues
(pre-judgment)

DOCUMENT: 1

PRE-JUDGMENT SPEAKING BRIEF FOR CLIENTS/ COMMERCIAL PARTNERS/ POL
COLLEAGUES — VERBAL ONLY — NOT FOR EMAIL

POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION

Background

The Group litigation involving Post Office is part of a long running dispute between Post
Office and a group of mostly former postmasters who have made serious allegations
about technical, operational and contractual matters. It covers a long period of time,
dating back to 2000 in some cases — much of which relates to a period before we
became an independent business.

It is complex and the case is being heard in stages, with a series of trials. The first trial
was about determining the legal construction of the contract between Post Office and
postmasters and the second trial was about technical matters concerning Post Office’s
Horizon computer system. The second trial concluded on 2 July and the Judge has
retired to consider his Judgment.

Neither of these trials will determine liability or the individual claimants’ cases. Further
trials are scheduled into 2020.

First Trial (Common Issues Trial)

The focus of the first phase of the legal action was to establish the correct meaning and
interpretation of the contract between the Post Office and postmasters.

The principal finding was that the contract between Post Office and the postmasters is a
relational contract which includes numerous additional obligations that have been
implied into the contract.

Beyond the legal finding, the Judgment also made criticisms of Post Office behaviours,
and we've taken these extremely seriously.

It's really important to underline that the Court’s findings do not affect the products and
services we provide for our millions of customers through our UK network of 11,500 Post
Office branches

We have also made huge improvements in the culture and practices of the business in
recent years, but the Judge’s comments remind us that we must always continue to do

72
POL00091452

POL00091452

better. We have taken the criticisms on board and we’re taking action throughout our
organisation

Our first priority is to improve the management of our relationships with postmasters.
This work is already underway with every Postmaster now being supported by an Area
Manager, further improvements are being made to training, ongoing support and a full
review of Postmaster remuneration which is expected to be completed this Autumn.

Our postmasters are the backbone of our business, their involvement is key to the
changes we're making. Area Managers hold regular drop in and phone in sessions to
update and share information and a forum (Branch User Forum) with postmasters and
colleagues takes place monthly to review product design and changes.

We have also made changes within the Branch Support Centre to enable faster
investigations and responses and improve prevention and resolution of any problems.

Second Trial (Horizon Trial)

The second trial, about technical matters concerning Post Office’s Horizon computer
system concluded on 2 July. The judge has retired to consider his Judgment and has
indicated it will be provided in November.

We don’t know what the outcome will be but it is important to underline that all the
indications are that Horizon is robust, comparing well with similar systems across retail
and financial service sectors which have to be highly reliable. This is the view of both
independent expert witnesses who have given evidence in the litigation and is further
supported by the fact that the system has been used by 500,000 postmasters and
colleagues since its introduction and around 47 million transactions every week are
successfully processed for customers.

These transactions are undertaken on behalf of other large-scale organisations,
including high street banks, Royal Mail, Government Depts and major utility companies.
The accuracy of transactions is subject to numerous checks, including reconciliation with
other client systems for some types.

In recent years we have improved and invested in technology and this remains a priority
-we've installed new IT equipment in every branch and transformed our back office
systems which handle £60 billion a year in financial transactions.

But no large IT system is perfect and we accept we need to do more work with
postmasters when problems do arise. Changes we’re making include measures to
further reduce human errors in branches (such as mis-keying) and to respond more
quickly and transparently to concerns raised by our postmasters. Our improved training
will also focus on Horizon and back office processes.

73
POL00091452
POL00091452

Speaking Note on our contingency planning (reactive only)

Since May we have been working with external consultants, who have relevant
experience in crisis preparedness and response work, to prepare an effective immediate
and short-term response to the Judgment from the Horizon Issues trial. .

Through a series of workshops we identified the operational, commercial and
reputational risks which could chrystallise on an adverse Judgment. A response plan
was then built around a core response playbook which includes the key messaging,
materials and briefings to be used ahead of and in response to the Judgment.

Where possible, mitigation actions are taking place ahead of Day One. The response
plan also addresses anticipated actions from Day One, e.g. surge resourcing our call
centres and the creation of new processes to monitor and manage branch closures, re-
distribute cash and stock accordingly etc.

A Rapid Response Team (RRT) has been established to execute and manage Post
Office and stakeholder response to the Judgment. It will act as the central hub of
information and is charged with coordinating business impact data and relaying this to
the organisation, by the hour, with escalation points into the GE as / if required.

Ultimately, the response from Day one will be determined by what the Judgment actually
says, and how our stakeholders (government, corporate clients, retail partners,
customers, postmasters, employees etc.) react to it. Central to this will be ‘isolating’ the
findings just to the issues actually tried. The focus now therefore, in addition to tracking
the discharging of actions by the business, is establishing the MI required to determine
and respond at pace to the impacts / risks which do indeed chrystallise and to ‘stress
test’ both the established and new processes to understand what uplift in calls, lack of
compliance or refusals to open branches we can sustain, and over what period of time.

More Detail on the 15 Horizon Trial Issues

The Horizon Trial consisted of 15 "Horizon Issues". These can be grouped together
under four categories:

A. Reliability of Horizon. This question also encompasses the extent to which Horizon
was the root cause of shortfalls in postmaster branches.

B. Remote access. This question seeks to determine the capability of Post Office and
/ or Fujitsu to access, edit or delete transaction data recorded in branches.

C. Reconciliation and transaction corrections. These questions seek to determine
how Horizon compares its own transaction data against other data sources.

74
POL00091452
POL00091452

a Issue 5: How, if at all, does the Horizon system itself compare
transaction data recorded by Horizon against transaction data from
sources outside of Horizon?

mw Issue 15: How did Horizon process and/or record Transaction
Corrections?

The comparison of Horizon data against third party data is called
"reconciliation". The identification of discrepancies in branch accounts
through reconciliation is a key control in the operation of Post Office's
accounting systems. Where a discrepancy is identified it can give rise to
a transaction correction being sent to a branch. The transaction
correction should neutralise a previous accounting error but can, in
theory, cause a loss in a branch.

These issues were designed to be uncontroversial factual questions
about how Horizon conducts reconciliations and processes
transaction corrections. Their aim was to lay down a foundation on
which to determine more specific issues in particular cases, at future
trials

The claimant's IT Expert did however question the quality of the
reconciliation processes. Our view is that this opinion is outside the
scope of his work given the wording of the issues to be addressed are
purely factual and do not invite comment on adequacy or
sufficiency. However, there is the possibility that the Judge will stray
into assessing the quality of the reconciliation processes and finds
vulnerabilities in them.

D. Information available to Post Office and postmasters. These questions will help
inform later trials when looking at the responsibilities and actions of Post Office and
postmasters when dealing with shortfalls.

e When the Judgment is handed down we will contact you with our response.

e You might see media coverage about the trial around this time which may cause
concern, please be assured we will have plans in place to respond.

For Clients and Commercial Partners with PR Teams

e We can work with you/your PR/Media colleagues to support you with information you
might want to share within your company or when responding to media enquiries.

Appeal (reactive only)

e Post Office sought permission to appeal the Common Issues Judgment at a hearing on
23 May 2019 where the Managing Judge refused permission. On 18 June we made an

75
POL00091452
POL00091452

application to the Court of Appeal for permission and there is an oral hearing concerning
this on 12 November 2019.

76
POL00091452
POL00091452

Speaking brief for colleagues engaging with clients/commercial partners etc (post-
judgment)

DOCUMENT - 16

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

CLIENTS/ COMMERCIAL PARTNERS/ SUPPLIERS (ACCOUNT AND RELATIONSHIP
MANAGERS TO DELIVER)

CORE VERBAL BRIEF
KEY SPEAKING POINTS

e The Judgment in the second trial of a Group Litigation brought against Post Office by a
number of mainly former postmasters was today handed down in the High Court. This
Judgment focuses on our Horizon system and it’s another stage in working towards
resolving a number of individual claims by a group of mainly former postmasters

e We take this Judgment and the overall litigation extremely seriously. We are continuing
to make significant improvements, at pace, to both our technology and the way in which
we support our postmasters

e [WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST
JUDGMENT: We can be confident that overall Horizon is robust, comparing well with
systems used by other retail and financial services companies every day. Both
independent experts for the claimants and the Post Office, on opposite sides of the
litigation confirm this

e [NOTE —THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED, DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS
- It's also important to underline that the products and services that Post Offices provide
every day to millions of customers are not affected by the litigation]

e Clearly no system can ever be said to be perfect. That’s why Horizon’s performance is
continually monitored and we are working hard to make continual improvements

e@ Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a
year. There is reconciliation which includes the systems of major organisations we work
with - we have confidence in the products and services we're providing.

e But the Judgment underlines to us very strongly the importance of the way in which we
help our postmasters operate their Post Offices to deliver those services We're
continuing to take action improve that support, alongside further investment in our
technology

77
POL00091452
POL00091452

e Over the last 12 to 18 months, we have had a particular focus on making changes at
every level of the business to build a better partnership with our postmasters

e@ These include improvements to recruitment, training and operational support, as well as
changes which further reduce the risk of human errors in branches.

e We expect the Group Litigation to take some time to be resolved as there are many legal
matters still to be determined and the individual claims themselves span a very lengthy
period, with some dating back around two decades. Currently there are Court hearings
scheduled through to 2020

e We know that the Judgment’s criticisms may be unsettling for our people. We have a
comprehensive programme of communications to ensure we are speaking with everyone
in the business and providing people with every opportunity to raise questions and
concerns.

BACKGROUND [insert updated GLO fact sheet]

78
POL00091452
POL00091452

Client Q&A

FROM DOCUMENT 6

QUESTIONS & ANSWERS FOR CLIENTS

Q. What is Post Office planning/ doing to reassure customers?

We are communicating widely but proportionately. We are making the context of the Judgment
clear — it is part of complex litigation involving a small proportion of mainly former postmasters
with individual complaints on a range of matters.

Our statement to the media [link] makes it clear that independent experts, on both sides of the
litigation, agree that Horizon is robust, comparing well with systems used by other retail and
financial service companies every day. - WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED
LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT

We are closely monitoring customer enquiries. Our customer research has not, to date, showed
that the litigation has any significant effect on customer sentiment or behaviour regarding our
brand and we are of course keeping this under close review.

Q. What is the Post Office doing to improve its technology?

We're continuing to prioritise investment in technology. In 18/19 we completed a roll-out of new
equipment to all our branches and transformed our back office systems which handle £60 billion
a year in financial transactions. And our plans include taking action to improve transaction
processes to reduce the risk of potential errors e.g. creating a standardised approach to
reversing Parcelforce transactions which was communicated to branches in August 2019.

Involving postmasters is key to the changes we’re making. Area Managers hold regular drop in
and phone in sessions to update and share information and a forum (Branch User Forum) with
postmasters and colleagues takes place monthly to review product design and changes.

Q. Are any process changes being planned for the way we work together?
There’s no changes planned for the way we work with clients.

Q. Given the recent Judgment why should I remain confident about the
partnership/contractual relationship we have with POL?

It's important to underline the context of the Judgment - it is part of complex litigation to resolve
long-standing issues involving a small proportion of mainly former postmasters with individual
complaints. As confirmed by independent experts on both sides of the litigation, the Horizon
system is robust and compares well with systems used by other retail and financial services
companies every day.

79
POL00091452
POL00091452

We take criticisms made of our business extremely seriously and we're continuing to improve
the ways in which we work with postmasters to make it easier for them to operate their branches

and build thriving businesses. We're improving training, support and communications alongside
our technology infrastructure.

80
POL00091452
POL00091452

Customers

Context

There has been very little customer interest in the litigation to date outside a small number of
social media comments, the majority in support of the claimants. The results of our insight
research undertaken for the GLO have to date evidenced no negative impact on customer
sentiment; this tracking is being continued for the Horizon Issues Judgment.

With the focus of the litigation moved to technical aspects of Horizon, a negative media
narrative around system reliability could raise customer concerns about products and services
and specific reassurance messages on these are included in our core narrative.

Handling approach

Customer service teams are being briefed and will be updated when the Judgment is made
public. A process is in place to monitor the numbers of GLO-related calls and includes relevant
escalation.

Communications for scenarios such as branch closures are aligned to operational contingencies
which include include local posters, rapid Branchfinder updates and dedicated customer phone
line.

81
POL00091452

POL00091452

Collateral

Customer Service team brief

DOCUMENT - 28

CUSTOMER BRIEF — REACTIVE FOR CUSTOMER SERVICES [KIM ABBOT]

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

MESSAGES FOR CUSTOMER SERVICES TEAM
GROUP LITIGATION UPDATE — HORIZON JUDGMENT

You'll have seen the communications today about a High Court Judgment in the Post Office
Group Litigation.

This Judgment, which focuses on our Horizon system, is another stage in working towards
resolving a number of claims by mainly former postmasters. It raises a number of issues [and
criticisms] which could cause concern.

Comprehensive communications being deployed across the business, including of course to
everyone in the network. We have also issued a media statement and you can find that,
together with further information on our intranet [link].

It is possible of course that customers might ask questions about it.
If we do get queries, we can reassure our customers:

- [NOTE: MAY HAVE TO EXCLUDE THIS LINE DEPENDENT ON JUDGE'S
COMMENTS - The products and services that Post Offices provide are not affected by the
litigation]

- [WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST
JUDGMENT: We can be confident that overall Horizon is robust, comparing well with
systems used by other retail and financial services companies every day — this was
confirmed by both independent experts in the litigation]

- Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth
ayear. There is reconciliation every day, every month, every year, including with the
systems of major organisations such as high street banks

- Horizon’s performance is continually monitored and we continue to work hard to make
improvements wherever we can

82
POL00091452
POL00091452

Customer Q8A
FROM DOCUMENT 6
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS FOR CUSTOMERS

Q. Is my money safe with Post Office products and services?

[Yes.

[NOTE — THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS: The
products and services that we provide to customers are not affected by the Group Litigation.
]The litigation concerns a small proportion of mainly former postmasters with individual
complaints concerning a range of complex matters.

Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year.
There is reconciliation every day, every, month, every year, including with the systems of major
organisations such as high street banks, giving confidence in the many products and services
we provide.

Q. How can I trust Horizon for financial transactions?

Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than£60 billion worth a year.
There is reconciliation every day, every, month, every year, including with the systems of major
organisations such as high street banks, giving confidence in the many products and services
we provide.

83
POL00091452
POL00091452

Post Office colleagues

Context

Many colleagues are familiar with the litigation through previous communications and/ or their
involvement in aspects of it. There have been no significant concerns raised.

The HIT Judgment may cause more queries and concerns because of likely higher media profile
and additionally among colleagues working in branch using Horizon.

Handling approach
All colleagues will receive an email from the CEO. There will also be tailored communications
for colleagues depending on their role (eg briefings to enable colleagues to communicate with

specific audiences they have responsibility for). The GLO intranet pages will be updated and a
process is in place for feedback and enquiries, including escalation where necessary.

84
POL00091452
POL00091452

Collateral

PO fact sheet

Updated 24/10/ 2019
DOCUMENT 8

Post Office Facts and Figures
Our role and reach

e The Post Office has provided vital services at the heart of communities across the UK for
around 370 years. There are around 11,500 Post Office branches across the UK, 98% of
these are run with retail partners on an agency or franchise basis. 99.7% of the
population live within 3 miles of a Post Office and nearly 93% live within 1 mile. Along
with a significant online business, we are the biggest retail network in the UK, with more
branches than all the banks and building societies combined

e Publicly owned following separation from Royal Mail in 2012, Post Office has
modernised 7,700 branches, with over 200,000 extra opening hours. Thousands of Post
Offices now open early in the morning until late in the evening, with around 4,000
branches open on Sundays, making Post Office services more accessible and
convenient

e The Post Office continues to evolve and adapt to meet the ever-changing demands of
customers. In the last few years, as part of a modernisation and investment programme,
more than 200 communities now have a brand new Post Office branch. In 2018, Post
Office also acquired Payzone’s bill payment business, providing customers with around
25,000 Payzone and Post Office locations to pay their bills

e 95% of the population say they use Post Office at least once a year and more than 850m
customer transactions are undertaken every year

e@ In 2011/12, the Post Office was making a loss of £120 million. For 2018/19 Post Office
reported a trading profit of £60 million, its third consecutive year of trading profit.

e As acommercial business the Post Office is driven also by its social purpose. As the hub
of many towns and villages across the UK it understands the important role the local
Post Office branch plays within communities, especially for older and more vulnerable
members of society

e For many, the Post Office remains an important source of their customers’ social
interaction as well as providing important access to their essential needs. Postmasters
up and down the country offer more than just a range of services - in many cases they
are integral to their local community, making a meaningful impact to society within their
towns and villages

Our Services

85
POL00091452
POL00091452

Post Office offers over 170 different products and services, spanning financial services
including savings, loans, insurance and mortgages; as well as Government services;
broadband and home phone; foreign currency; travel insurance; LocalCollect, Drop and
Go mail services and much more

It's the UK’s largest contactless payment network with over 30,000 terminals

Millions of bill payments from council tax payments to electricity and phone are made at
Post Office branches every year. In addition, Everyday Banking services mean
customers are able to access High St bank accounts at any Post Office branch, meaning
that both personal and business banking customers can withdraw cash, deposit cash
and cheques, check their balance and get change at their nearby Post Office. There are
more than 100m banking transactions a year

Post Office has provided savings accounts to customers across the UK for over 150
years and also supplies travel currency to more people across the UK than any other
provider

Mail services offered at Post Office branches help deliver cards and presents to and
from millions of consumers each year, and support the nation’s booming online shopping
industry. Drop & Go mail services for thousands of business and e-tailers allow them to
simply drop off their parcels and we make sure they are ready and priced for posting

86
POL00091452
POL00091452

Horizon factsheet

NOTE: TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND SUBJECT TO REVIEW BY FJ

FACT SHEET — HORIZON — FOR USE ON INTRANET AND TO BE PROVIDED TO
RELEVANT EXTERNAL/ INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS

DOCUMENT - 25

The Horizon system

Horizon is the electronic point of sale system used across all 11,500 Post Office
branches to record and reconcile each transaction.

Horizon supports approximately 30,000 terminals in branches, with currently around
60,000 users and 47 million transactions a week.

Horizon was first introduced in 1995 on a pilot basis in a small number of Post Office
branches, before being rolled out more widely. The current version — Horizon Online —
was introduced in 2010 and has been continually improved and updated. Investing in
technology remains a priority and in 2018/19 Post Office rolled out new equipment to all
branches and transformed its back office systems.

Transactions in Post Office branches are undertaken on behalf of other large-scale
organisations including high street banks, utility companies and Government
departments. Around £60 billion worth of transactions are processed through Horizon
every year

87
POL00091452

POL00091452

GLO factsheet

DOCUMENT — 10 updated 24/10/2019

GLO COMMUNICATIONS — HORIZON ISSUES JUDGMENT

NOTE: TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT
Audience: POL colleagues/intranet/ external as required

e Group Litigation is where a group of people with similar or shared complaints join
together to make a claim in the Courts against a person or organisation

e The litigation involving Post Office is part of a long running dispute between Post Office
and a group of mostly former postmasters who have made serious allegations about
technical, operational and contractual matters

e Between 2012-15 Post Office performed independent investigations and engaged in
mediation for some individual complaints

e In February 2016 it was reported that some former postmasters involved had obtained
funding for litigation against Post Office

e In April 2016, a High Court claim was issued against Post Office and in March 2017 the
Court issued a Group Litigation Order, a procedural tool to enable the Court to manage
litigation affecting multiple parties

e Asis usual practice in group litigation, the Group Litigation Order was advertised and
promoted for a time specified by the Court to enable potential claimants to seek to join
the claim. This was done by the claimants’ legal representatives between 17 March 2017
and 17 November 2017. There are now 555 claimants, with individual complaints that
span the past two decades. They represent a very small proportion of people who have
worked in our network using our systems during that time
The case is very complex and the Judge ordered that it will be heard as a series of trials.
The first trial, which finished on 5 December 2018, was about determining the legal
relationship between Post Office and agents — the Common Issues trial. The Judgment
from this trial was handed down (made public) on 15 March 2019.

e The principal finding from the first trial (Common Issues) was that the contracts between
Post Office and postmasters are “relational” contracts which have implied into them
additional obligations on Post Office.

e Post Office has applied for permission to appeal the Common Issues Judgment. There
will be a hearing on this application on 12 November 2019.

e The second trial, about technical matters concerning Post Office’s Horizon computer
system — the Horizon trial — started on 11 March 2019, and concluded on 2 July 2019.
The Judge has retired to consider his Judgment.

e A third trial, to determine in principle the losses the postmasters can recover and how
they should be quantified, has been scheduled for March 2020 - the Further Issues trial.

88
POL00091452
POL00091452

e None of these trials will decide liability or the individual claimants’ cases. Further
hearings and trials will be required for that.

89
POL00091452
POL00091452

Email to colleagues
DOCUMENT -9
POL COLLEAGUES -— EMAIL [FROM DEBBIE SMITH]

NOTE — TONE/ POSITIONING/ MESSAGING ALL SUBJECT TO DETAILED REVIEW
AGAINST JUDGMENT AND FOUND/ NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

GROUP LITIGATION UPDATE — HORIZON ISSUES JUDGMENT

As you may have seen, the second Judgment in the Post Office Group Litigation [link?] has
been handed down by the High Court today. This Judgment focuses on our Horizon system
and it’s another stage in working towards resolving a number of individual claims by a group of
mainly former postmasters.

We understand the concerns that everyone working in our business might have about some of
the issues [and criticisms] the Judgment raises. But I want to reassure you that [WORDING
SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT : we can have
confidence in the overall robustness of Horizon and that it compares well with systems used by
other retail and financial services companies each day. Both independent experts, for Post
Office and the claimants in the case, on opposite sides of the litigation, confirmed this].

[NOTE: THIS LINE MIGHT BE EXCLUDED DEPENDING ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS: It’s also
important to make clear that the products and services that we provide every day to millions of
customers are not affected by the litigation]. Horizon processes around 47 million transactions
a week, more than £60 billion worth a year. There is reconciliation which includes the systems
of major organisations we work with, such as the banks. So we can and should have
confidence in the products and services we're providing.

But of course no system can ever be said to be perfect and we're working hard to improve. This
year we've made some Horizon design changes - for Parcelforce and banking online
transactions for example — to make things simpler and there’s more of this to come.

The Judgement underlines [very strongly] that we must continue to do better in the ways in
which we support postmasters to operate branches. We need to make it easier for problems to
be avoided in the first place but if there is an issue we need to help get it resolved more quickly.
You will already have seen, I hope, communications about improvements underway to do this
including:

Our new field team structure building stronger relationships with our postmasters.
Changes to the NBSC, now the Branch Support Centre, working more closely with the IT
helpline team, and structured so we can investigate concerns more quickly and escalate
them if needed.

e Better postmaster training — classroom, online, in branch , including refresher training

90
POL00091452
POL00091452

e Our new loss prevention team improving protection of branches from external crime and
security threats and refining some of our processes to help avoid human errors

There is nothing more important to our business than our relationship with our postmasters, the
people delivering our services to customers day-in, day-out, and we are committed to making it
easier for them to build thriving businesses.

You can find today’s media statement on the Judgment here [link]. If you have any questions or
want further information you can email [xxxxxx] and we will we be happy to help.

91
POL00091452
POL00091452

Email invite to L300 call

DOCUMENT - 4

GLO COMMUNICATIONS — HORIZON ISSUES JUDGMENT
EMAIL INVITE TO L300 CALL [From Patrick/ Martine]

Dear all,

I appreciate this is short notice, but please join me on an L300 call for a short but important
update on the Group Litigation.

To join the call:
1. Dial: xxxx
2. Enter participant passcode: xxxx

Or one click participant dialling:
Copy and paste into your mobile phone: xxxxxx

Best wishes,

92
POL00091452

POL00091452

L300 call script

DOCUMENT -5

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

L300 CALL SCRIPT [ Shared GE members — script to be revised to accommodate this]

Thank you for joining the call this morning/afternoon.

There is an important update to share with you about the Group Litigation and the
Judgment from the second trial that has been handed down today.
Most of you are of course well aware of the background: This Judgment focuses on our
Horizon system and it’s another stage in working towards resolving a number of
individual claims by a group of mainly former postmasters
Before I talk about our response, it's important to remember that a lot of what you might
hear about the trial relates to the ways in which we operated in the past, dating back to
2000 in some cases —before we became an independent business.
Over the years we've changed and improved our culture, processes and technology.
But we are reminded through the litigation that we must do better. We know there is still
a lot more to do and we need to be much faster at doing it.

.... Add specific Judgment issues here and our response.
[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST
JUDGMENT: We should be reassured that the view of both independent expert
witnesses who gave evidence in the litigation is that all the indications are that Horizon is
robust, comparing well with similar systems across retail and financial service sectors
which have to be highly reliable]
But of course no system can ever be said to be perfect and we’re working hard to
improve. This year we've made some Horizon design changes - for Parcelforce and
banking online transactions for example — to make things simpler and there’s more of
this to come
But what the Judgment underlines [very strongly] is that we must continue to do better in
the ways in which we support postmasters to operate branches. We need to make it
easier for problems to be avoided in the first place but if there is an issue we need to
help get it resolved more quickly. You will already have seen, I hope, communications
about all the improvements underway to do this
Our new field team structure is helping to build stronger relationships with our
postmasters. We've also made changes to the NBSC, now the Branch Support Centre,
working more closely with the IT helpline team, and structured so we can investigate
concerns more quickly and escalate them if needed. We're getting good feedback from
branches on this.

We're improving our training —-making sure it’s better aligned to the needs of postmasters
— classroom, online, in branch , including refresher training

93
POL00091452
POL00091452

Our new loss prevention team is in place to help better protect branches from external
crime and security threats and they’re also refining some of our processes to help avoid
human errors

We're getting the input of postmasters for improvements and this is incredibly important.
Serving customers every day, handling millions of transactions, they are best placed to
tell us what makes it easier to operate branches effectively

I hope that I have given you confidence that we are learning lessons, we are listening
and we are improving

We are communicating throughout the business today — and there is also information on
the home page of our intranet. Keeping our postmasters updated and informed about
any changes is extremely important at this time. Our Area Managers will be talking to
postmasters and answering their questions over the coming weeks, postmasters can
also email us directly.

We will keep you updated of developments and there will also be information available
on the intranet to share with your teams which we will send out after the call.

This news may be unsettling. You will probably see criticism — some of it very strong — in
the media and beyond. Please don’t hesitate to ask questions of anyone in the senior
leadership team or you can il our Communications Team

communications.team! I

94
POL00091452
POL00091452

Postmaster onboarding team - email & call script in case of PM queries
DOCUMENT - 38

EMAIL & CALL SCRIPT FOR ONBOARDING TEAM (PAM HEAP/JAYNE BRADBURY)
Audience: ONBOARDING TEAM

Email to Onboarding Team

Email subject: Group Litigation Order — important information

Dear Jayne

Today there has been a High Court Judgment about the Post Office and attached is some
information to share with your team which is for internal use only.

It's possible that your team may get questions from postmasters and potential applicants
relating to the High Court Judgment and below is a script for your team to use in response to
any calls received.

Call script for Onboarding Team

Thank you for contacting us. I’m sorry but the Onboarding team is not able to respond to your
question(s).

So that the relevant Post Office Team can help you please email
PostmastersQuestion:

95
POL00091452
POL00091452

Branch Support Centre/IT helpline brief
DOCUMENT - 29

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/ POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST
JUDGMENT AND FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

BRIEF FOR BRANCH SUPPORT CENTRE (BSC) AND IT HELPLINES — KIM
ABBOTTS

MESSAGES TO BRANCH SUPPORT CENTRE AND IT HELPLINE TEAMS

e You'll have seen the communications today about a High Court Judgment in the
Post Office Group Litigation.

e This Judgment, which focuses on our Horizon system, is another stage in
working to resolve a number of individual claims by mainly former postmasters.
It raises a number of issues [and criticisms] which could cause concern

e Comprehensive communications are being shared across Post Office including
of course to everyone in our branch network. We have also issued a media
statement which you can find, together with further background information on
our intranet [link]

e You might receive questions about the Judgment and the litigation from
postmasters. If you need help with these you can refer them to
PostmastersQuestions{___ ~_who will respond back to you — they will
aim to respond within 48 hours.

e Operational questions, including postmasters contacting BSC because they have
had a loss when balancing, should be handled in the normal way but do of
course raise any concerns you have to PostmastersQuestionsi,

e Postmasters may call about a loss in their branch that has already been made
good but they now believe that Horizon was at fault — this should be handled in
the normal way ( link to process)

e Exceptionally a Postmaster may decide to close their branch because they have
concerns about using Horizon. In these scenarios please contact the branch
Area Manager who will contact the postmaster.

e lf you have any concerns or queries from postmasters that you may need help to
answer, please contact the Communications Team who will be happy to help.
Contact PostmastersQuestions_ }

96
POL00091452
POL00091452

KEY MESSAGES TO POSTMASTERS

[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST
JUDGMENT: It is important to reassure you about the overall robustness of
Horizon and that it compares well with systems used by other retail and financial
services companies each day. Both independent experts, for Post Office and the
claimants in the case, on opposite sides of the litigation, confirmed this. ]

Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion
worth a year. There is reconciliation every day, every, month, every year,
including with the systems of major organisations such as high street banks,
giving confidence in the many products and services we provide.

Of course no system can ever be said to be perfect and as you know we're
working hard on improvements. We're working with Fujitsu and postmasters on a
programme of actions

What the Judgment underlines [most/ very strongly] is that we must continue to
do better in the ways in which we support postmasters to run branches and our
new ways of working, together with the many other actions being taken at all
levels of the business, are at the centre of this

If you want more information about all we’re doing to support postmasters you
can find communications about it on the Postmaster One website
https://www.onepostoffice.co.uk/secure/atest-news/ , Branch Focus and One
business Update Magazine (link if this is available)

97
POL00091452

POL00091452

Customer Service team brief
DOCUMENT - 28
CUSTOMER BRIEF — REACTIVE FOR CUSTOMER SERVICES [KIM ABBOT]

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

MESSAGES FOR CUSTOMER SERVICES TEAM
GROUP LITIGATION UPDATE — HORIZON JUDGMENT

You'll have seen the communications today about a High Court Judgment in the Post Office
Group Litigation.

This Judgment, which focuses on our Horizon system, is another stage in working towards
resolving a number of claims by mainly former postmasters. It raises a number of issues [and
criticisms] which could cause concern.

Comprehensive communications being deployed across the business, including of course to
everyone in the network. We have also issued a media statement and you can find that,
together with further information on our intranet [link].

It is possible of course that customers might ask questions about it.
If we do get queries, we can reassure our customers:

- [NOTE: MAY HAVE TO EXCLUDE THIS LINE DEPENDENT ON JUDGE'S
COMMENTS - The products and services that Post Offices provide are not affected by the
litigation]

- [WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST
JUDGMENT: We can be confident that overall Horizon is robust, comparing well with
systems used by other retail and financial services companies every day — this was
confirmed by both independent experts in the litigation]

- Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth
ayear. There is reconciliation every day, every month, every year with the systems of major
organisations including high street banks, utility companies and Government departments

- Horizon’s performance is continually monitored and we continue to work hard to make
improvements wherever we can

98
POL00091452
POL00091452

Email to Grapevine, King Security, Telco helpdesk
DOCUMENT - 22
EMAIL TO GRAPEVINE, KING SECURITY, TELCO HELPDESK
Audience: Grapevine, King Security, Telco Helpdesk
Email subject: Group Litigation Order — important information

Today there has been a High Court Judgement about the Post Office — it’s therefore
possible that you may get some questions from postmasters and colleagues relating to
this. Please refer any questions to BSC on 0845 6011022.

99
POL00091452

POL00091452

HR Service Centre email brief

DOCUMENT - 37

Audience: HRSC

EMAIL TO HRSC (DAVID HIGHAM)

Email subject: Group Litigation Order — important information
Dear David

Today there has been a High Court Judgment about the Post Office and attached is
some information to share with your team which is for internal use only.

It's possible that HRSC may get questions from postmasters and colleagues relating to
the High Court Judgment and below is a script for your team to use in response to any
calls received.

CALL SCRIPT FOR HRSC:

Thank you for contacting us. I’m sorry but HRSC is not able to respond to your
question(s). So that the relevant Post Office Team can help you please contact:

Postmasters - Branch Support Centre on 0333 345 5567

Post Office colleagues - Communications Team one!”

100
POL00091452

POL00091452

Unions & NFSP

Context

The CWU and NFSP could have a critical role in shaping the way any media coverage of the
Horizon Judgment is played out. In the event that this story gains significant press interest, it is
likely that journalists will quickly seek comments from CWU and NFSP representatives.

The danger in this is that the CWU, which sees an opportunity in this area to usurp the NFSP,
will quickly provide media reaction that escalates the story and increases the risk that it will
attract adverse political and consumer attention. The NFSP meanwhile has been stung by
criticism in the Common Issues Trial Judgment that asserted it was not operating independently
of the Post Office. They may feel under pressure to criticise the Post Office for fear of being
attacked by the CWU.

Handling approach

It will be important to contain criticism from NFSP and CWU as much as possible. Nick Beal and
Lee Kelly will verbally brief and follow up as appropriate.

101
POL00091452
POL00091452

Collateral
NFSP - Core verbal script
DOCUMENT - 23

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/ POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

NFSP — CORE VERBAL BRIEF (NICK BEAL)
KEY SPEAKING POINTS

e The Judgment in the second trial of a Group Litigation brought against Post Office by a
number of mainly former postmasters was today handed down in the High Court.

e As you know, we take this Judgment and the overall litigation extremely seriously and
we are continuing to make improvements at pace to the ways in which we're working
with postmasters.

e [INSERT MAIN FINDINGS]

e We know that the Judgment’s criticisms may be unsettling for people. We have a
comprehensive programme of communications to ensure we are speaking with everyone
in the business and providing people with every opportunity to raise questions and
concerns.

e@ [WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST
JUDGMENT : We are reassuring postmasters that we are confident that overall Horizon
is robust, comparing well with systems used by other retail and financial services
companies every day. Both independent experts for the claimants and the Post Office,
on opposite sides of the litigation confirm this.

e We know of course that can be little comfort to a postmaster who experiences an issue
he/ she can't get to the bottom of. The Judgment underlines to us very strongly the
importance of the way in which we help our postmasters operate their Post Offices.

e Weare continuing to make changes at every level of the business including in
recruitment, training and operational support. We need to make it easier for problems to
be avoided in the first place but if there is an issue we need to help get it resolved more
quickly. Our approach is becoming more proactive:

i. Our new field team structure is building stronger relationships with
postmasters

102
POL00091452
POL00091452

ii. Changes to the NBSC, now the Branch Support Centre, mean working
more closely with the IT helpline team, and it’s been structured so we can
investigate concerns more quickly and escalate them if needed.

iii. Better training — classroom, online, in branch, including refresher training

iv. Our new loss prevention team is improving protection of branches from
external crime and security threats and refining some of our processes to help
avoid human errors

Were also continuing to work on Horizon design changes to make things simpler for
postmasters. This year we've done this for Parcelforce and banking online transactions
for example and there’s more of this to come.

I will keep you updated on this of course and also on the next steps in the litigation. We
expect this to take some time to be resolved as there are many legal matters still to be
determined and the individual claims themselves span a very lengthy period, with some
dating back around two decades. Currently there are Court hearings scheduled through
to 2020

I will send you our media statement responding to the Judgment and also the
communications that have been issued to postmasters.

103
POL00091452
POL00091452

CWU/Unite core verbal script
DOCUMENT - 24

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/ POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

CWU — CORE VERBAL BRIEF (LEE KELLY)
KEY SPEAKING POINTS

e The Judgment in the second trial of a Group Litigation brought against Post Office by a
number of mainly former postmasters was today handed down in the High Court

e As you know, we take this Judgment and the overall litigation extremely seriously and
we are continuing to make improvements, at pace, to the way in which we support our
postmasters.

e [INSERT MAIN FINDINGS]

e We know that the Judgment’s criticisms may be unsettling for people. We have a
comprehensive programme of communications to ensure we are speaking with everyone
in the business and providing people with every opportunity to raise questions and
concerns

e [WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST
JUDGMENT We can be clear that we are confident that overall Horizon is robust,
comparing well with systems used by other retail and financial services companies every
day. Both independent experts for the claimants and the Post Office, on opposite sides
of the litigation confirm this. And the fact remains that Horizon is processing around 47
million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year

e But no large-scale IT system can ever be said to be perfect - we are working hard to
make continual improvements

e We need to make it easier for problems to be avoided in the first place but if there is an
issue we need to help get it resolved more quickly. Our approach is becoming more
proactive:

i. Our new field team structure is building stronger relationships with
postmasters

ii. I Changes to the NBSC, now the Branch Support Centre, mean working
more closely with the IT helpline team, and it’s been structured so we can
investigate concerns more quickly and escalate them if needed.

iii. Better training — classroom, online, in branch, including refresher training

104
POL00091452
POL00091452

iv. Our new loss prevention team is improving protection of branches from
external crime and security threats and refining some of our processes to help
avoid human errors

e We're also continuing to work on Horizon design changes to make things simpler for
postmasters and staff. This year we've done this for Parcelforce and banking online
transactions for example and there’s more of this to come.

e I will keep you updated on this of course and also on the next steps in the litigation. We
expect this to take some time to be resolved as there are many legal matters still to be
determined and the individual claims themselves span a very lengthy period, with some
dating back around two decades. Currently there are Court hearings scheduled through
to 2020

e Iwill send you our media statement responding to the Judgment and also the
communications that have been issued to postmasters.

105
POL00091452

POL00091452

Suppliers

Context

The Horizon Issues Trial poses a challenge to the Post Office’s relationship with Fujitsu that will
require specific handling.

However the trial Judgment may also impact on other suppliers who may lose confidence if the
result is a major story that suggests a fundamental basis of the network is flawed. It will
therefore be necessary to ensure that all major suppliers are contacted with the Post Office's
top lines and given reassurance that there will be no interruption to the everyday business of the
network.

Handling approach

Fujitsu
Our core Q&A underlines the Post Office’s ongoing commitment to operate and improve the

Horizon system in partnership with Fujitsu and this will be one of the core messages in
response to the Judgment.

However, at the same time our core messaging will avoid making any firm commitments around
future redress that the Post Office might seek.

Other Suppliers

For other suppliers relationship managers will proactively email information to update on the trial
proceedings and provide reassurance around the Horizon system and the work of the network.

106
POL00091452
POL00091452

Collateral

Supplier email (excluding Fujitsu)
DOCUMENT - 19

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

SUPPLIER EMAIL (EXCLUDING FJ) - TO BE ADAPTED AS APPROPRIATE RE SUPPLIER
SUBJECT: POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION UPDATE

As you may have seen, the second Judgment in the Post Office Group Litigation has been
handed down by the High Court today, as part of the preliminary stages of the complex, long-
running legal case to resolve a number of individual claims by mainly former postmasters.

This Judgment, which focuses on our Horizon computer system used across our network, raises
some issues [and criticisms] so I wanted to reassure you of the firm measures we [have taken/
are taking] which address these.

[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT: But
firstly I want to underline why we can have confidence in the overall robustness of the Horizon
system and that it compares well with systems used by other retail and financial services
companies each day. Both independent experts, for Post Office and the claimants in the case,
on opposite sides of the litigation, confirmed this.]

[NOTE THIS LINE MAY BE EXCLUDED DEPENDENT ON JUDGE’S COMMENTS - It's also
important to make clear that the products and services that we provide every day to millions of
customers are not affected by the litigation.]

The vast majority of our 11,500 Post Office branches operate without problems and Horizon
processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year.

Of course no system can ever be said to be perfect and we’re making continual improvements.
Working with our Horizon supplier, Fujitsu, we have taken actions which include strengthening
the ways the system is monitored and issues identified and fixed when they do arise. We're
also implementing some design changes to further reduce the likelihood of human errors.

What the Judgment underlines to us most strongly is the importance of better supporting our
postmasters to operate their branches. Actions we're taking on this will both help prevent
problems and improve the support we provide to postmasters.

Over the past 12-18 months we have had a particular focus on making changes at every level of
the business to build a better partnership with our postmasters. These include very
improvements to recruitment, training and operational support.

107
POL00091452
POL00091452

I hope I have reassured you about how we are responding to the matters the litigation raises — if
you would like any more detail about the considerable improvement work underway then I will
be very happy to provide this. I also attach our response to the media about today’s Judgment
which I hope is helpful.

[As you know from our recent conversations about the litigation itself] we expect the case to
take some time to be resolved as there are many legal matters still to be determined. The
individual claims themselves span a very lengthy period, with some dating back around two
decades. Currently there are Court hearings scheduled through to 2020 and I will keep you
updated on relevant developments.

Again, please contact me at any time with any concerns you may have.

[VARIOUS SIGNATURIES AS PER PLAN]

108
POL00091452
POL00091452

Commercial Partners

Context

Commercial partners are aware of the litigation from previous communications and have not
raised significant concerns.

In the context of the HIT Judgment it will be very important to provide reassurance about what

we are doing to minimise reputational damage and maintain confidence among customers.

Handling approach

Immediately after the Judgment is made public, relationship managers will contact commercial
partners with an update about the litigation and our core messaging.

109
POL00091452
POL00091452

Collateral

Retail partners email

DOCUMENT - 17

COMMERCIAL PARTNERS RETAIL - EMAIL

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

SUBJECT: POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION UPDATE

As you may have seen, the second Judgment in the Post Office Group Litigation has been
handed down by the High Court today. This is another stage in working towards resolving a
number of individual claims by a group of mainly former postmasters.

This Judgment, which focuses on our Horizon computer system used across our network, raises
some issues [and criticisms] so I wanted to reassure you about improvements we're continuing
to make.

[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST JUDGMENT:
Firstly I want to underline why we can have confidence in the overall robustness of the Horizon
system and that it compares well with systems used by other retail and financial services
companies each day. Both independent experts, for Post Office and the claimants in the case,
on opposite sides of the litigation, confirmed this.

Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a year,
with reconciliation which includes the systems of major organisations we work with.

Of course no large-scale IT system can ever be said to be perfect and we’re making continual
improvements, including design changes which simplify some transactions for our postmasters.

The Judgment underlines to us the importance of better supporting our postmasters to operate
their branches and over the past 12-18 months we have had a particular focus on making
changes at every level of the business to build a better partnership with our postmasters. These
include very improvements to recruitment, training and operational support.

I hope I have reassured you about how we are responding to the matters the litigation raises — if
you would like any more detail about the considerable improvement work underway then I will
be very happy to provide this. I also attach our response to the media about today’s Judgment
which I hope is helpful.

[As you know from our recent conversations about the litigation itself] we expect the case to
take some time to be resolved as there are many legal matters still to be determined. The
individual claims themselves span a very lengthy period, with some dating back around two

110
POL00091452
POL00091452

decades. Currently there are Court hearings scheduled through to 2020 and I will keep you
updated on relevant developments.

Again, please contact me at any time with any concerns you may have.

111
POL00091452
POL00091452

Payzone

Context

Payzone have been included in previous communications and no concerns have been raised.
Handling approach

Payzone employees and agents will receive an email with an update about the Judgment.

112
POL00091452
POL00091452

Collateral
Payzone employees and agents email
DOCUMENT - 21

NOTE: TONE/MESSAGING/POSITIONING TO BE REVIEWED AGAINST JUDGMENT AND
FOUND/NOT FOUND DOCUMENT

PAYZONE EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS - EMAIL (ANDREW GODDARD)

POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION UPDATE

As you may have seen, the second Judgment in the Post Office Group Litigation has
been handed down by the High Court today. This is another stage in working towards
resolving a number of individual claims by a group of mainly former postmasters.

This Judgment, which focuses on our Horizon computer system used across our
network, raises some issues [and criticisms]. Although Payzone is not affected, I wanted
to make sure that you were aware of the Judgment and how we are responding.

[WORDING SUBJECT TO FURTHER DETAILED LEGAL REVIEW AGAINST
JUDGMENT: Firstly I want to underline why we can have confidence in the overall
robustness of the Horizon system and that it compares well with systems used by other
retail and financial services companies each day. Both independent experts, for Post
Office and the claimants in the case, on opposite sides of the litigation, confirmed this.

It's also important to make clear that the products and services that Post Offices provide
every day to millions of customers are not affected by the litigation]

Horizon processes around 47 million transactions a week, more than £60 billion worth a
year, with reconciliation which includes the systems of major organisations we work
with.

Of course no large-scale IT system can ever be said to be perfect and we’re making
continual improvements, including design changes which simplify some transactions for
our postmasters.

The Judgment underlines to us the importance of better supporting our postmasters to
operate their branches and over the past 12-18 months we have had a particular focus
on making changes at every level of the business to build a better partnership with our
postmasters. These include very improvements to recruitment, training and operational
support.

113
POL00091452
POL00091452

We expect the case to take some time to be resolved as there are many legal matters
still to be determined. The individual claims themselves span a very lengthy period, with
some dating back around two decades. Currently there are Court hearings scheduled
through to 2020.

I will keep you updated on relevant developments but please do contact me if you have
any questions or concerns.

114
