POL00091397

POL00091397

Message

From: Belinda Crowe [imceaex-
_O=mms_ou=exchange+20administrative+20group+20+28fydibohf23spdit+29_cn=recipients_cn=belinda+20crowe79b93f11-
S69f-4526-a078-f5b4958a8917220@c72a47.ingest.local]

Sent: 23/10/2014 07:29:

To: Patrick Bourke

ce: Belinda Crowe
Subject: FW: Notes for tl
Attachments:image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; image004.png

For information. I do not understand all of this. Rod, maybe you do as you have been involved with all of this from the
start and throughout as far as I arn aware.

There are some immediate
questions I have relating to the practicalities:
1. On the one occasion (see yellow highlighted section below) I would like to know what was done, why it was
done, how many branches were affected and were the spmrs told.
2. How many times did this happen pre Horizon on line and what/why and how many etc.
3. Is James suggesting that the data we are requesting to investigate cases is not sufficient to answer the question
about whether a transaction has been added?

There are more questions but we need to discuss handling urgently.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

148 Old Street, LONDON, ECIV 9HQ

From: Davidson James [:
Sent: 22 October 2014 14:29
To: Belinda Crowe

Subject: Notes for the 1600 meeting

Hi Belinda, I’ve just seen that the meeting has been cancelled but was drafting this note to help in the scene setting and
following our calls over the last couple of days. Given we have a bit more time now, it may well be prudent for you, me,
Roderick and Mike Harvey (our legal /commercial lead) to have a conversation before getting in front of external
solicitors and others?

The following sets out how Integrity in Horizon is assured and how this forms the basis for responding to the various
challenges made.

Given that there are multiple databases within and without the Horizon system and given the fiduciary obligations held

by the sub-postmasters to Post Office, it is critical that there is one definitive set of data to determine what was done “at
the branch”. This is a core principle of the Horizon system. To this end the system was designed and built to keep one

POL-0090419
POL00091397
POL00091397

definitive record of the transaction as it is “keyed in” at the branch. It does this via the Core Audit Process the key
premises of which are:

e

The Transactions as keyed in at the branch, once “committed” cannot be altered

e All transactions are secured by cryptographic controls, are checked by accounting algorithms, have a
user ID identified against them and an independent reference number

@ Any changes required centrally to committed Transactions can only be done via the creation of
additional transactions which in itself creates an audit trail and are additional to the original
transaction. These have reference numbers and user IDs tagged to them that can be checked — hence
we know that this has only occurred once since HNGX went live

* The audit data is kept in a separate and highly secure database, each record is individually security

sealed and protected throughout the 7 year retention period

To this end, if a transaction is challenged for any reason, the first port of call is always to look at this data log on the Core
Audit Process database. Post Office does this by requesting an Audit Retrieval Request (ARQ). Fujitsu accesses the
database and provides a view of the audit log associated with the transaction(s) in question. This does not provide all of
the data held, it only provides what Post Office has said that it wants to see in an ARQ record, we have recommended on
several occasions that this is reviewed to make sure it continues to give you what you need in the circumstances. This
where I believe Helen Rose misunderstood what can be established in terms of system versus user generated
transactions for example.

it enables us to say:

Whether or not the transactions took place

Identify if there are any anomalies in the audit trail that explain what happened
Detail whether or not a comm’s issue arose

Which receipts were printed out and when

Ifa transaction was cancelled, recovered etc.

eoeee

Which enables us to achieve the core principle highlighted above.
if one accepts this core principle and the key premises of that principle as true then all one needs do is validate whether
the Horizon system delivers to these key premises. In addition, questions regarding remote access and the content of

other databases become irrelevant and thus it simplifies the points at issue.

The continued failure of Second Sight {and now potentially Imperial College) to acknowledge (or at worst engage with)
this core principle results in much of the frustration that I and my colleagues feel about this process.

I hope that helps, please let know if any points need further clarification,

James Davidson
Post Office

Fujitsu
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

POL-0090419
POL00091397
POL00091397

wa Please

der the environment - de you really nee

print this email?

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

POL-0090419
