POL00129182
POL00129182

DELEGATE: Kevin Ryan

COURSE DATES: 21* February to 11 March 2011
COURSE CONTENT

The topics covered on the course enabled the focus to be centred on
interviewing suspect offenders and witnesses, the cognitive witness interview
process, searching and notebook entries. Detailed training was provided in
those areas.

Additionally training was provided in respect of RIPA, Safe Systems of Work
and PORA, NPA forms, Notes of interview, Tape summaries and Offender
Reports.

The topics that were not covered but were not are:

Handwriting and fingerprints
Loss diagnostics were only briefly discussed and not demonstrated

Line Managers and Mentors will wish to note that these topics were therefore
not covered on the course. Additionally no training was given in any
accounting processes relevant to Post Office Ltd cases.

THEORY KNOWLEDGE

Kevin has a good understanding of the theory as demonstrated by the mark of
78% on the e-learning assessment at the beginning of the course and 77% on
the final day evaluation. It should be noted that Kevin missed the final week of
the course due to pre-booked annual leave

NOTEBOOKS

XXXXXXX completed several good notebook entries during the notebook
exercise itself and subsequent roles as a Support Officer at subsequent
offender interviews.

WITNESS INTERVIEWS AND STATEMENTS

XXXxxx demonstrated a very good understanding of the cognitive interview
process and in the construction of the actual statements. Her Case Study was
in respect of an audit shortage at an SPSO and involved taking detailed
statements from a Sub Office Assistant witness and also an Auditor. In
completing these she showed that she fully understands the process and has

Introduction to Investigations Workshop
Ref: Feedback form
a relaxed professional interviewing style. This enabled her to make the main
witness (who in the scenario had been placed in a very difficult position by
the Sub Postmaster suspect) feel comfortable and willing to provide all the
available information.

The statements xxxxxxx took were complex and she went though them in a
relaxed, orderly, fashion and identified all of the salient points of the available
evidence. They were accurate, properly structured and professionally dealt
with.

SEARCHING

XXXxxx Showed a good understanding of the process during the searching day
although during the remainder of the course there were no opportunities for
her to practice any further searches. However, she was required to fill in
further search forms which she completed satisfactorily.

INTERVIEWS WITH SUSPECT OFFENDERS

XXXXxxx completed three very good suspect offender interviews on the course
and she is extremely thorough and persistent. She has a nice conversational
style and builds up a good rapport with the suspect. In one of the earlier
interviews she had the opportunity to go through the points to prove after
admissions had been made but rather rushed that aspect.

Her final interview was also good but just fell short of being rated higher. It
contained many good points such as challenging questions, excellent eye
contact with the suspect, a clear interview structure and again demonstrated
her thoroughness. On this occasion, however, she struggled slightly to find
the right questions that would have led to an admission and finally ended up
with a long statement of her thoughts on the matter rather than direct
questions and this could have been construed as oppressive. She also had
some difficulty covering the points to prove for false accounting offences but I
am sure this will come easily with more experience. Nonetheless a very good
performance overall in her interviews.

OVERALL SUMMARY

I was impressed with xxxxxxx’s performance during the course. She is
extremely keen and willing to learn, asking numerous questions to clarify
things in her own mind. She has a very pleasant relaxed style when
conducting witness and suspect offender interviews.

XXXXXxX iS extremely thorough and professional in any task she is given and
demonstrated an aptitude for her new role. I am sure with experience she will
develop into an extremely competent Investigator.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop
Ref: Feedback form

POL00129182
POL00129182
POL00129182
POL00129182

Introduction to Investigations Workshop
Ref: Feedback form
