POL00115961
POL00115961

Paula Vennells(..
Sent: Sat 06/07/2013 7:43:08 AM (UTC)

To: Alice Perkins CI il; Neil
McCausland} GRO Virginia

Ce:

Subject: SS 5 July update

Attachment: image001.png

Attachment: image002.png
Dear all,

A quick further update on yesterday’s developments with the Second Sight (SS) review:

T have had two further very constructive telephone conversations with Alan Bates of the JFSA,
which confirmed his willingness to work collaboratively with us in taking forward our response to the
review. In particular he agreed to participate in a new user forum to provide feedback on training and
support issues related to Horizon and bring the existing review process to a conclusion.

. It is worth emphasising that AB's main issue is not 'the computer’ but the human aspect: how in
his view Post Office failed to support and help vulnerable and 'muddle headed' [sic] Spmrs. We had a
useful conversation about this and I will update you more on Tuesday's call. He will collaborate with
us in the user forum but will also need reassurance that we will not just ignore past cases. We will
work with him to understand what happened and I offered again to meet him and one or two of his
colleagues personally. (This time he accepted.) This is the most emotive aspect as we are dealing with
perceptions and feelings. It needs careful handling but by working closely with him over the summer,
rather than at arms length via SS, I am hopeful we will find a way through.

He also raised the idea of setting up a new independent third party that spmrs can approach if
they are facing issues with Horizon which cannot be resolved through the normal Post Office processes
(but which doesn’t replace or undermine our existing systems for dealing with serious cases of actual
fraud or theft). The idea aligns with some of our own thinking on the need to set up a safety net to
prevent small problems snow-balling into more serious issues, which can then lead to prosecution or
the termination of spmrs’ contracts. We are therefore inclined to agree to the idea - in principle - in our
response to the report, without committing to the specific details, which will have to be considered
carefully over the next couple of months (with the involvement of JFSA and other stakeholders).

Alwen and I then had a further meeting with James Arbuthnot yesterday afternoon which was
also positive — we briefed him on our proposed response to the review and the points noted above,
including our plans for working collaboratively with the JFSA, which he appeared to be very pleased
about. This is hopefully an important step forwards in ensuring that his media commentary on the
report on Monday is reasonably balanced, although risks remain nonetheless given his desire to gain
decent coverage. We agreed to share our respective draft media statements, and will formulate our
final handling strategy in light of that. (We will forward under separate cover either over the weekend,
or early Monday.)

One of the main reputational and potentially financial risks arising from the review relates to
POL00115961
POL00115961

possible attempts to reopen past prosecutions based on the findings. James Arbuthnot was certainly
focussed on this. We had a stronger exchange on this point. It is not clear that any new evidence has
emerged. If it does, then as I pointed out to James, legal routes to appeal already exist. Susan and the
legal team are working with our external lawyers to consider whether there are any implications arising
from the report for past cases, and we can provide a further update on this work next week.

In terms of the report itself, we received the full draft from SS yesterday and have sent them
back a version with tracked changes on a number of sections which we (and Fujitsu) believe are either
factually inaccurate or open to misinterpretation. We will be keeping in touch with them over the
weekend to understand how they intend to respond to these suggested changes.

I will update you on any further significant developments over the weekend or on Monday.

Kind regards,
Paula
Sent from my iPad

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
