POL00036010
POL00036010

Release 1
Training Needs Analysis

Version 0.6
Page 1
POL00036010

POL00036010
1 Document Administration
e $14 July 2016
Revision Number Revision Date Summary of Changes
V0.0 (DRAFT) 15 April 2016 DRAFT Version — structure only
V0.1 22 April 2016 Section 1 - Introduction - Risks added
Section 2 - Lessons Learned - Summary of Findings added
V0.2 29 April 2016 Section 4 - Lessons Learned
Section 5 - Release Specific Challenges
Section 8 - Business as Usual impact
V0.3 06 May 2016 Section 3 - Introduction
Risks removed from Introduction. Now standalone Section 4
~ Risks

Section 7 - Audiences

Section 8 - Branch Colleagues - Learning Outcomes,
Delivery and Evaluation

Section 9 - Non-branch Colleagues - Learning Outcomes,
Delivery and Evaluation

Section 11 - Path to Training Strategy

Appendix
Reviewer feedback from v0.2
V0.4 18 May 2016 Reviewer feedback from v0.3
V0.5 17 June 2016 Approver feedback from v0.4
V0.6 23 June 2016 Re-structure and modifications due to change in Release 1

scope (descoping of AML ID Capture; change in approach
for Screen Sharing, and Speed to Market)

V1.0 14 July 2016 Approved

Section 8.3 updated as HNG-A will now run on Windows 10

This document requires input from the following stakeholders, who are required to review and/or
approve the document, as listed:

Name Title Reviewer Approver
Shaun Turner Business Readiness Lead - Release 1 Y N
Dawn Brooks Business Readiness Lead ~ Release 1 Y N
Neil Haydock Business Readiness Lead - Release 1 Y N
Angela James Business Readiness Lead - Network Y N
Paul Garnham Business Readiness Lead - Network Y N
Gayle Peacock Head of Branch and Customer Support Y N
Andrea Horner Business Readiness Programme Manager - BTTP Y Y
Marc Reardon Release 1 Manager N Y
Jackie Newton Post Office Sales & Customer Services Training Y Y
Manager
Sarah Malone Head of Learning and Development N Y
Kevin Seller General Manager of Network Strategy and N Y
Transformation
Angela Van Den Bogerd I Director of Support Services N Y
Date Action
15 April 2016 V0.0 (DRAFT) submitted for approval
22 April 2016 V0.1 to be submitted
29 April 2016 V0.2 to be submitted
Reviewer feedback required by 4 May

Version 0.6
Page 2
POL00036010
POL00036010

06 May 2016 V0.3 to be submitted
Reviewer feedback required by 13 May

18 May 2016 V0.4 submitted for final approval

17 June 2016 Final feedback received from reviewers
V0.5 completed

24 June 2016 Re-write due to change in Release 1 scope
v0.6 released to approvers

1 July 2016 v1.0 approved and presented to programme

Version Date Document Ref. Location

1. Training Needs 0.5 15 June 2016 I Release 1 TNA (v0.5)
Analysis (Release 1)
vO 5 (2016 06 15)

Version 0.6
Page 3
POL00036010
POL00036010

2 Contents

1 Document Administration

3 Introduction

3.1 Executive Summary

3.2 Release 1 training context

3.3 Training Needs Analysis Summary
3.4. Training Scope ..
3.5 Design Principles
3.6 Training Objective:
3.7 What good looks like
4 Release Specific Challenges and Activities
4.1 Learning Management System (LMS)
4.2 User Management and Reporting
4.3 Procurement and Supplier Engagement
4.4 Training material setup .

4.5 Ways of working

5 Audiences.

6 Branch Colleagues - Learning Outcomes, Delivery and Evaluation

6.1 Introduction...

6.2 Challenges for delivering training to branch colleagues
6.3 Learning Needs by work package..
6.4 Summary of branch colleague training
7 Non-Branch Colleagues - Learning Outcomes, Delivery and Evaluation.
71 Introduction
7.2 Delivery and Evaluation.
7.3 Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)
7.4 Human Resources Service Centre (HRSC)

7.5 Security Team... wee
7.6 BAU Training and Field Suppo!
7.7 Sales Team
7.8 Product Teams..
7.9 Other Audiences
7.10 Conclusion

8 Business As Usual Impact

8.1 Introduction...
8.2 Release 1 Overview
9 Risks ...
10 Path to Training Strategy
10.1 High level considerations
10.2 Specific considerations
11. Appendix A - Learning Outcomes
12 Appendix B - Lessons Learned .

13 Appendix C - Business as Usual Materials to be updated

Version 0.6
Page 4
POL00036010
POL00036010

14 Appendix D - Glossary
15 Appendix E - Training Approach

Version 0.6
Page 5
POL00036010
POL00036010

3 Introduction

3.1 Executive Summary
Post Office is undertaking a major transformation of its systems, hardware and networks. The first
release of planned updates to the current Point of Sale software, referred to throughout as ‘Release 1’,
forms part of the broader Branch Technology Transformation Programme (BTTP), and is focused on
enhancing or improving existing functionality, or in some areas introducing new functionality. At
present, the following work packages are being considered for inclusion in Release 1:

e Enhanced User Help and Support

e Branch Messaging

« Enhanced User Management

e Improved Transaction Journeys

This Training Needs Analysis (TNA) is focused on supporting the successful implementation of Release
1, based on our current understanding of the proposed work packages and changes. Any significant
changes to the implementation plan within the programme will need to be revisited in the development
of any Training Strategy.

Previous versions of this TNA (v0.5 and earlier) were developed when a number of different work
packages were under consideration for inclusion in Release 1, specifically:

e Screen Sharing
« AML ID Capture
e Improved Levels of User Configuration (‘Speed to Market’)

These work packages are no longer under consideration, and will not be addressed throughout this
version of the document. If these work packages are considered for inclusion in future releases, the
most current information regarding the proposed training approach can be found in the Release 1 TNA
(v0.5).

3.1.1 Training Summary

For the work packages under consideration, learning will be delivered through a combination of
eLearning activities, workbooks and workshop style training, covered by face-to-face delivery,
webinars and Skype sessions.

e Branch colleagues will be provided with an eLearning activity and associated assessment for
each of the 4 work packages. This eLearning will need to be accessed on the learners’ own
devices, as we do not currently have the capacity to provide eLearning at the Point of Sale.

e Branches may also receive a hardcopy workbook which mirrors the content of the eLearning
activities, and will be required to complete any knowledge assessment at their Point of Sale.

e Non-branch colleagues will be provided access, as required for their role, to any eLearning
activity and associated assessment.

e A number of groups of non-branch colleagues have been identified as requiring additional
learning - for example, certain NBSC colleagues will require additional technical training to be
able to author and maintain content for Enhanced Online Help and Support. These groups will
be provided a blended solution, including additional eLearning activities, and workshop-style
learning.

Additional detail regarding these audiences, and the specific learning outcomes associated with each
work package can be found throughout this document.

: ing context
Post Office has a commitment to improve training content and delivery for all branch colleagues. This
will be achieved through a greater focus on eLearning and reporting against individual user IDs.

However, the infrastructure required for these improvements will not be in place for BTTP Release 1.

Version 0.6
Page 6
POL00036010
POL00036010

The improved training approach will help to mitigate some of the current challenges when delivering
branch colleague training, and will include an eLearning portal where all branch colleagues will be able
to access training materials and compliance tests, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and the training will
be recorded and reported against the individual’s training record. A number of things must be in place
to make this happen;

e ALearning Management System (LMS) - it is expected that this will be delivered as part of
Success Factors, the new HR system. Training content and compliance tests will be migrated to
this platform. If the Success Factors LMS is not available at the time of implementation, it is
recommended that we investigate using our existing Totara system, for Release 1. There may
be an additional cost component here, to allow for more licences to provide sufficient access for
colleagues to complete their training.

e Unique User IDs - this will be delivered as part of BTTP Release 1. HR Service Centre will
create a unique user ID for each Point of Sale user and this will be linked to their compliance
test and training records.

e Access via the Point of Sale - when the new Point of Sale equipment has been deployed in
branch, it will run on the Windows 10 enterprise operating system. The new operating system
could allow access via a browser to the new training portal, making all training content available
at the Point of Sale terminal.

An LMS will be utilised as part of Release 1, meaning that eLearning content can be made available;
however, without the benefits of Enhanced User Management and access via the Point of Sale we
cannot depend on eLearning as the main means of delivery.

As a result, the 4 Release 1 work packages under consideration will be delivered using a mixture of
eLearning activities, and more traditional delivery methods, including workbooks, and workshop style
delivery (incorporating face-to-face training, webinars and Skype learning events). A key Post Office
training design principle is to develop training content once and make it available to all audiences that
need to complete it. As such, all relevant workbooks and eLearning will be made available to branch
colleagues and non-branch colleagues, although hardcopy workbooks will only be delivered to
branches.

3.3 Tr g Needs Analy Summary
This TNA document is to support the successful delivery of Release 1. The TNA is part of the wider
programme of activities under the BTTP, preparing colleagues for the upgrading of branch technology.

The TNA identifies who needs training and in what form, in order to successfully:

e implement this rollout,
e use any new functionality of the Horizon system, post-implementation,
e support users of Horizon, post-implementation

A programme of communications will need to support the training programme to ready those who will
need training, and to provide context and updates for those who will be affected by implementation or
any changes. This TNA document will identify which areas fall under the scope of Training, and which
may fall more comfortably into Communications. As our understanding of the proposed changes
develops, this separation may change; the final communication and strategy approach will be provided
in the Training Strategy. The final training strategy will reference where communications is needed in
relation to training. Any linked communications and learning strategy and plan will need defined and
agreed between both communities

The TNA document identifies all affected audiences, and a proposed high-level solution for training
delivery and evaluation, with a particular focus on the 2 broad audiences of branch and non-branch
colleagues. It also identifies any risks, challenges and issues specific to this Release and their
associated mitigation strategies.

In addition to ensuring the effective training of existing colleagues, the Training team is also
responsible for ensuring all Business as Usual (BAU) and on-boarding materials are updated, so as to

Version 0.6
Page 7
POL00036010
POL00036010

remain accurate after any proposed changes, and fit for use in training any new colleagues. This
document will outline the affected materials, which include workshop trainers’ notes, eLearning
modules and training aids, and the proposed strategy for ensuring they are updated to time, ensuring
compliance and quality standards are maintained.

There are critical interdependencies with the other programmes, both within the BTTP and the broader
transformation landscape, specifically EUC Branch and the implementation of the Success Factors LMS;
however, training needs, delivery and co-ordination of anything outside of the Release 1 solution is not
in scope.

This document does not provide detailed information regarding specific content of training materials,
deployment plans or timelines, which will be covered in the Training Strategy document. The Training
Strategy will be developed during the Design phase of the programme, and finalised once the package
of changes has been confirmed and approved, and the Build phase has begun.

3.4 Tr rope

This Training Needs Analysis is based on the information available at the time it was written. It is
acknowledged that identified needs, audiences, outcomes and delivery methods may change as a
result of developments throughout the Design and Build phases of the programme. These changes will
be considered in the development of the final Training Strategy.

In Scope

« Training material will focus on training changes to the current system processes and its
appearance and layout where these changes are introduced. Training provided to existing
colleagues is not designed to be a solution for new entrant training (hereafter referred to as
Onboarding).

e Only work packages currently under consideration for inclusion in Release 1 will be considered
in scope for this Training Needs Analysis

¢ Updates to new entrant training will be managed separately as part of the training team’s
responsibilities and will be addressed in this document.

e Training will be provided to both branch (including agents and their staff) and non-branch
colleagues

* Colleagues will be trained so they can use all new functionality to perform their roles on day 1
of go-live and have access to material to support this usage.

pe

e Training delivery is focused on Post Office colleagues (including agents and their staff), or those
external suppliers who will have direct contact with Post Office colleagues only. Training in the
full technologically integrated end to end process e.g. system integration with Post Office clients
and other Post Office systems is out of scope.

e The Training Team is responsible for the update of all BAU training materials. The update and
maintenance of operational support resources, such as Online Help and HR Help, are not in
scope

e The Training Team is responsible for providing training to any designated Floorwalkers or Early
Life Support (ELS). The provision of training resources to act as either Floorwalkers or ELS is
not in scope

e This TNA is solely focused on the work packages and changes proposed for inclusion in Release
1. While this document is written with consideration to the overall impact of the BTTP, any
training solution for EUC Branch, Simple to Run Networks or other programmes are out of scope
and will be addressed in separate documents

¢ Work packages which have been removed from consideration from Release 1 (specifically AML
ID capture, Speed to Market and Screen Sharing) will not be considered in scope for this TNA

e This TNA will not outline detailed curriculum, content, timeframes or responsibilities. These

areas will be addressed in a final Training Strategy, which will be developed during the Build

phase of the programme.

Version 0.6
Page 8
POL00036010
POL00036010

9°

The training solution will focus on providing a suitable level of training for:

¢ Current active users of Horizon, specifically those who have completed business as usual
product and system training and are already in branch.

e Colleagues providing support and training to current users of Horizon, including but not limited
to NBSC advisers or Field Support Advisers.

e Other colleagues affected by process changes, resulting from work packages included in this
Release, including but not limited to HR Service Centre colleagues and Security colleagues.

Training will be developed in line with the Post Office’s strategic approach to training, which is:

A blended learning approach, with a drive towards greater use of eLearning.

Design once, deliver to many

Digital by default, available any place anytime and through any device

Only do in the classroom that which can only be done in the classroom

A recognition of the continued need for workbooks, to meet the needs of different learning
styles. This need will continue to be delivered on a sliding scale as our transition to eLearning
continues, leading to their removal or use by exception

« Acommitment to make training available to all agency colleagues as well as postmasters
(though postmasters will still be responsible for ensuring that their staff are trained
appropriately).

The ability to provide eLearning through Point of Sale depends on a Windows platform, which in turn
depends on the installation of new kit. This is being delivered through the EUC branch programme and
is not expected to be available prior to the implementation of Release 1, which means that training will
need to be delivered in a manner similar to our historical BAU training, rather than utilising a more
technology-enabled solution. This will be addressed throughout this document.

To maintain a consistent approach across the organisation as a whole, training will be developed in line
with the general design principles used across the broader Post Office L&D function, utilising existing
Learning Academy templates, so that all materials are immediately recognisable to colleagues as a
learning initiative. This will ensure a consistent and recognisable presentation, and set up systems to
support further deployment of training across the broader Branch Technology Transformation
Programme.

1. Training material, including existing training materials which will require updating, will
accurately reflect the new processes.

2. Training will be delivered in ‘bite-size’ modules. This will allow for completion over a period of
time and in parallel with operational requirements.

3. Training material will adhere to the 70:20:10 learning model, and designed to suit visual,
auditory and kinaesthetic learning styles

4. Training material is made available a minimum of 4 weeks prior to go-live for end users to
complete their training in good time, allowing for the completion of approximately 30 minutes
or material per week. Depending on the overall amount of training to be completed, learners
may be provided more time.

5. Any training material will be easy to access and repeatable. This will support an end user’s
need to repeat modules and reinforce learning.

6. Training will be designed once.

7. Classroom training will be kept to a minimum and reserved for the most complex needs and
areas which can’t be appropriately delivered through other delivery methods.

8. The look and feel of all training material will be in line with Post Office Learning Academy
corporate branding.

Version 0.6
Page 9
POL00036010
POL00036010

9. Training will be tracked to ensure completion and evaluation activities will be completed to
assess effectiveness.

10. Training will be role-based and will follow an 80 / 20 rule. Training material will prioritise its
focus on what an end user needs to know to do their job. (i.e. 20% of the things they need to
know to do 80% of their job).

11. Post Office colleagues will be involved in the design and / or review of training materials.

12. Training will be positive and current, supporting communications and helping colleagues feel
confident about the associated benefits of the change.

Overall, the training provided for Release 1 is an enabler to help the Post Office meet its modernisation
objectives, specifically:

e Reduce costs

e Grow and support the Network
« Improve end user productivity
e Improve customer experience

These feed directly into Post Office’s Strategic goals to be:

e Simpler to Run
¢ Better for Customers
e Great to Work For

In order to set the highest standards for delivery, the training will be developed to deliver against the
following measures:

e  =Training will have minimal impact on time away from counter, service or operational delivery,
while still ensuring that it meets the learning need.

e Postmasters and branch managers will be trained to a level where they are able to support their
colleagues.

e Branch and Support colleagues will be trained to a level where they are able to continue to
deliver their current role.

e External suppliers will be trained to a level where they are able to fulfil their responsibilities,
with minimal impact on Post Office colleagues, customers or operational delivery.

e All colleagues undergoing training will be able to prove their competence by completing a test /
knowledge check.

e From a colleague perspective, the training will feel aligned and integrated with the
communications and support which has also been made available.

Version 0.6
Page 10
POL00036010
POL00036010

4 Release Specific Challenges and Activities

Under the original Front Office Application solution, IBM were responsible for delivering the programme
training work stream in collaboration with the BTTP training team. Specifically, IBM were responsible
for;

e providing resources for the design, development, testing and delivery of training modules
and materials,

e the delivery of training to support service colleagues,
e the IT infrastructure to host and deliver eLearning and reporting on training completed.
In the current Fujitsu solution, these training responsibilities now fall to Post Office.

To deliver all elements of the training work stream that IBM were due to provide, there are a number
of challenges specific to the deployment of Release 1 that must be addressed before the training can

be developed and delivered. Once they have been defined or sourced they will be able to be re-used

for all subsequent BTTP releases. The areas are summarised in this section.

arning

stem ¢

Under the original BTTP approach, the hosting of all eLearning materials on a Learning Management
System (LMS) was to be the responsibility of our supplier partner. Without this LMS to support
eLearning and user reporting, the Branch Technology Transformation Programme (BTTP) will be
responsible for providing one. For Release 1, this creates the particular challenge of determining an
appropriate solution and ensuring that it is established in a way that is fit for purpose.

This raises several challenges which will be dependent on timelines and cost.

4.1.1 Success Factors

Post Office is in the process of implementing an HR solution, Success Factors, which amongst other
things will be functioning as a Learning Management System. At present, there are some questions still
unanswered around the alignment of the implementation dates of Success Factors and Release 1.

If the release of Success Factors LMS is confirmed to be in advance of the Release 1 training schedule,
then it will be the best option for the implementation of the BTTP eLearning and reporting platform.
Using Success Factors will still involve a certain amount of set-up activity to ensure that the platform is
suitable for use for BTTP.

Without the benefits of Enhanced User Management, which is to be released as part of Release 1, a
significant piece of work will need to be completed to identify potential users of the system, and ensure
that are able to register and complete appropriate training using the LMS.

The training team must also develop a solution to combine reports from a number of sources (Success
Factors, and Horizon Online test data) to provide accurate data around training completion, in lieu of a
single integrated solution.

4.1.2 Alternative Solution

If Release 1 is scheduled to be implemented before Success Factors, the release of any eLearning
training will require us to consider alternative LMS platforms, such as Totara, which currently supports.
BAU eLearning, or the procurement of an external LMS specifically for this release. Any such solution
will incur additional costs to the programme which will need to be factored into these decisions.

Any such procurement will require the team to develop a set of business requirements, in conjunction
with the Learning Academy and business needs, to be used in identifying a suitable supplier. In
addition to the standard requirements of a modern LMS, Post Office will need to ensure that these
requirements pay attention to issues particular to organisation, for example, that the solution is able to
cater for a large number of concurrent users.

Version 0.6
Page 11
POL00036010
POL00036010

Once procured, there will be considerable work required to ensure the LMS is appropriately branded for
BTTP, that users can be registered to access the platform and that there is a reporting tool in place to
track learning throughout the implementation of training.

In addition to these setup requirements, once Success Factors has been implemented, there will be an
additional piece of work around the migration of information from the Release 1 LMS onto Success
Factors, so that training results can be accessed and audited, and that materials can continue to be
accessed and updated for future training needs.

+.2 Use > Ang
Enhanced User Management is currently under consideration for implementation as part of Release 1.

In the absence of these improvements to user management, the present data sources cannot provide a
robust list of all users working within branches.

Prior to the commencement of training for Release 1, the team will need to complete a significant
amount of research to identify the number of colleagues in each branch, so that we are able to report
and record training data to the best our capacity. The completion rates of all training assessment
activities will need to be compared against this data, to ensure that we can properly identify where
training has not been successfully completed and ensure appropriate follow-up is completed. The
programme will determine the acceptable completion rates per branch, based on this information, as at
this stage, without Enhanced User Management, it is not believed that Post Office will be able to gather
or record training completion data at an individual user level.

Until the implementation of both Success Factors and enhanced User Management, there is no way of
being able to integrate data from training delivered through eLearning and Horizon into a single data
set, meaning that additional manual reporting will need to be completed to ensure that our reporting is
adequate for auditing purposes.

4 e

Ne

A number of areas of delivery will need to be outsourced to external suppliers. In some cases, this may
be a matter of using an existing supplier, however given that the scale of the work to be delivered, and
the fact that these suppliers will be required across multiple releases, it is in the best interest of the
programme to spend time identifying training requirements across the entire BTTP programme (not
solely Release 1) and complete an exercise to determine suitable options.

4.3.1 eLearning
For enhancements made to the Point of Sale (PoS) system, the design, development, testing and
implementation of all eLearning training modules is now the responsibility of Post Office. As a result,
the BTTP training team need to work with Post Office Learning Academy to identify and procure the
services of an eLearning provider who will have the expertise to build, test and report on the eLearning
deliverables.

4.3.2 Printing

There is a business requirement to print and distribute workbooks that mirror the training content
available on any eLearning modules. The BTTP training team need to identify and engage the services
of an external printer for Release 1 and all future releases. The high level printing requirements need
to be documented, specifically identifying what branches will need to receive materials and how many
copies. The internal communications team will assist with the identification and engagement of a
suitable supplier, which would typically be an existing, approved supplier.

4.3.3 Training Consultants

Many of the changes proposed throughout the life of the BTTP will also impact Support Centre
colleagues. Where this involves significant behavioural change or technical elements, additional
resources and expertise may be needed to develop this training and deliver it through a blended
solution including self-study, Train the Trainer and workshops. BTTP training may need to procure the

Version 0.6
Page 12
POL00036010
POL00036010

services of external training consultants to assist with this work, depending on the material required.
For example, there may be a requirement for a training consultant with expertise in call-centre specific
behavioural training to train NBSC advisers on the appropriate use of the new Screen Sharing
functionality.

al se

4.4.1 eLearning system design

In line with the Learning Academy ways of working and design standards, the BTTP training team need
to define the high level requirements of the eLearning system and work with our chosen eLearning
supplier to agree the system layout, design and functionality. This includes working with the Learning
Academy to agree to the use of standard templates for eLearning material, which will be branded
specifically for the BTTP and will be available for use for all future releases.

4.4.2 Workbook templates

BTTP training must work with the Learning Academy- to develop a workbook template that can mirror
the eLearning training content. These must adhere to learning principles and brand standards, and
must be developed in advance of any content development. Once completed, these templates will be
used throughout the remainder of future BTTP releases.

To ensure that the training work stream can be delivered for the programme to time, cost and quality,
it is the responsibility of the BTTP training team to define how to engage with the programme, training
stakeholders and external suppliers. This work will include; defining the ways of working, roles and
responsibilities, creating process maps, setting up a standard document set and templates, developing
an outline training plan showing milestones, critical path and indicative timelines and also having
indicative costs. All of this will inform decisions and inform planning for future releases.

4.5.1 Training team ways of working

The responsibility for the development and delivery of all the training documentation including the
Training Needs Analysis (TNA), Training Strategy and Training plans for BTTP now falls to the Post
Office training team. As such, the team need to define how they will work with BTTP to deliver the
training work packages. Specific deliverables are:

e Define and document the training processes and procedures and how they link to the specific
stages of the release life cycle
e Create template documents for:
o Training Needs Brief (TNB)
o Training Needs Analysis (TNA)
o Training Strategy
¢ Define and document a training plan with key milestones and critical path activities to inform
the BTTP plan

4.5.2 eLearning supplier ways of working

The training team will be procuring the services of an eLearning supplier and as a result need to define
and document the agreed ways of working. Where this involves engaging a new supplier, this will
mirror existing Learning Academy best practice, and include:

¢ Processes and procedures for the design of the eLearning templates
e Processes and procedures for the development and delivery of training modules
« Indicative timelines for development and delivery of training content

Indicative costings for development and delivery of training content to help inform decisions on training
delivery method used.

Version 0.6
Page 13
POL00036010
POL00036010

4.5.3 Printing supplier ways of working
The training team will be requiring the services of a print supplier and as a result need to define and
document the agreed ways of working. This should include:

e Processes and procedures for ensuring materials printing and distribution
e Accurate timelines for printing and delivering training materials
e Accurate costings for printing and distributing training materials

Version 0.6
Page 14
5 Audiences

POL00036010
POL00036010

A number of distinct audiences have been identified as being affected by the proposed changes in
Release 1. The tables below outline individual audiences, approximate numbers and locations for these
groups. These audiences have been grouped by role type so as to identify populations who interact
with Horizon in similar ways and may require similar training.

The individual learning outcomes and proposed delivery methods for these audiences will be outlined in
Sections 8 and 9 of this TNA.

Managers of Post Office

access reporting functions and provide training support to counter colleagues

Role Audience Name Number of Location (s)
staff in the
audience
Branch Manager Crown Branch Approx. 321 Branch
Managers locations,
throughout UK

Postmaster Agency Postmaster Approx. 9200

Branch Manager Agency - WH Smith Approx. 109

Branch Manager Agency - Multiples e.g. Approx. 1909

McColl’s, One Stop,
Tesco etc.

Branch Manager BFPO Approx. 30 UK and
Overseas
locations

Branch Counter colleagues, who use the Horizon system to serve customers
Role Audience Name Number of Location (s)
staff in the
audience

Counter Colleague Crown Colleagues Approx. 3400 Branch

locations,

Counter Colleague

Financial Services &
Mortgage Colleagues

Approx. 280

Counter Colleague

Agency Colleagues

Approx. 50000

throughout UK

Counter Colleague

BFPO

Approx. 30

UK and
Overseas
locations

Version 0.6
Page 15
POL00036010
POL00036010

Non-branch colleagues (Support)
These colleagues may use the Horizon system in a support capacity but also review product and
balancing transactions to provide help and support services to branch colleagues.

Role Audience Name Number of Location (s)
staff in the
audience
Support Services Network Business 70 Currently
Support Centre Dearne. Moving
Support Services POL Management 2 to Chesterfield
Information team
(NBSC)
Support Services NBSC Managers 13-14
Support Services Model Office 2 Finsbury Dials
London
Support Services Finance Service Centre 155 Chesterfield
Network Branch Standards 30
Security Fraud Analysis Team / a1
SAR Processing Team
Security Financial Crime 5 Finsbury Dials
London
Security Operations - Field 15 Chesterfield,
Investigators Bolton, Finsbury
Security Operations - Intel 6 Dials London,
Team Field Based
Security Operations - Admin 4
Security MLRO / Head of 1 Finsbury Dials
Security London
Field Manager Crown/WH Smith Area 6 Field Based
Managers
Field Manager Crown/WH Smith 20
Business Development
Managers
Field Support Field Support Advisers 159
Field Support Area Sales 49
Performance Managers
Field Support Crown Sales Trainers 12
Support Services Resolution Team 4

Non-branch colleagues (additional)

These colleagues do not use the Horizon system as part of their daily tasks, but have been identified as
being affected by other process changes as a result of Release 1.

These numbers will need to be reconfirmed when developing the final training strategy as the
organisation goes through transformation, teams are changing and therefore roles and responsibilities
could change.

Role Audience Name Number of Location (s)
staff in the
audience
Support Function - Awareness Managed Services TBC Finsbury Dials
London
Version 0.6

Page 16
POL00036010

POL00036010
Role Audience Name Number of Location (s)
staff in the
audience
Commercial and Financial Services Product Managers 23 Finsbury Dials
London

Support Function - Awareness Contract Managers 14 Field Based
Field Manager Regional Managers 4
Field Manager Area Managers 6
Field Manager Team Leaders 14
Field Manager Regional Managers 2
Field Manager Regional Sales 6

Development

Managers
Field Support Field Change Advisers 24
Field Support Field Change Advisers 4

- Area Managers
Change Management Team (CMT) PMs PMOs BAs - skills 32 Chesterfield &

group (23) Central (7) London

Others (2)
CMT - contractors Business Analyst 17
CMT - contractors Project Manager 27
CMT - contractors PMO 24
CMT - contractors Programme Manager 5
CMT - contractors Programme Director 4

Version 0.6

Page 17
POL00036010
POL00036010

6 Branch Colleagues - Learning Outcomes, Delivery
and Evaluation

6.1 Introduction

The assessment of the training needs for branch colleagues, which include branch managers,
postmasters and counter colleagues, started during the Core Services workshops run by the BTTP. In
consultation with the Network SMEs and Business Readiness Leads (BRL), a Training Needs Brief (TNB)
was drafted and reviewed for each work package. The TNBs were used to provide a very high level
assessment of branch colleague training needs.

To create a full Training Needs Analysis (TNA), the BTTP training team held a series of workshops with
Network SMEs and BRLs to review the TNB information, identify any changes or decisions which had
been made since they were first created, and gather the additional information needed for the TNA.
These workshops were carried out with Paul Garnham and Angela James. It was agreed that Paul
Garnham will be the reviewer of all training content for branch colleagues and Kevin Seller will provide
sign off.

6.2 Challe S d training to bra olle

There are a number of challenges for delivering training to all branch colleagues;

1. There are approximately 60 000 branch colleagues working in 11 500 branches across the UK and
some British Forces Post Office (BFPO) branches outside of the UK. Any training content must be
made available across this geographical spread.

2. There are 25-30 BFPO branches and approximately 10 BFCT branches (British Forces Counter
Training) located in the UK and overseas. BFPO colleagues can access the current eLearning
modules and BFPO trainers deliver the 3 day classroom training course, using training materials
supplied by the Post Office. These training materials are supplied to a single UK location and
despatched by BFPO to the classroom locations. This means that all training materials including
changes to the classroom training materials must be supplied in a timely manner to allow BFPO to
train colleagues on the system changes, allowing additional time for the despatch of training to the
overseas locations.

3. Training must be delivered with minimum disruption to customer service, as this impacts our
customers and potentially branch income.

4. For branches with 1 or 2 counter positions, it may be difficult to release branch colleagues to
complete training without affecting customer service. At present the following numbers of branches
have the listed counter layouts:

1 Point of Sale terminal (including outreach) Approx. 4100 branches
2 Point of Sale terminals Approx. 2875 branches
3 or more Point of Sale terminals Approx. 4525 branches

5. The new Main and Local operating model has increased the opening hours of a Post Office within a
retail outlet. This has increased the number of system users that require training and the working
hours when they are available to complete their training. This means that training material must be
available to all branch colleagues 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to fit their work patterns for
example, some users may just work evenings or weekends.

6. The Post Office Learning and Development department have adopted the ‘Digital by Default’
principle and are working towards providing a wide range of eLearning modules as standard. For
branch colleagues, the first step has been to convert all new entrant product training to eLearning,
reducing the classroom training to just 3 days. However, this new approach currently relies on the
postmaster using his own device and internet connection to access the system. This method
cannot be relied on for BAU training delivery across all branch colleagues. This is only familiar to
postmasters, and nominated colleagues who have joined since 2015, therefore the majority of
learners are unfamiliar with this.

Version 0.6
Page 18
POL00036010
POL00036010

7. There is no access to external training content or material using the current PoS equipment.
Colleagues are able to view workbooks on Horizon Online Help. However they are only available as
read only and are not interactive, nor can they be paused and returned to at a later stage. The
printing of workbooks from Horizon Online Help can only be done one page at a time using the A4
printer, which is time-consuming and expensive, and the assumption that this is happening
consistently constitutes a risk to the programme. As a result, branches will need to be provided
with hardcopy workbooks to ensure that they have access to training materials.

C pe z
There are currently 4 work packages under consideration for Release 1 that will impact branch
colleagues. They are:

1. Branch Messaging

2. Enhanced User Help and Support
3. Improved Transaction Journeys
4. Enhanced User Management

The final content of Release 1, including the list of successful work packages and final learning
outcomes are yet to be signed off and finalised. As part of developing the final training strategy,
stakeholders will be engaged for each audience to ensure the content within this document is still
correct and to identify any further changes that will need to be addressed.

6.3.1 Branch Messaging

The current Memoview system will be replaced with a more engaging and dynamic system that will
target different audiences and prioritise message criticality. Content will be able to be delivered using
different fonts, colours and sizes and can include embedded pictures and links to material to be hosted
on Horizon Online Help. Additionally, there will be greater controls in place to force and track message
acknowledgement.

Key Changes

e All new Branch Messaging system with new functionality, including the process for reading,
acknowledging and responding to messages at a branch level

e Measures will be in place to restrict branch colleagues from completing certain actions until priority
messages have been acknowledged

e Anew business process regarding how content will be created, managed and published by Post
Office

e New reporting on message consumption for branch colleagues and content owners

There are 2 main Learning outcomes that will need to be delivered for branch colleagues:

Learning Outcome Learners will:
System training and new features e Be familiar with all new features
¢ Be able to use new functionality
Reporting e Be able to run reports on messages received
and read receipts

6.3.2 Enhanced User Help and Support

Horizon Online Help will be replaced with a system that is easier to use, with an intuitive search engine
that will make it quicker for branch colleagues to locate the information they are looking for. The look
and feel, layout and navigation of the solution is likely to be changed entirely.

Feedback from stakeholders has identified that the current Online Help is underutilised, due to
concerns at branch level about its effectiveness. An important output of the training of this work
package is not just a functional ability for colleagues to use the system, but an ability to recognise the
benefits of the new solution and a willingness to use it.

Key Chan

Version 0.6
Page 19
POL00036010
POL00036010

e Anall new Help system with new features and functionality, including context-sensitive help,
integrated search engine

e Look and feel, layout and navigation will be entirely new to users

e Anew business process so that content is owned and managed by Post Office business owners

¢ Anew business process regarding how content will be managed and published by Post Office

There are 2 main Learning outcomes that will need to be delivered for branch colleagues:

Learning Outcome Learners will:
System training and new features e Be able to navigate the new system and
features
¢ _Be able to use the new functionality
Reporting e Be able to run the help system reports

6.3.3 Improved Transaction Journeys

The final list of improved transactions journeys that will be part of Release 1, or the final journeys
themselves, have not been confirmed yet and as a result this TNA does not cover the impact of each
change. This will be confirmed when the Training Strategy for Release 1 is completed.

The improved transaction journeys being considered are:
e Rod Fishing Licence

Travel Insurance

Verify ID

Travel Bureau (Buy On Demand)
Mails (Sell)

Bill Payments

Standard Retail Product

E-Top Up

Travel Bureau (order and collect)
Mails (accept and collect)

Postal Orders

Post Office Payout

National Lottery

Key C

nges

e A reduction in transaction steps. Where a transaction might take 10 steps in the current system, it
might only take 5 steps in the enhanced system.

e New system features or functionality. Where a screen might be complex due to a high number of
possible options to select in the current system, the enhanced system might have a cleaner screen
with fewer options.

« Achange to the sales conversation. Where a transaction flow has changed, the sales conversation
must change to match the new system steps.

For each improved transaction journey the training outcome for branch colleagues will be broadly the
same:

Learning Outcome Learners will
New screen layouts, transaction flow and e Be able to successfully use new features and
process steps functionality
e Be able to successfully navigate new transaction
flow
New sales conversations to fit the new process Ie Be able to conduct successful sales
steps conversations for any product which has
changed

Version 0.6
Page 20
POL00036010
POL00036010

6.3.4 Enhanced User Management

The enhanced user management system will allow the HR Service Centre to receive an electronic
request for a security check for all colleagues who want to work in branch, and create a unique User ID
for all branch and non-branch colleagues. This will allow Post Office to have visibility over all personnel
cleared to serve in a branch and whether they are compliant to do so. User IDs will be linked to
colleague training and compliance records on Success Factors, and will allow for colleagues who are not
compliant to be restricted from serving particular products. User IDs will be transferable, meaning that
colleagues will be able to work in multiple locations, and retain a single ID and training record.

As it has shifted responsibility for creating new users from the branch and has made it a central
function linked to training records, it is expected that branch users will have questions. The training
materials should pre-empt these concerns, however Support services such as NBSC, Trainers, Auditors,
and HR Service Centre etc. need to be able to respond appropriately to branch colleagues who question
the rationale for the change to the user management process.

e This will be an all new User Management process managed via the HR system, Horizon Online and
the Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

¢ For all non-crown branches the Postmaster must submit a P250 electronically to get the new
colleague security checked and a new User ID created.

¢ HR Service Centre will be responsible for the creation and administration of all Horizon Online users
including processing all P250 applications, creation of new User IDs, setting initial passwords,
setting user roles and setting users access rights.

¢ HR Service Centre will be able to report on training compliance against each User ID and the
system will automatically restrict access to system transactions if the user has not successfully
completed the required training.

e HR Service Centre will be able to reactivate users who have been archived on the system, if that
user returned to the business.

e Branch users will be able to unlock their ID and reset their passwords via the PoS by answering
security questions

¢ NBSC will be able to unlock users and reset passwords for branch users if the self-service option
has failed.

e Branch manager / postmaster will be able to assign User IDs to their branch to allow an approved
user to work in their post office.

e Branch manager / postmaster will be able to change the user role allocated to a User ID in their
branch i.e. clerk, supervisor or manager role

e Branch manager / postmaster will be able to restrict access to specific transactions for each user in
their branch.

e Security and Audit manager investigating branch issues will be able to see User IDs against system
transaction to aid investigations.

¢ All Post Office colleagues will be affected by this change, as all are expected to support branches
during peak periods and must be compliant to work in branch.

e User IDs for Computacenter engineers and BFPO engineers will be created by Fujitsu Services and
will not follow the new HR process. User IDs for all other BFPO personnel, is still under discussion
and may also fall outside of the process.

There are 5 main learning outcomes that will need to be delivered for branch colleagues:

Learning Outcome Learners will:

New User ID process & reporting e Understand the new process

e Be able to reset their password

¢ Be able to unlock a user ID

e Be able to use the new reporting capability,
relevant to their role

Migration process for all existing users e Understand the new process for creating new

IDs and passwords

Version 0.6
Page 21
POL00036010
POL00036010

Learning Outcome

Learners will:

Submitting P250s electronically
(Postmasters only)

¢ Be able to submit a P250 for all new users

In branch - user management
(Branch Managers and Postmasters only)

Be able to add a user to the branch
Be able to allocate a role to a user ID
Be able to restrict transactions on a user ID

Security/ Audit investigation - reporting
(Branch Managers and Postmasters only)

Be able to access Reports available to support
investigations showing user ID against
transactions

ning

For the 4 work packages under consideration for inclusion in Release 1, eLearning modules will be
made available on the LMS and branch colleagues will be encouraged to make use of this training
resource using their own device and internet connection. The eLearning will be engaging and
interactive, so we anticipate that this will help to convert more branch colleagues to eLearning, which
will be the preferred method of training delivery for future releases. This is in line with our strategy of
digital by default, and recognises the additional impact that Enhanced User Management will have on

driving learners to eLearning content

Branches will also be sent an agreed number of hardcopy training workbooks. To ensure that the user
has understood the key information contained in the training, they will be required to complete a
multiple choice quiz on either Horizon Online. A report compiled from data from Horizon Online and
the LMS will be used to monitor branch completion of the training. Colleagues who require more than
the benchmark number of attempts to pass training will be flagged, and weekly reminders will be sent
to branches as necessary, where training completion does not reflect our understanding of colleague

numbers in the branch.

Version 0.6
Page 22
POL00036010
POL00036010

7 Non-Branch Colleagues - Learning Outcomes,
Delivery and Evaluation

7.1 Introduction

For the purposes of this Training Needs Analysis (TNA), non-branch colleagues are defined as Post
Office colleagues that work in an administration or support function, who are either based in one
central office location or work in a field-based role. Examples of non-branch colleagues include Product
Managers in Finsbury Dials, HR Service Centre colleagues in Bolton and Field Support Advisers who
support branches across the whole of the UK.

When identifying the appropriate delivery methods to meet the training needs of these groups, the
diversity of the roles and location mean that eLearning would be preferable to workshop and other
face-to-face learning as it would be more easily accessible and cost-effective, and disruption to
services could be kept to a minimum. However, it is important to consider that workshop learning will
be required for some technical instruction, whether it be through direct facilitation via face-to-face
classroom learning, through Skype or webinars; Train the Trainer or early life support using champions
or specialists within the specific audience.

Costs for workshop training can be minimised by selecting a central location and combining work
packages and audiences, when face-to-face training is specifically required; or utilising a technological
solution such as Skype or webinars, whenever possible. A technologically enabled solution provides
additional flexibility for mopping up purposes, can also be used effectively for new joiners, and can
have an impact on reducing cost. Face-to-face training becomes more cost and time efficient when we
are in a position to deliver training for multiple work packages and multiples audiences in a single
session. In the scenario that an audience only requires face-to-face training on a single work package,
or where further packages may be removed from the scope of Release 1, it would be more beneficial to
consider a technologically enabled solution. These decisions will be made as part of the final training
strategy, where the final shape of Release 1 is confirmed.

Where reference is made to Floorwalkers and/or Early Life Support, these resources will be provided by
the programme. It is not the intention of the Training Team to act in these roles, but rather to ensure
that those colleagues who are functioning in this capacity are adequately trained.

> uation

This section has been broken down into sub-sections by non-branch colleague type. To avoid
duplication, audiences that have been identified as requiring the same training delivery method have
been grouped together. Each confirmed sub-group contains a table which shows the expected training
method for every training outcome based on our current understanding of the proposed changes.

As the final solution design is not yet available, these learning outcomes are yet to be signed off and
finalised. As part of developing the final training strategy, stakeholders will be engaged for each
audience to ensure the content within this document is still correct and to identify any further changes
that will need to be addressed.

When discussing evaluation, all proposed learning activities, regardless of delivery method, will include
learner feedback surveys or ‘happy sheets’ to determine the colleague response to the learning, in line
with level 1 of the Kirkpatrick methodology of training evaluation. Similarly, all learning activities will
include knowledge assessments (either through Horizon, eLearning or at workshops) to identify
knowledge uplift and evaluate the effectiveness of the learning against level 2 of the Kirkpatrick model.
For individual work packages listed below, we have started to identify potential means of gathering
data to evaluate level 3 and 4 effectiveness (behavioural change and business impact). At this stage,
these remain high level proposals only and will need to be further investigated as part of the training
strategy, once more information is available regarding the specific nature of the changes. As with any

Version 0.6
Page 23
POL00036010
POL00036010

Level 4 evaluation, Learning will own a percentage of any uplift (with this to be determined with the
appropriate department head) but is not responsible for any overall improvement to performance.

ork Busin

7.3.1 Introduction
The NBSC has been identified as requiring training for all 4 work packages, which are:

e Enhanced User Help and Support
e Enhanced User Management

e Improved Transaction Journeys
¢ Branch Messaging

A workshop was carried out with Nigel Davies and Alison Clark, who identified Gayle Peacock and
Kendra Dickinson for sign off.

Within the NBSC, there are several sub-groups of audiences, which are provided in the table below.
Each group will require training based on specific Learning outcomes.

Subgroup Colleagues
NBSC Managers 13 colleagues
POL Core Management Information team 2 colleagues
Contact Centre Advisers 53 colleagues

7.3.2 Learning Outcome/ Method: NBSC as Single Audience

The following table shows the Learning outcomes for each of the relevant work packages, where all of
the NBSC may be treated as a single audience. The detailed training content for each training outcome
can be seen in the appendices.

Learning Delivery Method
- &
3 3
E . >
8 2 ie (2
aig © j@ I8
o o FE : =}
2S (os 1s 12 122s
< oc le 2 = Be ©
3 29 g ee]
5 ~9 ie ~ £ . =
8 5218 15 Is (881s
Learning Outcome by Work Package 2 So I2 = Ee Be
Enhanced User Management
New User ID process & reporting x
Migration process for all existing users x
Submitting P250s electronically x
NBSC - user administration x x
In branch - user management xX
Security/ Audit investigation — reporting xX x
Objection Handling x x
Floorwalker/ELS preparation x
Enhanced User Help and Support
System training and new features xX

After discussion with the stakeholders at our workshop, all NBSC colleagues will be required to have
knowledge and understanding of the learning outcomes listed, in order to be able to carry out their

Version 0.6
Page 24
POL00036010
POL00036010

day-to-day role. As such, eLearning has been identified as the most suitable option, as colleagues can
be released in small groups to carry out the training at a convenient time, causing minimum impact on
branches requiring the NBSC service.

Where user guides, workshops and early life support have been identified in the table above, these will
only apply to those specifically carrying out the tasks; however, all colleagues need to be aware of
their role within that process. For example - all colleagues will need to be aware of the process for
migrating all existing users to the new system. However, only the team responsible for completing the
migration activity will need to know how to carry out the process.

As all colleagues will be required to unlock passwords within Enhanced User Management, it would be
cost-effective to combine all workshop training for each work package, but structure it in a way that as
the time passes, colleagues can return to their BAU role while those remaining continue with processes
relevant to them. This will be better defined and confirmed in the final strategy once the design has
been finalised and signed off.

There is a possibility that objection handling instructions could be included within standard screen
prompts, which would remove the need for this to be covered as part of Release 1 training. However
this is still unconfirmed and will be finalised in the final training strategy.

7.3.3 Learning Outcome/ Method: NBSC Sub-Groups
The following three tables highlight Learning outcomes for specific sub-groups within the NBSC which
are in addition to the core training listed in the previous table:

Sub-group: POL Core agement Information Team

Learning Delivery Method
. &
3 5
£ >
c i =
5 28 ie
oO ae °o
eal g Py o
o® I 3 FE = z
e@ 6s 28 > 2 = =
= = %
ce 83 {18 5 Ee et is
6 XB is = £ Bas
§ 8a S e gs 8
Learning Outcome by Work Package 2 S25 [2 Ed Fe te
Enhanced User Help and Support
Reporting x
New business process for Help content creation x x
and maintenance
System training on content formatting, x x
publishing, deleting etc.
Floorwalker/ELS preparation x

The POL Core Management Information team are responsible for keeping the current NBSC Knowledge
Base up-to-date. This will continue on the new system whether it remains as Knowledge Base or is to
be replaced with the Enhanced User Help solution. The NBSC will be the owners of the Enhanced User
Help system and this team will be responsible for the content.

Face-to-face training with the support of a user guide could take place at Chesterfield to minimise
costs, combining all work packages. In line with Learning Academy principles, face-to-face training will
be kept to a minimum, only doing in the classroom that which can only be done in the classroom.

Sub-group: NBSC Managers

Learning Outcome by Work Package Learning Delivery Method

Version 0.6
Page 25
POL00036010

POL00036010
- FS
2 a
= a
€ a is
a = & ie
a @ Py ®
g2 I 3 EF 5 zB
o Yells a o g =
£ oo 2 = wt to
€ a3 Io G cE 20/2
S Eas = £ ga =
= oa
oa Hy g 2 g Oat S
o S25 = F cats
Branch Messaging
System training and new features x
Reporting x
New business process for content creation and x x
sign off
System training on content creation, x Xx
management, publishing, deleting
Floorwalker/ELS preparation xX

Branch messaging is replacing the current Memoview system, which will be owned by the NBSC and
will remain the responsibility of the NBSC managers. Although other NBSC colleagues won't be
responsible for branch messaging, the eLearning will be optional and would be for information only.

7.3.4 Key Messages

The proposed changes represent a significant change in a number of areas, specifically User
Management and the Help and Support offering. It is anticipated that there will be a certain amount of
resistance from some branch colleagues, so NBSC colleagues will be trained to understand the benefits
to branches that these changes will bring, and be ambassadors for these changes to branches.

NBSC advisers should be clear on potential objections, and be able to handle them effectively and
positively. For example, if an advisor is asked to handle an objection relating to Enhanced User
Management, they should be able to provide the benefits to branch colleagues and the rationale behind
the decision.

7.3.5 Evaluation

As with all face-to-face training, learners will be asked to evaluate their workshop and complete pre-
and post-workshop knowledge tests. In addition to this, there will be knowledge tests embedded within
the eLearning modules designed to assess learning uplift. This type of knowledge check is in line with
levels 1 and 2 Kirkpatrick training evaluation methodology.

Quality call checks completed at NBSC take place on a monthly cycle. This method will continue to be
used for the training of Release 1 material, in order to assess Level 3 performance. If the NBSC is
provided business performance metrics in response to these changes, the Training Team will claim a
percentage of this performance (to be determined) in order to provide validation for Level 4 evaluation.
However, the training team is not responsible for the performance of NBSC colleagues post-
implementation.

The use of reporting to assess the effectiveness of learning will depend on the final design and having
an understanding of what reports will be available. This will be re-addressed with stakeholders when
the final training strategy is produced, however it is expected that the training team will identify call
handling times, error and complaint rates when assessing training effectiveness.

Version 0.6
Page 26
POL00036010
POL00036010

7.4.1 Introduction

HRSC colleagues have been identified as requiring training as part of the Enhanced User Management
work package only. A workshop was carried out with Hector Campbell and Samantha Williams who
were identified as stakeholders for HRSC.

7.4.2 Learning Outcome/ Method

There are 5 main Learning outcomes that will need to be delivered to and the detailed training content
for each outcome can be seen in Table 2 of the appendices. The following table shows the expected
training delivery method against each of the identified Learning outcomes:

Learning Delivery Method
= ES
2 a
€ bos
s gs fy g
a p Py o
o n os pe aol
Q o FE i Ss
fo.) Se lcs a o Z SS
5 sos I 2 le ti.
€ B93 I0 a ie 260 4%
6 EG te £ S21
8 15818 I5 = 2818
Learning Outcome 2 So [> = ue eee
New User ID process & reporting x
Migration process for all existing users* x
Submitting P250s electronically xX
HR - user administration x x
Floorwalker/ELS preparation x
Objection Handling x

*Currently, HRSC colleagues have been tentatively identified as the team migrating all existing users to the new platform,
however, this has yet to be confirmed and a migration team might be created elsewhere within the business. If that is the case,
this training outcome will remain but be moved to a different audience

Due to the fact that the Enhanced User Management system will be completely new to the HRSC team
and involve changes of process, technology and behaviour, it would be recommended that they receive
an element of face-to-face training by way of direct face-to-face delivery and early life support. This
method will be supported with a user guide, which will also be used by the migration team to transfer
the existing user information to the new system.

Costs for face-to-face training and early life support can be minimised, as HRSC colleagues are all
based in one central location (Bolton). The single location and small number of colleagues that will
require training means that it will be relatively easy to arrange - 4 colleagues out of a team of
approximately 14 are consistently responsible for the current paper P250 process and supported by the
remaining 10 colleagues. A core team of those 4 colleagues will require 4 hours training, which could
be followed up with a second 4 hour session on the same day to train the remaining colleagues, if
required.

7.4.3 Evaluation

While performance is monitored, there is currently no official report in place for new or existing staff to
identify accuracy, which would be used as part of a learning evaluation. This is largely due to limited
HRSC resources and reporting functions being available and the fact that processes have remained
largely unchanged for approximately 25 years. However, existing monthly performance measures used
through the HRSC, identifying complaint numbers and error rates, could be included in a post-
implementation review, to take place approximately 8-10 weeks after go-live.

Version 0.6
Page 27
POL00036010
POL00036010

There is no sign off or final design to be able to create a definite means of evaluation at this point, but
as part of developing the final training strategy, stakeholders will be engaged to identify the reports
that will be available in order to monitor accuracy and impact of learning.

7.5.1 Introduction

Information gathering workshops were held with stakeholders Paul Blackmore (SME - AML ID
Capture), Chris Hardy (SME - Enhanced User Management) and Sharon Rai in preparation for this TNA.
Sally Smith and Amy Quirk have been identified for sign off and the following sub-groups were
identified within this audience:

SAR Processing/Fraud Analysis team
Financial Crime

Operations - Field Investigators
Operations - Intel team

MLRO/Head of Security

Each sub-group has been identified as requiring training on specific Learning outcomes from 2 of the 4
work packages, which are:

« Enhanced User Management
« Branch Messaging

7.5.2 Learning Outcome/ Method: Security as Single Audience

The following table shows the learning outcomes for each of the relevant work packages, where all of
the Security sub-groups may be treated as a single audience. The detailed training content for each
training outcome can be seen in the appendices.

Learning Delivery Method
>. g
3 3
= . =
5 2 I8 (s
ala Com é
o Zc I$ a o g =
£ 8S 5 2 & ae
€ a3 I0 o se so,
5 EB is = £ 5S =
o o I o i o gf 6
S $ a D $ c 2s =z
Learning Outcome by Work Package the Soe ie cnnere ae
Branch Messaging
Horizon system training and new features x
Reporting x x
New business process for content creation and xX x
sign off
Floorwalker/ELS preparation Xx
Enhanced User Management
New User ID process & reporting xX
Migration process for all existing users x
In branch - user management x
Security/ Audit investigation - reporting xX xX

As part of workshops carried out with Shaun Turner, Angela Saul and Jane Smith about Branch
Messaging, the security team were identified as requiring training for branch messaging. This is due to
their current role in the sign-off processes of particular pieces of content, which have been identified as

Version 0.6
Page 28
POL00036010
POL00036010

having a security slant. They will need to be aware of their role in the new sign-off process as well as
how to use reporting functions to identify open/acknowledged messages, in the case that this
information is needed for a security case. The level of access available to the security team is as yet
undetermined, but will be addressed at the design phase of Release 1 and this information will be
incorporated into the final Training Strategy.

The training will be a combination of eLearning for convenience and the ability to track learning and
face-to-face training, which can involve all work packages’ content being combined into one face-to-
face training package to minimise costs.

When the new Horizon Online User IDs are created via the Enhanced User Management system, there
will be a migration process to switch from the old IDs to the new. This migration process could be
resourced within the security team or a separate resource created specifically to carry out this activity.
However, this has yet to be decided and will be re-addressed once the design has been signed off and
the volume of work required can be investigated.

7.5.3 Evaluation

It has been identified that BRLs will maintain contact with stakeholders after Release 1, so training can
engage with BRLs through the post-implementation review process to gather qualitative feedback.
Once the final solution has been confirmed, training will be responsible for identifying the means by
which to evaluate level 3 effectiveness.

pport

7.6.1 Introduction

This audience includes the Crown Sales Trainers and Field Support Advisers who support colleagues in
different branches and have been identified as requiring the same training. They have been identified
as requiring training for all 4 work packages, which are:

e Enhanced User Help and Support

¢ Enhanced User Management

e Improved Transaction Journeys

e Branch Messaging

7.6.2 Learning Outcome/ Method

The following table shows the learning outcomes for each of the relevant work packages, where all of
the training and support team may be treated as a single audience. The detailed training content for
each training outcome can be seen in the appendices

Learning Delivery Method
a 2
o a
a >
c a =
5 = If Ig
2 hes Py oO
oIg fast o z
Mi ov ov S
2 ee 2 2 ie oe
c Sv ia 5 E ee 2
- an) BY < ca
roan ir < = =
oO 68 o So o Seis
i 9 I22)5 )2 [6 pals
Learning Outcome by Work Package Saf = Z
Enhanced User Management
New User ID process & reporting x
Submitting P250s electronically x
In branch - user management x
Objection Handling x x
Version 0.6

Page 29
POL00036010
POL00036010

Enhanced User Help and Support

Horizon system training and new features xX
Improved Transaction Journeys
New screen layouts, transaction flow and x

process steps
Branch Messaging

Horizon system training and new features x

As highlighted in the introduction of this chapter, the location spread for these colleagues means that
eLearning would be preferable to face-to-face learning because it would be more easily accessible,
cost-effective and disruption to services would be kept to a minimum.

Objection handling has been identified as being delivered through face-to-face training, as it can be
combined with other face-to-face training from other work packages for similar and centrally located
audiences. As such, it’s unlikely to be included in the eLearning modules, so may have to be relayed
back to the training and support teams via Comms. This will be re-assessed when the design has been
signed off and discussed with stakeholders as part of the training strategy.

7.6.3 Evaluation

In addition to knowledge tests within the eLearning modules, each of the training and support teams
currently have measures in place to see the success of their training in branch, which could continue to
be used. For example, Field Support Advisers receive Ken Data Feedback from colleagues they are
supporting in branch and it would be possible to find out if a branch required an intervention based on
any of these changes being trained incorrectly through reporting. Additional methods will be sought
and discussed with stakeholders once the training strategy is being finalised after changes have been
confirmed.

7.7.1 Introduction

The sales team incorporates all teams that offer sales support to branches in the field, such as Area
Sales Performance Managers, Regional Sales Development Managers, Sales Capability Managers,
Regional Sales Capability Managers and the Guiding Coalition. They will all need to be aware of any
changes made to transaction journeys for when they are in branch delivering coaching or training
around transactions and sales.

All sales training material is produced by the Learning Academy who are aware of the changes and will
be able to incorporate any relevant changes into their BAU material. Depending on the final complexity
of change, it has been identified that additional training may not be required for this group and
communication might be sufficient. Once the final changes have been finalised, we will re-engage with
stakeholders from the Sales and Communications team to identify whether communications is
sufficient to meet the needs of this audience. As this team is a first point of contact for many
postmasters and colleagues, they must be provided sufficient knowledge to be able to support teams
and redirect learners back to materials.

Should additional training be required, it will be possible for this audience to have access to any
eLearning materials developed to provide a general understanding of changes for audiences such as
the Training and Support teams.

7.7.2 Learning Outcome/ Method
There are 2 main learning outcomes listed in the table below for sales teams and the detailed content
that will be learned can be seen in 4 within the appendices.

[ Learning Outcome l Learning Delivery Method

Version 0.6
Page 30
POL00036010

POL00036010
_ &
o a
= >
ic 5 =
5 2 oH 2
o = wi °
a © Py oO
o%/13 FE 5 2
oO YecIs a o g =
= §° 1.5 g fs me IS
S 83/0 5 iE z6I#
oO ans) - z = rane ES
GS 1Se818 (5 [se 188s
a So 5 = = has
Improved Transaction Journeys
New screen layouts, transaction flow and xX
process steps
New sales conversations to fit the new process xX
steps

Due to the diverse locations of all the sales team colleagues, it wouldn't be cost-effective to carry out
face-to-face training on so little content. All training on transaction journeys for the sales team will be
through eLearning and supported with a workbook. However, once the design has been finalised, if the
changes are more complex than anticipated, the training method will be re-addressed with the

stakeholders.

7.7.3 Evaluation

Evaluation for sales training can be determined through branch sales as a direct result of coaching
received by a colleague who has been trained on the new conversations and process.

uct

7.8.1 Introduction

This audience includes Product Managers and Managed Services who have been identified as requiring
the same training for the Branch Messaging and Enhanced Help and Support work packages. This need
was identified at a workshop held with Shaun Turner, Angela Saul and Jane Smith, where it was
confirmed that based on current assumptions, these teams are content owners. This can be re-
addressed with stakeholders once the final design has been signed off.

7.8.2 Learning Outcome/ Method

The following table shows the learning outcomes for each of the relevant work packages, where all of
the training and support team may be treated as a single audience. The detailed training content for
each learning outcome can be seen in the appendices.

Learning Delivery Method
»
= ee
3 5
= >
a o 5
a £ a g
Jt i ra o
e239 Fe ¢ z
f=) “xc hel Q o x =
2 ef 1s (2 2 ieee
€ Sg 10 B me zo12
gs I¥% I5 Ie IS I S81 =
a 28 a g © Oa 2
Learning Outcome by Work Package ee Be I> Fe Oe
Branch Messaging
System training and new features x
Reporting x
Version 0.6

Page 31
POL00036010
POL00036010

New business process for content creation and xX x
sign off
Floorwalker/ELS preparation x

Enhanced Help and Support

System training and new features x

Reporting x

New business process for Help content creation x x
and maintenance

Floorwalker support xX

Due to the volume of people within this audience and the spread across teams within the business,
although they are centrally located, it would be difficult to arrange lengthy workshop training without
having an impact on their BAU roles.

However, it has been recommended for the new business process for content creation, maintenance
and sign off for each work package, which will be combined to save costs. This piece of training is an
engagement and support piece, because the new content needs to take advantage of the new
functionality and be engaging for branch colleagues in order to drive take-up.

Due to the nature of content writing, which is on an ad hoc basis, floorwalking has been identified as
unsuitable. However, the content owners will require some form of early life support. A proposal is that
colleagues based in the same central location are trained as champions or experts, who can be called
upon for assistance when needed, providing support and expertise on the new system, when content
needs to be created, without requiring the designated resource of a floorwalker throughout early life
support.

7.8.3 Key Messages
Fundamentally, this training is designed to encourage users to make use of the new functions and to
be more engaging in their content so as to drive branch acceptance of the new system

The message for Enhanced Help and Support needs to be that using the new Help system will be
"easier than picking up the phone' - the content owners need to keep the content up-to-date and make
use of the new functions to be more engaging.

7.8.4 Evaluation

The measure for the effectiveness of the training for this audience would depend on the reporting
available as a result of the expected changes. In addition to knowledge tests within the eLearning
modules, quality assurance reviews could be carried out as a measure to see that the changes have
been implemented in the new content. This will be re-addressed with stakeholders after the design has
been signed off and the final training strategy is being created.

Oth
A number of other audiences have been identified that will require some form of training depending on
the work package and what is signed off at the design phase of BTTP. As such, they have been
included in this document, but their needs will all be assessed with the relevant stakeholders once the
changes are known and the final training strategy is being written.

er Audiences

The remaining audiences have been identified below with a brief description about potential training
needs.

7.9.1 Branch ndards

Branch Standards currently use Horizon testing to track completion of compliance tests, and may need
to be aware of the user management implications, and eventually reporting through the LMS. They
have also been identified for Enhanced Help and Support sign-off based on the current process,
however it remains unknown, if this will be the case in the new solution.

Version 0.6
Page 32
POL00036010
POL00036010

Branch Standards colleagues currently support approximately 200 branches each. In addition to
maintaining a relationship with branches, they support initiatives such as the Guiding Coalition, to
coach mails conversations. If these conversations are impacted by changes in Transaction Journeys,
they may need training.

To summarise, the 3 work packages that this audience has been identified as needing training include:
e Enhanced Help and Support
e Transaction Journeys

7.9.2 Enhanced Help and Support Sign-off
After a workshop carried out with Shaun Turner, Angela Saul and Jane Smith, three teams were
identified as an Enhanced Help and Support signoff audience and they include:

¢ Communication team
e Network Gateway team
« Change team

This work package has yet to determine who will be signing off content, so it is based on audiences
who are currently responsible for signoff. This may not be true in the new design solution, which
means they might require information delivered as a communication rather than training.

7.9.3 Finance Service Centre (FSC)

The FSC have been identified as a potential audience for the Enhanced User Management work
package as they currently use reporting for cases with branches. As reporting is expected to change
and colleagues can be tracked through their User IDs more robustly, the FSC may need training on
how to do this. However, depending on what is signed off at the design phase, the change might be
minimal and delivered through communication in place of training.

In addition, FSC may be affected by Improved Transaction Journeys if the resulting change to
transaction flows has an impact on master data. At this stage, it is unclear whether this constitutes a
trainable outcome, or can be handled through either communications or involvement in the design
phase of the package, to ensure that process changes do not impact on the resulting data. This impact
will be further investigated when developing the Training Strategy.

7.9.4 Contracts Managers
Contracts Managers have been identified as a potential audience for the following work packages due
to the nature of the changes having an impact on cases and contracts with Postmasters.

e Enhanced User Management
It is unknown at this time whether this will be addressed during the design phase with them directly or
not. If this is the case, they are unlikely to require direct training, but may receive some form of
confirmation by communication delivery. If it is identified that this audience requires additional
training, they will be able to access the eLearning activities relevant to their work packages.

7.9.5 Model Office
The model office based in Finsbury Dials currently falls under Gayle Peacock and Support Services.
They are a live branch and are the first branch to go live when changes are built and rolled out.

When BTTP were aligned with an IBM solution, the model office colleagues were included in the design
sprints, but have yet to be engaged in the new Fujitsu solution. If they are engaged at the design
phase for the new solution and for testing in the model office, they will already know the changes in
work packages relevant to them. However, their future level of engagement is unknown and if they
aren’t engaged, they will require similar training to the NBSC and Training and Support teams, which
will predominantly be eLearning with workbooks.

In addition to the support the model office colleagues may receive as a non-branch audience, it is
suggested that they receive the same training materials a Network branch will receive, as they are
considered to be branch in their own right, as well as a support service. The final decision in this
regard will be made by Gayle Peacock.

Version 0.6
Page 33
POL00036010
POL00036010

7.9.6 Migration Support Team

It is yet to be decided how this will be completed, however it has been identified that there will be
work required for migrating information from old systems to new. This will either be carried out by the
relevant team affected or by a migration support team set-up for the purpose of carrying out this
migration activity. A migration exercise may need to be carried out for the following audiences/work
packages:

e NBSC Enhanced Help System
e HRSC User Management
e Security User Management

If any of the systems are changed at design signoff for the work packages listed, then the migration
team will need to be trained earlier than system users. It will depend on the volume of information that
will be migrated, if there will be a technical solution to assist them and the complexity of the process.
The training materials they require to carry out the migration may need to be different to the user
guides being used for learning how to use the new system, because the process might be different if
there is a technical solution to assist the migration.

7.9.7 IT Support Engineers

This is an external audience who will be engaged once design has been signed off and the final
strategy is being created. They have been identified as requiring training based on learning outcomes
from the following work packages:

e Branch Messaging
e Enhanced Help and Support
« Enhanced User Management

This audience need to understand how these work packages are processed and in the event that
something goes wrong, how to instruct a branch colleague to put it right or how to fix it themselves. As
the systems will all be new, this will require training. The final decision regarding who is responsible for
delivering this training will be confirmed in the Training Strategy.

7.9.8 Fujitsu Services

Fujitsu is an external audience that is currently responsible for the creation and maintenance of global
user IDs for Post Office colleagues. It is unknown whether or not they will continue to carry out this
process under the new Enhanced User Management solution. If they are still responsible for this
process, they will need to complete training to be able to carry out the same administration and
processes they do currently, but in the new solution. The recommended training method for this
process is face-to-face with a user guide. The final decision regarding who is responsible for delivering
this training will be confirmed in the Training Strategy

This conclusion aims to summarise the audiences and work packages by training delivery method.

FAO eLearning
eLearning will be the main delivery method of training for new screen layouts, transaction flows and
the system processes for all 4 work packages, which include:

e Enhanced User Help and Support

e Enhanced User Management

e Improved Transaction Journeys

e Branch Messaging

These eLearning modules will be available for all non-branch colleagues to access for information, but
one or more structured workshops may be required for the following audiences to carry out their day-
to-day roles:

« NBSC teams
« HRSC colleagues

Version 0.6
Page 34
POL00036010
POL00036010

Security and Fraud Analysis teams
Training and Support teams

Sales teams

Product Managers

Managed Services

These workshops may be delivered face to face, or as part of a blended solution, utilising Skype or
webinars as a means of reducing cost.

7.10.2 Workshop
Where a business process has been identified as a training outcome, workshop delivery is
recommended for 3 of the 4 work packages, which include:

e Enhanced User Help and Support
e Enhanced User Management
e Branch Messaging

Where possible, one of more of these work packages can be combined within the same delivery session
for convenience, to minimise costs and to minimise impact on BAU roles. This will work particularly well
for NBSC colleagues who are based in one central location and will require face-to-face training on
each of the work packages listed above.

If structured well, due to the proximity of Bolton to Chesterfield, it could be possible for the Enhanced
User Management session to be delivered to HRSC with the NBSC in one location. HRSC colleagues
could attend just for the session they require.

Where possible, a technologically enabled solution (such as Skype sessions or webinars) will be used,
in order to reduce cost and provide additional flexibility.

There will be no face-to-face training for audiences who are field-based due to the cost and impact this
will have on their BAU roles.

Version 0.6
Page 35
POL00036010
POL00036010

8 Business As Usual Impact

Introductior

Business as Usual (BAU) learning materials have been identified as requiring updates as a result of the
changes expected from Release 1 and future releases. These materials will require updating to ensure
that new colleagues have access to current and correct information as part of their training from Day
1.

This section will also identify any additional impact which the Release will have on BAU and on-
boarding training, for example where changes to workshops are significant enough to warrant
delivering new Train the Trainer sessions, or where changed transaction flows may have an impact on
CTO emulators.

erview

Based on our current knowledge, a total of 60 different BAU pieces of training material have been
identified as requiring amendments as a result of the changes caused by Release 1. These files are
varied in type and include word documents, excel spreadsheets, eLearning modules and videos. The
complexity of change also varies; in some documents, changing a few words will suffice, while others
require a whole document to be rewritten. As a result, timescales for making amendments could range
from overnight for minor changes and approval, to around 8 weeks. This will depend on the amount
which needs changing, the type of document affected and the complexity of signoff required. A full list
of these files is available in the Appendix of this document

It has been identified that changes to documents held on the EASE Sharepoint can be amended by the
Network support team. Changes to eLearning files will be reviewed by the product owners, before the
BTTP team liaises with our external supplier to complete any changes.

BAU classroom learning is facilitated by Field Support Advisors, who have previously been identified as
an affected audience, and have a proposed training plan for this Release. It is envisaged that Release 1
will cause no changes significant enough to require re-training of this audience for the specific purpose
of delivering classroom learning, and that all required knowledge can be gained from the proposed
learning plan. . However, the complexity and scale of future releases may potentially significantly
affect classroom training material. This may warrant further Train the Trainer workshops for this
audience in future releases, in order to prepare them for the changes.

It should also be noted that the number of files impacted by changes are subject to change since the
data is drawn from various working Sharepoint sites and web links. These locations are regularly
checked, as a minimum once a week, for recent additions, deletions or amendments. A database of
known BAU training material is maintained by the BTTP training team and updated as a result of these
regular checks.

8.2.1 EASE SharePoint

49 unique BAU files held in 73 different locations on the EASE SharePoint site have been identified as
requiring changes due to Release 1. These are made up of word documents, excel spreadsheets, pdf
documents and a link to the Post Office Horizon Online Help on the Intranet site.

The majority of these documents are to be reviewed by Sandra McBride, Network Change Support
Adviser. In the case of an operation manual or workbook being affected, it would need to be reviewed
by the relevant product manager. Where the changes involved are minor, this may only require a
number of days to liaise with owners to ensure signoff; however, where significant process changes
need to be made, or where issues of compliance are raised it may take a number of weeks to ensure
that all parties are satisfied with the changes. The Horizon Online Help link is covered below. In all
cases, it is the responsibility of the BTTP Training Team to co-ordinate these updates to ensure that all
materials are accurately updated, approved and available in time for rollout.

Version 0.6
Page 36
POL00036010
POL00036010

8.2.2 eLearning

11 modules in 17 locations on the Learning and Development eLearning site have been identified as
being impacted by Release 1. They contain references to User Management processes and Mails
Transaction journey paths. In line with our established ways of working, any changes to existing
eLearning content requires an 8 week period to complete and be appropriately reviewed and approved.
It is the responsibility of the BTTP Training Team to manage this process and ensure that these
timelines are maintained and that all changes are made available ahead of any face to face training.

8.2.3 Horizon Online Help

Horizon Online Help is held on the Post Office Intranet site and it is the key location to find branch
operational information. It contains 7 links to various aspects of operational information for branches.
There is historical information contained in Branch Focus Online, Branch Focus Online Archive and
Weekly Activity, however as this is historical information, it is not in scope to be updated. There is a
Telephone List which contains useful telephone numbers and will not be impacted by Release 1 or
future releases. The remaining 3 links, Stock Codes, Compliance Workbooks and Horizon Help are all
impacted by Release 1 and would need major amendments made in each.

The development of Enhanced User Help and Support is included as part of Release 1, and the training
team is not responsible for this piece of work, however they will be involved in the Design phase of this
work package to ensure that training needs are suitably identified.

8.2.4 Compliance Workbooks

Compliance workbooks are accessed in a number of ways - through ORBIT, EMC (for new joiners), and
Horizon. 9 workbooks have been identified as being impacted by Release 1. Review and signoff of
these would be done by the relevant product owner, with the training team managing this process to
ensure that all documents are updated on time.

Version 0.6
Page 37
9 Risks

POL00036010
POL00036010

Throughout the gathering of information for previous Training Needs Briefs and in developing this
document, a number of risks have been identified by Training Team colleagues and other stakeholders.

Risks Mitigating Actions Impact
There is a risk that a lot of branches The training solution needs to consider the M
will be experiencing a lot of change impact all the changes are having on active
over a short period time because BTTP I users, ensuring the language used and the
is a large programme - hardware, message is positive and the benefits are being
network and software are all changing. I sold. BAU training is not currently set up to
. . support this.

The consequence is that colleagues will
be receiving higher volumes of training I The training team will need to work with
at more regular intervals than they are I individual audiences to feed into a suitable
used to, and may not have sufficient engagement strategy (owned by
time to embed learning Communications), to ensure that colleagues are

supported through continual learning while the

BTTP is being implemented.

Training needs to align with the overall network

plan to ensure there is no conflict or duplication

of expectation at branch level.
There is a risk that Simpler to Run The training team needs to be aligned with H
Network (STRN) will impact the content I STRN to gain an understanding of how STRN
and timelines for BTTP, including outcomes might affect Release 1 content, so
Release 1. that we are aware at the earliest possible time.
The consequence of this is that Release I Training Needs Analysis must be written so that
1 content could potentially change it is adaptable and can be used in whole or in
dramatically, be cancelled or be pushed I part, depending on the release timetable of
back. individual work packages.
There is a risk that End User Computing I The training team needs to remain aligned with M
(EUC Branch) rollout will coincide with the EUC branch of BTTP and ensure that all
the expected rollout of Release 1. training and messaging is delivered in a

an coherent manner.

The consequence of this is that learners
will have to additional training The training team must work with the
requirements in a condensed amount of I programme ensure that sufficient time is
time, and that messaging of the two provided for colleagues to complete both types
changes could become confusing of training, in the event of a crossover. Final

decision for scheduling of implementation dates

will rest with the programme.
There is a risk that due to Post Office The training team needs to ensure the training M
being unable to verify with any degree I solution, including any proposed LMS or
of certainty how many branch reporting capability, is robust enough to handle
colleagues work in the agency network I more users than the estimated figures.
or who they are, there could be far
more learners than has been
estimated.
The consequence is that we don’t have
an accurate understanding of how
many people we need to train.

Version 0.6

Page 38
POL00036010

POL00036010
Risks Mitigating Actions Impact
There is a risk posed by the relocation The training team must work closely with the L
of the NBSC from Dearne to NBSC and identify the new learners as a
Chesterfield due to the recruitment of separate audience; communication with the
new staff in high volumes. new learners to prepare them for the changes
. could alleviate engagement issues.

The consequence is that nearly half of
the NBSC staff will either be The training team must work with NBSC to
undergoing or will have only recently ensure that more experienced colleagues
completed new learner training when continue to be supported to be able to handle
they are being introduced to the BTTP —_I incoming queries.
release changes and this could cause
confusion and issues with engagement.
There is a risk that Enhanced User The training team must work closely with BTTP H
Management will be released to update and revise timelines for Enhanced
independently ahead of Release 1. User Management deployment.
The consequence is that the learning Additionally, the Enhanced User Management
outcomes will have to be delivered learning outcomes must be capable of being
early and completely separate from the I developed as standalone training, independent
Release 1 training. of all other Release 1 training.
There is a risk that the accurate The training team will need to make sure there L
tracking and reporting of training is a reporting solution whereby training
uptake will be difficult before the completion can be accurately measured and
Enhanced User Management system is I recorded.
in place because postmasters are
currently responsible for training staff
in agency branches.
The consequence is that branch
colleagues won't be adequately trained
in time for the release of the new user
management system, and that Post
Office will be unable to provide
evidence of training being completed.
There is a risk that there will be In addition to process and system training, the M
negativity from postmasters who will training team must develop and deliver
view the process change in Enhanced objection handling material for support service
User Management as Post Office taking I colleagues.
control and removing flexibility from This should also be developed as part of the

communications strategy to ensure that
The consequence is that support positive messaging is delivered to the business
service colleagues such as NBSC, to mitigate any potential negative reaction.
counter trainers, branch auditors etc.
will need to be able to respond
appropriately to the challenge from
branch colleagues.

Version 0.6

Page 39
POL00036010

POL00036010
Risks Mitigating Actions Impact

There is a risk because at this stage the I The training needs should assume that IT M
details of how Computacenter Support engineers, Northern Ireland branch
engineers, Northern Ireland branch colleagues and BFPO personnel will be treated
colleagues and all BFPO user IDs will be I differently. The training team must work closely
processed has not been defined. The with BTTP to update and revise the training
consequence is that the learning needs for IT Support engineers and BFPO and
outcomes defined in this TNA may not seve needs as the process design Is
be suitable and further training will .
have to be developed to cover these Learning solutions for any additional changes
populations. identified, will be delivered using the same

methods for other similar audiences, with

content specific to this group. This will be

finalised in the training strategy, when these

changes are confirmed.
There is a general risk that a large The training team must work closely with BTTP M
number of decisions regarding the to identify potential changes which affect the
candidate work packages, proposed training solution, and update training needs as
changes and deployment strategy are _I the process design is developed.
still outstanding.
The consequence is that the learning
outcomes defined in this TNA may not
be suitable and further audiences or
learning outcomes will be identified
There is a risk that the changes Training team to work closely with the M
resulting from Improved Transaction programme, and be actively involved in
Journeys could be complex. workshops throughout the design and build

. . phases so that changes to the estimated
The consequence is that the estimated I taining effort can be revised as soon as they
times for training development and are identified
delivery could be insufficient and
impact the implementation of the
change.
There is a risk that with the volume of The training team will need to feed into the L
changes occurring to materials, Enhanced User Help and Support design phase,
manuals and training, that BTTP and ensure that all BTTP training materials are
training will be difficult to find on the appropriately “tagged” or filed so as to be easy
Help and Support solution to identify and locate
The consequence is that colleagues will
not be able to access the resources
they need to feel comfortable in their
roles
There is a risk that with the number of I A Terms of Reference (TOR) is required for all L
stakeholders throughout BTTP involved I BTTP stakeholders, to have agreed toa
in creating their own documents and consistent set of terms and messages, and that
resources, that there will be these are delivered throughout all streams of
inconsistency of messages and the programme.
terminology
Version 0.6

Page 40
POL00036010

POL00036010
Risks Mitigating Actions Impact
The consequence is that colleagues
may be confused about terms or
expectations that are being used.
Version 0.6

Page 41
POL00036010
POL00036010

10 Path to Training Strategy

In line with One Best Way Delivering Change, a TNA document would typically be provided to the
programme as part of the Design phase. As this is the first release of a series of scheduled releases,
the decision was made to bring the development of this document forward to the Assess phase, in
order to begin to identify bigger picture training needs and relationships across the broader BTTP.
programme. In addition, a number of challenges specific to Release 1 have been identified in this TNA,
which can begin to be addressed prior to the Design phase of the programme.

As a result of this timing, there are still a significant number of uncertainties as to the final structure of
Release 1, the detailed content of each work package, and the impact that this will have on training
audiences and developing content.

Following from this document, the training team is required to provide the programme with a detailed
Strategy and Plan as part of Business Readiness Assurance for the Build phase. This strategy can only
be developed in the Build phase, as a full understanding of the proposed curriculum and deployment
strategy depends upon knowledge of rollout timeframes, detailed confirmed changes and other
information which is not yet available.

Throughout the Design and Build phases of Release 1, the training team will continue to work closely
with other areas of the programme to ensure that decisions affecting training are integrated into the
strategy as it develops.

erations

Before any detailed work can be started on the Training Strategy, the team will require a confirmed
signed off list of work packages to be included in Release 1. This will provide us with confirmation of
the overall scope of the training to be delivered, and allow us to clarify training needs for a number of
audiences who have been identified in this document as potentially requiring training.

Once we have a better understanding of the scale of the changes for each work package, we will be in
a position to identify which particular audiences will require training, and which can be informed to a
suitable level to complete their jobs through communications.

Specific considera
As the Design and Build phases progress, additional information will become available that will inform
the Training Strategy document. Once the list of work packages has been confirmed, the training team
will need to develop an understanding of the functional changes occurring within each work package, in
order to be able to provide a detailed analysis of the exact audiences, learning outcomes, and

reporting strategy. Only once there is a full understanding of the complete scale of change and the
specific process and behavioural changes that are occurring, will we be able to provide an accurate
strategy.

Our understanding of these changes will develop and change throughout the Build phase and there are
a number of areas where we have very little information around the detailed changes to be able to
start these conversations. However, research for this document has already highlighted a number of
specific considerations which we must be aware of when gathering information for the Training
Strategy.

10.2.1 NBSC

e Confirmation is required as to whether NBSC or another group will be responsible for unlocking
passwords for the new Enhanced User Management system and if this will be all NBSC advisers
or only a sub-group.

« NBSC are expected to be the owners of the Enhanced User Help and Support system, but we
need to know to what extent they will be responsible for the information and processes and if
the POL Management Information team will be the sub-group who carries out the creation and
process for this system.

Version 0.6
Page 42
POL00036010
POL00036010

« We will need to identify who will be responsible for carrying out the migration from Knowledge
Base to the new Help system, when this is likely to take place, and what the training impact will
be on this team.

10.2.2 Other Audiences and considerations

e HRSC - we need to identify who will be responsible for carrying out the migration piece of work
from the current user/P250 database to the new Enhanced User Management system, when this
is likely to take place, and what the training impact will be on this team.

e We need to determine the role that the Security team and Product Managers will play with
respect to Branch Messaging and Enhanced User Help and Support in the new solution so as to
determine the relevant training needs.

¢ For the Sales team, we must determine whether the changes to transaction journeys are
complex enough to warrant training or whether Comms will be enough.

e Once the designs for Branch Messaging and Enhanced User Help and Support have been signed
off, identify whether or not the changes will affect this Managed Services team and engage with
stakeholders to determine learning outcomes.

e Confirm whether Model Office colleagues are included in the design and build phase of Release
1 as this will determine whether or not they need additional training or Comms support.
Whatever happens, they will be provided the same training materials a branch would receive.

¢ Identify whether Fujitsu will be responsible for the creation and maintenance of global user IDs
for Post Office colleagues in the new solution for Enhanced User Management. If not, then they
will not require any training.

e When supporting external audiences, we must define the responsibility of Post Office regarding
developing, providing and/or delivering this training

« Identify the impact of other programmes such as STRN and EUC Branch. This will inform our
timelines as well as our choice of LMS

e Learning Technologies Manager should be consulted in preparation for engagement with
multiple partners, to ensure that potential issues regarding firewalls and access to LMS are
taken into consideration in a timely fashion

Version 0.6
Page 43
POL00036010
POL00036010

11 Appendix A - Learning Outcomes

This appendix contains the detailed training content information for each of the identified learning
outcomes for the work packages in Release 1 of BTTP. The information for these tables was gathered
at the Core Services workshops and from documentation provided by stakeholders, including BRLs and
BAs.

Please note that all work packages will include a training outcome outlining the rationale for the change
and methods of training evaluation.

Table 1: Enhanced User Management

Learning Outcome Learners will:

New User ID process & reporting ¢ Understand the new process

e Be able to reset their password

¢ Be able to unlock a user ID

e Be able to use the new reporting capability,
relevant to their role

Migration process for all existing users ¢ Understand the new process for creating new

IDs and passwords

Submitting P250s electronically « Be able to submit a P250 for all new users

(Postmasters only)

HRSC- user administration e Be able to create a user ID with training access

only

Be able to create an initial user password

Be able to process a P250

Be able to assign a role(s) to a user ID

Be able to assign access rights to a user ID

Be able to access reporting on non-conformance

on required training

« Be able to access reporting identifying
completion of Compliance training

e Be able to restrict access rights on an existing

user ID

Be able to re-activate archived users

Be able to remotely reset a password

Be able to remotely unlock a user ID

Be able to add a user to the branch

Be able to allocate a role to a user ID

Be able to restrict transactions on a user ID

Be able to access Reports available to support

investigations showing user ID against

transactions

Objection handling e Understand and be able to effectively use
objection handling principles

« Understand and be able to explain the benefits
of the new process

e Understand and be able to explain what branch

colleagues can do for themselves

Understand the new process

Be able to reset their own password

Be able to unlock a user ID

Be able to access appropriate reporting

NBSC - user administration

In branch - user management

Security/ Audit investigation - reporting

Fujitsu: New User ID process & reporting

Version 0.6
Page 44
Table 2: Enhance ser Help and Support

POL00036010
POL00036010

Learning Outcome

Learners will:

System training and new features

Be able to navigate the new system and
features
Be able to use the new functionality

Reporting

Be able to run the help system reports

New business process for Help content
creation and maintenance

Understand the new business process, roles and
responsibilities for non-branch colleagues

Be able to create help content

Be able to review and approve help content

System training on content formatting,
publishing, deleting etc.

Be able to format help content

Be able to publish help content

Be able to maintain help content

Be able to produce system reports on help
content usage etc.

Be able to access and report on archive content
e.g. what content was live on a particular date

Table 3: Branch Messaging

Learning Outcome

Learners will:

System training and new features

Be familiar with all new features
Be able to use new functionality

Reporting

Be able to run reports on messages received
and read receipts

New business process for content creation and
sign off

Be familiar with new business processes, roles
and responsibilities for non-branch colleagues
Be able to create and release messages

Be able to review and approve messages

System training on content creation,
management, publishing, deleting

Be able to format messages

Be able to publish messages

Be able to maintain messages

Be able to produce system reports on messages
read

Be able to access and report on archive content
e€.g. what messages were issues and when

Table 4: Improved Transaction Journeys

Learning Outcome

Learners will

New screen layouts, transaction flow and
process steps

Be able to successfully use new features and
functionality

e able to successfully navigate new transaction
flow

New sales conversations to fit the new process
steps

Be able to conduct successful sales
conversations for any product which has
changed

Updates to CTO training

Understand and be able to explain an changes
to the BAU training product

Be familiar with and able to explain new
features and functionality

Be familiar with new transaction flows

Be able to train new Postmasters on updated
sales conversations

Version 0.6
Page 45
POL00036010
POL00036010

12 Appendix B - Lessons Learned

Research was carried out into previous Post Office initiatives that have either been learning based or
involved a high degree of learning, in order to understand the lessons learned. The research included
interviews with parties involved and analysis of user feedback.

The specific initiatives investigated were:

124.4 Implementation of Horizon Online (HNGx)
Lessons learned information was gathered from the following sources:

e Interview conducted with Alina Lingard, Post Office Business Change Manager during the roll out

e Interview conducted with 4 Field Support Advisers, Claudette Beaney, Tim Gordon-Pounder,
Richard Cross, Carol Williams (facilitated by Sue Richardson)

e Summary of Training Website Usage, including usage data and user feedback

Horizon Online was identified as a key initiative for lessons learned as it was the last major upgrade to
the Point of Service (PoS) system, completed in 2010. Although the products and services transacted
at a branch did not change, the look and feel of the system changed significantly, with a new screen
layout and system functionality. This impacted all branches, including mobile and outreach branches,
as well as the Counter Training Office (CTO) branches used for onboarding. It also affected non-branch
colleagues across the business such as the Finance Service Centre and the NBSC.

The new system was migrated to branches on a rolling schedule, with in-branch go-live migration
support provided by Post Office.

12.1.2 Launch of Onboarding Programme as part of a blended solution
Lessons learned information was gathered from the following people:

e Interview conducted with Sue Richardson, Network Operations Project & Standards Manager
e Interview conducted with Jackie Newton, Sales & Customer Services Training Manager

Post Office Learning and Development (L&D) were identified as a key source of lessons learned as they
have introduced online learning to the business. Following the ‘digital by default’ principle, online
training for Compliance training was introduced in 2013, which is now used by all Post Office
colleagues, and in February 2015 product training for all onboarding was introduced. This has reduced
the amount of face to face training required by branch colleagues by over 30%. The training is widely
available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and introduced new colleagues to the concept of accessing
learning through their own device.

Summary of Findings

What? Why? Learnt from...

Learning Material I Keep it simple and with I To allow for the very Success of the compliance
Development clear step by step broad user base with training is seen as down

instructions. differing IT skill set. to simple instructions and

layout.

eLearning: Develop for To avoid problems Online Product Training

different operating accessing eLearning, I deployment (lots of IT

systems / devices / and users getting error I related help calls before

browsers / releases messages that detract I training can be accessed).

from the learning

e.g. iOS / Android / experience

Windows 7 / Windows
10/ Chrome / Firefox /
IE. Allow the flexibility

Version 0.6
Page 46
POL00036010
POL00036010

What?

Why?

Learnt from...

to incorporate
new/future releases.

Add an FAQ as part of
registration

Develop in bite-sized
chunks, eLearning
should have the ability
to pause and resume.

Supports business
operations, e.g. able
to train and pause
while serving
customers.

Horizon Next Generation
(HNG) User Feedback

Build understanding
around the associated
benefits for the system
change.

Increases colleague
buy-in and training
uptake.

Online Product Training

A mixture of training
methods and materials
are beneficial to support
training.

Help for a user that is at
their fingertips and easy
to access and reference
is very important when
serving customers.

Workbooks recognise
the need to cater to a
diverse range of
learning styles, and
have been effective for
both users without
eLearning access, and
those uncomfortable
with eLearning. Very
much part of the
culture of training and
product updates at the
Post Office today so
would be expected by
end users.

HNG deployment and new
product updates are
supported by workbooks
and mixed training
material.

Training must conform
to the Equality Act 2010
and be accessible in all
appropriate formats.

So it can be accessed
by all users.

All training material
confirms to the principles
of the Equality Act

Develop training
modules that are
specific to each branch-
type i.e. content specific
to the products and
services sold in the
different branch types,
such as Main and Local.

To ensure colleagues
have access to the
learning relevant to
then to ensure they
can continue to do
their job

Online Product Training

Thorough checking and

testing of all material is

vital before it is released
for use.

Avoids the situation
where training
material does not
reflect reality, which in
turn can erode
colleague trust in the
training solution

HNG User Feedback

Use modern training
design techniques,

By using engaging
designs we may

Online Product Training

Version 0.6
Page 47
POL00036010
POL00036010

What?

Why?

Learnt from...

including images and
interactivity, to create
engaging content.

increase colleague
buy-in and training
completion rates.

Learning
Deployment

Consider deploying to
Crown branches first.

For quick wins and
quick lessons learned.

eLearning

Learning Material
Delivery

Training material should
be available all the time
- whether hard copy,
soft copy or eLearning.
eLearning should be
available not just from
office locations / Post
Office devices.

Avoid impacting
customer service and
working hours.

Colleagues can train at
their own speed and
time on a device that
is familiar to them.

Encourages culture
change regarding
eLearning.

Online Training provided
for deployment of HNG.

During the deployment,
6370 out of 11700
branches accessed
eLearning, with 15,366
colleagues creating an
account. There were also
865 registered back-office
users i.e. non branch
colleagues.

Provide training material
that can be accessed on
slow / limited internet
connections.

This includes workbook
alternative, and the
option for low resolution
images and videos in
eLearning activities

Enables everyone to
benefit from eLearning
and doesn't leave
some colleagues in
rural locations feeling
frustrated /
abandoned.

HNG User Feedback

Include active user
engagement, navigation
and FAQs in the
material. For eLearning
include Show me, Help
me, Let me scenarios

To encourage
confidence and prove
ability.

HNG User Feedback

Early engagement with
Multiple agencies to
identify expected
training time required,
access methods, and
agree any firewall
changes that might be
required to allow
colleagues to access
Post Office learning
through the one store
computer.

Develop buy-in with
Multiples colleagues to
ensure that training is
viewed positively. To
avoid delays in the
training of Multiples
agencies colleagues.

Compliance Training

Training may be
available during weekly
Worktime Learning
(WTL) sessions for
Crown and Multiples
branches.

Would keep to
branches allocated
schedule and not
disrupt time spent
serving customers.

Used for communications,
particularly for product
changes.

Version 0.6

Page 48

POL00036010
POL00036010

What?

Why?

Learnt from...

Learning
Completion /
assessment
tracking

Track training at an
individual level
(colleagues per branch)

-e.g. name/email to
create unique log-on

-use personal email
addresses if Post Office
ones not available

Gain a full picture of
skill level per branch
and per individual to
increase confidence in
ability to use the
system.

To assure readiness
for go-live. Identify
potential risk areas in
advance and develop
mitigation strategies.

Network Transformation
tracks individual training
completion, including
Multiple agencies where
end users have provided
personal email addresses.

Training progress
monitoring before go
live.

Gain a full picture of
skill level and business
readiness prior to go-
live, to avoid heavy
demand on go-live
support resources.

HNG online deployment

Version 0.6
Page 49

POL00036010
POL00036010

13 Appendix C - Business as Usual Materials to be

updated

The following materials have been identified as affected by the proposed changes to be delivered in
Release 1. The following table outlines each file, along with a description, the current owner of the
piece of material, as well as an estimated time to complete updates and approvals, based on the
complexity of change required.

ilename_ uthor (est.)
Appendix E - Transfer Workaid V4.4 Judy
Jan 16 docx I Branch transfer guide Balderson L 3 wks
outline for preparing branch for audit I Judy
Chapter 04 Transfers V4.7 Jan 2016 docm I in the event of transfer /conversion Balderson L 3 wks
express24 -48 PWW Quick Guide V2.6 Quick guide to PFWW express Rita
June 2015 pdf services Kendellen L 3 wks
PO Local Closure Workaid V5.5 Nov Workaid for Local branch closure Michael Raj
2015 doc activities Dadra 3 wks
Self Serve Kiosk User Guide v3.0 pdf User Guide for SSK n/k H 8 wks
Training Aide for Branch Asset Horizon Training Aide for Branch Tim Gordon-
Checking v1.8 Jan 2016 TGP pdf__I Asset Checking Pounder H 8 wks
Workaid on how to change from a
Changing from Shared to Individual shared to an individual stock unit on I Sara M
Stock Units pdf Horizon Mitchell L 3 wks
Outreach Equipment Issues Help
Outreach Services Hints Tips pdf sheet n/k M 5 wks
11,8 Priority Service Despatch V3.0 Horizon instructions for Priority Jayne X
Sept 14 doc _I Services despatch Jones L 3 wks
11,9 ATM Daily Cash Declaration Sandra
Proforma v2.1 Apr 2011 xis ATM Daily cash declaration proforma _I Lewis L 3. wks
Transcript of memoview notifying
commencement of Case across Sharon
14. Cac memoview v3 doc _I counter Pahal L 3 wks
Workaid for accounting for National
81,2 Lottery Handout V4.5 May 16 pdf Lottery transactions n/k M 5 wks
Workbook for UKBA Biometric
AEI draft workbook V1.17 23 10 2009 pdf Application transaction on AEI n/k H 8 wks
‘Anti Money Laundering and Counter Shar I Anti-Money Laundering & Counter
Terrorist Financing - pass by 16 May epoin I Terrorist Financing Horizon Online
2016 t Help Compliance workbook n/k H 8 wks
‘Anti Money Laundering and Terrorist Anti Money Laundering Training
Financing 2016 pdf Workbook n/k H 8 wks
Assessment Video for Inland Mails
Dangerous Goods, Special Delivery &
Assessment 2 - Inland Mail 2 video _I AP Payment Card n/k H+ I 8 wks +
Assessment Video for Channel
Assessment 3 - Inland Mail 3 video I Islands Mails, Rejected labels n/k H+ 8 wks +
Assessment Video for International
Assessment 4 - International Mail 1 video I Mails - signed for(Australia) n/k H+ 8 wks +
Assessment Video for International
Assessment 5 - International Mail 2 video I Mails - (Austria) n/k H+ I 8 wks +
BF16 315406_ebay Tracked Colleague user guide for accepting
Returns Booklet AS pdf __I ebay return packages n/k H 8 wks
Shar
epoin I Broadband & Phone Horizon Online
Broadband & Phone t Help Compliance workbook n/k H 8 wks
Homephone Broadband Compliance
Broadband and Phone Final 2016 pdf Training workbook n/k H 8 wks
Camelot Accounting Guide V3.5 Accounting guide for Camelot
May2016 pdf transactions Adrian Paling L 3 wks
Core_Outreach Brief Notes v2.2 Sept Notes to accompany Core and Sandra
14 pdf _I Outreach Training Presentation McBride L 3 wks
Workaid on how to create a shared SaraM
Creating a Shared Stock Unit pdf stock unit on Horizon Mitchell L 3 wks
Workaid on how to create a SaraM
Creating an Individual Stock Unit pdf individual stock unit on Horizon Mitchell L 3 wks
Shar I Dangerous Goods Operational
epoin I Training Horizon Online Help
Dangerous Goods Operational Training I t Compliance workbook n/k H 8 wks
Version 0.6

Page 50
POL00036010

POL00036010
Operational training workbook for
Dangerous Goods_Operational 2015 pdf __I Dangerous Goods n/k H 8 wks
Trainers notes to accompany
Day 3 Part 1 of 3 Training Notes V1.8 classroom training Day 3 Enhanced I Sandra
apr 16 pdf Customer Transaction McBride M 5 wks
Financial Services Compliance Compliance workbook for Financial
workbook 2016 pdf Services n/k H 8 wks
Shar
epoin I Financial Services products Horizon
Financial services products t Online Help Compliance workbook n/k H 8 wks
HNGX19_LITHO_0108_PFW_3_standar
d (3)28-07-14 Final.pdf pdf PFWW Global Priority Return workaid_ I n/k M 5 wks
Horizon On-Line Instructions May 16 Instructions on Horizon training
v4.1 doc solution Chris Fayers M 4 wks
Horizon Online Set Up Instructions V2.2 Instructions on how trainer logs on I Sandra
Oct 2013 doc to Horizon system McBride M 5 wks
Horizon Process for Royal Mail Local Peter B
Horizon Process V1.1 Sept 15 doc _I Collect Jackson L 3 wks
Shar
https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/post I epoin
office/Pages/Help-do-your-job.aspx t Horizon Online Intranet Homepage n/k H n/k
Shar I Information Security and Data
Information Security and Data epoin I Protection Horizon Online Help
Protection t Compliance workbook n/k H 8 wks
Information Security and Data
Protection Compliance Training
InfoSec and Data Protection May 2015 pdf Workbook n/k 8 wks
Inland Mail Online Learning Module n/a Inland Mail Training Module Pam Flora 8 wks
International Mail Online Learning
Module n/a International Mail Training Module Pam Flora H 8 wks
Introduction to Horizon Online Learning Training module for Horizon
Module n/a___I Equipment, logon Pam Flora H 8 wks
Introduction to PO Local April 2016 Rita
V8.1 TGP docx I Guide for PO Local Model Kendellen L 3 wks
Shar
epoin I Mails Horizon Online Help Compliance
Mails Compliance t workbook n/k H 8 wks
Mails Compliance Workbook October
2015 pdf Compliance workbook for Mails n/k H 8 wks
Information on Horizon Password Sandra
Narrative on Horizon Password resets _I n/a__I resets McBride L 3. wks
One Stop Paystation 2013 brief1 doc Paystation User guide for One Stop One Stop L 3 wks
‘Operations Manual to operate Post
Outreach Ops Manual pdf Office Outreach service Steve Austin H 8 wks
‘Outreach Equipment Issues Help
Outreach Services Hints Tips pdf sheet n/k M 5 wks
Index for Practicals Pack A with
notes, including Mails, Travel Money, I Sandra
Pack A - TRAINER V1.4 Oct 15 pdf Horizon admin processes McBride L 3 wks
Trainers notes to accompany Learner I Sandra
Pack X - TRAINER v1.5 Oct 15 pdf __I roleplays McBride L 3 wks
Parcelforce Worldwide Online Learning Parcelforce Worldwide Training
Module n/a Module Pam Flora H 8 wks
Factsheet to help Passport C&S
Passport C and S Golden Rules FINAL pdf transaction n/k 5 wks
PHU 2.0 User Guide vi doc Horizon Installation Guide n/k H 6 wks
interactive Game to check learning
Pick your Postage Game n/a__I for online postage training Pam Flora H 8 wks
PO Local Closure Workaid V5.5 Nov Workaid for Local branch closure Michael Raj
2015 doc activities Dadra L 3 wks
PO Local Compliance Training
PO Local Compliance 2014-04 pdf workbook n/k H 8 wks
Practical Learning Classroom Prep Sandra
Guide V1.7 Jan 16 pdf _I Guide to prep classroom for training _I McBride L 3 wks
Robbie
Session 26 Local Collect V3 HOL doc __I Dealing with RM Local Collect onsite__I Hemes 3 wks
Take the Introduction to Horizon Test__I n/a__I Test for HOL Module Pam Flora H 8 wks
Tim Gordon-
WHS-PO Set Up Best Practice Finalv1 doc Set up Guide for WH Smith branches I Pounder L 3 wks
Version 0.6

Page 51
POL00036010

POL00036010

14 Appendix D - Glossary

Glossary of terms and definitions found throughout this TNA and other BTTP training team
documentation
Term Abbreviation Which means

Assessment A list of questions to assess the knowledge acquired as a result
of completing training

Balancing Process by which branches reconcile cash and stock for
accounting purposes.

Branch colleagues Anyone who works in a Post Office branch.

Branch Focus A weekly publication which is sent to branches. This shows
updates to transactions and products/processes as a reference
material.

Branch Manager BM Person who manages a Post Office branch irrespective of
branch type.

Branch Standards The team that monitor branch compliance against the expected

criteria that a branch should meet. It could be transactional,
compliance or contractual standards

Branch Technology I BTTP Programme of work to upgrade the point of sale technology in
Transformation Post Office branches which includes hardware, IT network and
Programme software.

British Forces BFCT Used by the British army to train their own personnel to serve
Counter Training in BFPO branches. The branch type BFCT has the same

programming as the CTO branch type and is used to provide
classroom training.

British Forces Post BFPO The British army have a number of Post Office branches that

Office use Horizon Online to transact products and services for British
Army personnel. The branches are both inside and outside of
the UK

Business As Usual BAU Part of normal operations once the project is complete

Business Readiness I BRL Part of the BTTP team and responsible for requirements

Lead gathering, stakeholder management and ensuring that the
changes can be delivered into the business seamlessly

Colleagues Includes employees, contractors, consultants, subcontractors,
agency workers and business partners

Compliance This related to the transactions and products that are regulated

and failure to deliver the required standard could cause Post
Office to be fined and/or customers to be disadvantaged

Counter colleague Person working in Post Office branch serving customers
Counter Training cTO This is a branch type that is specifically set up as a training
Office environment. It is part of the live Horizon Online estate but

does not connect to third party systems. So for all transactions
that rely on an external connection, an emulator is used to
mimic the response and allow the transaction to continue. An
example of this is the APOP database where Postal Order sales
and encashment are recorded

Crown branch Crown Branch operated by Post Office using directly employed people.
Customer The product of an interaction between an organisation and a
Experience customer over the duration of their relationship.

Early Life Support ELS A ‘super user’ or ‘champion’ who is an expert on the new
system and processes who will provide support for the first few
weeks

eLearning Delivery of learning, training or education by electronic means

involving the use of an electronic device. May involve the use
of the internet, intranet, CD ROM or DVD.

End User Computing I EUC Workstream within the BTTP delivering the hardware and IT
network upgrade across the Post Office branch network

Face-to-face

Version 0.6
Page 52
POL00036010

POL00036010
Term Abbreviation Which means
Field based Post Office colleagues who manage and support branch
workforce network e.g. Area Sales Manager
Field Support FSA A field based Post Office colleague who delivers new entrant
Adviser training, conducts audits and intervention activity within the
post office network
Floorwalking Physical support provided to end users in the branch in the
immediate aftermath of the Go-Live
Front Office FOA IBM supplied software designed to run on all Point of Sale
Application terminals across the Post office Network.
Help Operational focused online help
Horizon Next HNGX NT based software provided by Fujitsu which is currently
Generation X operating across the Post Office network.
Learning LMS An application for the administration, documentation, tracking,
Management reporting and delivery of electronic educational technology
System (eLearning) courses or training programs
Local branch Local Branch operated under contract to Post Office by a postmaster

or Multiple partner which offers a reduced range of Post Office
products and services.

Main Branch Main Branch operated under contract to Post Office by a postmaster
or Multiple partner which offers a full range of Post Office
products and services.

Migration Support Post Office person supporting branches during the cut over
Manager from HNGA to the Front Office Application.

Please note this title has not been agreed but may be used a
working term to distinguish from Post Office trainers.

Module Training Module is a component of a training Programme e.g.
Bill Payment

Multiple branch Multiple Branch operated by a company which has a strategic
partnership with the Post Office. E.g. One Stop

Network Relates to the national network of over 11500 Post Office
branches

Network Business NBSC A helpline for Branch Staff if they have a query or need help

Support Centre

Network NT The name given to the project delivering fundamental changes

Transformation to the Post Office branches between 2012-2018

Non-branch Anyone who works for Post Office that does not work in a

colleague branch. This includes field based roles that support branches

Point of Service PoS As the system used in branch does not just sell things, the

Point of Sale term used by Post Office is Point of Service, although Point of
Sale is also used

Point of Sale PoS terminal I Computer terminals in branches which enable products and

terminal services to be sold to customers.

Postmaster PM Person under contract to Post office to operate a branch

Quality Assurance QA Process by which designs, processes and procedures are

reviewed to ensure they are fit for purpose and in line with
requirements.

Subject Matter SME A person with expertise that can provide information, guidance

Expert and support when assessing the business requirements

Train the Trainer TtT Training delivered to Post Office trainers on the training
content and how to facilitate the training

Training module A distinct element of a programme.

Training Needs Brief I TNB The TNB is a newly created document, designed to provide the

programme with an understanding of high level changes,
learning outcomes, delivery methods and risks, based on the
knowledge available during the Assess phase.

User Experience UX The overall experience of a person using a product such as a
website or computer application, especially in terms of how
easy or pleasing it is to use

Version 0.6
Page 53
POL00036010
POL00036010

Term

Abbreviation

Which means

Workbook

A hard copy training material which enables people to learn by
means of text, diagrams, pictures questions and answers etc.

Version 0.6
Page 54
POL00036010

POL00036010
15 Appendix E - Training Approach
Learning Description
method
eLearning eLearning modules will be developed for all of the work packages that impact

branch colleagues. This will help with the transition to a digitally enabled
learning experience and will be made available to all branch and non-branch
colleagues via a LMS, however they will not be the primary method of delivery
for this Release.

Access for branch colleagues will be via their own device and internet connection.
Access for non-branch colleagues will be via Post Office computers and network
connections, although they will also be able to use their own devices and internet
connections.

The support of a strong communications plan will be critical to the success of this
learning. The more colleagues who complete eLearning, the richer the experience
and more comprehensive the reporting that can be made available.

Workbooks Learning workbooks designed to adhere to learning principles and engage
learners, while detailing system and procedural changes. These should encourage
curiosity and help self-directed learning. Operational instructional guides may be
required for technical training, and will be developed in conjunction with
suppliers.

Branches will receive an appropriate number of hardcopy versions, and soft
copies will be available as a PDF and HTML document for viewing through Horizon
Online. Work will be completed to identify branches and areas where take-up of
eLearning will reduce the need for workbooks, so as to reduce costs and align
with our strategy of digital by default.

Evaluation A multiple choice quiz will be provided for each module, to confirm learning.
Branch colleagues’ confidence and competence after they have completed the
workbook or eLearning module. This is approach is based on the Level 2
Kirkpatrick training evaluation methodology

We will endeavour to register as many colleagues as possible through the LMS, in
line with our digital by default strategy, and to allow them to complete
assessment as part of their eLearning.

This quiz will also be hosted on the Horizon Online system, for those colleagues
completing the workbook option, making the training assessment available to all
branch colleagues through the Point of Sale terminal.

Reporting To monitor branch users that have completed the assessment before the changes
are made to the Point of Sale system, a report will be set up to extract data from
both the Horizon Online system and LMS and present it back to Post Office in a
single form, resembling a dashboard report.

This will involve a member of the Training Team developing a thorough
understanding of both the LMS reporting and Horizon reporting system, and
being able to compare this to current colleague data. As there is currently no way
of determining every individual colleague within the network, the Training Team
will need to complete an additional piece of work to identify, with as much
accuracy as possible, the number of colleagues currently working each branch,
and use this to determine the number of colleagues who will require training.
Learning

In line with formal learning requirements, a pass rate of 100% will be set on all
quizzes and assessments. Colleagues will be able to make multiple attempts,
where they are unable to successfully pass on their first attempt, however,
colleagues who take more than a benchmark (TBC) number of attempts to pass
will be flagged.

Version 0.6
Page 55
