POL00193596
POL00193596

Message

From: Dave Posnett

Sent: 16/08/2013 11:02:02

To: Parsons, Andre\

cc: Rob King

Subject: Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Attachments: Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 19-07-13.doc; Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 24-07-
13 (2).doc; Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 31-07-13.doc; Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING
NOTES 07-08-13.doc; Regular Call re Horizon Issues MEETING NOTES 14-08-13.doc

Andy,

We discussed the imbedding of notes from the weekly Horizon issues meeting into the matrix held by Rosie.

It was agreed that this wouldn’t be the right format and that you would create an independent spreadsheet, whereby the
notes could be added each week and circulated to attendees each week before the conference calls (so the spreadsheet
would include all meeting notes, not just the most recent meeting).

As such, please find associated all notes that I or Security colleagues have collated (they are all password protected ... let
me know if you don’t have the password).

I would be grateful if you could instigate the spreadsheet and circulation to attendees.

For reference I list below all those who should attend the weekly meeting and/or substitutes should anyone be unavailable
... please add if you know of other names.
Could I ask that at the top of the spreadsheet the following is copied/pasted or similar:

The following details the participants of the weekly ‘Regular Call re Horizon Issues’ (Wednesdays @
10.00am). Regular attendees from each team/function are responsible for ensuring a representative is present.
Team/Function Attendees

Legal Rodric Williams, Jarnail Singh, Andrew Parsons, Martin Smith, Renata
Prywerek

Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay, Andrew Winn

Security Dave Posnett, Rob King, John M Scott

Communications Sophie Bialaszewski, Ruth X Barker

Network Nick Beal, Gayle A Peacock

Information Technology & Change Steve Beddoe, Jeff Burke

(IT&C)

Network Business Support Centre Kendra Dickinson

(NBSC)

NB: Other than yourself and Martin, all should have @postoffice.co.uk email addresses. Not sure if you have everyone’s
email address so I’ve also put initials above in people’s names where applicable ... let me know if there’s any problems.
Many thanks.

Regards,

Dave Posnett I Accredited Financial Investigator

Security Team, 2" Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old St, London, EC1V 9HQ
'B Postline
5 Mobex
dave.posnett@
dave.posnetté

“4

POL00193596
POL00193596

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
