POL00066041
POL00066041

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL

POLTD/0506/ 0061
OFFENCE
THEFT & FALSE ACCOUNTING
Name: Tahir MAHMOOD
Rank: Subpostmaster Identification IC4
Code:

Office: I I FADCode —383.201.5
Age: Date of Birth: GRO
Service: 6 years Date Service 20.05.1999

Commenced:
Nat Ins No:

Home Address:

Contract for Services
Suspended:

Handed into custody:
To be prosecuted by:

Designated
Prosecution Authority:

Discipline Manager:

30.04.2005 on the authority of Colin Price

N/A
Royal Mail Group (including Post Office Ltd)

Tony Utting , National Investigation Manager

Sue Muddeman

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00066041

POL00066041

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL

Sue Muddeman
Contracts Manager

Subject: Mr Tahir Mahmood — Sub Postmaster Ten Acre Street Post
Office FAD 383.215.5.

The facts of this case are as follows. On the 30" of April 2005 I attended
Ten Acre Street Branch with my colleagues Mr Michael Cooksey and Mr
Paul Dawkins and members of the post office audit team, Miss Alison
Edwards and Mr Guru Aubby. On our arrival we were met by Mr
Mohammed Hanif, the Sub postmaster’s father. Tahir Mahmood arrived
approximately thirty minutes later.

When Mr Mahmood arrived at the office the audit had already
commenced and Miss Edwards asked Mr Mahmood if there was any
more cash on hand other than what she had retrieved from the safe. Mr
Mahmood replied that ‘there were some differences’. At this point Miss
Edwards and Mr Mahmood left the secure area and approached Mr
Dawkins, Mr Cooksey and myself. Mr Mahmood informed Mr Dawkins
that the post office would be about £25,000 short. Just before 10:30 Miss
Edwards informed me that the audit had been completed and there was a
shortage in the post office accounts of £33,437.39. I then cautioned Mr
Mahmood and recorded the caution in my notebook. Miss Edwards then
informed Mr Mahmood of the audit result and Mr Mahmood said that he
agreed with the audit figure. I informed Mr Mahmood that I would need
to speak to him formally. I explained the interview process in detail and
the right to have a solicitor and/or a friend present at the interview. An
interview was arranged for 10:00 on Wednesday 4" May 2005 at the post
office premises in 86 Lionel St, Birmingham B3 1HQ.

Mr Mahmood attended Lionel Street on Wednesday 4" of May for
interview and was accompanied by his Federation Representative, Mr

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00066041

POL00066041

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
Jitesh Chavda. I reminded Mr Mahmood of the reason for the interview
and recapped on the events of Saturday 30" April 2005 and I began
questioning Mr Mahmood. Mr Mahmood said that he worked in the post
office full time and that he had not taken a holiday in the six years he has
been sub postmaster. He said that he has one assistant, his father, who
usually opens the post office on a Saturday morning and helps out on the
odd occasion. Mr Mahmood said that he completed all the daily and
weekly documentation himself and that he would thoroughly check
everything before despatch, explaining in detail how he would complete
those checks. Mr Mahmood added that he completes the weekly
balance and receives no assistance in doing so.

When questioned on the audit shortage Mr Mahmood said that following
his last audit (10 March 2003) he has been incurring large losses on a
regular basis. That he did not know how to pay the money back and had
panicked and inflated the cash account. When questioned further Mr
Mahmood said that his first large loss, following that audit, was in the
region of £400 to £500. He added that he had not declared the loss but
had hidden it by inflating the cash on hand figure in the weekly office
balance and that he had continued to falsify his cash account each week
since April 2003, as the loss figure grew larger. When informed that by
his actions he was false accounting an official document Mr Mahmood
said that he was aware of that fact.

Mr Mahmood said that he was aware, that by hiding the losses and
falsifying the weekly office balance, that he had gained financially and
also maintained his position as

Subpostmaster. Whereby if he had informed the RLM of the losses, and
the fact that he could not make good those amounts, it was most
probable that his contract with the post office would have been
terminated.

Mr Mahmood explained that he had informed his father in January of 2005
that his post office was £25,000 short and that his father had agreed to
take a loan to pay the post office. Mr Mahmood was to say later in the
interview that his father was only willing to pay the money if the Ten Acre
Street Post Office was kept in the family, otherwise he would not pay it.
Mr Mahmood continued throughout the interview to say that all the losses
were genuine and denied taking money from the post office. He said that
he believed that all of the cash loss had been created by giving it to
customers by mistake and that he had inflated his cash account every
week to cover the increasing loss figure.

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00066041
POL00066041

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL

Mr Mahmood’s father financed the purchase of Ten Acre Post Office in
1999 by way of re-mortgaging his house. Mr Mahmood receives on
average £2,500 per month for remuneration of which he keeps £200 and
the rest is handed over to his father. Mr Mahmood, his wife and two
children, live in the family home with his parents and other members of
the family. All household bills, including food bills, are paid for by the
father.

Further enquiries are ongoing and I will Keep you updated as and when

information is received. Should you require any further information please
do not hesitate to call me on the number listed below.

CR Price

13 May 2005

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
