POL00101897
POL00101897

Message

From: Nick Wallis GRO

on behalf of — Nick Wallis

Sent: 16/12/2014

To: Mark R Davie: GRO

ce: Melani: ie Jane French
Subject:

Hi Mark

As I said in my email this is for the chat on the One Show sofa after the film goes out. The film, as Jane indicated, is now
completed.

N

From: Mark R Davies I
Sent: 16 December 2014 14:13
To: Nick Wallis

Cc: Melanie Corfield; Ruth X Barker; Jane French; Clare Hoban
Subject: Re: Queries

Hi Nick

We will get back to you on this. Obviously these are new queries, despite Jane indicating that you had completed your
film in an email an hour ago or so!

As you know we have around 78,000 people using Horizon every day. How many of them have you spoken to?

Best wishes

Mark

id Corporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone

On 16 Dec 2014, at 13:55, "Nick Wallis’ GRO lwrote:

Hi Mark
I wonder if you or your colleagues could help me with a few queries.

When was the last time the Post Office did any research into how satisfied or otherwise SPMRs are with
the Horizon system? It would be very helpful to know the scope of that research and its results.

is your statement about the vast majority of SPMRs not having any problems with Horizon based on
customer feedback or purely on the volume of successful transactions?

{get the sense from speaking to a number of SPMRs that they don’t like the system, they don’t trust it
and they live in fear of what the Post Office might do if they get something wrong with it. It may be

POL-0101480
POL00101897
POL00101897

because I only come into contact with SPMRs who are having problems that I keep hearing this, so it
would be useful to know the other side of the coin.

if you have data which shows the vast majority of SPMRS love using Horizon and trust it implicitly, it
would be useful to have that information.

Also is it true that you are in the process of commissioning a new system to replace Horizon? If so, why?
And when do you expect it to be operational?

During my planned chat on the sofa with Matt and Alex tomorrow I will be reporting on the comments
of MPs during the Westminster Hall debate. I’d also like to talk about my experiences of dealing with
former and existing SPMRs and their attitude to Horizon, plus whether or not this system is due to be
replaced any time soon.

Your help would be greatly appreciated.
Many thanks

Nick

From: Mark R Davies! GRO }
Sent: 15 December 2014 17:35

To: Jane French; Nick Wallis; Clare Hoban

Cc: Ingrid Kelly; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X Barker

Subject: Fwd: One Show

All
Just copying to Nick to ensure you all have the statement and answers to your questions.
Mark

Mark Davies
Communit

rporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Melanie Corfiel
Date: 15 December 201

Ce Mark R Davies

Ruth X Barker

Subje
I attach the answers to the questions you have raised with us and also a short
statement, for use in full please, in the film.

Please let me know if you need clarification about any of the information.

Thanks

Mel Corfield

POL-0101480
POL00101897
POL00101897

Communications Team

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH HSU IOI IDO IID IODA IO IAAI OHI IDSC IID AIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH IOS II IOI IDO IO IOUS ISIS IIA ODI III ISO I ODI IIA IOI IAI

POL-0101480
