POL00349653
POL00349653

Message

From: Parsons, Andrew!

on behalf of I Parsons, Andrew, _ _. __....GRO__

Sent: 04/11/2014 14:12:45

To: Belinda Crowe! Patrick Bourke
Melanie Corfield

cc: Eames, Am

Subject: Remote Access [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Attachments: _DOC_28614498(2)_Horizon data.DOCX

All

Please find attached a revised version of the Remote Access note with additional questions for FJ. All comments
welcomed.

If this is sent to FJ, please can the covering email include a statement along the following lines:

"This draft document, and any communications or other documents associated with it, are confidential, privileged and
prepared in contemplation of litigation. They must be kept confidential and not disclosed to any other person."

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin)

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

only is authorised to
‘as possible and delete any
e unlawful

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is co
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not

copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publi

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage

which may be ca

attachment.

sed by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening an

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
rharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

office is St Ann’s W

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
