POL00285354
POL00285354

From: Alisdair CameronI

Sent: Mon 30/09/2019.

To: Nick Read GRO

Subject: RE: Post Office Change Monthly Executive Summary
Attachment: Stakeholders.docx

In the conversation there are multiple stakeholders with varying needs which I have tried to set down in the
attached (which should not be forwarded please). I don’t think a RACI is the answer because they wont
abide by it.

I think the way forward is to stop the multiple interventions by pushing for four things:

1. Ensure there is a clean split between policy (BEIS) and commercial (UKGI). That means the Tom
Aldred role should disappear and Carl should have a clear PO person to work with — maybe the Mark
role. You could reinforce that by having Richard Watson be their person on GLO, so doesn’t need Tom
Cas well.

2. Ask them to reduce the overall numbers of people involved to, say 2-3 in UKGI, 2-3 in BEIS policy.

3. Consolidate all the activity, assurance etc by volunteering a big quarterly meeting at which Kelly,
Alex and Tom are all present and we work through Stakeholders — Postmasters — GLO — Performance —
Change — Controls etc. They may not always make it if we are pushing them and we will have one
joined up conversation.

4. Nick to build personal relationships with Kelly and Alex C so we can talk directly.

We could also commission a governance review by say Deloitte which says that there is a stark difference
between ED and NED and suggests Tom’s role on RemCo undermines the Board....but I doubt I would have
this fight.

Happy to discuss Al

Al Cameron
Chief Financial Officer

OFFICE

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Alisdair Cameron
Sent: 28 September 2019 15:18
To: Nick Rea

* Dan Zinner!.

POL00285354
POL00285354

Subject: Re: Post Office Change Monthly Executive Summary
Will do. The problem is multiple stakeholders with varying needs . Al

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Nick Read!
Sent: Saturday, September 28, 2019 12:38:26 PM
To: Dan Zinner? Alisdair Cameron:
Subject: RE: Post Office Change Monthly Executive Summary

There will come a time, although I am not yet sure when that is, when we will need to formalise rules of engagement
and ways of working with UKGI. My sense is they have too many people with not enough clear guidance around their
role and deliverables....I assume this demand for info will continue to escalate until we get to some breaking point or
we have an ‘incident’...this would be unfortunate.

Al, I think it would be helpful, given your understanding of their motivations if you could think through some form of

RACI and engagement model which we might share with them before we get too frustrated !

Nick

Sent: 27 September 2019 19:38
To: Alisdair Camero!

Ce: Nick Read
Subject: Fwd: Post Office Change Monthly Executive Summary

Al

Further to your comment at IC about UKGI, we’ve reached out to them to have a written understanding of
their requirements (see below). I think we are giving them far too much detail and some of it overlaps with
what Max provides (duplicating efforts as well). Thus I wanted to share this with you in advance and will
share with you the reply so that we can start to jointly coordinate our UKGI conversations.

Any advice you have is welcome.

Cheers,
Dan

Dan Zinner, Chief Transformation Officer
Post Office Limited

From: Michael A Brown
Sent: Friday, September 27, 2019 12:26 pm
To: Alex.Cole:

Cc: Dan Zinner; Max Jacobi

Subject: Post Office Change Monthly Executive Summary
POL00285354
POL00285354

Hi Alex

\t was good to meet you earlier this week and talk through the P5 report on our change portfolio. As you know I have
recently taken over the responsibility for the production of the report and I’m keen to review all our reports relating
to Change activity to ensure they meet the needs of all our stakeholders and make the production more efficient by

standardising and automating as much as possible.

Are you able to consider:
1. what is the most important data within the current report
2. is there is any critical information missing

3. if there is information currently provided that doesn’t add value for you and the UKGI team.

I'm also discussing this with Max Jacobi as I know you meet with him on wider issues that also cover change activity,

to see if there is an opportunity to co-ordinate information and/or meetings.

Would you be able to let me know by the 11" October and then we can discuss it at the next review meeting on the

23" October. I plan for the P6 report to stay in the current format while I gather feedback from various stakeholders

Thanks very much

Michael

Michael Brown
Head of Portfolio Oversight
Strategic Portfolio Office
20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 9AQ

Telephone

