POL00102370
POL00102370

Message
From: Neil McCausland [7
Sent: 10/03/2015
To: ‘virginia. holmes. t21'
cc: Paula Ve

Macleod i Neil Hayward
Subject: RE: Sparrow - update to Board and GE

Jane and Mark ~ thanks and well done.

That feels very well handled.

’'m sure it will ignite some more, but so far so good
Neil

From: Alwen Lyons }.
Sent: 10 March 2015 17:52
To: Alice Perkins; Neil McCausland; virginia. holmes. t21; timfranklini} Alasdair Marnoch; Callard Richard (ShEx)

Cc: Paula Vennells; Alisdair Cameron; Jane MacLeod; Mark R Davies; Neil Hayward; Alwen Lyons; Kevin Gilliland; Martin
George; Nicholas Kennett; David Ryart-4 Gavin Lambert; Tom Wechsler

Subject: Sparrow - update to Board and GE

Dear All
Please find below an update from Jane and Mark

Thanks
Alwen

Dear All

Update on Project Sparrow

As planned, Post Office announced today that it had completed its investigations in the Complaint
Review and Mediation Scheme; that all cases that had not been subject to a court ruling would be
passed to mediation; and that the Working Group was to close with immediate effect. JFSA, Second
Sight and MPs with a case in the Scheme (or a particular interest in Post Office) were informed alongside
the announcement and the necessary letters have been sent to JFSA and Second Sight setting out what
this means for their engagement / involvement in the Scheme. Letters have also been sent to applicants
alerting them to the announcement. BIS did not, in the end, table a Written Ministerial Statement. We
have stayed in close contact with them throughout the day to provide any additional support they may
require.

There has been a very low key response:

POL-0101953
POL00102370
POL00102370

e Second Sight have indicated an initial willingness to keep working with us and we are due to
meet them again on Friday.

There has been little public reaction, thus far, from JFSA. However, we understand Alan Bates
has written to Jo Swinson to complain and seek intervention.

e  Ashort story, closely reflecting the press statement, ran on Press Association this morning as
planned but has had little pick-up or reaction at this point.

¢ There have been some criticisms on Twitter by CWU’s Postmaster branch which is not, in any
case, widely followed.

¢ So far a handful of MPs have replied to emails and phone call contact made about their
constituents’ cases and most of these are simply asking for some clarifications about their
cases.

e James Arbuthnot has submitted an FOI for a copy the Part Two report (apparently on the
misunderstanding that it was to be published tomorrow). We will handle this as BAU.

If the reaction of the parties involved provides a strong enough angle, we should expect some more
media interest but it is very contained for now. We will continue to monitor this closely.

We will keep you informed of any significant developments

Jane and Mark

JOH RIO ISO AIO IO IODA SOO IIIS IO DIDI SOIT AI IAI IAI AIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH EIS ISOS IO ISO IODA IOI DISS OIIIIDIBIIA IIIA I IAAI OI IAI A

POL-0101953
