POL00142454
POL00142454

Bundler 1

From: Parsons, Andrew {7

Sent: 08 April 2014 09:24

To: Harry Bowyer; i n Clarke

Ce: ‘jarnailasinghi J; ‘claire.parment
Subject: Fw: Post Office Mediation

Attachments: Della Robinson.pdf

Importance: High

Harry, Simon

Fyi below. I think Martin's away this week so would one of you mind taking a look at this asap? Perhaps we can then
speak later today (I'm out of the office at the moment) to discuss a response / next steps?

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP
Sent by blackberr
Mobile:

From: Belinda Crowe [mailto::_
Sent: Tuesday, April 08, 2014
To: Parsons, Andrei

Lesley J Sewell
Post Office Mediation Claims.

Subject:

Please see attached. Could you please advise on this in terms of substance and handling. I do not know the genesis
of the Helen Rose report or what was done with it (it looks as though it was produced last Summer).

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Importance: High

Hi Belinda
POL00142454
POL00142454

This came into Chris last night.
Kind regards
Amanda

Amanda Brown I PA to General Counsel

eet, London, EC1V 9HQ

From: Priti Singh [mailto:
Sent: 07 April 2014 17:31
To: Chris Aujard

Cc: 'Ron Warmington’; Martin Howe; Steve Darlington; Graham Cade; Priti Singh
Subject: Post Office Mediation Claims.

Importance: High

Dear Sirs,

As you are aware, we act on behalf of a number of SMPs in the mediation process and attach a copy of a
document sent to Della Robinson (M050) by your Solicitors, Cartwright King. It was sent to her post
conviction as a document which may affect the safety of the criminal conviction against her.

Although in the covering letter it is stated that the document is the “The Helen Rose Report”, it is clear she
has only received a short extract from a draft of the same.

In order to comply with your duty of disclosure, the full, final and unredacted copy must be sent including
appendices and exhibits. We trust that will be sent to us by return not only to comply with your legal duty
of disclosure but also to fulfil the promises made to the SMP’s to uncover the whole truth of the claims
being investigated under the mediation process.

Further the short extract we have seen confirms that the Horizon system itself can generate transaction
reversals without the knowledge or action of the SPM , or indeed anyone else and that the person to whom this
report is addressed was well aware of the integrity issues with Horizon.

This potentially has enormous consequences to all SMP’s involved and we trust that no points will be made by
yourselves or your solicitors regarding privilege as we fully intend to pursue the issues highlighted by this report, not
only in the Robinson case, but in all the cases we as a firm are dealing with.

We will also be seeking a stay on the time limits of all cases we are dealing with, until a constructive response is
received from yourselves . The SPM’s have already been the victims of injustice and we trust you will now not
further compound that by any delays in disclosing the full report and/or pursuing any technical legal points of
privilege.

We look forward to an early response.

Yours faithfully.
POL00142454
POL00142454

Priti Maru-Singh LL.B (Hons)
Senior Solicitor

Tel:I GRO

1010 Great West Road, Brentford, TW8 9BA
www.howe.co.uk

Howe+C

SOLICITORS

Warning: Copyright Howe & Co - Where the content of this e-mail and/or attachment includes materials prepared by Howe & Co the use of those materials is
subject exclusively to the conditions of engagement between the Firm and its client

This communication is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. By the use of email over the Internet Howe & Co is not waiving either
confidentiality of, or legal privilege in, the content of the email and of any attachments. If you have received this email in error you should not rely on it and
should please contact Kieran O'Rourke on telephone! “Jor email awd
Howe & Co will communicate with you by email, however, the Firm cannot guarantee the confidentiality, reliability or speed of these communications, or of
any attached documents. If you wish to send to the Firm any urgent, critical, or encrypted email communication, then please notify us in advance. The
preferred format for receiving word-processed documents is Microsoft Word.

Howe & Co does not warrant that this email is free of computerised viruses or malicious programmes, although we do everything to ensure that our emails:
are free of computerised viruses and malicious programmes, Howe & Co accepts no liability whatsoever for any form of loss or damage (including
consequential loss or damage) a result of the recipient of this email (including consecutive or concurrent recipients) being infected with a computerised virus
or malicious programme unknowingly hidden within this email

Any opinions expressed in this email or any attachment thereto are not necessarily the opinions of Howe & Co.

Howe & Co's partners are: MJ Howe BA (Hons), K P O'Rourke LLB (Hons), D Enright LLB (Hons).

The firm's practice address is Howe & Co, 1010 Great West Road, Brentford, TW8 9BA, United Kingdom

This firm is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. (SRA No. 73646)

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this em

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential a
to access this e-mail and any attachments, If you are not martin. smit
delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copyi

ed and protected by law jonly is authorised
please notify andrew:parson: iS Soon as possible and
F this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful,

Any Tiles attached to this e-mail will have been checked by-us with vinus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or
damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on be limited liability partnership England and Wales under number 0C317661, Our registered
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Qu 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the tenn partner to refer to a

member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
