POL00423386
POL00423386

POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 11

x) Review of RCC Terms of
Reference

Author: Georgina Blair Sponsor: Jane MacLeod Meeting date: 09 March 2017

Executive Summary

Context

In line with best practice and as recommended by the UK Code of Corporate
Governance a clear Terms of Reference (‘TOR’) for the Risk and Compliance
Committee (‘RCC’) should be in place and reviewed on an annual basis. This year’s
review was completed in February 2017.

Questions this paper addresses

1. Does the RCC have a clear and agreed TOR?

2. Has the Committee fulfilled the requirements of the TOR over the last year?

3. How will the Committee ensure it uses its time effectively in future and fulfils the
requirements set out in its TOR?

Conclusion

1. The requirements specified by the current TOR (see Appendix 1) are clear and
approved by the Group Executive (GE).

2. The analysis carried out (see Appendix 2) confirms that the RCC has fulfilled the
requirements of its TOR with the exception of receiving reports from three sub-
committees.

3. The draft RCC timetable set out in Appendix 3 is a proposed forward agenda for
RCC meetings which will ensure the RCC fulfils the requirements of its TOR in
2017/18.

Input Sought
The members of the RRC are asked to:

1. Confirm they believe they have fulfilled the requirements of the RCC TOR in

2016/17 as specified by the Group Executive.
2. Feedback to the Chair any comments on the proposed forward agenda for 2017/18.

Strictly Confidential RCC 09 March 2017
POL00423386
POL00423386

POST OFFICE PAGE 2 OF 11

The Report

1. The RCC is responsible for supporting the Group Executive (GE) in fulfilling their
responsibilities in the effective oversight of risk management, internal control and
assurance, and compliance in the company.

2. The areas of the TOR have be assessed against the Committee agendas, papers
and decisions to ensure that the Committee has fulfilled its requirements to the
Group Executive (see Appendix 2):

a) The ‘Purpose’ of the Committee is clear and agreed by the Group Executive.
b) The ‘Composition and Terms of Office’ have been met at each meeting during
the year.
Cc) The ‘Meetings’ have been convened in accordance with the TOR.
d) The ‘Responsibilities’ have been discharged, with the exception of:
i) Review of risk reports from sub-committees, namely Transformation,
Information Security, Security and Business Continuity. Transformation Risk
has been reported as a separate item at each meeting from November 2016
onwards. The Information Security Committee has not provided reports to
RCC during the year, and nor has the Security Committee [does this in fact
exist?]. There has not been a Business Continuity sub-committee during the
year but the Committee has received regular updates on the implementation
of the Business Continuity framework.

3. Areas of specific risk have been reported throughout the year and key further
actions agreed.

4. The draft RCC timetable set out in Appendix 3 is a proposed forward agenda for
RCC meetings which will ensure the RCC fulfils the requirements of its TOR in
2017/18. The scheduling of the various agenda items is yet to be finalised and will
be aligned with the ARC timetable.

Strictly Confidential RCC 09 March 2017
POL00423386
POL00423386

POST OFFICE PAGE 3 OF 11

Appendix 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE POST OFFICE
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Approved July 2016
Purpose

1. The purpose of the Risk & Compliance Committee (“RCC” or the “Committee”) is to support
the Group Executive (GE) in fulfilling their responsibilities in the effective oversight of risk
management, internal control and assurance, and compliance in the Company.

Composition and Terms of Office

2. The Committee shall serve as a standing committee of the GE. It shall consist of all
members of the GE.

3. The quorum shall be two members which will be deemed competent to exercise all or any
of the authorities and powers vested in or exercisable by the committee.

4. The Committee shall meet at least six times a year and otherwise as required.

5. The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from anyone in the
organisation in order to perform its duties including calling anyone to the meeting to be
questioned as required.

6. The Committee is authorised to obtain outside legal or other professional advice on any
matter within its terms of reference.

a The Head of Risk and Assurance, the Senior Audit Manager and the Chief of Staff (or those
holding positions with responsibility for such roles, howsoever named) will be permanent
invitees.

8. The Committee shall report to the GE on its proceedings on all matters within its purpose
and responsibilities highlighting significant risk and compliance matters for their attention.

9. The Committee shall report to the Board and Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee as
requested.

10. The Committee shall input into the Post Office annual reporting as appropriate.
Meetings
11. Any member of the committee may convene a meeting.

12. Meetings may be held in person or by telephone or other electronic means so long as all
participants can contribute to the meeting simultaneously.

13. Notice of each meeting shall be given to all those entitled to participate at least 2 working
days before the meeting.

14. Meetings shall be planned in accordance with key reporting and financial planning dates.

Strictly Confidential RCC 09 March 2017
POL00423386
POL00423386

POST OFFICE PAGE 4 OF 11

Other Governance Responsibi

15. The Committee will
a. Review and update its terms of reference annually.

b. Conduct an annual review of its own performance to ensure it is operating
effectively and recommend any changes it considers necessary to GE for approval.

Risk Management Framework
16. The Committee will:

a. Review the effectiveness of the risk management framework and maintain
oversight of the development and implementation of the components of the risk
management framework.

b. Maintain oversight of the current risk exposures of Post Office and advise on future
risk strategy.

c. Review the identification and effective management of current key risks and
identified mitigating actions and regular reviews of emerging risks.

d. Consider and review areas of risk, which should include, but is not limited to,
sufficient coverage of:

i. strategic risk,

ii. major change initiative risk,
iii. operational risk,
iv. financial risk, and

v. legal and regulatory risks, and
vi. reputational risk,

plus more specifically,

vii. people risk,
viii. fraud risk,
ix. technology risk and cyber security,
x. risk relating to the investment strategy and funding requirements of
existing and new pensions schemes, and
xi. conduct risks relating to the financial services businesses operated by both
Post Office Limited and its subsidiaries and joint ventures.

e. Receive and review risk reports from the following management Sub-Committees:
i. Transformation
ii. Information Security
iii. Security
iv. Business Continuity (once formed)

17. The Committee will receive and review the draft annual risk management plan for
onward reporting to the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.

18. The Committee will receive and review the draft annual internal audit plan for onward
reporting to the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.

Strictly Confidential RCC 09 March 2017
POL00423386
POL00423386

POST OFFICE PAGE 5 OF 11

Internal controls and assurance
19. The Committee will:
a. Consider and review the adequacy of the Company’s internal controls and make
recommendations for the improvement of the Company’s internal controls,
processes and systems.

b. Monitor the implementation of key recommendations and management action
plans.

c. Review the adequacy of policy governance and recommend changes.

Fraud, Theft and Ethics
20. The Committee will:

a. Review with management their fraud assessment, detection measures and their
investigation of illegal acts, as appropriate.

b. Review any summary of frauds, thefts and other irregularities of any size.
c. Review with the internal auditors the results of any review of the compliance with

the Company’s codes of ethical conduct and similar policies including
whistleblowing.

Compliance

21. The Committee will monitor compliance with legal and regulatory obligations, including any
significant breaches.

Strictly Confidential RCC 09 March 2017
POST OFFICE

Appendix 2

Analysis of performance of RCC against requirements

PAGE 6 OF 11

Verbatim Extracts from
TOR

Meeting Dates & topics of papers reviewed

Responsibilities - May-16 July-16 Sep-16 Nov-16 Jan-16 Mar-17

Risk Management

Framework

a. Review the effectiveness Risk framework Risk Risk appetite

of the risk management project plan framework

framework and maintain project plan;

oversight of the development risk appetite;

and implementation of the risk exceptions

components of the risk process

management framework.

b. Maintain oversight of the Principal risks Group risk Group risk Group risk

current risk exposures of for annual profile profile profile

Post Office and advise on report

future risk strategy.

c. Review the identification Horizon scan Key further Key further Horizon scan Key further Horizon scan

and effective management of actions; actions; actions;

current key risks and Horizon scan Horizon scan Horizon scan

identified mitigating actions

and regular reviews of

emerging risks.

d. Consider and review areas Financial AML; Property I Financial Network Financial Financial

of risk, which should include, Services; AML; I Compliance Services; Conduct Risk; Crime; AML; Controls; IT

but is not limited to, Property AML; Property I FS Conduct Network Controls;

sufficient coverage of: Compliance Compliance; Risk; AML Conduct Risk; Financial

(see i. - ix. in Terms of Cyber Security Legal Risk Services

Reference above) Conduct;
Safety;
Pensions
update

Strictly Confidential

RCC 09 March 2017

POL00423386
POL00423386
POST OFFICE

PAGE 7 OF 11

Verbatim Extracts from
TOR

Meeting Dates & topics of papers reviewed

Responsibilities -

May-16

July-16

Sep-16

Nov-16

Jan-16

Mar-17

e, Receive and review risk
reports from the following
management Sub-
Committees:

i. Transformation
Information Security
Security

iv. Business Continuity (once
formed)

Business
Continuity and
Crisis
Management
implementation
plan

Business
Continuity and
Crisis
Management
implementation
plan

Transformation
Risk

Business
Continuity;
Transformation
Risk

Business
Continuity;
Transformation
Risk

The Committee will receive
and review the draft annual
risk management plan for
onward reporting to the
Board Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee.

The Committee will receive
and review the draft annual
internal audit plan for
onward reporting to the
Board Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee.

Internal Audit
plan 2017/18

Internal Controls and
Assurance

a. Consider and review the
adequacy of the
Company’s internal
controls and make
recommendations for the
improvement of the
Company’s internal
controls, processes and
systems.

Implementation
of General
Controls
Framework

Agents
Remuneration
lessons
learned;
Horizon
outage
lessons
learned

Executive
Declarations &
Control Self
Assessment;
Financial
Reporting
controls

Telco Cyber
Attack; IT
Controls

Executive
Declaration
and Control
Self
Assessment

Strictly Confidential

RCC 09 March 2017

POL00423386
POL00423386
POST OFFICE

PAGE 8 OF 11

Verbatim Extracts from
TOR

Meeting Dates & topics of papers reviewed

Responsibilities - May-16 July-16 Sep-16 Nov-16 Jan-16 Mar-17

b. Monitor the Internal Audit Internal Audit Internal Audit I Internal Audit Internal Audit
implementation of key Actions Actions Actions Actions Actions
recommendations and
management action
plans.

c. Review the adequacy of Policy Policy Policy Code of
policy governance and Framework Framework Framework Conduct;
recommend changes. Project Project Project Conflict of

Interest;
Vulnerable
customers

Fraud, Theft and Ethics

a. Review with management

their fraud assessment,

detection measures and their

investigation of illegal acts,

as appropriate.

b. Review any summary of BVC Lessons

frauds, thefts and other Learned

irregularities of any size.

c. Review with the internal Review of Review of

auditors the results of any whistleblowing whistleblowing

review of the compliance procedures procedures

with the Company’s codes of 2015-16 2016-17

ethical conduct and similar
policies including
whistleblowing.

Compliance

Strictly Confidential

RCC 09 March 2017

POL00423386
POL00423386
POST OFFICE

PAGE 9 OF 11

Verbatim Extracts from
TOR

Meeting Dates & topics of papers reviewed

Responsibilities - May-16 July-16 Sep-16 Nov-16 Jan-16 Mar-17

The Committee will monitor Modern Slavery I Risk incident Contract Contract Modern Risk incident
compliance with legal and Act report management; I management; Slavery Act; report
regulatory obligations, Risk incident Risk incident Risk incident

including any significant report report report

breaches.

Strictly Confidential

RCC 09 March 2017

POL00423386
POL00423386
POL00423386
POL00423386

POST OFFICE PAGE 10 OF 11

Appendix 3 - THIS NEEDS TO BE UPDATED FOR CHANGES TO ARC AGENDA

RCC Forward planner — proposed topics (assuming 6 meetings per year) — scheduling to be confirmed

Items I Proposed

1) 2) 3) 4) 5) 6)
Jan Mar I May I July I Sep I Nov

1. Standing Agenda Items

«Minutes and actions from previous RRC meetings Vv Vv Vv Vv Vv Vv
« Minutes from POMS RCC meetings v Vv Vv Vv v v
2. Governance Items
« Review of RCC Terms of Reference Vv
e RCC effectiveness against ToR self-assessment v
3. Risk Management, Internal Control and Assurance
¢ Group Risk Profile Vv Vv
¢ Key Further Actions & Risk Incidents v v Vv Vv
¢ Internal Audit update Vv Vv v Vv Vv v
¢ Internal Audit - approval of the upcoming plan v
e Business Continuity - approval of annual plan Vv
4. Financial Reporting and Disclosure
¢ _ Risk disclosures for annual report and accounts Vv Vv
e Board Annual Assessment (including Executives Declaration, Key Policies and v
Control Self Assessment)
¢ Corporate Governance Statements
5. Compliance
e Regulation
= Anti Money Laundering Vv Vv Vv Vv

= Anti Bribery & Corruption
= Competition Law
= Data Protection
e Conduct/ People
= Customers (e.g. Vulnerable, Conduct issues) Vv

IIIS

Strictly Confidential RCC 09 March 2017
POL00423386
POL00423386

POST OFFICE PAGE 11 OF 11

= Ethics and Code of Conduct

= Fraud and Theft

“usu

= Whistleblowing

6. Deep Dives

= __FS Deep Dives on specific issues Vv Vv

= Pensions v

= Health and Safety

= Incident Management, Disaster Recovery & Crisis Management

= Transformation Risk Vv

“iISU<SU

= Cyber / IT Security

Strictly Confidential RCC 09 March 2017
