Tony Oppenheim,
Finance and Commercial Director,
ICL Pathway Ltd.,
Forest Road,
Feltham,
Middlesex,
TW13 7EJ
[ TIME \@ 'd MMMM, yyyy" ]

Dear Tony,

POCL/ ICL Pathway Joint Meetings

As I previously mentioned, I have been reviewing with colleagues the joint, senior
management level, meetings that currently take place between POCL and ICL
Pathway. This review has now been completed, and I am writing to you with our
proposals for changes to the current arrangements in order to initiate a discussion,
before we propose changes more formally.

The main reasons for the review were the new basis of the contractual relationship
introduced by the Codified Agreement, the move into the full national roll-out phase
of the programme, and changes to the Post Office’s organisation and management
processes. In addition, I have tried to address some apparent gaps and overlaps in
the previous arrangements, and to bring into the contract those meetings that had
grown up through a recognised need, but never been added to the contract.

We have considered the points you raised about the level of representation at the
New Requirements Board, and have decided that, at least until we have a track
record of the process in action, Dave Smith should lead the POCL attendance at the
meeting. I expect that you may want to include either Mike Stares and/or Mike
Coombs in the ICL Pathway team, and have included appropriate text in brackets in
the attached table.

As in the Codified Agreement, the reference to meetings as “Boards” is not meant to
infer any particular mode of operation or attendance - it is simply the term used for
joint POCL/ICL Pathway meetings.

POL00393890
POL00393890

POL-BSFF-0220560
Current Meetings

The Codified Agreement recognises the following meetings between POCL and ICL
Pathway:

Contract Steering Group
Change Control Board
Contract Administration Board
Service Review Board

New Business Board.

Release Authorisation Board

In addition two further senior-management level meetings have been established,
but are not in the contract:

Delivery Meeting
New Developments Meeting

Proposals
The following are the main changes proposed:

1.

or

10.

Establish a new Joint Management Board for escalation of issues not resolvable
in other forums, and for occasional review of the overall Horizon programme
(approximately half-yearly, but linked to key Horizon programme phases, such
as CSR+ go-live; completion of main roll-out; etc.). This meeting will subsume
the escalation roles of the current Delivery Meeting and Contract Steering Group
meeting.
Cease the Delivery Meeting - its functions other than escalation of unresolved
issues should be covered in Roll-Out and CSR+ specific meetings.
Cease the Contract Steering Meeting - its functions other than escalation of
unresolved issues should be covered in a Contacts and Commercial meeting.
Re-focus the New Business Board into a New Requirements Board, recognising
the different contractual arrangements now in place, and taking over those
aspects of the New Developments Meeting that relate to functionality not
included in the contracted (CSR and CSR+) releases.
Extend the Contract Admin. Board to cover commercial issues, transferred from
the Contract Steering Group.
Form a new Joint Roll-Out Project Board, taking over all issues relating to the
roll-out and delivery of CSR functionality from the Delivery Meeting.
Re-focus the New Developments Meeting into a Joint CSR+ Project Board,
dealing with all issues relating to the development and delivery of CSR+
functionality.
Requirements for future releases will initially be managed by the New
Requirements Board. When a set of requirements are sufficiently defined to be
taken forwards as a planned release, (and a POCL project manager appointed for
the release) responsibility will transfer to a joint project board for that release,
similar to that for CSR+.
The project boards for CSR+ and any subsequent releases will monitor progress
towards the release authorisation decision for that release. This will replace the
previous arrangements of holding separate meetings to prepare for the Release
Authorisation Board.
In addition to the meetings which will be defined in the contract, a number of
working meetings will continue to be required to deal with specific specialist
areas. These are expected to fall into three groups:
« Meetings dealing with specific aspects of roll-out (training, individual roll-out
programmes, etc.)

POL00393890
POL00393890

POL-BSFF-0220560_0001
POL00393890

POL00393890
¢ Meetings dealing with support functions to the overall programme (e.g.
Design Assurance, Integrated planning etc.)
* Meetings dealing with specific aspects of operational management (e.g. help
desks, problem management, interface operations, etc.)
These meetings will not be specified in the contract, but where they are needed
ona regular basis, it would be good practice for their terms of reference and
attendees to be set out in working documents. Issues not resolved in these
working level meetings should be escalated in a timely fashion to the relevant
contractual meeting.
Summary
The overall meeting structure is shown in the diagram below. Annex 1 is a draft
replacement for the table in Schedule A04 of the contract.
JOINT RELEASE
MANAGEMENT AUTHORISATION
BOARD BOARD
HORIZON NEW JOINT JOINT JOINT JOINTCSRY ] [JOINT PROIECT JOINT
REQUIREMENTS CHANGE CONTRACT & NATIONAL PROJECT I I BOARDI) FOR SERVICE
BOARD CONTROL COMMERCIAL, ROLL-OUT BOARD I FUTURE REVIEW
BOARD BOARD. PROJECT BOARD I [_RELEASES®) BOARD
Roll-Out Functional meetings: Operational
Working, + Design Assurance, Service
Groups ¢ Overall Programme Planning, Working
2 Release Management Groups

etc.

I look forward to your response, and to taking this forwards in joint discussions.

Yours sincerely,

KEITH BAINES
Head of Horizon Commercial

POL-BSFF-0220560_0002
ANNEX 1

POL00393890
POL00393890

Board Joint Horizon Management Board ‘New Requirements Board Joint Change Control Board Joint Contract and Commercial Board
Purpose To provide a single point for timely To communicate POCL development plans I To agree timescales for processing Change I To act as the first point of escalation for any
escalation of significant issues not resolvable} to the Contractor. Requests ("CRs”) and CCNs, commercial issues not resolvable in the Change
at the other meetings (excluding the Release} To review and agree provisional high level I To monitor CRs and CCNs in progress. Control Board, or Service Review Board meetings.
Authorisation Board) in this management planning assumptions for future To review reasons for rejection of CRs and} To act as the point of escalation for any disputes about
table, developments of the Services. CCNs. the amounts or terms of invoices.
To carry out occasional high level reviews of I To initiate and monitor progress of To review CCNs. To consider and resolve or escalate any general
the Services, development of service definitions and terms I To agree mechanisms to enable new commercial issues arising from programme activities.
and conditions for additions to the provisions to be drafted and agreed under
contracted services. CCN. To review and agree changes to the contract to
To review progress of paid studies To resolve questions of whether particular} implement signed CCNs.
undertaken to investigate potential additions I changes require CRs or can be handled To discuss and resolve questions of interpretation of
to the contracted services, through operational business change. the contract
To approve additions to the contracted To provide expert advice on drafting of CCNs
services, which will then be formally To operate version control of the contract and.
introduced by CCN. maintain records of CCDs and CRDs
All discussions and agreements at this board To monitor and facilitate resolution of Agreements to
are without prejudice and subject to contract, Agree
until confirmed through the Change Control
process,
Frequency Escalation meetings as required. 6 per annum, or more frequently by Fortnightly "As needed - most business likely to be handled by

Review meetings approximately every 6
months,

agreement.

phone and correspondence.

POCL Attendees

‘Automation Director
Any of the following, depending on agenda:
* Operations Director

National Roll-out Project Manager
CSR+ Project Manager

Head of Horizon Commercial

Head of Service Management

* Service Development Manager

* Operating Process Design Manager
Meeting secretary

‘Rutomation Director
Service Development Manager
Operating Process Design Manager
Head of Horizon Commercial
Business Sponsors (as appropriate)
Commercial Manager

[Business Integrity Manager}
Meeting Secretary

Head of Horizon Commercial
Operating, Process Design Manager
Sponsors of Changes (as appropriate)
Head of Programme Management Office
Contract manager

Change control manager

(acts as meeting secretary)

Head of Horizon Commercial
Commercial Manager

Contract manager

(Legal advisor at POCL's option - advance notice to be
given of attendance)

Meeting secretary

Contractor

Managing Director

[Managing Director]

‘Commercial and Finance Director

‘Commercial and Finance Director

Attendees Deputy Managing Director [Deputy Managing Director] Contract manager Contract manager
Any of the following, depending on agenda: I New Business Director sonsors of Changes (as appropriate) (Legal advisor at the Contractor's option - advance
* Commercial and Finance Director Commercial and Finance Director Change contro! manager notice to be given of attendance)
* Customer Requirements Director Customer Requirements Director
* Implementation Director Contract Manager
* Customer Service Director Head of Business Development

POCL Approval I Automation Director ‘Kutomation Director Head of Horizon Commercial or, Fead of Horizon Commercial

Automation Director or Managing, Director
subject to authority limits to be decided by
POCL

Contractor
Approval

Managing Director

New Business Director

Managing Director or Commercial and
Finance Director subject to authority limits to
be decicted by the Contractor

‘Commercial and Finance Director

POL-BSFF-0220560_0003
POL00393890

POL00393890

Board Joint National Roll-Out Board Joint CSR+ Project Board (and similar Release Authorisation Board Service Review Board
mectings for any further releases)
Purpose To review progress and performance of the I To review progress and performance inthe I In relation to any Release, to review To review performance against contracted service
Implementation Programme, including, development and deployment of CSR+ readiness reports and decide whether that I levels
infrastructure, training, outlet migration, (including development, testing, training, Release should go into live operation To agree remedies payable arising from any failures to
ete. migration, documentation etc) meet service levels,
To review and resolve or escalate operational I To review and resolve or escalate issues To monitor and review operations of operational
issues arising in relation to the roll-out. arising in relation to the Contractor's business change processes.
development of CSR+ and in relation to the ‘Such other purposes as are set out in the relevant,
wider CSR+ release. service management schedules.
To review progress towards the CSR+
release authorisation decision and reports for
the Release Authorisation Board.
Frequency Monthly or more frequently by agreement I Monthly or more frequently by agreement I When CSR or any further Release is tobe I Monthly

reviewed.

POCT Attendees

National Roll-Out Project Manager
Head of Horizon Implementation
Meeting secretary

CSR* Project Manager
CSR+ Release Manager

Training & Implementation Manager
Commercial Manager

Meeting secretary

‘Automation Director, who shall be Chairman

Head of Service Management
Others at POCL’s discretion

(Horizon Commercial Manager will attend if remedies
on agenda)

Meeting secretary

Contractor
Attendees

Deputy Managing Director
Implementation Director

Deputy Managing Director
Development Director
Testing Manager
Implementation Manager

Managing Director or his authorised deputy.

Customer Service Director
Others at the Contractor's discretion (Financial
Controller will attend if remedies on agenda)

POCL Approval

National Roil-Out Project Manager

CSR Project Manager

Head of Service Management

‘Contractor
Approval

Deputy Managing Director

Deputy Managing Director

Customer Service Director

POL-BSFF-0220560_0004
