POL00148887
POL00148887

From: Belinda Crowe[imceaex-
_0=mms_ou=exchange+20administrative+ 20group+20+28fydibohf23spdit+29_cn=recipients_cn
=belinda+20crowe79b93f1 1-569f-4526-a078-f5b4958a89 17220@c72a47.ingest.local]

Sent: Wed 27/08/2014 7:17:04 AM (UTC)
To:
Cc:
; David Olivert
Subject: FW: Email retreival

Chris, lan was chasing about the matter of retrieving emails for POL staff in relation to the matter of
whether there is a basement in Bracknell from where POL staff can manipulate branch Horizon data
without the knowledge of spmrs. This was drafted for you to send when lan first raised the matter but I
don’t think you ever sent it. lan raised it again in your absence. Are you content for me to send this on your
behalf?

lan

You raised this matter with Belinda in my absence, I apologise I had thought we had responded on this.
For me the starting point in considering your request is to understand why you feel you need access to this
information. The processes established by the Working Group are fairly clear: upon receipt of a CQR POL
produces a report (along with relevant supporting documentation) which is then sent to you for the
purpose, inter alia, of providing a basis upon which you can prepare a corresponding report for the
Working Group. To the extent that you reasonably feel there are ambiguities or omissions in the POL
report you have the option of either commenting on this matter in your report (to the extent it is not
material), or (to the extent that it is material) requesting, via appropriate channels (and at all times copying
in Angela), clarification of issues raised. The point here is that such requests are specific and focussed on
matters directly relevant to the report produced by POL; they should therefore be made after receipt of the
POL reports, not before they are written, not be overly general in nature, and certainly not so broad as to
require the release of an entire class of document, e.g. an entire inbox for POL employees. Put
another way, it seems to me that the Working Group has not asked you to conduct a trawl of the primary
source documentation and records maintained by POL to ascertain what it relevant, and what is not. Apart
from the need to maintain an orderly and workable process, there are it seems to me very good reasons to
ensure that we maintain discipline and focus on the cases at hand.

The current situation contrasts quite markedly to that which prevailed in the period prior to the release of
your interim report, when you were undertaking what was essentially an investigatory exercise. Given your
role then, I can entirely understand why generic information was provided to you as it no doubt formed the
factual basis by reference to which you wrote your report. However, the focus of your work now is on the
mediation scheme, where your role is significantly different from that which you occupied in respect of the
interim report, and as such I cannot see any compelling rationale for disclosure. Indeed, to retrieve files,
documents and emails, review them and redact information which is commercially confidential, privileged or
personal would involve considerable time and resource, which I would find difficult to justify without a clear
need.

If you would like to let Angela know the actual question you are seeking to answer, we will endeavour to
provide you with the answer.

Regards

Chris

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

POL00148887
POL00148887

From: lan Hendersonj.

Date: 30 April 2014
To: ‘Belinda Crowe:
Ce: ‘Angela Van-Den-Boger:
<david.oliver! GRO
Subject: RE: Email retreival

Belinda

I'd be grateful for a response to my 13 March email (attached)?
Many thanks

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
ot the intended recipient, please notify me at
j and delete the email and any attachments.

From: Ian Henderson [mailto
Sent: 13 March 2014 12:57
To: ‘Belinda Crowe’

Cc: 'Angela Van-Den-Bogerd'; mediation:
Subject: FW: Email retreival

}; david.olivet

Belinda

This is a long outstanding request that was left with Andy Holt. (Full email archives for 2008 for Martin ROLFE —a POL
employee working at Bracknell)

The request was passed onto CSC for action by them.

I would be grateful for an update on this as the underlying issues now apply to a number of cases.
Many thanks

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
POL00148887
POL00148887

Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
he intended recipient, please notify me at
id delete the email and any attachments.

From: Ian Henderson [mailto:
Sent: 12 September 2013 11:20
To: 'Andy Holt!

Ce: 'rwarming
Subject: RE: Email retreival

Andy
The request is for all of 2008 for employee Martin Rolfe
We require both Sent and Received — ideally the entire NSF file from the backup of the Domino server

Depending what is found, there may be further request for an extended time frame or emails relating to other
employees.

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
ivi the intended recipient, please notify me at
and delete the email and any attachments.

From: Andy Holt [mailto:!
Sent: 11 September 2013 14:54
To: Ian Henderson
Subject: Email retreival

lan
POL00148887
POL00148887

Remind me the name of the person and the time frame of emails you want — I have given CSC clarity on the
requirement, they just need this to progress. Presume you want both sent and received.

Does that cover your requirement.

Andy

Andy Holt I Business Relationship Management

xX 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Je SS IN ISSR III IO IID IDO IIS IO IIE ISSO II IO III IOI IIIA.
