POL00448045
POL00448045

POST OFFICE JOB DESCRIPTION

Job Title Classroom Trainer

Grade: 2a

Post Reports to: Regional Lead Training Manager
Division: Retail

Business Unit: Retail Engagement

Budget Accountability: 0

Number of Direct / 0

Indirect Reports:

Location: Field Based

Fit & Proper No

Requirements

Unique Position
Number:

Date of Job Evaluation

Purpose of the role

Working as part of the Training Delivery team, responsible for the delivery of the classroom training programme to
new postmasters and running the regional training hub including ensuring high class training is being delivered across
the full agent onboarding process.

Working in conjunction with the field teams, the Classroom Trainer will make sure the training is compliant, meets
POLs high standards and delivered in the best way for our postmaster network.

The Classroom Trainer will also be responsible for managing their delegate wait lists and promoting classroom course
availability throughout their areas.

Where does this role fit in within Post Office?

Manager (3a)

oD
=
=
ic
OF
3
o
oO
Bey
o
fe
&
‘a0
o
“4

Principal accountabilities

* Management of the regional training hubs and providing retail class training workshops
e Contribution towards design and deployment of classroom training modules ensuring new postmasters are
trained ready for life running a Post Office

© Ensuring POLs training standards meet all required legislation and maintaining records and documentation of
delivery.

Version 1.0 July 2024
POL00448045
POL00448045

Classroom management - holding events which upskill POL teams on field-based activities as well as existing
postmasters, when applicable

Deliver exceptional stakeholder management and work across all teams and the Retail teams to support
branches across the network.

Champion and deploy sales, service and regulatory compliance culture and ensure consistency in deployment
by field team.

Maintain delegate training records to ensure a full audit trail of attendance and capabilities.

Knowledge, Experience and Skills

 )

Must have a training background.

Effective leadership skills with a passion for developing people.
Ability to work independently.

Strong communication skills

Strategically minded.

Goal driven.

Strong collaboration skills

Strong people and stakeholder management skills

Knowledge of Post Office and Horizon system and processes
Knowledge of the Post Office application process

An awareness of both the wider social and commercial environment in which Post Office operates.
An awareness of training, interventions, and evaluation techniques
Good analytical and reporting skills.
