POL00117034
POL00117034

From: Susan Crichton[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONC5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-

BE4237A4AD4F @C72A47.ingest.local]

Sent: Sun 21/07/2013 4:07:32 PM (UTC)

To:

Ce:

Subject: FW: SPMR mediation

Attachment: _DOC_27167813(1)_Mediation. DOCX

Attachment: Horizon Investigation / JA meeting - notes from today's 4.30 meeting
Attachment: Current list of thematic issues

Andy — Simon, Alwen and I caught up with SS later on Friday afternoon in order to see whether they had made any
progress with establishing the themes for their final report in in October. The SS reaction was somewhat of a surprise
and they (esp lan) aggressively refuted that they had agreed to the suggestion that they could produce a final report
in October based on the themes identified. They were absolutely determined that they would not able to do this —
and at one stage said that anything they produced for Oct would be very similar to the one that was produced for 7"
July. If they could produce anything at all.

We tried to establish what could be done within this timescale — again they refused to commit, we suggested that we
would get them extra resource which didn’t meet with a positive response and they were unable to articulate what
resource they needed to be able to produce a report for October.

As part of this conversation I mentioned that idea of mediation ~ as a route for cases which would not be part of the
thematic report - They were of the view that POL could not unilaterally change what it had been agreed that SS should
do. I said that was not our intention and that it would need to be agreed with JA and that JFSA.

So after this frustrating call we spoke to Paula and where we came out was that we should use mediation to review
the cases once SS have produced a case review. So we would use the process flow set out by Andy in the attached
document, with the difference being that we would not wait until there was a final report, we also moved away from
the meeting in October being a final report.

I discussed this idea with SS on Friday pm, and they appeared to be in favour, Ron has since sent an email making
some specific points about the process and the fact that the SPMR would need some support on the day and possibly
with preparation of the case. BUT broadly he seemed to accept that it was a good way forward.

So, Andy can you have a quick think about this change to the proposal — I have attached Simon’s summary — which
sets out what we hope this change may achieve. If we use this process we would want to get some of the cases done
before the meeting with MP’s at the end of October, which plays into Mark Davies’s wish to move this forward. For
your information I also attach lan’s first pass at the themes for the review — which is an additional reason for not going
with a thematic approach. I know that there are disadvantages eg cost and what happens if we don’t reach
agreement even with the Mediator — can we discuss what the TOR for a mediator would look like.

Thanks
Susan

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailto:
Sent: 19 July 2013 15:27

To: Mark R Davies; Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons
Cc: Matthews, Gavin; Richardson, Simon
POL00117034
POL00117034

Subject: SPMR mediation
All
As discussed, please find attached a short note on mediating the key SPMR cases.

In the note, I've suggest that the cost of the mediating each case could be around £5k-£10k on the following basis:

Each mediation lasts half a day.

e Mediator fee: £1k-£3k

e Venue costs: £? (for mediation you will need three rooms in close proximity: one for each party and one for
joint sessions. These will be needed for several weeks. BD may be able to accommodate this in our new
office in London. If not, POL may need to hire a venue)

¢ Travel / accommodation: £1k (either the SPMR travels to London or POL travels to the SPMR)

¢ Legal costs: £2k - £5k (Each case will need to be individually prepared. Will external lawyers attend the

mediations? This is fairly common practice but not required)

Happy to discuss these figures but I though it may be more useful to present a picture of the overall costs rather than
just the mediation fee element.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Fax:

The information in thi: “f only is authorised to

access this e-mail and an s soon as possible and delete any

copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of thi unlawful

prohibited and ma

ill have been checked by us with virus detection software befor

viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before ope

Any files attached to this e-m:
which may be caused by so

Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
hment,

an

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
email is sent for
ce is St Ann's Whi
the LLP, or an employee

J on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered
wyside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of
sultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration umber is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

POL00117034
POL00117034

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
