POLO0099687
POL00099687

Application Form
I
I For Second Sight use only
Case ref,
Your Details I
Sumame: Forenames: ;
STUBBS PAMELA JOAN /

Your address:I”

Postcode:

Telephone number
Telephone number 2:

Email address:pamstubbs\

My current Member of Parliament is:
Rt.Hon.dohn Redwood MP

Your Branch

please provide details on an extra sheet of paper.

Please insert the details of the branch where you worked. if you worked at more than one branch, '

Name of branch: BARKHAM

FAD Code of branch: 212 939 6

Address of branch: PORTACABIN
§0 Bearwood Road
Wokingham
Berkshire
Postcode: RG41 4SY

SubPostmistress

Your role at the branch (ie. Subposimaster, Subpostmistress, clerk, etc):

When did you begin in this role?
4" August 1999

Are you still in this role?
/ DYES
NO
_ if no, when did you leave this role: June 2010

POLO0099687
POL00099687

I Initial Case Overview

I To the best of your knowledge. is your case (or any part of it} currently subject to any on-going criminal
I investigations or proceedings (including the issue of a summons, sentencing hearings or a confiscation
order}?

© YES ~ you may still submit your case, but Second Sight may not be able investigate it whilst criminal
investigations or proceedings are on-going

I GINO

The purpose of the ‘Initial Case Overview’ is to summarise the main issues you wish Second Sight to
consider. If your case is accepted for mediation, you will then have an opportunity to supply much more
detail together with supporting evidence.

The following Key Questions may help you with this Initial Case Overview but please feel free to supply
any information that you consider may heip explain your compiaint.

What is the main issue or issues you wish us to consider that relate to Horizon or its associated
processes?

1. The inefficient, unsupervised and chaotic move from my existing Building to a Portacabin for the
duration of the rebuild.

2. Unexplained losses which then began on the first balance after this move.

3. The practical operational issues resulting from the lack of supprt during the move to ensure a
smooth transition (6.g¢. my new safe had a time lock and restricted opening times. I had never
had this before and had not been told. This meant that I could not open in time and the safe
locked out when I came to do my first balance) The bulk drawer in the safe eventually locked
shut and even the Auditor could not open it. I requested that it be opened when it was removed
and that I should be informed of its contents. I never heard from POL.

When did the incidents relating to the main issue or issues occur?
1. The day of the move 26" October 2009 and subsequently.
2. Shortages occurred at each main balance following this move.
3. Ongoing problems with equipment and the Portacabin.

What prior contact have you had with the Post Office in regard to the incidents/issues that you are now
reporting?

i telephoned the heip line immediately after the first balance (Nov.} to query the shortage which [ had
assumed was due to an administrative error during the move. I paid the shortage expecting thai it would
correct itself al some point in the next few weeks when the paperwork tumed up.

POL00099687
POL00099687

I Next Trading Statement (Dec.) I telephone the Help Line again to query the shortage. The Help Line
I were not able to return my cail until after I had 'rolied over’ for the office to open. They had no advice for

me.
The next Trading Statement(iJan.) was massively short and it was only at this point when I teleohoned
I many times that I was advised that I actually had to request that the shortage be put in dispute for it to
I registered as such. This i did and from that point my telephone calls becarne more frequent and more
I agitaied. I requested access to Horizon/Fujitsu. This was not allowed but I was told that the Help Line
I would contact them since I was convinced that the problems had to be related to the move.
I tried to contact my Contracts Manager but the only message received by one of my shop staff was that
I he did not get involved with Balance problems.
{telephoned after ali future balances and other times to request help and advice.

I How was the issue or issues resolved at the time they occurred?

i 4, November - £388 Approx. short. I paid

2. December - £3800 Approx short. I paid

3, From January 2010 onwards I telephoned and disputed every shoriage and demanded that
Horizon was checked, Nothing was done by POL. I would not pay and I would not sign any of my
Trading Staternents as they were not correct. No issues were solved al ail.

/ What is the monetary value of the issue or issues you are now reporting?
4. £28,000 in apparent shortages
2, My own losses due to the problems I experienced,

_ Were you the subject of either civil recovery action or criminal prosecution regarding the main issue or
_ issues you are now reporting?

I No. I was called for an interview with POL Fraud Strand in January 201 ‘but I have received no report
I from that interview.

How were these actions against you (if any) resolved?
NIA

POLO0099687
POL00099687

i

/

I Absolutely nothing. Despite being told that my Contract Manager,Nige! Allen was investigating my claims,
I Theard not one word from POL until I was called for an interview. I have not received a report from the
I closing audit, although I was told at this interview that my office had a significant surplus at this audit. 1
_ was not informed and I was told after my suspension that I had no acosss to anyone at POL any more

i Iwas not even informed that I was to be suspended until the Auditor walked through the door that
I morning, despite speaking with Nigel Allen the night before.

;
I

What is your explanation for the events forming the main issue or issues you are now reporting?

As I have had no issues with balancing my offce for over 10 years and these problems began
immediately after the move inte the Portacabin, I believe that this has been caused by a Horizonproblem
with information travelling to and from my office to the main Horizon control centre.

After the January balance I began printing daily transaction logs from my office computer. I attempted to
go right back to the day of transfer but was only able te print from mid November. I have found many
anomilies in these reports which have not been explained to me.

In the move out, all the plugs were pulled out and the equipment simply plugged in again. When the
move wes made back into the new premises, if took almost a whole day with the equipment being
checked, powered down,then moved. Ones in the new premises, the same procedure was done in
reverse and the relief Subpostmaster was not allowed to start work unti! the following day after further
checks,

All monies were checked out and removed by Cash Co. This monied was then recorded into the new
office. When I moved out, CashCo did not turn up and I had to physically move my office funds by
myseif, with only my builders as a body guard! This happened when the safe movers insisted on taking
the old safe away.

Did you request assistance from the Post Office regarding the issue or issues you are now reporting?
Yes. On every occasion from the first Balance but particularly from 6" January 2010 until my suspension
on 8" June 2010. I made many phone calls (Ref.Nos.supplied) and letters asking that Horizor/Fujitsu
compare my data logs with thelr records, in my presence. All were ignored or refused and I simply i
received requests to give all my paper evidence to POL. I was passed to the 2” Tier help line and was
informed that thye had been told that Horizon investigations were requested. Nothing happened.

i spent my moving day trying to contact someone who could help with the problems but to no avail.

What assistance if any wes provided?

I de not believe the POL intended to help at all, as Nigel Allen commented in a letter’ many
SubPostmasters have claimed that Horizon is at fault but nobody has been abie to prove it

POLO0099687

POL00099687

I Please attach additional sheets of paper if you require more space.

Declaration

I acknowledge that:

_ As part of the Scheme, I must promptly provide information about my case to Second Sight. if! do not
I provide full information in a timely manner, I accept that it may not be possibile to investigate or mediate
I my case.

information { provide about my case or the findings of Second Sight's investigation may help reach a
resolution with Post Office but that it may also reveal further claims against me.

1 am only entitled to financial support from Post Office if I have signed a Funding Agreement.

I confirm that:

I My case relates to the Horizon system or an associated issue.

Post Office may communicate detai’s of my case to Second Sight, JFSA, my Member of Parliament
and/or its professional advisors.

The facts and matters set out in this Application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and
belief

i confirm that I am:

©] Currently serving as a Subpostmaster and have already raised my case with Post Office and have
completed all Post Office's intemal complaint processes.

&@ Not currently serving as a Subpostmaster.
(Please tick one box}

if you are unable to give all the above acknowledgements and confirmations, your case may not be
@ligible for the Scheme. In that circumstance, please contact the JFSA for assistance.

This Application Form and your involvement in the Scheme do not create any legally binding contract or
obligations between Post Office and you.

The Working Group, its members and their advisors owe no obligations or duties, and accept no liability,
to you in connection with the Scheme

» GRO

Name PAMELA JOAN STUBBS

Date 18" September 2013

