POL00296103
POL00296103

From:

Sent: Wed 23/01/2013 12:41:42 PM (UTC)

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerdf_

Ce:

Subject: : 9

As just mentioned here is a bit more detail on this new case. We have more on this case,
which T'll send you soonest... but the following email trail should give you a flavour of it... JA
is one of many SPMs who have referred to communication-fail-induced automatic (Horizon-
generated) Transaction Reversals where they are not advised of those reversals by Horizon,
and only get to know of (some of) them much later.

As you all know, Fujitsu have rejected assertions that communication blips can give rise to
‘lost’ transactions. We are seeing many of those assertions and some, like this one, that might
just be true.

By the way, my apologies for the fact that, in the first (bottom of the pages supplied here)
emails in this chain, John Armstrong's summary - and my consequent grasp - of what
happened, and of the amounts involved, was slightly out. We now have what T think is the
complete and accurate story.

We are at the stage where we need POL to assign us a point of contact, with clear
instructions on who to cc, to get to the bottom of these quite complicated transactional
issues (the ones we are handling as “Spot Reviews"). If we have to wait for the Fujitsu data
to be supplied, unravelled and examined for each one we'll not be able to clear them before
next Christmas!

Regards, Ron.

From: Ron Warmington I
Sent: 23 January 2013 12:16
To: ‘Ian Henderson’
Cc: ‘Alan Bates’; 'k A
Subject: RE: Concer!

y John Armstrong

T've just spoken to John Armstrong and he has agreed to us advising POL of his name. I'm
right now seeking Andy Winn’s side of the story. As far as I've so far penetrated this it looks
as though two people paid that BT Bill: First the Customer (a Mr Cooper) and second John
Armstrong, the SPM. Horizon seems to have reversed all three transaction components (the
£80.00 cash withdrawal; the £76.09 BT Bill accepted for payment by POL; and the £3.91
cash back to Mr Cooper) but in spite of the reversal of the Debit Card Cash Withdrawal, the
charge to Mr Cooper's Account went through anyway. When Mr Cooper, having returned from
holiday to find his phone had been cut off, spoke directly with Chesterfield (Andy Winn I
think), Andy Winn then arranged payment of the BT Bill and re-charged it to John,
POL00296103
POL00296103

incidentally refusing to provide Fujitsu data by reason of cost. Since John had NOT returned
the full £80.00 to Mr Cooper (only £3.91) he (John) finished up being out-of-pocket by the
full £80.00. Correct me if I'm wrong John (full write-up to follow shortly as promised).

John had only been able to find out about the (unbidden by him) transaction reversal - and to
print out evidence of it - because Chesterfield sent him the Transaction Error Notice
BEFORE THE END OF THE TRADING PERIOD. Had the transaction taken place before the
end of a TP, he would have been unable to go back and print the full Transaction Log for any
day in that prior TP.

John: Please correct me if I've got any of this wrong.

Thanks, Ron.

From: Ian Henderso!
Sent: 23 January 2013 11:31
To: ‘Ron Warmington’; ‘John Armstrong’
Cc: 'Alan Bates’; kay!
Subject: RE: Concern reported by John Armstrong

Ron

I raised this case with POL on a “no names” basis last week and they asked that we brief them on the case on Friday
when we have our next conference call.

We can then ask that this formally goes in to the “spot review” category and the necessary information obtained from
Horizon and Chesterfield

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Website: http://advancedforensics.com
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
aged at the intended recipient, please notify me at
j and delete the email and any attachments.

From: John Armstrong:
Sent: 23 January 2013 10:
To: Ron Warmington

Subject: RE: Concern reported by John Armstrong

POL00296103
POL00296103

Hi Ron,
The BT bill was paid by the post office who then sent me a transaction error notice for £76.09. Initially for the
next few transaction periods I did not make good this error as I was awaiting a response from the resolution
manager. The customer still comes into the office fortunately and may be able to provide me with a copy of his
bank statement showing the debited amount. I do know that he has already supplied the post office with this
information and I forwarded a copy of that days transaction log to the resolution manager. As you are probably
aware I cannot access the transaction log for that date now as too much time has expired.

regards

John

--- On Tue, 22/1/13, Ron.

To: "John Armstrong’
Cc: "Ian Henderson" ;

Date: Tuesday, 22 January, 2013, 17:27

Thanks Alan: I've studied your email and the attached Word document and it all seems
pretty clear but as yet not absolutely crystal clear. Here's what I mean: At the end of
the day of the transaction (4th October 2012) it seems to me that your customer ended
up with £3.91 in cash and a debit on his current account of £80.00 whereas you finished
up with a shortfall of that £3.91. Meanwhile, the BT bill was not (at that point) going to
be paid by POL. When it was later paid - by POL in Chesterfield - do you know from
whose funds it was paid? Did they, for example, charge that £76.09 back to you?... or
did they perhaps already have that amount sitting in a Suspense Account and therefore
pay it out from there? Do you know the answer to that? Also, you say that the
customer “provided evidence to BT that the £80 was debited from his account”. Do you
happen to have a copy of that evidence?

Many thanks, Ron

p.s. would you mind me copying Alan Bates and Kay Linnell, as well as by co-investigator Tan
Henderson, on these emails?

From: John Armstron.
Sent: 22 January 201.
To: Ron Warmington

Subject: Re: Concern reported by John Armstrong

POL00296103
POL00296103

Hello Ron,

Sorry that my email to you was not very clear. I have attached a copy of the letter I wrote to Mr A Winn, the
resolution manager at Chesterfield, that perhaps explains the events in a clearer fashion. I included with the
letter to Mr Winn a copy of the transaction log for that day which clearly shows that the banking withdrawal as
well as the change given back to the customer was reversed along with the BT transaction. I have spoken to the
customer and he has provided evidence to the post office that the £80 was debited from his account.

In response to my letter Mr Winn stated that he could not verify what happened as there would be a cost from
Fujitsu to obtain the data.

At no stage of the transaction were there any warning screens telling me that there was a problem with the
transactions.

If you require any further information please dont hesitate to get in touch.

regards

John

--- On Mon, 21/1/13, Ron Warmingto:

wrote:

From: Ron Warmington

"lan Henderson"

"Ron Warmington" { GRO 4
Date: Monday, 21 January, 2013, 14:12

Hello John: Thanks for advising us of the very interesting event. We are going to investigate
it. But could you please help us a little more?

First of all I want to be crystal clear as to what happened. Here follows my understanding of
it - and the questions that arise from my failure as yet to COMPLETELY understand what
happened - so please reply to us all either to confirm that I am right in my understanding or to
correct the story. Also, as you'll see, it is vital to know whether the customer's bank account
was ever debited with the £80.00 cash withdrawal.

What I can't understand is why there was a loss, that you (JA) had to make good, of £76.90
(also, I think the amount was probably £76.60, not £76.90, as explained below). In other
words, why was there any loss at all (other than the cost of getting the customer's phone line
reinstated!)? Just to make this point triple-clear: I would have thought that, if Horizon
spontaneously (on being momentarily disconnected maybe) reversed the transaction(s) (i.e. the
£80.00 cash withdrawal AND the Utility Bill payment) then not only would the telephone bill
not have been paid (which is clearly what happened) but also the customer's current account
would never have been debited with the £80.00. Had that been the case, then the
customer (it seems to me) would have finished up with £3.40 in cash... but without his
telephone bill paid and without any £80.00 charge to his bank account. If that's what
happened, then he GAINED £3.40 and only that small amount ought to have become part of
the day's shortfall in the branch. If, on the other hand, the customer's account WAS debited
POL00296103
POL00296103

(with the full £80.00) then we have a one-sided transaction that is not meant to be possible
with Horizon. In any event, the inference is that, if/when Horizon went into ‘Repair Mode’ (or
whatever they call it), it failed to put out any screen message to the counter clerk to notify
him/her of its doing so. John: is there any recollection (or even evidence) of any sort of
transaction repair message being flashed up on the screen?

Also, John, if you have any evidential material relating to the reported transaction set then
we'd very much like to see copies of it. If you have something then just let me know and T'll
tell you where to send it. Vitally, and as mentioned right at the start, do you know (or could
you find out) whether your customer's account was ever debited with that £80.00? And
lastly, could you please confirm that the telephone bill was for £76.60 not £76.90 (else the
numbers don't add up... 80.00 minus £76.60 equals 3.40).

Thanks and regards,

Ron Warmington

2nd Sight Support Services Ltd
Tythe Farm

Maugersbury

Cheltenham

Gloucestershire

GL54 1HR

Phonei

Mobile!

Email:i — "ERS

Website: www.secondsightsupport.co.uk

From: Alan Bates!
Sent: 17 January 2013"
To: i

POL00296103
POL00296103

Hello Ron, I have had agreement from John Armstrong to allow me to send this on to you. I don’t know if there is any
value to the incident but there does seem to be a number of checkable points and it does seem to point to a possible
communications problem.

Alan

From: John Armstrong}
Sent: 17 January 2013 12:41
To: horizon
Subject: concern

Hi

On 4th October 2012 the internet connection to my office was lost due to work being carried out by B Telecom
at a local building site. This was reported to Horizon on that date (reference A1515053) As the connection was
intermittent some transactions could be carried out with little disruption however online payment and
withdrawals were sporadic, some transactions were ok others were not.

At sometime during the morning (transaction log no longer available) a customer withdrew £80.00 from a
Lloyds account and then paid a telephone bill in the same transaction of £76.90. He was given the change of
£3.40.No reciepts were printed out of the system so I datestamped the telephone bill as his receipt and assumed
the transaction had been completed.

Several weeks later the customer came back into the office telling me his telephone had been disconnected due
to non payment. I put him in touch with the helpline and shortly after received a telephone call telling me that I
had reversed the bill payment part of the transaction.

When I checked the transaction log all three components of the transaction appeared to have been reversed. As
I certainly had not reversed these tranasactions I wrote to Mr Andy Winn, the relationship manager at
Chesterfield, explaining the details and including the transaction log. In reply it was stated that he was not able
to obtain the transactional detail from Fujitsu because of cost and that I would have to make good the loss of
£76.90 which I subsequently did as there seemed to be no alternative.

If there is any other information I can supply please do not hesitate to get in touch.

Regards

John Armstrong

Lepton PO

