POLO0110592
POL00110592

Message

From: Alisdair Cameron}

on behalf of — Alisdair Cameron <

Sent: 08/02/2017 17:16:16

To: Jane Macleod {

cc: Amanda Radford

Subject: RE: Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege: Suspense Accounts

Jane, can I be invited to the set up and scoping meetings with Amanda please and copied into future
requests and information exchanges. I am not sure you have answered the burden of proof question,
which is critical: if you are asking lawyer questions, you need rigorous answers and that means
systematic review. I need to make it really clear that random people from FSC must not be relied
upon to give answers that are legally reliable. Thanks Al

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 07 February 2017 17:10 —

To: Alisdair Cameron i GRO

Subject: Fwd: Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege: Suspense Accounts

Al

You asked about suspense accounts. Mark Underwood has provided the summary below which hopefully addresses your
specific questions, however if you have further questions, we should probably discuss in person.

On the privilege point, I have asked the lawyers to prepare some advice that can be circulated to the business. Thanks
for flagging this.

Jane

Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance
The Post Office

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Mark Underwood
Date: 7 February 2017 at 1
To: Jane MacLeod { i
Subject: RE: Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege: Suspense Accounts

Thanks Jane,

2 The Claimants’ allegation is that POL's suspense accounts have and continue to hold sums that,
if properly accounted for, would explain or offset losses in branches.

2? Angela, Patrick and i met with Paul Hemsley before Christmas to brief him on Sparrow and the
allegations being made as part of the Group Litigation. Mark Westbrook from Deloitte joined us
on the call to share with Paul his understanding of how the Suspense Accounts operate, based
upon the workshops he had held with FSC as part of the ‘Chairman’s Review’.

POL-0108307
POLO0110592
POL00110592

2? Paul visited Chesterfield a week or so later to meet with Lorraine Garvey and gain a better
understanding of the processes and controls governing POL's suspense accounts. Upon his
return, Paul met with Angela and I, along with BD on the phone, to discuss how best to provide
BD with enough evidence to defend POL against the allegation being made against it.

2 it was agreed that if we performed a ‘deep dive’ into the suspense account with the largest
balance and the product(s} responsible for the largest proportion of this balance, we could then
take a view on whether this investigation was representative of POL's suspense accounts in
general or whether further work would be needed in relation to other suspense accounts or
other products. The planned scope of the work is to:

o Investigate the end-to-end accounting process (from transaction in branch to final
reconciliation) for the Products and produce a detailed description of that process
including:-

(a) why accounting discrepancies may arise;
(b) how discrepancies are resolved;
(c) what happens to unresolved discrepancies;

(d) how and why are some discrepancies transferred to the Client Credit Account (or
to any other suspense account);

(e) what happens to debits / credits in a suspense account; and

(f) what safeguards are in place to ensure that any debits / credits in a suspense
account, or taken into P&L from suspense, are not related to a shortfall, surplus
or other accounting discrepancy in a branch.

o Review line items and account balances over a certain period to provide assurance that
the processes and controls described above are adhered to. A decision will be made as
to the size of the sample after the first phase of the work, based on the volumes of data
involved.

2. The purpose of the questions posed by BD in the below email was to enable us to understand
which suspense accounts had the largest balance, and which product(s) were responsible for
this balance. It was at this point that we became aware that Paul H had produced a paper for Al.
Given this paper would likely help inform the scope of work, we asked Danielle whether she was
able to share it with us, hence her email to Al.

As of this morning we have a SoW, which we have asked Deloitte to provide a quote for. Paul H
had agreed that the work should be performed externally. Given the sensitivities; that Deloitte

are able to hit the ground running; and that it will be easier to assert legal privilege over their
work, it would be our preference to award to work to them — price dependant of course.

2 Once we had the SoW and a price back from Deloitte it was planned that we would meet with
and brief Paul’s replacement {is this Amanda?). We are of course happy to keep Al informed as
well.

Let me know if you wish to discuss any of the above further.

Mark

POL-0108307
POLO0110592
POL00110592

Mark Underwood

Head of Portfolio: Legal, Risk & Governance

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 07 February 2017 12:03

To: Mark Underwood1

Subject: FW: Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege: Suspense Accounts

See below

Jane MacLeod

Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance
id Floor

20 Finsbury Street

LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

From: Alisdair Cameron
Sent: 06 February 2017
To: Jane MacLeod
Cc: Amanda Radford
Subject: FW: Private & Confidential:

‘0 Legal Privilege: Suspense Accounts
Jane, can we talk about this please as this is my first level of awareness that something
new was happening.

(1) What work are BD now doing? I need to understand the scope to make sure we
are supporting it, dovetailing it with our work and have people with the right skills
doing it. I suspect that the answers below don’t help much. Also, we need to
understand how certain we have to be of the accuracy and completeness of
answers — this feels like a top of my head best endeavours sort of answer which
may do more harm than good.

(2) Please can I and Amanda be copied on everything as we have the accountability
for preparing the accounts.

(3) There isn’t a good understanding of privilege so people have sent this round
regardless — if you guys want it to work this way, they need to explain or remind
people of the rules.

Thanks Al

From: Danielle Goddard
Sent: 06 February 20:
To: Alisdair Cameron
Cc: Amanda Radford ¢__ .
Subject: FW: Private & Confidential

ubject to Legal Privilege: Suspense Accounts

Morning Al

POL-0108307
POLO0110592
POL00110592

Just a quick question — Angela has asked for me to share information with her on Customer Creditors for
a review Bond Dickinson are performing. I’ve shared some high level info with Angela as per the below
email.

Paul sent you the attached paper on Customer Creditors which contains further detail. I wanted to check
whether this is ok to share with Bond Dickinson? You've only received it from Paul recently (27 Jan) so
you may not have had chance to review it yet.

Thank you

Danielle

Danielle Goddard
Financial Accounting & Governance Manager

Financial Control, Ground Floor Annexe
Not Future Walk
Chesterfield, $49 1eF

From: Danielle Goddard

Sent: 31 January 2017 17:55 ..
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Cc: Amanda Radford {7 3
Subject: Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege: Suspense Accounts

Hi Angela

I think the information below answers the questions being asked. Paul shared a paper on this with Al
recently, which may be helpful depending on level of information required.

If you have any questions on the below or if there is not enough detail please let me know.

Thank you

Danielle

There are 2 relevant POLSAP GL accounts; Customer Creditors and Client Creditors. Both are Balance
Sheet accounts and each have a credit balance of £2.55m and £587k respectively as at 25 December
2016.

Balances arise when there is a difference between POL Horizon data and external client data. The
differences are investigated with the aim of resolving the difference via a branch transaction correction
or returning the funds to a customer or client. Any ultimately unresolved differences are transferred to
Customer Creditors if the difference relates to a particular transaction with a customer, or Client

Creditors if the difference is not attributed to a particular transaction.

There have been no write-offs from the Customer Creditors account due to its nature. There is a policy
in place over the Client Creditors account where balances are written off after 3 years.

POL-0108307
POLO0110592
POL00110592

In response to the specific questions;

1)

2)

3)

There are balances relating to Santander within the £587k Client Creditors balance as at 25
December 2016. The balance relates to various products and clients, not just Santander.

There are also balances relating to Santander products within the £2.55m Customer Creditors
balance as at 25 December 2016. Approximately £1.7m of this balance does relate to Santander.
However the balance is seen to be in favour of the ‘customer’ ie individual, not the ‘client’ ie
Santander. The balance relates to a variety of products, not just Green Giros. Most of the
balance relates to Personal Banking products.

The largest of these two suspense accounts is the Customer Creditors account, and most of the
balance relates to differences between POL Horizon data and Santander data in relation to
Personal Banking products. There is also another material account relating to ATM surpluses
which was a credit balance of £1.16m as at 25 December 2016. There are other material
suspense accounts and matching accounts within POLSAP, but from discussions with FSC the
three accounts described (Customer Creditors, Client Creditors, and ATM surpluses) appear to
the be the main ‘end destination’ accounts, ie other suspense accounts appear to be active
accounts where unmatched items are being investigated (however I cannot confirm this without
investigating further).

Danielle Goddard
Financial Accounting & Governance Manager

Financiai Control, Ground Floor Annexe
Not Future Walk
Chastarfiald SA9ARF

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: 17 January 2017,18;35....
To: Amanda Radford ¢
Subject: FW: Private & Confidential:

rivilege: Suspense Accounts

Amanda

Could you provide the answer to these questions please.

Thanks,

Angela

1° Floor, Ty Brwydran,
Atlantic Close, Llansamiet
Swansea SA7 9F)

“ Angela Van Den Bogerd
People & Change Director

POL-0108307
POLO0110592
POL00110592

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and
privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you
are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original

message.

From: Gribben, Jonathan’,
Sent: 13 January 2017 13:33

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd ¢

arsons, Andrew

ubject: Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege: Suspense Accounts

Hi Angela,
I hope you're well.

I'm working on the draft Statement of Works in respect of the suspense accounts piece. My note of the
call we had on this before Christmas says that the Client Creditor Account (i.e. the account intended to be
used for differences between POL clients (e.g. Santander) and POL) has the largest surplus and the
largest element of that is a credit in favour of Santander (c£1.7 million) in respect of Green Giro
transactions However, that doesn't seem to match the information that Deloitte has. Are you able to
answer the following questions please:

1. Is there a balance of c£1.7 million in favour of Santander in a suspense account?
2. If so-
a. which suspense account does it sit in?
b. does it relate to Green Giros only or Green Giros plus other products?
3. If not, which product does the largest surplus in a suspense account relate to and which
suspense account does it sit in?

Please feel free to give me a call to discuss.
Kind regards

Jonny

Jonathan Gribben

Managing Associate

Bond Dickinsen LLP

www.bonddickinson.com

POL-0108307
POLO0110592
POL00110592

OVERALL BEST
LEGAL ADVISER

avy. angela.van-den-

no Rabitity

ACC 2K 2 ff 2 2 2 fA 2K 2 2 2 2 2 2 fF 2 0 0 2 0 2 28 2 a a oe

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FEI FOR OI SI ICICI RoR I I HCCC 2 oR oF I ECC 01 oR CCC 2 0 oR oR I CE 0 oR OR HCE Eo oo

POL-0108307
