POL00101966
POL00101966

Message

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: 02/01/2015 12:10:42

To: Tom Wechsler

Subject: RE: Sub post masters - ‘or comment asap, please

Attachments: image003.png; image004.png; image00S.png; image006.png; image007.jpg

Tom,

Thave fine-tuned and my proposed response is below. My preference would be to send in leiter format as an attachment to
an e-mail to Mr Hill. Would you mind arranging for this to be formatted on POL template for me so that I can send to Mr
Hill today.

Thanks,
Angela

Dear Mr Hill

Thank you for copying our Chief Executive, Paula Vennells, into your email of 09 December to the Rt Hon James.
Arbuthnot MP in respect of the Radio 4 reports about our Horizon system. As the senior manager leading on
behalf of Post Office the investigation of each of the Mediation Scheme cases your message has been referred to
me for a response.

Post Office takes its responsibilities to its people and to its customers very seriously and has gone to enormous
lengths to address the concerns of the small number of posimasters who have raised them with us. We set up an
independent review of our computer system, actively advertised and encouraged people to come forward and have
provided funding for postmasiers to take professional advice to make their case to a complaint review and
mediation scheme. After extensive investigations, there remains no evidence of any system-wide issue with the
Horizon system.

However, I am sorry to hear that errors were made in processing payments into your ISA and I apologise for any
inconvenience this may have caused you. [am keen to understand the circumstances in which the errors relating
to your ISA arose and to be able to offer you as full an explanation as I can. In order to do so, I would need the
information of the transaction (this will be on the receipt you have) and the name of the post office you used for
this service. I would therefore be grateful if you would send me your contact details so that I may contact you or
if you prefer you may contact me directly on mobile detailed at the top of this letter.

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

© Ty Brwydran House, Atlantic Close, SWANSEA SA7 9FI

®

© angela.

an-den-bogere

POL-0101549
POL00101966
POL00101966

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Tom Wechsler

Sent: 02 January 2015 11:46

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: RE: Sub post masters - draft attached for comment asap, please

Angela

As discussed, a revised draft for you to consider. At end is the original email if you would like to send in that
format. Alternatively, we can turn into a letter and PDF it (which may be preferable). Let me know, plus any
comments you might want to make.

Tom

Dear Mr Hill

Thank you for copying our Chief Executive, Paula Vennells, into your email of 09 December to the Rt Hon James
Arbuthnot MP in respect of the Radio 4 reports about our Horizon system. As the senior manager leading on
behalf of Post Office the investigation of each of the Mediation Scheme cases your message has been referred
to me for a response.

Post Office takes its responsibilities to its people and to its customers very seriously and has gone to enormous
lengths to address the concerns of a very small number of postmasters. We set up an independent review of
our computer system, actively advertised and encouraged people to come forward and are providing funding for
postmasters to take professional advice to make their case to a complaint review and mediation scheme. After
extensive investigations, there remains no evidence at all of any system-wide issue with the Horizon system.

However, I am sorry to hear that errors were made in processing payments into your ISA and I apologise for any
inconvenience this may have caused you. I am keen to understand the circumstances in which the errors
relating to your ISA arose and to be able to offer you as full an explanation as I can. In order to do so, I would
like to be able to talk to you about the transactions and see the documentation that you have retained. I should
be grateful if you would send me your contact details or alternatively if you would contact me at the telephone
number [at the end of this message / at the top of this letter]

YOUFS erseseoee
From: Hill, David (Radiology Dept Countywidey” GRO H
Sent: 09 December 2014, 09:18 a aoe a -- J

GRO

Subject: Sub post masters

Dear Rt Hon James Arbuthnot,

POL-0101549
POL00101966
POL00101966

I listened to Radio 4 news today and feel that at last some of the sub post masters who have had their lives ruined (and
in some cases I believe lost), over this sad episode, may now start to see justice done.

Asa customer, I just do not accept that Horizon does not make mistakes, it does. I have experienced first-hand
knowledge of this. After banking my one and only cheque into a Post Office ISA I was, unbeknown to me, credited with
well over more than £1000 than the cheque was worth. This was brought to my attention by Post Office Ltd who
informed me that they had stopped further payments by direct debit into my ISA as this was now above the maximum
limit that an ISA would allow. There was no mention from PO that I had been wrongly credited and I was not aware of
this as my till receipt was all in order.

It was only after I contacted PO and told them that I could not have overpaid as I knew what I had paid in (a few monthly
direct debits and the single cheque, mentioned above) and PO then corrected the ISA balance.

Had I not been honest, I would have enjoyed the benefits of this error. If this happened to me then why would this not
happen to others and if it did then perhaps others have benefitted but only to the misfortune of others, if the error was

in a sub post office and not a main branch.

I can only hope that the board of PO can reflect how they would feel if what has happened to the hundreds of sub post
masters had happened to themselves and their families.

lam willing to give evidence if required about my experience as a customer, I still have the documentation available.

Regards

David Hill

Unless expressly stated otherwise, the information contained in this email is confidential and is intended only
for the named recipients. You must not copy, distribute, or take any action or reliance upon it. If you have
received this email in error, please notify the sender. Any unauthorised disclosure of the information contained
in this email is strictly prohibited.

<One Show Statement.docx>

POL-0101549
