1.

POL00138432

POL00138432

POST OFFICE LTD
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Horizon review by Deloittes

Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to:

44

1.2

Summarise the work undertaken by Deloittes, their approach, key fndings,
and their recommendations

Outline POL management's proposed actions in light of the above.

2. Background

2.1

2.2

2.3

Deloittes were engaged by Chris Aujard General Counsel and Lesley Sewell,
CIO, to conduct a desktop review of evidential matter as part of project
Sparrow. The terms were based around the direction provided by the Post
Office legal team.

« “POL is responding to allegations from Sub-postmasters that the Horizon
IT system used to record transactions in POL branches is defective and
that the porcesses associated with it are inadequate. POL is committeed
to ensuring and demonstrating that the current Horizon system is robust
and operates with integrity within an appropriate control framework”

Over 100 items of documentation were reviewed by the Deloittes team who
also interviewed management from Atos, Fujitsu, IT, Information Security,
Legal and the Finance Service Centre. (Internal Audit was not involved at
this stage)

A detailed (72 page) report has been issued but subject to legal privilege.
Management reviews and discussion have since followed. A summary
Board paper has also beein issued.

3. Approach

3.1

Deloittes structured its work around a number of key control assertions made
by POL over the environment prior to 2010, the changes made to Horizon in
2010 (HNG — X) and transactions and control environment operating today.

The review therefore considered the risks and controls in the following three
areas.

« System Baseline Assurance- original Horizon implementation and 2010
activity.

e IT provision assurance — current IT management activities (security, IT
operations, system changes)

e System Usage assurance — Controls around the business processes,
their design and operation.

l.e To consider that;
POL00138432
POL00138432

e The system was fit for purpose and worked as intended when first put in.

e Major changes since implementation have not impacted the design
features adversely

¢ Supporting IT processes are well controlled

e Transactions from the counter are recorded completely, accurately and
on a timely basis

¢ Directly posted “Balancing Transactions’ are visible and approved

e¢ The Audit Store is a complete and accurate record of Branch Ledger
transactions

¢ Information reported from the Audit Store retains original integrity

e Database administrators (DBAs) or others granted DBA access have not
modified Branch Database nor Audit Store data.

¢ Data posted from other sysrems and teams is visible to and accepted by
sub-postmasters

3.2 The work was desktop and interview based using information that was
available to POL and the parties involved. No direct testing of control
assertions were made. Deloittes did not test any of the relevant Horizon
features and were not required to revalidate the assurance work supplied to
them. The exceptional use of the Balancing Transaction process event in
2010 was noted and verbal assertions from Fujitsu relied upon.

3.3. Documentation review included considerable technical information provided
by Fujitsu plus third party work assurance undertaken by E&Y (ISAE 3402
report on the Horizon managed service), Bureau Veritas (PCI DSS
compliance report on Horizon and ISO 27001) and Royal Mail Internal Audit
(Security controls, 2011, 2012. . POL IA team was not in place until June
2013).

Key Observations and Findings

44 The table below summarises the observations documented on pages 4-5 and
25-26 of the full report.
Strengths Areas for attention
Technical Horizon system I Documentation not in a risk and controls

documentation is extensive perspective

Audit Store integrity maintained through
digital seals and signatures and
verification processes during extraction
of data from the store.

POL reliance on Horizon features to
operate as described limited to the IT
provision areas of ISAE3402, PCl DSS
and 1SO27001. I.e the detailed technical
controls may not all be tested
sufficeintly.

Governing controls over key day to day
IT management activities independently
tested.(ISAE 3402)

Business use of documentation not
complete or up to date.

Independent reviews (ISAE, 27001, PCI)
provide good coverage for Information
Security, fair coverage for Information
Systems and Change Management

Pre-2010 baseline assurance work not
available.

42

Deloittes provided detailed recommendations across three areas:

Recommendations proposed.

Actions that may assist project Sparrow
Actions for Future Systems requirements

POL00138432
POL00138432

Actions for more holistic approach to risk and assurance over Horizon

These are detailed in full in appendix 1. They centre upon improved
documentation, specific review of the priviledged access controls around
Balancing Transactions, detailed analytical testing of historic transactions,
system requirements for any new system and a proposal for a holistic
programme of risk and assurance for POL’s overall risk and control

framework.

4.3 The recommendations made by Deloittes are down to management to
consider in light of:
¢ Overall business risk
e Future of the Horizon System
¢ Current POL Assurance capacity (1°, 2"? and 3" lines)
« Legal imperatives

o The work should also be considered in light of POL senior
management committments to 10 priority actions and behaviours
(The 10 Accelerators).

o Whilst these should not take precedence over key risks to
information and the Post Office reputation, management will need
to judge priorities, capacity and financial resources.

44 The current view maintained through discussions by Legal, Risk, Information
Security, Finance Service Centre and Internal Audit is:
Ref Summary of recommendation View
A1 I Perform a detailed review of Balancing Transactions use I Yes.
and controls
A2_ I Perform implementation testing of Horizon features Only if
resources
available.
Consider if can
be done by
E&Y as part of
3402 testing.
A3_I Analytical Testing of Historic Transactions No.
A4 I Update/Create documentation for adjustment and reporting I Yes - need
processes at FSC view from head.
MESO CG
B1 I Produce Future Systems Requirements Document. At appropriate
time
C1- I Risk Workshop, Construct risk and control framework, Test INeed view
C4 I Controls, Ongoing Assurance delivery and pro-active I from Head of

POL00138432
POL00138432

[ [ monitoring across Horizon and full POL business. [Risk —

5. Required Action

5.1 The Risk Committee is required to note the activity that has taken place and
support the proposed actions

Chris Aujard
General Counsel

Malcolm Zack
Head of Internal Audit

Julie George
Head of Information Security Assurance
POL00138432
POL00138432

Appendix 1

Further details of Recommendations from Deloitte.

Al Perform a detailed review of Balancing Transactions use:

Use suitably qualified party independent of Fujitsu to review controls around the
need to use the Balancing Transactions functionality, communications with Sub —
post masters, reasons for making adjustments and full review of procedures and
policies.

A2 Perform implementation testing of Horizon Features

Use party independent of Fujitsu to conduction implementation testing of Horizon
features. Use the review to confirm features are operating as described from
documentation.

A3 Analytical Testing of Historical Transactions

Audit Store documentation asserts the system holds seven years of branch
transactions and system event activities.In addition assertions over data integrity,
record and field structure and key controls such as JSN sequencing. Not validated
by parties outside of Fujitsu.

Analytical techniques using modern technology for Big Data sets could allow POL
to conduct detailed risk analytics of Audit Store data to verify that the data is as
expected and derive other insights or exceptions.

This may identify Horizon features that could be automatically monitored.

A4 Update / create documentation formalised for all key adjustment and
reporting processes in operation over Horizon in the FSC.

Identify and document all key activities in the FSC for adjustments to
SubPostmaster ledgers, control activities that reconcile transaction data visible to
the Sub-Postmasters to the Audit Store’s “High Integrity” copy of Branch Ledger
transactions. This can be used to verify the completeness of the Horizon Features
in place that have been verbally asserted and perform implementation controls
verification in A2

B1 Produce Future Systems Requirement Document

Produce system of requirements for any future Horizon platform to deliver against.
This should include Key Control objectives, current day control activities. Schedule
to include matters that help design preventative, detective and monitoring control
activities. Longevity of data retention in Audit Store and cryptographic
requirements should be applied.

POL00138432
POL00138432

C1

Risk Workshop. Conduct an exercise with Key Stakeholders in POL to create
baseline understanding of risk and risk management concepts, share examples of
other companies, and determine how POL can become more risk intelligent
organisation.

c2

Construct a risk and control framework

Extend and confirm the completeness of the Horizon Features and use the
framework to prioritise areas for improvement. Extend the framework to POL’s
overall risk and control framework, not just those areas relevant to Horizon

c3

Test Controls.

Use the framework to test controls across POL’s risk environment. Use a third party
to operate against a recognised assurance standard.

C4

Sustain Assurance Delivery and Implement more proactive monitoring.

Longer term assurance map to sustain assurance delivery for POL over key risks.
Consider continuous controls monitoring using automated alerts if key behaviours
in the system are identified.

