POL00304377
POL00304377

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ANGELA.VAN DEN BOGE1C5FCFE7-2672-42D9-
B324-4EA8D2814853]

Sent:
To:
Ce:
Subject: RE: Branch Support Programme - Business Case - Request for Concurrence by lunchtime
Thursday 8th May
lan,

Thanks for your comments. I agree that there are synergies to be had from BSP aligning very closely with
NTP and as we discussed on Tuesday if NTP funding can be used to finance the CRM cost and the PMO
function then that makes perfect sense. However given that BSP was initially established as a direct
response to the claims cited in the Second Sight Interim report and the subsequent claims from the
Mediation Scheme cases there is a need for BSP to have its own identity and not be consumed within
NTP. Therefore ‘aligning with’ rather than ‘incorporating into’ is more appropriate in this instance.

Kevin - In terms of the detail of the paper presented to POLIC next week are you happy with leaving the
request as it currently is (£3.6m plus £4m redundancy costs) but annotating within the paper that there is
an opportunity for NTP to pick up some of the costs, the extent of this will be confirmed following further
analysis of the alignment potential of BSP and NTP. Please confirm as the paper needs to be submitted
later today.

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

iO} 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

® Mobex{

© L GRO ll
© Post Office stories

®© @postofficenews

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

POL00304377
POL00304377

From: Sharon Bull

Sent: 07 May 2014 08:51

To: Ian Kennedy1; Alison Thompson; Kevin Gilliland; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: RE: Branch Support Programme - Business Case - Request for Concurrence by lunchtime Thursday 8th May

lan,
Absolutely agree on funding point. Incorporating into NTP makes complete sense.
Sharon

Sharon Bull I Head of Network Finance

148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

GRO

From: Ian Kennedy1

Sent: 07 May 2014 08:36

To: Sharon Bull; Alison Thompson; Kevin Gilliland; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: RE: Branch Support Programme - Business Case - Request for Concurrence by lunchtime Thursday 8th May

Angela.

Thank you for the paper which I have reviewed, and support in terms of its scope. I do have some key comments
below however that should be considered during the approval process:

1. This business case has significant overlap with the NT programme objectives, particularly with regards to our
benefits realisation under this programme (Benefit 2,3,4 below):

G1,G2,G3, _NT1: Maintain geographic accessibility, network size, capabilities
and social value for the benefit of customers

$5

Grow the network to 12,000 by March 2015.
POL00304377
POL00304377

$2,S3 NT2: Undertake a network modernisation programme to ensure
customers can access services through channels that meet their
needs and expectations. Improve our customer focus in line with
our push to become more of a retailer.

$1.84 NT3: Create branch models that are profitable for Post Office and
for Agents.
$4 NT4: Create a flexible and resilient network with low fixed costs

base and remove the right to compensation on exit.

$2,S4,S5,G3__NTS: Manage the transition from the current network structure to
one that is fit for purpose and cost effective in a smooth, customer
oriented way which compensates agents appropriately, minimises
adverse public opinion and which takes account of local community
views.

In the coming months the NT programme will be refocused with the objective of defining (in conjunction with the
People and Commercial Directorates) the end state requirements for both Customer and SPM service levels. The
programme will then embark on two integrated projects with Commercial and People to deliver an uplift in these
two area as part of the transformation programme — this will further increase the overlap between NT and the
Branch Support Programme.

2. I have two immediate thoughts which I would like to explore:
Funding:

(a). Why can this investment not be met from NT Funds since almost all activities relate to delivering benefits 2,3
& 4 above?

In my opinion they are needed as part of the Network Transformation (and the programme management
activities thereof) and therefore we ought to be able to utilise NT fund for this activity — indeed I have an
efficiency improvement budget within the 2014/15 allocation which would cover this work.

PMO:

Irrespective of where funding comes from, the PMO requirements should be met from the Integrated PMO.
function I am currently working up. This would save the business case some money and tightly integrate the work
streams, leading to further management savings and reduction in bureaucracy.

CRM:

There is a critical need for an agency network CRM system (and a network operational support capability). I have
currently completed a prototype CRM system and intend to move to an implementation across the Multiples
Team (cost is circa £120K). If successful a programme wide roll out will then be formally scoped / and
implemented for the NT programme - and would incorporate the case management and support functionality
indicated in this business case.

The cost to the programme would be neutral as I would leverage significant programme implementation savings
POL00304377
POL00304377

(through reduction and improvement in process and in information management) which I intend to use for the
model profitability work stream currently being worked up. It would also position us well to deploy the CRM to
the entire company in due course along POL to benefit in the longer term.

This proposed CRM should be joined with you proposal and NT can pick up the cost.

Happy to discuss in further detail but I see significant opportunity to join up here and it would be a missed
opportunity if we did not explore that.

Regards

fan

From: Gayle A Peacock

Sent: 02 May 2014 16:18

To: Sharon Bull; John M Scott; Rod Ismay; Lesley J Sewell; Paul M Brown; Ian Kennedy1; David Mason; Brian
Deveney; Craig Tuthill; Rodric Williams; sarah.malone; Michael A Brown

Cc: Kevin Gilliland; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Anne Allaker; Peter Prior-Mills

Subject: Branch Support Programme - Business Case - Request for Concurrence by lunchtime Thursday 8th May
Hello all

Please find attached the business case for the Branch Support Programme which Kevin has reviewed and agreed can
be circulated for wider concurrence. The plan is to present the case to the POLIC on the 16" May.

I would be extremely grateful if you could review and provide any comments/feedback and concurrence by midday
on Thursday 8" May. Some of you may have reviewed the initial case which was circulated at the end of March. The
content has been changed to incorporate your feedback and include more detail on the delivery of the benefits.

If you have any questions in the meantime, please do not hesitate to contact me.

Have a great bank holiday weekend.

Thanks

Gayle

Gayle Peacock I Branch Support Programme

c/o Branch Standards Team, 2™ Floor, The Markets, 6-16 New York Street, Leeds, LS2 7DZ

