POL00333527
POL00333527

Message

From:

Sent: 09/04/2015 1 .
To: Harry Bowyel i
Subject:

Thanks Harry.

Ihave been trying to speak to someone at the fiscal's office about this case. They have my details and I'm
waiting on a call. It calls in court on 14 April for a procedural hearing.

It seems that part of the difficulty here i is that the accused has been unrepresented and therefore no actual issues
have been identified. will complicate things. However I'll try and call
again this afternoon. too many Easter Eggs!!

Kind regards
Laura

Sent from my Sony Xperia™ smartphone

---- Harry Bowyer wrote ----

Laura,

Martin has me looking after his emails whilst he is on holiday - this one seems to have slipped the
net.
Have you heard any more on this.

The Deloitte report does not tick all the boxes and we would prefer to be given a clean bill by the
experts who are in the process of being instructed. They will be in no position to report in the

timescale of this case.

Martin will be back on Monday but if I can help please give me a call

Harry
Harry Bowyer

From: Irvine, Laura [mailt
Sent: 26 March 2015 12:16
To: Martin Smith

Subject: Case against Carol Oswald at Letham Mains

Martin
POL00333527
POL00333527

Following the call yesterday, I wanted to get in touch about the Letham Mains case. This one was reported by the police
to the fiscal and there is a sheriff and jury trial set for the end of April. The fiscal had contacted the police and the police
contacted the Post Office and eventually I was asked to contact the police officer. I have not been able to speak with her
aside from once when she was very busy and could not speak to me.

Therefore I have tried to speak to the procurator fiscal depute who is dealing with the case. As expected no one has been
allocated to the case yet but I am told that someone will be allocated next week and they have my contact details.

I know very little about this case as it was referred to the police. I am told by Robert that the accused was making
transfers out of stock units during the month to hide losses and them accepting the transfers just before the month end so

that she could ‘balance the books’. It may be that she is blaming Horizon for the losses that she was simply hiding each
month?!

Anyway I still don't know the detail of the issues that have been raised either by the Crown or the defence but here is a
copy of the request for information that the police officer received. You will see that it raises concerns.

I have been provided with various pieces of information about the progress with the Horizon expert report (mostly by you)
but that last I heard from John Scott was that there was a report from Deloittes that may negate the need for an expert
report. However I got the impression from you yesterday that it didn't tick all the boxes!

I will let you know when I get a bit more information.

Kind regards

Laura

CASE AGAINST CAROL OSWALD
I refer to the above case and would be obliged if you could attend to the following:-

1. I understand an interim report into the Horizon system concluded that the System doesn't suffer from system wide
systemic defects.

However I require to know to what extent the Horizon system can be relied upon in this case. I would be obliged if
confirmation can be obtained from witness Robert Daly (who will in turn I suspect have to get confirmation from IT experts
within Post Office Ltd) that no known system defects/bugs identified to date in the Horizon system play any part in this
current case.

Please ensure statements are submitted from the IT at the Post Office regarding the IT system.

Laura Irvine
Associate
Solicitor Advocate

bto solicitors
On i -Quay 133 Fountainbridge Edinburgh EH3 9QG

GLOBAL:

Awards 2s

LiveWire
~ WINNER - Follow us on: OG

POL00333527
POL00333527

This email {including any.attachments) is, Its contents are protected by copyright and may be privileged. If received in error please contact
us on 4 Jor at lawyers{_ GRO and delete it from your system. Brechin Tindal Oatts ("bto") does not accept any responsibility for

viruses and it is your responsibility to scan this email (and any attachments). bto's email system is subject to random monitoring
No contract may be concluded by bto by email unless the sender is a partner or associate of bto and the email expressly states that it is intended to
create a contract. Views expressed in this email are the views of the sender and may not reflect the views of bto. A list of the partners of bto is available

for inspection during office hours at 48 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, G2 5HS.

