Requirement of Network Field Support Advisors at
audit, following discovery of discrepancy

Information needed by Contracts Advisors when audit discrepancies are
reported:

1.

8.

9.

Has there been an inflation of cash and stock declared? Provide a
breakdown of cash declared the previous day and cash found on hand at
audit.

Are there any personal cheques in the account? When were they entered
and what service were they recorded against. If cheques have been inflated,
any evidence of inflation from Horizon reports.

In the event that a personal cheque is introduced that is then discounted
from the audit, and returned to the SPMR, make a note of any details of this.
Which branch was it drawn on?; was it in poor condition? (and so may have
been used in the stock for a while); was it the last in the cheque book? etc. If
possible, can a photocopy be obtained? Any of the above information should
then be detailed in the subsequent additional report, which could be useful in
any future disciplinary/prosecution/appeal cases. Refer to the CA for further
advice at the time.

Look at the discrepancy reported on last Branch Trading statement - has this
been rolled over?

Run off list of Horizon User IDs recorded on the system.

Make enquiries to discover subpostmaster’s personal involvement at the
branch, e.g. Horizon Event Logs.

If there is an admission of fraud, obtain a signed statement.

Obtain a copy of the most recent cash declaration and last three branch
trading statements.

Have any losses from the branch been settled centrally?

Send all documentation to the contract advisor with audit reports and a copy of the

P32.

Information needed by Temporary Subpostmaster Manager to keep contact
with the subpostmaster and source a temporary subpostmaster:

NOAP ON >

Is the subpostmaster prepared to make the premises available?
Contact telephone number (and mobile if possible)

Preferred mailing address

Number of serving positions

Branch remittance day / days

Number of staff, full-time / part-time

Opening hours of the branch

V 1.0 Oct 2011

POL00085652
POL00085652
