POL00108405
POL00108405

Message

From: James, Gareth \(UK - Manchester\f.

on behalf of — James, Gareth \(UK - Manchester\)/

Sent: 07/04/2014 18:

To: Belinda Crowe [}

cc: chris \(UK - Leeds\)
J; Chris Aujard

Subject: trictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

Hi Belinda — sorry, our emails crossed — you should have the former now.

Unfortunately I’m tied up until 14.30 and would struggle to break out of those commitments. Would anything after
14.30 be workable?

From: Belinda Crowe
Sent: 07 April 2014 19:
To: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester)

Cc: Desourdy, Charlotte (UK - Leeds); Lauder, Chris (UK - Leeds); Belinda Crowe; Lesley J Sewell; Chris Aujard
Subject: RE: Strictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

Hi Gareth
We discussed this.

In addition, you are planning to send us something this evening which we will review overnight.
Lesley could do a conversation at 12 tomorrow. Would that work for you.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

belinda.crowe@!

From: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester) [f°
Sent: 07 April 2014 17:24

To: Belinda Crowe

Cc: Desourdy, Charlotte (UK - Leeds); Lauder, Chris (UK - Leeds)
Subject: FW: Strictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

Hi Belinda ~ could you help with the below? Rod has an out of office until the 11" (so I presume is on holiday?). it would
also be key to know whether our work will (or could) need to take into account any advice or reports that Linklaters
have delivered to you (one of the attachments you sent on Friday mentioned that they had prepared and presented a
report to the Board in March?).

POL-0106510
POL00108405
POL00108405

Our reason for this query is that Linklaters are an Audit Client of Deloitte. This isn’t likely to be a problem in terms of our
ability to work for you, but it would require us to internally document this and ensure any formal notification
requirements (to both you and potentially Linklaters) were considered.

Many thanks and regards

Gareth

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC30367S. Its registered office is 2, New Street
Square, London EC4A 382, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited ("DTTL”), a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL and
its member firms,

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient{s). If you are not the intended
recipient(s), please (1) notify it.security.uk@e 1k by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
Use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email Communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union,

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.

From: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester)

Sent: 07 April 2014 15:44

To: 'Rodric Williams’

Subject: RE: Strictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

Hi Rodric — just progressing our draft engagement letter for you today, and one of the queries arising in review has been
with whom our appointment is with (ie: the addressee of the engagement letter). Normally, engagements under legal
privilege will see us contracting with both the Lawyer firm representing our client, as well as the client themselves (ie: a

contract between us and two direct clients).

You've mentioned Linklaters a number of times, and I just wanted to check how you require this engagement structure
being setup? Are we contracting purely to POL (on basis you have your own in house legal team leading on this) or do
you want us to include third party lawyers in our engagement process too?

Thought it worth checking

Thanks

Gareth

From: Rodric Williams { GRO
Sent: 04 April 2014 12:
To: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester)

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Chris Aujard; Desourdy, Charlotte (UK - Leeds); Tansley, David (UK - Bath); Lesley ] Sewell
Subject: RE: Strictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

Strictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

Gareth,
Further to my email below and our meeting yesterday, I attach the following further information:

1. Aninternal POL surnmary of the anomalies within Horizon referred to para’s 6.4 to 6.10 of Second Sight’s July
2013 Report;

POL-0106510
POL00108405
POL00108405

2. Fujitsu's response on the “Local Suspense” / 14 Branch anomaly;

Fujitsu’s response on the “Receipts Payments” / 62 Branch anomaly;

4, The “Spot Review Bible”, which contains the ten “Spot Reviews” sent to POL and POL’s responses (cf para 2.7 of
Second Sight’s July 2013 Report);

Fujitsu’s “Horizon Data integrity” document, which provides a technical description of the measures built into
Horizon to ensure data integrity, including a description of several failure scenarios, and descriptions as to how
those measures apply in each case;

6. Fujitsu’s “Horizon Online Data Integrity for Post Office Ltd” document, which provides a technical description of
the measures that are built into Horizon Online (also known as HNG-X) to ensure data integrity and descriptions
as to how those measures apply in each case.

hd

wa

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

id Street, LONDON, E

IV 9HQ

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 02 April 2014 18:58

To: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester)

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Chris Aujard; 'cdesourdy@: ‘dtansley@t
Subject: Strictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

; Lesley J Sewell

Gareth,

As discussed earlier today, Post Office Limited is responding to allegations that the “Horizon” IT system used to record
transactions in Post Office branches is defective and/or that the processes associated with it are inadequate.

In order to respond to these allegations (which have been, and will in all likelihood continue to be, advanced in the
courts), Post Office wants to demonstrate that the Horizon system is robust, fit for purpose, and/or operates within an
appropriate control framework.

In order to determine whether or not Deloittes can help us in this regard, I attach the following documents:

1. “Horizon Core Audit Process” which outlines how Horizon has been designed to operate;

2. “Draft Factfile” which deals with how Post Office uses Horizon in our branch network;

3. “Description of Fujitsu’s System of IT Infrastructure Services supporting Post Office Limited’s POLSAP and HNG-X
applications”;

4.  Atable of the themes which underlie some of the allegations that Horizon is deficient; and

5. “Note on Horizon Report” which outlines of the type of report we may require.

Could you please review these so that we can advance our discussions on a further call (or meeting) during the course of
tomorrow.

POL-0106510
POL00108405
POL00108405

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

&© @postofficenews

peeeeerettet eee teeetecestreetenteneretrerteeteretectectsrtrectersertard

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

SOHO SU SOI AOI IID IORI IDI DOI SOIT AISA IDI AIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0106510
