POL00198596
POL00198596

From: Parsons, Andrew}

Sent: Fri 06/12/2013

To: Rodric William:

Subject: FW: Director's Duties [BD-4A.F1D20472253]

Attachment: _DOC_27250611(1)_Insurance Risks.docx
Rodric

Below is our advice on Director's duties.

Re the open question at the end of the advice on disclosure duties — Jarnail later confirmed that the disclosure officer
is the investigation officer not a director of POL.

I recall this advice being summarised in a board paper but I can't find a copy of the paper this end
This advice was also recycled for the attached insurance report.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Rodric Williams [mailt
Sent: 22 July 2013 14:23
To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Matthews, Gavin
Subject: RE: Director's Duties

Thanks Andy — that looks good for the moment.
I look forward to your response on the criminal issue.
Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

i) 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
POL00198596
POL00198596

@
@ Post Office stories

®© @postofficenews

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailto:
Sent: 22 July 2013 14:02

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Matthews, Gavin

Subject: Director's Duties
Rodric

Please find below a short note on directors’ duties. Does this cover the points you were considering?
In summary:

e The risk of a POL director being personally liable to anyone outside of POL is very low.

e POL's directors are subject to various personal duties (see below). As long as they make fair and reasoned
decisions in good faith, they are unlikely to breach these duties.

¢ Each director owes their duties to POL (as a company). Only POL (as a company) can enforce a director's
duties. Employees, contractors and SPMRs cannot sue POL's directors directly for a breach of their duties.

¢ Ashareholder (ie. BIS) can step into POL's shoes and sue a director on behalf of POL (a derivative action) —
though this is difficult and quite rare.

e Outside of a director's general duties, directors should be careful when externally commenting on specific
SPMRs / cases (either publically or in private but still external settings ie. speaking to JFSA, MPs or Second
Sight). Directors, like anyone else, can be held personally liable for any defamatory comments they make
regardless of whether those comments are made in a personal or a business context.

Key directors’ duties

Duty to act within powers (section 171 Companies Act 2006)

A director must act in accordance with the company’s constitution and must only exercise his/her powers for their
proper purpose.

Duty to promote the success of the company (section 172)

A director must act in the way he/she considers, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the
company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.

Duty to exercise independent judgment (section 173)

POL00198596
POL00198596

A director must exercise independent judgment. The duty will not be infringed by a director acting in accordance with
an agreement entered into by the company that restricts the future exercise of the directors’ discretion or in a way
authorised by the company's constitution. This duty will not prevent directors relying on advice, as long as the
directors exercise their own judgment in deciding whether or not to follow the advice.

Duty to exercise reasonable care, skill and diligence (section 174)

A director must exercise the care, skill and diligence which would be exercised by a reasonably diligent person with
both:

e The general knowledge, skill and experience that may reasonably be expected of a person carrying out the
functions carried out by the director in relation to the company.

e The general knowledge, skill and experience that the director actually has.

Bad faith

Please note that should a director take a decision in bad faith or maliciously (highly unlikely) this may give rise to a
number of personal liabilities for that director ie.

e Liability for triggering a malicious prosecution against an SPMR.
¢ Liability for breach of the Data Protection Act in misusing personal / Horizon data.
e — Inducing a breach of contract between POL and an SPMR.

I don't believe that we are anywhere near this territory but include this concept for the sake of completeness.

Criminal

I'm just checking with one of our criminal lawyers to see if there is any way a director could be liable for POL's failure
to disclose something in a prosecution case. I suspect not but will double check and then confirm.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

POL00198596
POL00198596

The information in this e-mail and any a

access this e-mail and any

hments is confidential and nly is authorised to
hments. If you are not sod e fas soon as possible and delete any
ation, distribution, publication o1

copies. Unauthorised use, dissen

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no li
which may be caused by sofiware viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any a

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our n
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

ered.

o refer to a member of

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and reg

fed by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

