POL00021849
POL00021849

Message

From:
Sent:
To: Pheasant, Andrew [/O=BOND PEARCE/OU=First Administrative Group/cn=Recipients/cn=ajp4]
Subject: Re: Part 2 response- cash remittances [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Looks fine.
Maybe just to expand the reference to security cameras in para 5.

Cash pouches are handled under CCTV cameras in Post Office cash centres. Spmrs are invited to review such footage
where they dispute the contents.

Andy for info For info there have been joint NFSP visits to cash centres and articles in the NFSP Subpostmaster magazine
about such processes.

Thanks Rod

From: Pheasant, Andrew [mailto:
Sent: Tuesday, September 09, 2014 09:16 AM
To: Rod Ismay

Subject: Part 2 response- cash remittances [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Rod,

I hope you are well. Below is the wording that was put together in relation to cash remittances. Again, not much in the
way of evidence is offered by Second Sight to substantiate or clarify how a loss may arise and the fact that should

procedures be followed there will be no loss is the key point being addressed.
Please could you cast your eye over this wording and let me know if we need to make any changes?
Many thanks

Andy

Post Office's response to section 13 - Cash and Stock Remittances (Rems) in and out of the branch

1. Section 13 of the Report focuses on the remittance of cash and stock to and from branches. Paragraphs XX and
BB of the Part One Briefing described the remittance process.

2. On occasions issues can arise such as cash pouches not being received or there being less or more cash within the
pouch than stated. This will result in a Transaction Correction being raised.

3. Ifthe cash centre remits a cash pouch to a branch and it is not received this will not result in a loss to the branch.
The cash centre will investigate why the pouch has not arrived and ultimately bare the loss. The cash pouch is
scanned upon receipt by the branch and therefore it is only at this stage that the cash is registered on Horizon as

being held in branch. From this point any loss of cash is the responsibility of the branch and

POL-0018328
POL00021849
POL00021849

Subpostmaster. There may be some occasions when the pouch barcode will not scan. In such circumstances the
pouch is entered as received manually.

4. If there is more cash within the pouch than stated the branch should report this within 24 hours of receipt. This
will result in a surplus to the branch and a Transaction Correction is issued to correct the balance on Horizon.

5. In circumstances where the pouch contains less cash than expected the matter should be reported by the
Subpostmaster within 24 hours of receipt. The issue is investigated by the cash centre. If the cash centre accepts
that the pouch contains less cash due to their error they will bear the loss (if any). A Transaction Correction is
issued to the branch to correct the balance on Horizon. Where the cash centre does not accept that it is their error
the Subpostmaster is invited to review the security cameras monitoring the pouch. If the Subpostmaster wishes to
continue to challenge the amount received they can do so through the FSC in the same way that a Transaction
Correction is challenged. If less cash is held in Horizon a Transaction Correction would be issued. The loss can
be placed in the suspense account whilst the matter is investigated and resolved.

6. A similar process is applied when cash is remitted to the cash centre from the branch. The amount of cash sent
within the pouch is recorded. If this sum is less than anticipated when received by the cash centre the issue is
investigated. The Subpostmaster has the opportunity to view security cameras that monitor the movement of the
pouch and can choose to accept the shortfall or place the loss into the suspense account and investigate the matter
further.

7. Paragraph 13.4 deals specifically with the instances where foreign currency has been accidentally sent to the
wrong branch. The Report speculates that this could result in a Subpostmaster being responsible for a shipment
that was never received.

8. The same process outlined above applies to foreign currency. If a pouch is not received by a branch it will not be
scanned into Horizon and there will be no increase in cash holdings. If the pouch is not received there is no loss
to the branch.

9. Where the pouch is taken to a different branch in error it can be rejected and will be returned to the cash centre. If
thean alternative branch accepts the pouch it will be scanned into Horizon and increase the foreign current held at
that branch. Transactions Correction will be issued to correct any discrepancies that may have been created but
overall there would be no loss to either the branch that received the foreign currency or the branch that accepted
it.

10. Irrespective of what the remittance relates to cash or foreign currency, a branch is not liable for cash that they

have not taken delivery of.

Andrew Pheasant
Associate

POL-0018328
POL00021849
POL00021849

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this emai

‘The information in thi
e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rod.ismayf r
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

authorised to access this

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered

office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

JOH EI OIG IOI OOOO ISIS DSI III III IIIT III AI IAI IOI I AIT

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH SOI I SOI IOI IODA ISO IID IOI ID IIIS OID DISORD AIK

POL-0018328
