POL00073745
POL00073745

“Stephen Dille

To: “Pinder Brian" <Brian.Pind

(eer

07/11/2006 11:34 Subject: Post Office Limi

Dear Brian,
Thanks for your email of yesterday, which was helpful.

1. One of the things that each subpostmaster has to do is to make a cash declaration each
day, stating what quantity of each denomination of cash they have in their till.

We have many, but not all of Mr Castleton's cash declarations. As an example, I attach
copies of what some of them look like. We are missing the cash declarations made from
and including Friday 12 March 2004 onwards and ideally could do with them at a
minimum up to and including Wednesday 24 March 2004 (but preferably Wednesday 31
March 2004 for completeness).

The P.O. are going to e-mail me a spreadsheet showing the total cash declared each day in

January, February and March 2004 (as an example, I attach January's spreadsheet).

However, that spreadsheet does not show the quantity of each denomination which Mr

Castleton declared on each day. Is this something that you would be able to obtain from

the Horizon archives? It stands to reason that if the subpostmaster has to tell the computer

what quantities of what denomination he has, the computer must record that information

somewhere and that consequently, we should be able to retrieve it. If so, please could you

obtain it and forward it to me? i

2. The Court has ordered the parties to disclose any further documents which may help or
hinder their case. In this context, a "document" means anything in which information of
any description is recorded, so it includes a computer database. So far, we have disclosed
many documents including spreadsheets received from you and the P.O. that were extracted
from the database. We have not named the database itself as a document, which we will
now do. Is there a formal name for it? What data does it contain that we have not so far
received?

3. It is possible (although not very likely) that Mr Castleton's solicitors may wish to inspect
the database by 27 November. (The Court rules state we must give them access if they
require it). If they do, is there one computer either at the P.O or Fujitsu where they could
get access to all of the data relating to Marine Drive? My impression from the P.O. is that
there is not one particular person there who has access to everything and that the P.O must
make a formal request to Fujitsu for data (above a certain number per month) and that
accordingly, it is more likely that there will be one person at Fujitsu who will have access to
all of the data on the database.

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.

Kind regards.
POL00073745
POL00073745

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

www.bondpearce.com

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally
privileged and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail
and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as
possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or
copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software
before transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.
Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software
viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
0C311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to
Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the

Law Society. eCopy scanned documenEvents 1 to 31 Jan 04Cash d
