POL00447916
POL00447916

Post Office Scandal Live Training

SCHEDULE AND SCRIPT

Introduction

Post Office
Scandal

February 2024

Hello and welcome to this live session about the Post Office Scandal. We have around [insert
number] people in the room today [and we are live streaming the session, so welcome to those of
you joining us from other Post Office locations or from home].

This is going to be something quite different to any session you are likely to have attended at Post
Office before. That is purposeful. What happened in the past at Post Office is unique. It is vitally
important that anyone who works for this business understands what happened and why, what the
impact was and how your role, whatever it is within Post Office, is to safeguard Post Office from such
events ever happening again.
POL00447916
POL00447916

Colleague support

Call the Employee Assistance
Programme confidential helpline on SCO

, or email contactu

Our Workplace Wellbeing Site includes the details
of our Mental Health First Aiders who you can
speak to for support.

This session will be impactful. It is likely to stir emotions. For some it may be upsetting. For some it
may evoke anger. For others it may be quite depressing. Everyone taking part in this session needs
to be aware of this — in yourself, but also in others. You may also find yourself reflecting on the
session later and feeling these emotions or you may notice that others have a delayed response to
the content of the session. All that I ask is that you are respectful of others reactions and understand
that they may be different to your own. You will all be aware of the wellbeing support that is
available from Post Office and we encourage you to use it— details are on the screen.

Let’s start with why we are here.

We are not running these sessions to make anyone feel bad about what happened at Post Office in
the past. We are running these sessions because, regardless of your role, as an employee or
contractor of Post Office, you must:

e Be aware of what happened in the scandal and the destructive impact it had on Postmasters’
lives and those around them.

e Understand the cultural conditions that enabled poor treatment of Postmasters over many
years.

e Know how to act as an early warning system should you see conditions or behaviours in Post
Office that, similarly, enable unacceptable behaviours or culture.

We cannot turn back time to repair the damage caused by Post Office to people’s lives, but we owe
it to the victims to ensure that anyone working for Post Office understands what happened and why.

We must fully face our past, not hide or shy away from what happened because we are ashamed.
We have, instead, to be transparent about the issues to ensure nothing like it ever happens again.
POL00447916
POL00447916

ontents

Housekeeping

Scandal background
Why this happened at Post Offict
What your role is now?

So what is the plan for today’s session?

Firstly, we will cover some of the background to the Post Office Scandal — helping you understand
what happened when and what the key issues were that had such a devastating impact.

We will then talk about the impact of scandal and hear some of the testimony of victims about the
impact that Post Office has had on their lives.

We will then consider why this happened — not in a way that prejudges the outcomes of Sir Wyn
Williams’ Inquiry, but in a way that suggests some of the cultural conditions that may have been
present to allow such failings to occur.

And then finally, we will ask you to consider some key questions that will help you be vigilant about
identifying unacceptable behaviours or culture in today’s Post Office and we will ask you to make
some commitments to honour the victims of the scandal.
POL00447916
POL00447916

Post Office

Scandal Q&A

Questions will be collated once all learning
sessions have been held and answer will be
provided on the Intranet.

Slido.com
#2573 356

The session will have opportunities for interaction throughout. We will do some polls and we will run
an anonymous Q&A throughout the session. These elements will all be online and to access them
you will either need to scan the QR codes that we show on the screen or follow the links that we
have provided in the invite to today’s session. The first QR code and link for general Q&A is on the
screen now. This session is one of a series of 3 sessions and we will collate and respond to the Q&As
after the end of the 3 sessions rather than in each individual session.

Opening video: Headlines

Background and Timeline

© response submitted

Rate out of 10, how much do you think you know about the background
and the timeline of the Post Office Scandal?

‘Scan the QR or use
{ink to join

0.0

re
voen: OOOOOOOO®

e APES 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
4 O copy ink

0%

Let’s start by taking a poll — I want each of you to rate out of 10 how much you think you know about
the background of the Post Office scandal and what happened when at the start of this session. We
POL00447916
POL00447916

will then repeat the exercise at the end of talking through the timeline and see if people feel they
know more, about the same amount (and hopefully not less) than they knew before we went
through the timeline. So, the question you are answering is ‘out of 10, how much do you think you
know about the background and the timeline of the Post Office Scandal, with 10 being ‘I know all the
background and timelines’ and 0 being ‘I know very little about the Scandal at all”

So on average we have a score of X.X.

We are going to start with a summary of the core issues that impacted Postmasters before we go
into a more detailed timeline of events. Before we dive in, I want you all to be clear that you are not
expected to remember it the details or make notes — we simply want you to take in as much as you
can. You will be able to go over it again, at a pace which suits you, during the e-learning module.

The summary

of the core

issues that oe : Identified shortfalls inthe
impacted Soe errata fae auc can as

Postmasters : : ‘would Beitithe bra
were:

(am)

Post Office pursued Postmasters for Post Office prosecuted Postma:

or their staff for criminal offences
such as

responsibility of Postm: relation to shortfalls

their contracts

The summary of the core issues that impacted Postmasters were:

Post Office rolled out the Horizon system across its network and relied on it working
properly to manage branch accounts.

* Post Office identified shortfalls in the physical cash and/or stock in branches against what
Horizon said would be in the branches.

© Post Office pursued Postmasters for shortfalls assuming Horizon was reliable and that losses
were the responsibility of Postmasters under their contracts. This meant that Post Office
recovered money from Postmasters and Postmasters’ contracts were regularly suspended
and terminated.

e Furthermore, Post Office prosecuted Postmasters or their staff for criminal offences such as
theft and false accounting in relation to shortfalls.

There were serious Post Office failures in some of these prosecutions which prevented fair
trials. This was because Post Office did not investigate the reliability of Horizon data, even
when Postmasters complained that the shortfalls were being caused by the Horizon system
and then failed to disclose information about the reliability of Horizon that would have
supported the Postmaster’s defence.
POL00447916
POL00447916

I have just used the the term prosecution throughout the explanation of issues impacting
postmasters, and you will hear me use both conviction and prosecution throughout the timelines
section in a moment so I want to briefly touch on the neuances between them; prosecution is when
a person has been charged with wrongdoing/commiting a crime, where as a conviction is when a
person has been found guily of commiting said crime/wrongdoing. While Post Office was
prosecuting the Postmasters, only the UK legal system has the authoirty to convict them.

29th December 1660

It is critical that everyone in Post Office has an appreciation for the events of the scandal, so we are
going to go into the timeline of events in more detail but will cover it all pretty quickly.

As you all know Post Office is a near 400 year old business and some of the seeds of what happened
in the scandal were doubtlessly sown in that long history. We will, however, focus on the period
from around the turn of the millennium through to today.
POL00447916
POL00447916

In 1999, Post Office began the installation and rollout of Horizon. Horizon effectively computerized
the transactions and accounts undertaken in Post Offices across the UK. Back in 1999, Post Office did
not prosecute any Postmasters and it suspended 86 Postmaster contracts.

onvictions

Suspensions

86

1999

‘+ astatenes ace acute a of anuory 2024
In 2000, the rollout of Horizon continued. 190 Postmasters were suspended and the first conviction
based on evidence from Horizon took place.
POL00447916
POL00447916

onvictions

R
60 ks 80 63 o

Wt

2008

5 4

1999 2000 2001

Suspensions
00 o
199 :
200 190 174 178 171 155 442 152

4999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008

m Suspensions

++ alstatstics are accurate as of January 2028

In 2001, 206 Postmasters were suspended and 35 Postmasters were convicted, then you can see
that over the next 7 years, on average 167 Postmasters were suspended every year and 58
Postmasters were convicted every year.

In 2009, whilst Post Office suspended 220 Postmasters and prosecuted 70 Postmasters, the Justice
for Subpostmasters Alliance was founded by Alan Bates.
POL00447916
POL00447916

onvictions

00 va

Suspensions

190 206 199 174.178 171 455 14> 152 177

Tinian
oe

+ al statics are accurate as of lanvary 2028

DAILY NEWS

Emmet ert Ret ict han inna ae

Post Office appoints
Second Sight to lead an
independent
investigation into Horizon

In 2012, Post Office appointed independent, external forensic accountants, Second Sight to lead an
investigation into Horizon.
POL00447916

POL00447916

DAILY NEV

In 2013, Second Sight produced an interim report on their findings about Horizon. As a result of that,
Post Office set up a mediation scheme between Post Office and impacted Postmasters attempting to
resolve their claims.

onvictions

200
60 53 60 7? 63 53

a
“oat i
: I ll i

Lo She SS
oe oe 4

Suspensions

i 1l 122
1 ie
:

1 alstanistics are aeurate aso lanuary 2024

Post Office continued suspending and prosecuting Postmasters between 2012 and 2014.
POL00447916

POL00447916

_DAILY NEWS

Se =

Post Office stops
prosecution of
Postmasters

In 2015, Second Sight published the second part of their report investigating issues with Horizon.
Post Office terminated the contract with Second Sight and also made the decision to stop
prosecuting Postmasters in the same year.

onyictions

1999 ©

Suspensions

19020619937 4178171 155, at

9142152 109244122
Minti

1 alstanistics are acurate aso lanuary 2024

The final 2 prosecutions made by Post Office were in 2015.
POL00447916
POL00447916

_DAILY NEWS

Civil litigation claim made
by a group of Postmasters

A group of mostly former Postmasters issued a civil litigation claim against Post Office in 2016,
effectively attempting to settle their dispute with the Post Office through the Courts.

Group Litigation Order
issued by the High Court

In 2017, the High Court issued what is known as a group litigation order, which effectively uses
representative test cases where there are groups of legal claims raising similar issues. This was
granted in the name of lead claimant Alan Bates, so was known as Bates vs the Post Office. There
were 555 Postmasters’ names attached to the order and there were expected to be 6 different trials
looking at different aspects of the Postmasters claims.
POL00447916
POL00447916

Common Issues

In November 2018, a four week trial was held to look into the ‘common issues’. These ‘common
issues’ were mainly the terms of the contract that Post Office had with Postmasters.

Horizon judgment
provided by the Court

Judgmen

down

11° March -
July is C The Court of Appe
Th appeal 0 handed down it

ok place ding nt refusing the

{CLICK for animation}

The judgment from the common issues trial was handed down on 15" March 2019. The judgment
was extremely critical of Post Office and required fundamental changes to the relationship between
Post Office and Postmasters. In the judgment, Post Office was found to:

Be operating an unfair contract for its Postmasters

Be acting oppressively

Have inadequate document management and adminstration processes
Have a culture of excessive secrecy

RwWNP
POL00447916

POL00447916

Not be training its Postmasters properly

Have poor levels of support for Postmasters

Not be properly investigating causes of apparent losses in branches
Not to be managing Horizon properly or transparently

ePnay

{CLICK for animation}

A further trial, known as the Horizon issues trial, took place between 11" March 2019 and 2" July
2019. As you would expect from the name of the trial, this trial focused on the technical aspects of
the Horizon system.

{CLICK for animation}

The reason that the Horizon issues trial took so long was that, after the Common Issues Judgment,
Post Office attempted to ask the managing judge, Mr Justice Fraser, to recuse himself — effectively
stop being the judge for the trial — because he was biased. The judge did not recuse himself and
when Post Office tried to appeal this, their application was called “without substance”,

“misconceived”, “fatally flawed”, “untenable” and “absurd” by the judge who heard the appeal.

{CLICK for animation}

Post Office also appealed the Common Issues Judgment itself. The Court of Appeal handed down its
judgment on 22" November refusing the appeal on all the grounds Post Office had appealed on. The
judgment asserted that Post Office had “made sweeping statements about the trial and judgment
that were demonstrably wrong” and that Post Office had effectively argued that it “was not obliged
to treat Postmasters with good faith, and instead was entitled to treat them in capricious or
arbitrary ways which would not be unfamiliar to a mid-Victorian factory-owner”.

{CLICK for animation}

On 28" November 2019, the Horizon Issues Judgment was provided by the Court under embargo to
Post Office and the claimants. It found previous versions of Horizon were not robust and there was a
material risk that bugs, errors and defects could have caused shortfalls in postmasters’ accounts.

{CLICK for animation}

In December 2019, Post Office completed mediation with the claimant Postmasters and reached a
settlement to end the Group Litigation Order. As a result, Post Office paid the claimants £43m plus
legal costs.

The Horizon Issue Judgment was then handed down publicly on 16 December 2019. The Judge, Mr
Justice Fraser, referred two former Fujitsu employees to the Director of Public Prosecutions for
potential prosecution.
POL00447916

POL00447916

DAILY NE\

Sir Wyn Williams was appointed to head a public inquiry into what went wrong at the Post Office.

The first 6 Magistrate Court Postmaster convictions were quashed at Southwark Crown Court after
an extensive post-conviction disclosure exercise by Post Office to help enable Postmasters’ appeals
through the courts.

_DAILY } NEV

“DAILY NEW:

maaions
be ad

in Court col

ed and found to
ublic

nae Court of

39 Crow!
overturn
affront to the
‘conscience PY
Appeal

Sir Wyn Williams requested that the public inquiry into what went wrong at the Post Office was
upgraded to a Stautory Inquiry. This was granted by the Government giving Sir Wyn more powers to
compel witnesses to provide evidence.

Post Office started making payments from the Horizon Shortfalls Scheme, which was set up to
compensate Postmasters for the various losses they suffered at the hands of the Post Office. The
losses being compensated through the scheme are not just the shortfalls that Postmasters paid back
POL00447916
POL00447916

to Post Office, but also losses for things like loss of income, impacts on health and impacts on
reputation. To date Post Office has made offers worth over £120m to over 2500 claimants through
this scheme.

On 24" April 2021, 39 Crown Court convictions were overturned by the Court of Appeal. In
overturning these convictions, the Court of Appeal also found that the convictions were an affront to
the public conscience. This meant that the court not only found that the way in which Post Office
prosecuted these Postmasters meant they were not able to have a fair trial, but that the way in
which Post Office had prosecuted the Postmasters meant that it was unfair for the Postmasters to
have faced trial at all. These findings are known as the Hamilton judgment taken from the name of
the lead appelant, Jo Hamilton.

Phases 1 and 2 of the
Post Office Horizon IT

Inquiry

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT

INQUIRY

Phases 1 and 2 of the public inquiry chaired by Sir Wyn Williams began. The early testimony
including shocking stories shared by Postmasters and their families as part of the human impact
hearings. We will hear some of these stories later in this session.
POL00447916
POL00447916

Phases 3 and 4 of
the Post Office
Horizon IT Inquiry

Number of
overturned
convictions reaches

93

Phases 3 and 4 of the public inquiry were held in 2023. These phases have focused on operations
and the action taken against Postmasters and others. It has involved a number of former and current
Post Office employees giving evidence.

At the end of 2023, the number of overturned convictions of Postmasters had reached 93, but there
are still many more convictions left to be overturned and the victims have found the process slow.

4 of Inquiry

Hamilton, Alan Bate
ntinues

Nick Read

1 January

ITV release the first The Government

episode of t debate exact process of Sunak announ
xoneration of all

Post Office C
Henry Staunton

{CLICK for animation}

2024 has seen reinvigoured public interest in the Scandal following the release of the ITV drama Mr
Bates V The Post Office, which told the story of several of the Postmasters who were at the heart of
POL00447916
POL00447916

the Scandal (For example, Alan Bates, Jo Hamilton, Lee Castleton to name just a few). As a result of
the drama approximatley 50 more victims have come forward.

{CLICK for animation}

The 10" January saw the first Government debate on the process, timeline and logistics of a mass
exoneration for the wrongfully convicted Postmasters.

{CLICK for animation}
Then, following a short recess, Stage 4 of the inquiry re-started on the 11" January.
{CLICK for animation}

Next on the 15" January, Prime Minister Rishi Sunak announced process for mass exoneration, and
pledged an upfront payment of £75,000 to the 555 former postmasters who brought a group
lawsuit.

{CLICK for animation}

On the 16" January we heard evidence was given at the Parliamentary Business and Trade
committee, from Jo Hamilton, Alan Bates, Nick Read, Kevin Hollinrake and the Director of Fijutsu.

{CLICK for animation}

Finally, at the end of January, on the 27" the Post Office chairman Henry Staunton left his role.

Horizon Rollout ssues Trial Inquiry up

public t
was founded by Alan F

Bates

So, as you can see, it is a long and troubling timeline.
POL00447916

POL00447916

O response submitted

Rate out of 10, how much do you think you know about the background
and the timeline of the Post Office Scandal?

Scan the QR or use
Tink to join

0.0
©©O@OOOOO®

0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%

O copy tnt.

So let’s take another poll —I want each of you to again rate out of 10 how much you think you know
about the background of the Post Office scandal and what happened when. So again, the question
you are answering is ‘out of 10, how much do you think you know about the background and the
timeline of the Post Office Scandal, with 10 being ‘I know all the background and timelines’ and 0
being ‘I know very little about the Scandal at all”

So on average we have a score of X.X. That’s an improvement of X.X if my maths is correct.

Impact

Financial and
Reputational
Impacts

There have been both financial and reputational impacts on Post Office as a result of the scandal.

POL00447916
POL00447916

Financially, Post Office has spent hundreds of millions of pounds on compensating victims, on legal
fees and on changing the way Post Office works. Post Office has needed to rely on its shareholder,
technically the Secretary of State for the Department of Business and Trade, but effectively the
Government, to provide funding for some of the compensation, as Post Office would not be able to
afford to provide meaningful compensation on its own. There is also a reality that the current Post
Office is spending money on the issues of the past, which limits its ability to do its best for its current
Postmasters, employees and customers — effectively those who use and work in today’s Post Office
are paying for the issues of the past.

Medding t hi
Post Office PoStme everything

indal was Post Office scandal: THE OUTSET
anindustrial .

scal 5 fice knew >> They went ahead

with i

Post Office admits ‘abhorrent’ racist
slur was used to describe suspects in

Horizon scandal ME £85,000

‘Debt meant a hot meal was a luxury

Reputationally, Post Office has also been damaged significantly. Post Office has a long and proud
history of being known for being trusted and the scandal has shaken people’s confidence and trust in
the Post Office. Some of the things said about Post Office have been extremely damning and you can
see some of these headlines on screen now.
POL00447916
POL00447916

This approach by the Post Office has amounted , in
reality, to bare assertions and denials that ignore what
has actually occurred ... It amounts to the 21st century

equivalent of maintaining that the earth is flat non Issue Judgement

Culture of secrecy and excessive confidentiality
generally

Post Office... demonstrates the most dreadful was not obliged to treat their SPMs with good faith,

complacency, and total lack of interest in investigating ‘and instead entitled to treat them in capricious or

these serious issues, bordering on fearfulness of what. arbitrary ways which would not be unfamiliar to a mid -
might be found if they were properly investigated’ 55 Victorian factory -owner

‘Common Issues Judgement ~ Court of Appeal

threatening, oppressive, and potentially discouraging

such conduct... could potentially be construed as
another and incorrect statement sweeping based

lure to understand the judgment

And here are some of the things that the Courts have said about Post Office.

Human impact

However, these financial and reputational impacts are nothing compared to the human costs of the
scandal. We are now going to hear some of the moving stories of the people who suffered at the
hands of Post Office.

[Discalimer before video]

Let’s hear from some of those affected.
POL00447916
POL00447916

Human Impact

2 0 response submitted
Imagine you were in their shoes, how would you feel?

‘Scan the QR or use
fink t0 join

Waiting for response

Now that you have listened to these stories, I would like you to spend some time reflecting on how
watching this has made you feel and how you would feel if you were in their shoes. As you are
reflecting, I would appreciate you using your devices to record some of the words that come to your
mind. We will then have a look at those shared feelings together.

We can see the wordclouds of feelings starting to take shape.
POL00447916
POL00447916

I want to stop here for a bit more reflection time now that you can see your words and the words of
your colleagues.

[TIME DEPENDENT - OPEN FLOOR FOR REFLECTIONS}
Thank you for those reflections.
Culture and Behaviours

We have spent quite some time understanding what happened and the impact it had. We will now
spend some time thinking about why this might have happened, without prejudging the outcomes
from Sir Wyn Williams’ Inquiry. This is critical because if we can have a set of working assumptions
about why it happened, we can ensure that the same cultural conditions and behaviours that
appeared to exist in the past no longer have a place in today’s Post Office.

e Curiosity

e Capability

e Transparency
e Oversight

eBias
e Speaking up
eIndividual behaviors

There are 7 factors we would like you to consider, they are:

e Curiosity

¢ Capability

© Transparency
e Oversight

e Bias

e Speaking up
¢ Individual behaviours

From what you have learnt today and from what you already knew of the Post Office scandal before
you attended today we want you to think about each of these factors and make a judgment of what
you think you might have seen and experienced in Post Office at the time of the scandal— and we
are going to do a further exercise to do that. When you follow the QR code or link you will be taken
to 7 sets of 2 statements and we ask you to choose which of the statements you think was most
likely to be the cultural condition at Post Office back when the scandal took place. For those of you
POL00447916

POL00447916

who were here at the time, I recognize that this will seem overly simplistic, too binary, and may
differ somewhat from your personal experience, but I’d ask you to take the exercise in the spirit
intended, which is to consider how we safeguard our current and future culture.

Curiosity

Scanthe QRoruse
fink te join

All Post Office employees appeared to Some Post Office employees appeared
demonstrate sufficient curiosity to not demonstrate sufficient curiosity

etererremymmnemerenenmnmem tn

SEN
We want you to consider 2 statements for each of the 7 cultural conditions

So, let’s review the results.

Curiosity — All Post Office employees appeared to demonstrate sufficient curiosity/Some
Post Office employees appeared to not demonstrate sufficient curiosity

© Capability — All Post Office employees appeared to have the skills and capabilities to do their
jobs well/Some Post Office employees appeared to not have the right skills and capability
levels to do their job well

e Transparency — Post Office appeared to be an open and transparent business/Post Office
appeared to be a secretive business

e Oversight —- There seemed to be the right level of oversight into what was happening within
Post Office/There seemed to be a lack of oversight in some areas of the Post Office

Bias — There didn’t appear to be pre-conceived biases in the Post Office that impacted
individual’s actions/There appeared to be pre-conceived biases in the Post Office that
impacted individual’s actions

© Speaking up — There appeared to be a culture where employees spoke up and challenged
things within Post Office/There appeared to be a lack of speaking up and challenging within
Post Office

Individual behaviours — All Post Office employees appeared to demonstrate excellent
individual behaviours/Some Post Office employees appeared to demonstrate poor individual
behaviours]

So we can see some very clear assumptions about the cultural conditions at Post Office at the time
of the scandal from those questions.
POL00447916
POL00447916

As we have said a number of times, the statutory Public Inquiry is continuing to investigate the detail
of what went wrong, why and the accountability for the scandal. In the meantime, everyone working
in today’s Post Office is accountable for helping to ensure that the past fully informs our future.

We are now going to hear from Nick about what we expect from each and every person working in
Post Office today.

** Insert Nick call to action video **

As Nick says, given the failures in the past culture of Post Office, we all need to be even more vigilant
about when we see these behaviours and conditions in Post Office.

2 response submitted

Do I have the capability to deliver my job successfully?

Scan the OR or use
{ink fo join:

reps emsotee com .
erenesez

O sony nk

SENTRA SUE

To help each and every one of us with that we have developed something called the ‘Yes check’. The
“Yes check’ is a series of questions that you can ask yourself at any time and if you answer any of the
questions with a ‘No’, you are asked to speak up via your manager, another Post Office manager or
POL00447916
POL00447916

through our Speak Up channels. Doing this is an easy way of playing your part in safeguarding the
culture of Post Office from the behaviours and conditions of the past.

We are going to ask everyone to complete the ‘Yes check’ now and you will also be asked to
complete them as part of a mandatory e-learning module that will follow these sessions in March.

We are going to show the collective results of the ‘Yes check’ to take a bit of a live temperature
check and for us to consider areas of focus, so please be honest in your answers and be assured that
your answers remain will confidential at an individual level.

So, let’s do the Yes check — 10 questions that we want you to answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to.

So the results from the ‘Yes check’ show us the following: [comment on results and make some
suggestions on next steps for individuals of any themes identified, comment on the role of managers
in any themes and comment on any themes that need taking away centrally]

What to expect next?

v¥ 'Yes check’ available
on the Hub

v E-learning training
module

¥ Ethical decision
making framework

We are now coming to the end of today’s session, but before we reflect on everything we have
covered today, let’s quickly take a look at what you can expect to see over the coming weeks and
months to empower you in safeguarding the culture of Post Office.

The first thing that will be avaliable to you, via the intranet, is the Yes-check. As we have shown in
this session, this tool can be used anytime, anywhere and as frequently as you like. It is critial that
each of us individually are contributing to protecting and improving Post Office’s culture. This will be
avaliable from March on the Hub hompage.

Further, there will be a mandatory E-learning for all collegues to complete in March on Success
Factors. This training module will look again at some of the topics we have covered today; it is
absolutley vital for us all, to recognise the impact, understand the cultural conditions that enabled
the poor treatment of Postmasters, learn the early warning signs and feel empowered to report
them.

Lastly, in the coming months, we will launch a new Ethical Decision Making Framework. This model
is designed with all Post Office colleagues in mind, regardless of position, and will ensure we review
POL00447916
POL00447916

our actions and make robust decisions. More information on this is to follow, so make sure to keep
an eye out.

Colleague support

Call the Employee Assistance
Programme confidential helpline on team GRO

SEEM or email contactus iT Ox

Our Workplace Wellbeing Site includes the details
of our Mental Health First Aiders who you can
speak to for support.

I want to finish by reminding you all again of the support that is available to you — details are again
on screen. Whilst I know the content today will have been difficult for some colleagues, it is vitally
important that we do talk about what went wrong in the past in order to ensure that we have the
commitment and focus across Post Office to learn from the past and safeguard our culture going
forwards.

Thank you again for your time and ongoing commitment.
