POL00028020
POL00028020

tt Support

GRO _

Telephone: !
Mon to Fri 9:00am - 5:00pm

[Date]

Private and Confidential
Name
Address

Branch Code: XXXXXX
Customer Account: XXXXXXX

Dear XXXXXXXXXX,
Discrepancy identified for XXXXbranch nameXXXXXXXXXXX Post Office® branch

I’m writing to see if we can help you resolve a discrepancy of £xxxx which has been
registered on your latest trading statement. Please find enclosed a statement showing the
total amount of the discrepancy and a breakdown of how we believe the total has been
reached.

Please get in touch with us by calling my team on We'll start by giving
you more information about the entries on your statement and should you require further
help and support we’ll make sure that this is made available to you.

Investigating the discrepancy

If you don’t understand the reason for this discrepancy, we can help you to establish the
likely cause of it.

Please follow either of the options below, depending on whether we believe it is a Branch
Discrepancy or a Transaction Correction.

a) Investigating or disputing a branch discrepancy

Your Branch Support Centre, on: 5 is best placed to help you to
investigate further to identify how the discrepancy happened.

If, between us, we can’t agree on the reason why this discrepancy happened, your
Branch Support Centre will be able to raise a dispute for you.

b) Investigating or disputing a transaction correction

When you received your transaction correction, the team that sent it will have provided
you with their telephone number. If you have a query about the transaction correction,
please contact that number.

nsbuty Dil. 20 Finsbury Steet, London, EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk

Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited

Registere:

Page 1 of 2
POL00028020
POL00028020

If you have already done this, and wish to dispute the transaction correction, the
lease contact them at

disputesteam.

“ito discuss the best course of action

for you:

* arranging payment, or a refund, of the amount;
* arranging a deduction from your remuneration/fees to cover the amount;
* arranging an instalment plan.

Remember, we’re here to help. Contacting us as soon as possible makes it much easier
for us to support you with your discrepancy, so please get in touch as soon as you can,
and ideally within the next seven days.

Yours sincerely,

Name

Postmaster Account Support Manager

Enclosures:

Statement

Registered Office Finsbury Dials. 20 Fisbury Steet, London, EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk

Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Oifice Limited

Page 2 of 2

