POL00140004
POL00140004

From: Martin Smitt

Sent: Wed 30/03/2016 1 7 AM (UTC)

To: andrew.winni

Ce: Rodric Willi

Subject: The Wimbledon Transaction Correction Issue
Dear Andy,

During the bi-weekly conference call on 23" March 2016 you made reference to a branch at
Wimbledon and explained that Transaction Corrections had been issued which should not have
been so issued and that they had accordingly been “undone”. You went on to explain that there
was a risk that Transaction Corrections may have similarly been issued to other branches which
may have caused losses, possibly going back as far as 2005.

I would be grateful if you could explain:-

The precise reason the transaction corrections had been issued to the Wimbledon branch;
The value of the transaction corrections in this particular case;

The effect of those transaction corrections on branch accounting;

Why the transaction corrections should not have been issued;

How the transaction correction issue was discovered;

Whether this issue has arisen as a result of a bug in the Horizon system;

Whether this is an isolated incident or this is an issue which has or may have affected other
branches.

If this issue has affected other branches, the period of time over which transaction
corrections may have been wrongly issued and the names of the branches affected.

NAT eEN

2

Many thanks,

Kind regards,

Martin.

CartwrightKing

meme SOLICITORS =m
Offices Nationwide

www.cartwrightking.co.uk ww inI a he

ENTIALITY NOTICE

ail is confidential and may
ately by retur
‘our cooperation.

‘ontain legally privileged information. If you have received
it in error please notify us imme:
else and delete it, Thank you for
A list of directors is available at each office. Cartwright King is authorised and regulated by the
Solicitors Regulation Authority No: 312459. VAT Registration No: 737%
We cannot guarantee that this e-mail and any attachments are

email, do not copy it or its contents to anyone

wut you should please

check.

POL00140004
POL00140004
