Confidential

Post Office Ltd - SECURITY POLICY

Document Information

Title Liability for Losses Policy (for agency branches)
Category Standard
Subject Treatment of cash account losses at agency branches

Version Control

1.7 September 2003 — Replaces all previous versions

Author

Martin Ferlinc, National Audit & Inspections Manager

Owner Tony Marsh, Head of Security

Purpose To document liability for losses

Audience Retail Line, Agents, NBSC, Transaction Processing,
Finance, Security personnel

Keywords Accounting Loss

Privacy level Commercial Confidentiality

Document format

Arial 12

Document type

Electronic (MS Word. Doc), Paper,

Review date Annual (Next planned review (version 2) January 2004)
Expiry date Ongoing, subject to review
Approval
Role Name(s) Date

Business input

Original Policy, Duncan McFayden, Steve Various,
Gibbs, Jackie llesley, Eddie Herbert, Mike at each
Denison, Neil Salter, Steve Rooney, Danny I new
McDonough, Joanne Hancock, John Holden, I version
Panther workshops (via Michael Dadra), stage
Jennifer Robson, Joanne Jackson, Alvin
West, Sandra Murray, Paul Butler, Owen
Thackeray, Geoff May, David Mellows-Facer

Assurance

Tony Marsh, Head of Security

Authorised

Head of Security, Post Office Ltd

Version control

Version No. Reason for issue Date

1.0 Revision of original policy, following transfer I February
of ownership, including amendments 2003
following input from a wide range of
interested parties

1.1 Minor textual amendments to reflect required I March
appeals process 2003

1.2 Amendments following discussions with 27 June
NFSP, policy now agreed by NFSP 2003
negotiators

1.3 Revised title of policy (formerly named Aug 2003

Accounting Losses policy) and inclusion of
section on debt recovery. Minor rewording of
Section 4, following changes in version 1.2

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe Page 1

POL00088867
POL00088867
Confidential

1.4 Minor wording changes to Section 3, Sept 2003
following input, to allow clearer interpretation

1.5 Updating of audience & privacy level. Sept 2003
Revision of NBSC involvement in Section 7
(and associated appendices), following input
from NBSC

1.6 Updated Section 3 Sept 2003

17 Further updates to Section 3 and 4 andnew_ I 26 Sept
section on stock losses, following input from I 2003
Retail Line and NFSP

2.0 exchange of Appendices E and G to reflect July 2004

the actual process in operation and minor
wording change to reflect this

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doc

Page 2

POL00088867
POL00088867
POL00088867
POL00088867

Confidential

LIABILITY FOR LOSSES POLICY

(FOR AGENCY BRANCHES)

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe Page 3
POL00088867
POL00088867

Confidential

SECTION 1 - INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

Aside from the direct cost to Post Office Ltd of losses, that are ultimately written-off,
all losses involve associated administrative costs in dealing with the errors that
cause them and managing suspense accounts, with many also leading to client
penalty payments.

Given the impact that losses have on Post Office Ltd costs and therefore profits, this
policy is defined to provide clear and consistent guidelines for the treatment of
losses within the agency network (both commercial and community segments).

The overall purpose of the policy is to:

. ensure probity, objectivity and conformity across the network;
. clarify roles and responsibilities;
. ensure equality and fairness of treatment of Subpostmasters and other agents.

For the purpose of this policy, the term “agent” refers to all people or companies
operating sub-post office branches under contract to Post Office Limited and the
pronoun “he” refers to people of either gender. The term “retail line manager” applies
to the Post Office Ltd employee with direct responsibility for the control of the
relevant branch.

From a purely contractual perspective, the agent is responsible for all losses caused
through his own negligence, carelessness or error. He is also responsible for losses
caused by the actions of any assistants, managers or relief personnel employed by
him. This policy, consistent with the contractual relationships between Post Office
Ltd and its agents, is designed to clarify circumstances where mitigation may be
appropriate and to provide a clear framework to handle individual cases.

SECTION 2 - PREVENTION OF LOSSES

The most effective way of reducing losses in Post Office ® branches is to prevent
them occurring in the first place. It is, therefore, essential that there are good
accounting practices in place and that business procedures are complied with in
branches, as poor accounting practices may lead to carelessness and unnecessary
losses.

It is the responsibility of the agent to ensure that the accounting and operational
procedures and practices employed in the branch conform to the current business
standard for branches of that type. It is the retail line manager’s responsibility to
satisfy themselves that this is the case and to provide advice, guidance and
instructions where it is discovered that this is not the case.

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe Page 4
POL00088867
POL00088867

Confidential

SECTION 3 - AUTHORITY TO HOLD LOSSES

The Subpostmaster’s contract requires that losses are made good without delay.
Immediate settlement is therefore the expected contractual norm.

Under circumstances where the exact cause of the loss is known and a
compensating error is expected to be returned, losses may be held in the suspense
account, with authority, providing that the agent has completed their own
investigation and is able to show that an error notice is likely to be issued for that
loss or an element of the loss (i.e. the agent must be able to detail a specific error
that occurred for a specific client on a specific date and be able to provide
documentary evidence e.g. from the Horizon transaction log).

Before moving a specific accounting discrepancy to the suspense account, authority
must be sought from the Agents Debt Team 3, via the Network Business Support
Centre (NBSC). If there is no clearly defined evidence of a known error (and,
therefore, no error notice likely to be issued), authority will not be given.

Any authority to hold amounts in the suspense account will be for a period of up to 8
weeks. The Agents Debt Team 3 will monitor amounts held in the suspense account
at the 8 week anniversary. If an error notice cannot be confirmed at this stage, the
agent must withdraw the amount from the suspense account and make good the
resultant loss immediately. However, if the client has accepted the error, there is
confirmation that the error notice will be issued in due course or the client has not
yet completed checks for the week in question, exceptionally, the authority period
may be extended — subject to further monitoring by the Agents Debt Team 3 team at
four weekly intervals — until the error notice is issued.

Where authority is given, it will only be provided for the amount of loss discovered
above a threshold amount (£150 for those in the Rural Social/Urban Deprived
segment, and £400 for those in the Rural Commercial/Urban Deprived segment). A
unique reference number will be allocated to any authority, which the agent should
note for audit purposes.

To give authority to hold losses within the suspense account, even with evidence of
the error, is against the principle of right first time. Granting authority to hold
amounts in suspense should, therefore, always be considered to be the exception
rather than the norm. Agents are expected to address the underlying cause of
misbalancing and must expect that any subsequent errors of a similar nature will be
referred to the retail line for corrective action.

Where the agent cannot demonstrate that a loss is due to an error within a specific
client’s area of work but is unable to make good the loss immediately, he may put
forward a case for hardship and authority may be sought to hold the amount in the
suspense account (from the Agents Team 3) while the case is being considered,
providing that the intention to submit a case for hardship is confirmed within 3 days
of the loss and the case is actually submitted within 7 days of receiving the
appropriate forms for completion.

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe Page 5
POL00088867
POL00088867

Confidential

The case, which should be supported by the latest set of audited accounts for the
agent's business, will considered by the appropriate member of the retail line.
Further details on hardship relief are given at section 4.

It should be noted that any declared gains that are withdrawn by the agent are done
so on the clear understanding that the money should be available to fund any charge
error notices, for the associated cash account period, received at a later date. In all
instances where fully or partially compensating error notices are issued, they should
be brought to account in the next available cash account and any authority to hold a
loss in suspense account will consequently be rescinded.

SECTION 4 - POLICY ON RELIEF

Occasionally, there may be exceptional circumstances that allow for relief (either
repaying the loss by instalments or writing-off part or all of the loss). The main
circumstances where consideration may be given are:

. losses incurred by a new agent (one without previous post office experience) ,
during the first six weeks of appointment;
e where there is clear evidence of financial hardship.

In the case of a new agent, consideration can be given to providing partial or full
relief for a loss. In considering this, it is important that the retail line manager takes
account of the agent’s overall performance since appointment, the size and nature of
the branch concerned (including staffing arrangements before and after the transfer)
and that he establishes whether or not the loss occurred whilst the trainer was
present. He should obtain the trainer’s view of the competency of the new agent and
contact the Audit & Inspections team, who will arrange to verify the state of accounts
during the period of review. In considering giving relief, the retail line manager must
ensure that the agent has reviewed how the loss occurred and amended their
operating or accounting practices to ensure that a similar loss cannot occur again.

The data collection proforma for assessing hardship is at Appendix B and should be
supported by the latest set of audited accounts. For the purposes of this policy,
hardship is defined as “Financial circumstances where the cost of making good a
loss will equate to a value higher than the working capital of the business”.

In agreed hardship cases, the preferred option is to allow repayment of the loss over
a 12-month period. However, the repayment period can be extended (by Head of
Area authority), where this is considered the most suitable option in order to prevent
bankruptcy or a partial or full write off. Where repayment terms are authorised, the
following criteria must be met:

. losses are made good by deduction from remuneration;

. the repayment period is a maximum of 12 months, unless an extension is
authorised by the Head of Area;

. any credit error notices relating to the same cash account week as the loss
must be used to reduce the outstanding balance;

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe Page 6
POL00088867

POL00088867

Confidential

. should either party terminate the contract for Post Office services, the whole
amount will be paid in full immediately.

. losses have not been incurred due to repeated poor accounting and/or poor
operational practices.

It is recognised that any further losses incurred by an agent, already committed to
repaying a loss over a period of time under a hardship agreement, will create a
further burden. Should further losses be incurred, which cannot be made good for
financial reasons, authority may be sought to hold the amount in suspense (as
detailed in section 3). During this time, the retail line manager may consider
allowing the loss to form part of the overall hardship repayment terms but must be
mindful that repeated errors and an inability to service the consequential losses must
eventually call into question an agent’s suitability to continue under their contract for
service.

In exceptional circumstances, relief may be given by writing-off part or all of a loss,
the provisions at section 5 on the accounting impact of losses on the retail line
manager’s personal or team Profit & Loss (P&L) account will however apply in all
cases.

SECTION 5 - WRITE-OFFS

Decisions in respect of write-offs are not taken by groups but are the responsibility of
individual managers, who bear P&L accountability for those decisions. The reasons
for a write-off must be fully documented and may be subject to audit.

A write-off voucher (detailed at Appendix A), signed by an authorised signatory, must
be used in line with the following levels (referring to the amount written off, not the
amount of the loss where that is different):

Up to £2,000 Retail Line Manager/Performance
Advisor/Contracts Manager

£2,001 to £50,000 Head of Area

Over £50,000 General Manager

To ensure that write off decisions are reviewed against business policy and to review
the impact on Post Office Ltd P&L, a financial concurrence must be obtained in all
write off proposals in line with the following levels:

Up to £50,000 Refer to segment Finance Manager

£50,001 - £100,000 Refer to Head of Operational
Finance and Planning

Greater than £100,000 Refer to Head of Operational

Finance and Planning and then to
Finance Director for final
endorsement

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe Page 7
POL00088867
POL00088867

Confidential

SECTION 6 - HORIZON ISSUES

If an agent feels that an error has occurred via the Horizon system, it is essential that
this be reported to the Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH). The HSH will only consider
the incident for further investigation if the branch has evidence of a system fault. If
no evidence is available, the case will not be investigated and the agent will be held
responsible for making good the loss.

System faults are very rare and are normally identified after a full investigation has
been undertaken. All known system errors are managed through Network Support
Problem Management. Access to Problem Management is via the NBSC-. If the
agent feels that the issue is not being resolved, they should flag the issue up with
NBSC. If a known system error has caused a shortage, the agent should be given
authority to hold the loss in suspense until the system error has been reconciled and
an error notice issued.

SECTION 7 - REMITTANCE DISPUTES

As a result of Bank of England rules, all cash centres in England and Wales are now
automated. Centres located in Scotland and Northern Ireland, however, do not
currently face such a requirement. As a result the network of cash centres is split
into automated and non-automated cash centres.

The very significant investment made by Post Office Ltd in processing and image
capture and recording equipment in automated cash centres means that the
accuracy of notes supplied and processed at these sites is of an extremely high
standard. All processing must take place in accordance with the following criteria:

. all notes dispatched to Post Office Branches have been integrity checked (i.e.
no forgeries, counterfeits, foreign notes or notes of non-circulation quality);
e the high speed notes sorting equipment is calibrated daily (i.e. a known
quantity is counted and verified) and records maintained;
e the operation of the high-speed note sorting equipment is under cover of high
resolution CCTV;
. adequate processes are in place to ensure the integrity of notes held in
storage;
. the outward remittance process is structured in such a way that the following
can be witnessed on the CCTV system;
- the appropriate numbers of bricks are laid out on the processing bench
in a way that allows remote verification;
- the placement of bricks into the security container can be witnessed;
- the sealing of the security pouch can be witnessed;
. the inward remittance process is structured in such a way to allow the discovery
of a discrepancy to be witnessed on the CCTV;
- the opening of the pouches and the contents should be visible under
camera;
- the inward remittance processor must remain within camera coverage
at all times until a supervisor has verified the discrepancy;

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe Page 8
POL00088867
POL00088867

Confidential

. records are maintained of any CCTV system down time.

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe Page 9
POL00088867

POL00088867

Confidential

The notes processing procedures at non-automated sites are still considered to be
fully acceptable, however the level of verification available at those sites is less than
that achieved at automated sites.

As a result of this there are two separate approaches to adjudging liability for losses
caused by reported discrepancies in remittances between branches and cash
centres and vice versa, depending on the status of the cash centre.

Automated Cash Centres (England and Wales) will operate the following
principles:

Subject to the detailed provisions above and below it is not anticipated that
undetected discrepancies will occur in remittances from automated cash centres to
Post Office ® branches. As a result therefore claims will not normally be expected
from branches for alleged shortages in note remittances supplied by automated cash
centres. Any such reported discrepancies will be subject to internal check using
automated systems and CCTV images and will be rejected if the internal checks give
no cause for doubt over the preparation and make up of the remittance in question.

Due to the effectiveness of the automated image capture surveillance of the inward
remittance opening process at automated cash centres, it is anticipated that clear
evidence will exist to support any discovered discrepancies in note remittances from
Post Office ® branches to automated cash centres. As a result, therefore, all
discrepancies will normally be the liability of the sending branch i.e. if a cash centre
discovers a shortage within an inward remittance the discrepancy will be borne by
the despatching branch.

Note: In the event of the CCTV system being out of commission or the integrity of the
note sorting equipment being in doubt, the rules governing the discrepancy process
revert to the non-automated cash centre rules for the given period i.e. the receiver is
deemed to be correct. Cash centre processors must adhere to processes laid down
when undertaking these duties; any evidence to the contrary will result in a
presumption in favour of the branch.

Digital CCTV cameras cover all inward and outward note processing in automated
cash centres so evidence of notes despatched and notes received can be
scrutinised in the event of claims. In the event of disputes, agents will have the right
to view the CCTV footage accompanied by a suitable person, such as their NFSP.
representative.

Non-Automated Cash Centres (Scotland and N Ireland) will operate the
following principles:

For discrepancies in note remittances from non-automated cash centres to Post
Office ® branches, all discrepancies will normally be the liability of the sending unit,
i.e. if a Post Office ® branch discovers a shortage within a “non-automated”
remittance the discrepancy will be borne by the cash centre, unless otherwise
proved.

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004 doe Page 10
POL00088867

POL00088867

Confidential

For discrepancies in note remittances from Post Office ® branches to non-automated
cash centres, all discrepancies will normally be the liability of the sending branch i.e.
if a non-automated cash centre discovers a shortage within an inward remittance the
discrepancy will be borne by the despatching branch, unless otherwise proved.

Discrepancy reporting and appeals

For both automated and non-automated cash centres, shortages must be reported
within the following timescales:

Full block - 24 hours
Individual notes - within 5 days

The following information is required to support discrepancy claims from agents:

Missing Brick of notes
(NBSC script to confirm whether supplying centre is Automated or Non-automated

and to provide a reference number)

Branch (FAD)

Dates

Pouch Number & Physical pouch retained which has been correctly opened
Evidence of pouch integrity (e.g. no tears)

Value of shortage

Name of person opening pouch and second check officer (if practical)

Missing Individual Note
(NBSC script to confirm whether supplying centre is Automated or Non-automated

and to provide a reference number)
Branch (FAD)

Dates

Pouch Number

Band around notes to be retained
Value

NBSC will inform the agent where the outward notes process is automated and
monitored by CCTV. If there are no known errors or problems with equipment at the
cash centre the agent will be asked to make good the deficit. If, having seen CCTV
footage and automated accounting system records at the cash centre, the agent is
still dissatisfied with the decision and wishes to appeal, he will be asked to put his
appeal in writing within 7 working days.

Appeals will be heard by a national panel, which will be chaired by a senior manager
from the Post Office Ltd Security team and will include an NFSP representative, A
Representative from the Retail Line and a senior manager from cash centre line
management.

On receipt of a written appeal to NBSC, a questionnaire will be sent to the agent to

complete. The agent must complete and return the questionnaire within 14 days of
the initial call to NBSC. NBSC will inform the appeals panel of claims to be reviewed

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004 doe Page 11
POL00088867
POL00088867

Confidential

and will ensure that camera evidence is safeguarded until the panel are next due to
meet.

The appeals panel will meet as required dependant on levels of appeals and will
review all evidence for relevant claims. In particular the appeals panel will:

e Consult Transaction Processing (TP) to access the error notice history and
outstanding error notice information relevant to this case, which should agree
with the cash centre view;

e review relevant camera footage to ensure that necessary criteria are fully met;

e consider any other relevant information;

e¢ communicate the decision to the agent, retail line manager and cash centre
manager, with a detailed rationale to support the decision;

e record details of claims rejected/accepted and any follow up action required i.e.
cash centre to review procedures where criteria were not fully met.

e advise TP of the decision and action required on relevant error notice (s)

The processes for dealing with remittance disputes are illustrated in Appendices C-
G.

Note: Coin discrepancies will be dealt with as for non-automated sites, as camera
footage will not be available for this element of the remittance and the likelihood of
large discrepancies in this area is minimal.

SECTION 8 - STOCK LOSSES

Agents are responsible for ensuring that all stock based transactions are carried out
accurately, including the return of the stock. If any instructions provided (including
those provided in Operational Focus articles) are incorrectly followed, Post Office
Ltd will have the right to require the agent to make good resultant losses from any
failure to comply.

Post Office Ltd is only legally permitted to recover the loss which it actually suffers
itself at the hands of its clients (e.g. if an agent fails to return stock with a face value
of £5 but Post Office Ltd, under its contract with the issuer of the stock, is only
required to pay the reprint cost of that stock and not the face value, then Post Office
Ltd is only legally entitled to recover reprint costs from the agent). Each case turns
on the wording of the contract between Post Office Ltd and the client and the
particular circumstances of the case.

SECTION 9 - DEBT RECOVERY

Transaction Processing are undertaking a full review of their debt recovery
processes, the potential tax implications for subpostmasters of outstanding debts
and proposals to deduct outstanding debts from remuneration under given criteria.
Discussions around these proposals will commence shortly with interested parties.

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004 doe Page 12
POL00088867

POL00088867

Confidential

SECTION 10 - LOSSES REVEALED AT AUDIT

Inspectors, working for the Security team within Post Office Ltd, visit Post Office ®
branches as part of a programme of audits.

The agent is advised of any loss revealed at the audit and, once they have agreed
the loss, is required to make it good immediately as would happen for any other cash
account loss. This also applies at the final balance at a transfer audit before cash
and stock is transferred to an incoming agent.

If the agent is unable to make the loss good at the time of the audit, proposals to
make good the loss will be sought from the agent and these will be detailed within
the audit report. Regardless of any statement within the audit report, treatment of
the loss should follow the process outlined in section 3 of this policy.

SECTION 11 - NON-DEPLOYMENT OF THE POLICY
If it becomes evident that an agent has not applied this policy, e.g. holding losses

without authority or beyond the authorised period, the retail line will apply the agreed
corrective action process.

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004 doe Page 13
APPENDIX A

RETAIL LINE WRITE OFF AUTHORITY VOUCHER

BRANCH FAD CODE ...........c:scseseeeeeeeeeeesseteeeeener
COST CENTRE CODE ...........cseseeseeceeeeeeeeseeseneneees

AMOUNT £

AMOUNT IN WORDS ...........ccesccessreceeseeeeesueeeeseeeresneessseeesenseeeesseeeessanere®
LOSS DESCRIPTION (record narrative details below)

Prepared by Retail Line Manager/Contracts Manager

(supporting papers available for review by concurring personnel)
Name (in block capitals) oo... eee

Signature ........ 0.0... cee eee eeeeec cee eeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeees

Operational Concurrence
Name (in block capitals)
Position

Signature of Authorisation
Date

Position

Financial Concurrence
Name (in block capitals)
Position

Signature of Authorisation
Date

Position

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe

Page 14

POL00088867
POL00088867
APPENDIX B

FINANCIAL HARDSHIP CASE

Please provide the following details for annual income and expenditure.

BUSINESS DETAILS
Income

Retail Sales

Less Cost of Sales
PO Remuneration

Int Allowances

Other (please specify)

TOTAL (1)
Overheads

Wages

Gas

Electric

Telephone
Printing/Stationery
Accountancy Fees
Insurance

Motor Expenses
Uniform Business Rate
Water Rates

Rent

Repairs

Bank Interest/Charges
Loan Repayments
Taxation

Other (please specify)

TOTAL (2)

NET PROFIT (3)
(1)-(2)=3

PERSONAL DETAILS
Income

PO Drawings

Interest on Savings
Spouses Salary
Other (please specify)

TOTAL
Overheads

Mortgage/Rent
Council Tax

Electric

Gas

Water Rates
Telephone

Motoring Expenses
Housekeeping
Clothing

Other (please specify)

TOTAL

Please provide details of

funds available from your own

resources.

Bank/Building Society
Stocks/Share
PEPs/TESSAs/ISAs
Premium Bonds

What do you take out of the Business as personal income (drawings)
NB: PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU WILL BE REQUIRED TO PROVIDE
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUBSTANTIATE THE ABOVE
INFORMATION. (e.g. LATEST SET OF ACCOUNTS).

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe

POL00088867
POL00088867
APPENDIX.C

Non-Automated Cash Centre
- Outward Remittance Discrepancy Process

Received in
Remittance Branch & Agent
Despatched reports a

discrepancy
Afdvidual Note
“shortage

If reported outside

timescales, agent to be

liable

Agent to Provide:

Branch name and FAD code
Pouch No.

Retain pouch for future
‘examination

Value & nature of shortage

Notes: -

Report to Cash
Centre = with
relevant details -
Within 5 days.

Cash Centre holds
investigation

1

Cash Centre
rectify discrepancy
with Branch

excel spreadsheet and
forwards to Audits and

September 2003

‘Block of notes

shortage
It reported outside
timescales, agent to be
liable.
‘Agent to Provide:
Report to Cash Branch name and FAD code
Centre - with

relevant details -
within 24 hours

I __Pouch No.
Retain pouch for future

ash centre logs claim on

ispections on monthly basi

examination
Value & nature of shortage

Whatever the outcome, Agent should always book value as per paperwork

- Agent should NOT accept any pouch if integrity of the seal/pouch is broken
- Pouch needs to be opened as directed, e.g. scissors along line indicated

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe

Page 16

POL00088867
POL00088867
APPENDIX.D

Non-Automated Cash Centre
- Inward Remittance Discrepancy Process

Received in cash
centre and
> discrepancy found
and vetified by
‘second officer

Agent makes up.
Outward Rem

¥
Cash Centre
contacts the

Branch to
investigate
discrepancy

No

Remittance

adjusted and

branch informed of

correct amount to
claim,

END

Cash Centre must report
discrepancy within 24 hours of
receipt

Branch reotily

‘Siscrepancy
+
rected? Yes deaoency thy

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe

POL00088867

POL00088867

September 2003

Page 17
APPENDIX.E

Automated Cash

Centre

April 2004

- Outward Remittance Discrepancy Process

Rem Received in
Branch & Agent
reports or claims a
discrepancy

Block of notes
shortage

re,

Shortage

tighvidual Note,

Reports to Cash
Centre - with
relevant details -

Reports to Cash
Centre - with
relevant details -
Within § days

within 24 hours

Cash Centre
review evidence toI
hand

“Letter One” is I
sent to the branch

‘Agent accepts “Letter Two" is
“advice? N° sent tothe branch

Yes
(loose notes)

5
(Full PBNE}
¥

Letter Three" is
sentto branch

‘Agent accept’
advice?

Agent claims full
‘amount of rem in
‘cash account

Discrepancy
dealt with as per
the non-
automated claim
process, refer to
Appendix C.

No»

Cash Cantre sets,
aside evidence

+
Ne pending likely
appeal

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004.doe

Process Ends

Appeals:
process.
invoked - See
Appendix G

Page 18

POL00088867
POL00088867
POL00088867

POL00088867

APPENDIX.F
: September 2003

Automated Cash Centre
- Inward Remittance Discrepancy Process

Received in cash

Agent in Branch centre and Cash Centre must inform
makes up — I I discrepancy found branch of discrepancy within 24
Outward Rem and verified by hours of receipt

second officer

Cash Centre
review camera

evidence to
ensure that criteria
fully meet
—_ Discrepancy dealt
with as per the
7 Gteria ful
<< “Fenloyed” >) non-automates
. I claim process,
_—~ ‘Appendix D
( Yes

Cash Centre
contacts branch
with details of
discrepancy

Branch rectify
discrepancy with
Cash Centre or
remittance
adjusted and
branch informed of
correct amount to

claim
i
*eeimesio® Appeals process
invoked -
accepts
coke Separate
: Flowchart

Liabilty for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004 doe Page 19
APPENDIX.G

Appeals Process for Automated Cash Centres oe

Cash Centre send

Agent contacts cash centre Appeal Form to.
to invoke appeals process branch
following decision by cash

centre

Cash Centre contact branch
No: >I who and request the

shortage is made good,

Branch advised to hold in
suspense pending Review

Note:

Cash centre will log all
slaims on excel spreadsheet
Centre record and monitor all and forwards appropriate

‘cases reported and contact I _— information to Seourity for
appeals panel to inform them of further investigation,
‘cases to be reviewed

Appeals panel inform Cash
Centre that evidence is required!
that criteria was fully meet,

Appeals panel meet and review I

supporting documentation & anyI

CCTV footage before
adjudicating

Appeals panel inform Contracts
Mgr, Branch Manager and
NBSC of decision. Details of
appeal recorded and case
closed

we

NBSC contacts branch to
confirm that shortage is
removed from suspense
account and made good.

at

END)

Liabilty for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.0 January 2004 doe Page 20

POL00088867
POL00088867
