POLO00098459
POL00098459

Message

From: Alwen Lyons

on behalf of — Alwen Lyons;

Sent: 05/06/2013 11

To: ‘janet.walker

Subject: Re: Post Office update

Thanks Janet I'l have a look when I get home. Please be assured it will stay within the business

Have a good evening when it arrives
Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary

Sent from Blackberry

From: WALKER, Janet;
Sent: Wednesday, June 05, 201304:
To: Alwen Lyons

Subject: FW: Post Office update
Alwen,

As discussed. We're driving Second Sight to a conclusion in both the short and medium term, and will continue
to do so. JSFA does not have power to veto what James decides, but we'll try to bring them with us.

When we hear back from Second Sight, we'll let you know.

Please feel free to circulate this amongst your colleagues at the Post office, but I'd be very grateful if you did
not let it out of the business. I would be particularly concerned if Alan Bates had sight of this BEFORE Second
Sight came back to James, as James wants to use their response as a springboard to write to Alan.

OK. Let me know what you think,

Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

E: janet.walkert
www.jamesarbuthnot.com

POL-0098042
POLO00098459
POL00098459

From: ARBUTHNOT, James

Sent: 04 June 2013 16:49

To: 'Ron Warmington’; ‘lan Henderson’
Subject: Post Office update

Dear Ron and Ian,

Thank you for your emails in response to Alan Bates' letter to me of 1 April 2013. I am also grateful for sight
of his reply to you.

My belief is that we need to begin moving towards some form of closure, and I wondered if you might
consider the following and let me know your thoughts please as soon as possible?

1. Interim report - we need an interim report to be presented to MPs before 18 July, when the summer
Recess begins. This has been promised them, and they will remember and begin to ask very awkward
questions if it is not delivered. May I suggest Monday 8 July, at 6pm here at Portcullis House? We are
going to have enormous difficulty getting this elsewhere in the diary at this notice. The media are also
beginning to contact my office, and I would like to be able to offer some comment before summer. At
the moment, I have them in a holding pattern, but this will not last. In my opinion, it is preferable that
news about this issue originates from me rather than an unattributed source, rumour, or speculation,
which runs the risk of derailing a good outcome for everyone involved.

The report should concentrate on a few (two? three?) strongest complaints against the Post Office.

The report should consider whether there are:

a. any flaws in Horizon,
b. any flaws in processes currently followed by the Post Office, or training offered to staff.

4. If the interim report finds flaws in Horizon and/or processes and training, we will need to agree how
this is communicated to:

a. the Post Office, who will need to consider how it will respond,

b. individuals, who have faced or are currently facing prosecution, and who will demand
information so they can decide how to react,

c. Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths Solicitors.

This needs extremely careful consideration, as I am sure you will know, and ahead of the meeting

on 8 July.

5. The report should be absolutely clear as to whether there are problems with Horizon or not.

6. Further case investigation - I have had a discussion with Paula Vennells, who would like to see any
further cases submitted for investigation by the Company Secretary rather than by you. I understand
her point of view. She is concerned about the cost, and the fact that at least some of the cases
submitted simply do not contain the level of information that a genuine investigation requires. She
accepts that the procedures currently in place at the Post Office to investigate such cases would not be
appropriate in this instance, hence her suggestion that they be considered by the Company Secretary.
This is something I should particularly like you to consider.

7. Final report - we need to consider what happens after you produce the interim report, what a final
report from you might comprise, when it will be produced (September? October?), and what the
potential consequences of such a report might be.

yn

I would like to hear what Alan Bates has to say about all this as well. It is, to my mind, absolutely essential
that we keep the JSFA positively engaged, but it does not have a power of veto over any aspect of this
proposal, and this is a point I should like you both to bear in mind. I think what I shall do is wait to hear from
you before I get in touch with Alan, but I would be very grateful if you would let me have your thoughts by
Monday 10 June. I will also want to talk to the Post Office about all this.

POL-0098042
POLO00098459
POL00098459

I would like to send out invitations to MPs next week, so if 8 July presents real difficulties, I would be grateful
if you could liaise with Janet as soon as possible.

I look forward to hearing from you next Monday.

Yours ever
James

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0098042
