POL00397485
POL00397485

Post Office Internal

Penetration Testing Policy (S7)

1 Purpose

This policy defines the controls required to reduce the risks associated with the management of
Security Health Checks.

2 Policy
2.1 Scope

All roles authorised to manage Security Health Checks on behalf of Post Office Limited must
comply with this policy.

2.2 Accountabilities

The Head of Security is responsible for the provision of funding for Security Health Checks on
enterprise systems / applications and ensuring that tests results are validated and addressed
through improvement programmes.

Business Units are responsible for the provision of funding for Security Health Checks on
business-specific systems / applications and ensuring that tests results are validated and
addressed through improvement programmes.

System / Application Owners are responsible for assessing the requirement for Security Health
Checks and responding to test results by implementing improvement programmes.

Security Health Check Managers are responsible for the management of external Security Health
Check Teams and liaison with IT Service Providers to ensure that tests are conducted in
accordance with this policy.

2.3 Requirement for Security Health Checks

Security Health Checks, sometimes referred to as ‘Ethical Hacking’, are conducted to provide
assurance to stakeholders that critical systems and applications are adequately protected against
violations of confidentiality, integrity and availability.

A Security Health Check aims to attack selected resources using similar techniques that would
be used by those intending harm. However, the tests are conducted in a controlled manner in
order to expose potential threats and build an action plan to close the system to intruders.

2.4 Security Health Check Funding

Post Office Limited Operations will take a holistic view and fund Security Health Checks on
systems and applications that are strategic to the enterprise.

Business units will fund Security Health Checks on systems and applications that are strategic to
the unit.

2.5 Identification of Targets and Prioritisation of Testing
There are three main reasons for undertaking Security Health Checks:

e Exceptional Changes, where events outside the normal running of the business change
the information security environment.

© Post Office Ltd
Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540 Registered Office: 148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-BSFF-0224155
POL00397485
POL00397485

Post Office Internal

e Formally identified risk, where a formal programme has identified that information may
be at risk.

¢ Life Cycle Changes, where normal testing programmes indicate that a system may still be
vulnerable or new methods of attack have been developed.

Priority should be given to those systems whose impact on the business is greatest.

2.6 Critical Systems

No critical system may be declared exempt from a Security Health Check because these are
principal targets.

2.7 Types of Testing

Production systems should always be used for testing, unless the nature of the test itself is
destructive.

Destructive Tests should only be undertaken where there is a specific need to so do.

Tests should normally be ‘informed’, with the maximum amount of information given to the
testing team.

Tests should normally be ‘internal’, allowing the testing team to bypass any perimeter defences.

2.8 Employment of Test Teams

Post Office Limited does not undertake Security Health Checks itself. Specialist teams must be
employed to undertake testing.

The team must however be managed by Post Office Limited, with a Test Manager assigned for
the duration of the project.

2.9 Selection of Test Teams

Organisations used to conduct Security Health Checks for Post Office Limited must be on the
approved list of suppliers.

Select only reputable organisations with established track records that are registered with the
Government to perform ethical hacking.

Employees of these organisations must be vetted to appropriate government security levels. Post
Office Limited does not use organisations known to employ "ex-hackers".

Individual members of the Security Health Check team must be agreed by the Test Manager
prior to the testing being carried out.

2.10Contractual Requirements

2.10.1 Non-Disclosure
A non-disclosure form must be signed by a representative of any organisation bidding to
undertake the Security Health Check.

2.10.2 Indemnity

Where direct damage to property is caused by the negligence of either contractual party during

the project, then the party shall make good any such damage caused. The Security Health Check

Organisation shall indemnify Post Office Limited against all claims demands, costs, charges and
2

© Post Office Ltd

Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540 Registered Office: 148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-BSFF-0224155_0001
POL00397485
POL00397485

Post Office Internal

expenses arising from or incurred by any infringement of copyright, patent or other title in
respect of materials and delivered software or any part thereof.

The Security Health Check Organisation shall indemnify Post Office Limited against all claims
demands, costs, charges and expenses arising from or incurred by any infringement of copyright,
patent or other title in respect of materials and delivered software or any part thereof.

2.10.3 Confidentiality
All CONFIDENTIAL information acquired during the course of testing must be stored in a
secure manner as described by the S4 Information Classification Policy

All information acquired must only be used solely for the purpose of completing the project,
unless required to do otherwise for law enforcement purposes.

2.11 Organisation

The Security Health Check team will be managed by a Test Manager assigned by Post Office
Limited. The Test Manager will be responsible to the project sponsor and system owner for
carrying out the tests and liaising with other parts of Post Office Limited affected by the tests.

2.11.1 Terms of Reference

Terms of Reference must be produced by Post Office Limited’s Test Manager for the Security
Health Check team. These will include the objectives, high level scope, method, testing
procedure, deliverables, organisation, timeframes and costs.

2.11.2 Test Scope

The Test Manager must agree the scope of testing with the Security Health Check team prior to
commencing the test. This will detail the types of test being undertaken.

2.11.3 Emergency Cessation

The Test Manager will ensure that there is the capability to stop testing immediately should a
crisi ise. The test may be postponed or cancelled completely.

Cessation of Testing, with minimal disruption and costs, must form part of the contract with the
selected supplier.

The Test Manager is responsible for justifying the reason for ceasing testing to the project
sponsor and system owner.

2.11.4 Audit Log
A full audit log of testing activities must be maintained in order:

© to identify which areas have been tested so that future tests do not cover the same areas
unless there is a valid reason for doing so;

© to exonerate all parties from criminal proceedings should any fraudulent activity be
uncovered;

© to expand on recommendations from the report so that weaknesses can be quickly and
easily corrected.

e to enable re-testing, if required

© Post Office Ltd
Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540 Registered Office: 148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-BSFF-0224155_0002
POL00397485
POL00397485

Post Office Internal

e that further similar weaknesses can be identified in other comparable systems by Post
Office Limited staff without the need for a specialist team

It is the responsibility of the Test Manager to ensure that the audit log is maintained.

2.11.5 Communication

All communications relating to Security Health Check activities must be treated as
CONFIDENTIAL - see S4 Information Classification Policy

Communication to those not involved in the test should be minimised. Safeguards, however,
need to be in place to inhibit unwarranted activity potentially caused by testing.

It is the responsibility of the Test Manager to ensure that minimal but effective communication is
in place.

2.11.6 Reporting Requirements

A full report must be generated containing a description of all the weaknesses found and
suggested measures for either removing them, or minimising the risk.

The report must be treated as CONFIDENTIAL and issued to:
e Head of Information Security or representative
© Owner of target system
e Security Health Check Manager

Reports may be distributed to other roles in Post Office Limited on a strict need to know basis
with the agreement of the owner of the target system and under the control of the Test Manager

Major findings, conclusions and recommendations will be presented to:
Key Information Security managers and staff

Business Managers using the target system and any business employees required to undertake
remedial action
Technical Managers supporting the target system and any technical staff required to undertake
remedial action

2.11.7 Actions on completion

Upon completion of the Security Health Check, the owner of the target system is responsible for
ensuring that recommended actions are implemented.

2.12Re-testing

Upon completion of the Security Health Check, either re-testing or a post implementation review
will be recommended to ensure that the target system is secure. It is the responsibility of the
system owner to ensure that the appropriate action is taken.

3 Links to other reference material
ISO/IEC 2700117799: 2000 Part 1: Code of Practice for Information Security Management ©

S4 Information Classification Policy

© Post Office Ltd
Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540 Registered Office: 148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-BSFF-0224155_0003
POL00397485
POL00397485

Post Office Internal

4 Document details

Owner: Head of Security Enquiry point: Sue Lowther
(POL) Mobile:
Version: 3 Effective from: Current
Last updated: January 2010 Review date: January 2011
5

© Post Office Ltd
Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540 Registered Office: 148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-BSFF-0224155_0004
