POL00035737

POL00035737
Post Office Limited
Counter Training Office (CTO) PoS
se .
Training System Requirements
VERSION O.1 AvrHor (s) Alina Lingard (Training
Consultant)
STATUS Draft CONTRIBUTOR
DATE 15 February s
2016
CLASSIFICATI I Internal
on
NaME Jop TITLE AREA OR
RESPONSIBILITY
SIGN OFF Jackie Newton Sales & Customer
Services Training
Manager
REVIEWERS Beau Burton FOA Training Lead
Natalie Liff FOA Training
Paul Garnham Consultant
Angela James Network Business
Sandra McBride Lead
Business
Readiness Lead
Network Support
Change Advisor
Terms and Abbreviations
TERM MEANING
DVLA Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency
APOP Automated Payments Out Payments
BFCT British Forces Counter Training
CTO Counter Training Office
BITP Branch Technology Transformation Programme
FOA Front Office Application
BFCT British Forces Counter Training
PoS Point of Service
HOL Horizon Online™, the current PoS system used in
branch and some admin sites

POL00035737

POL00035737
Document Control
1.1 Version History
Version I DaTE CHANGE DETAILS ‘AUTHOR
0.01 08.01.20 I Initial draft Alina
16 Lingard
1.2 Referenced Documents
NR. TITLE ‘VERSIO I DATE DOCUMENT REF. LocaTION
N

1. HNG CTO Emulated 2.73 I 09.10.20 I DESGENREPOO06 I FOA Training

Responses 08 v2 8 Sharepoint
cTOSimulator.
doc

2. HNG-X Training 2.2 25.01.20 I REQCUSSTGO004 I FOA Training
Strategy (CTO) 16 -doc Sharepoint
Agreed assumptions
and constraints

3. FOA Contract v1.0 I 08.01.20 I IBM Contract FOA Training
Extract Training 16 Extract Sharepoint
Requirements

Table of Contents

Document Control
1.1. Version History
1.2 Referenced Documents
1.3. Background

Scope Boundaries
1.4 In Scope.

1.4.1 Business Requirements for the CTO
8.1 Out of Scope....

Process Flows....

Business Collatera

Technical Specification
8.2 On-line Interfaces ..

8.2.1
8.2.2 Pre-set training dat.
8.2.3 User management.
8.3 Reference Data...
8.4 Other technical considerations.

oS training environmen

ulators....

NNN NNN Noo oO OMA TWwnNnn

DRAID
8.5 Decisions
8.6 Risks...
8.7 Actions.
88 Issues...

POL00035737
POL00035737

8.9 Dependencies
Assumptions

POL00035737
POL00035737

Introduction

1.3. Background

Post Office is undertaking a major transformation of its IT
systems, hardware and networks, this is known as the Branch
Technology Transformation Programme (BTTP).

The replacement of the existing Point of Service (PoS) system,
Horizon Online™, used in all Post Office branches, British
Forces branches, some admin locations and Counter Training
Offices (CTO’s) is part of BTTP and is known as the Front
Office Application (FOA) Programme. The CTO’s are used to
train all new postmasters, WH Smith colleagues and Post Office
branch colleagues.

Each CTO classroom is a live branch on Horizon Online using
live reference data but all transactions processed are clearly
differentiated so that training transactions are stored
separately from the live transactions. All receipts and
printouts from the transactions are clearly marked as void.
The data centre provides simulation capabilities for online

transactions.

As at 8 February 2016 Post Office core data shows:

Branch Description Number of Number of
Type branches terminals
CTO Counter Training Office 43 236
BECT British Forces Counter 8 24

Training
TOTAL 51 260

Scope Boundaries

To migrate from the existing Horizon Online system to a new
PoS system, the supplier must provide a number of training

deliverables:

Supplier Description

Deliverable:

1. CTO PoS system A system to allow training of new
training postmasters to be delivered in the
environment designated Counter Training Offices (CTO)

and in British Forces Counter Training
offices (BFCT)

Note: System to support the use of
practical exercises using physical training
materials i.e. barcoded bills, training

POL00035737

POL00035737

debit cards etc

2. PoS training
mode

A system to allow training of branch
colleagues using the PoS equipment.

Note: Physical training materials will not
be available in branch

3. New PoS E-
learning

Conversion training for all existing
Horizon Online users - branch and support
services

System simulations ‘Show me’ ‘Guide me’ and
‘Let me try’ covering some key areas:

e Intro to new PoS, system navigation,
generic system design changes

e Customer transactions

e Balancing and accounting

e Where to find help

Training assessments must be completed and

all training must be tracked for reporting
back to Post Office

4. New PoS
workbooks

Training workbooks that mirror all the
training modules provided via E-learning

5. Train the
trainer

e Train the Post Office trainers

e Train the supplier migration support
teams

To migrate from the existing Horizon Online system to a new
PoS system, the Post Office must complete a number of training

deliverables:

Post Office Description

Deliverable:

1. CTO PoS system Update all training materials used to
training support the 3 day CTO classroom training
environment course used to train new entrant

postmasters and British Forces branch
colleagues

Work with BAU training team and highlight
any changes that could be made to the CTO 3
day training courses to include any new
transactions and functionality now
available on the CTO system e.g. travel
insurance quotes, recovery procedures etc

2. PoS training
mode

Create training instructions for branch
colleagues so they understand the
capability of the new training mode and how
to get the most out of the system

o

POL00035737

POL00035737

3. New PoS E-
learning

Update existing e-learning to reference
the new PoS system.

After the migration is complete, amend
the e-learning used to convert all
Horizon Online users to the new PoS
system, removing all references to
‘what’s changed’ and make it available
on the Post office Learning Management
System (LMS)

4, Train the
trainer

Train all existing CTO trainers on the
new PoS system and the updated training
materials and new CTO capability

Train all Field Change Advisors on the
use of Training mode in branch

5. Migration

Train all of the new PoS migration support

support team
training
6. Support Train all of the business support services
services that use the Pos.
training
e NBSC
e Finance Service Centre
e Audit & Legal
e Security - Fraud team
1.4 In Scope

This document details the business requirements for the
supplier training deliverable: 1. CTO PoS system training

environment.

The business requirements for the PoS training environment are

the same for both CTO and BFCT branch types, so in the
business requirements read CTO to mean both CTO and BFCT

branches

1.5 Out of Scope

This document does not cover the rest of the supplier training

deliverables.

1.6 Business Requirements for the CTO PoS training

environment

1. Each branch will be part of the live estate using the
existing unique branch codes.

10.

11.

12.

13.

POL00035737
POL00035737

The data centre must support training transactions - The
training environment will share the data centre elements of
the solution with the Live service - however training
transactions must be segregated from Live transactions
within the application, so that there is no risk of
contamination of live data.

The data centre must provide simulation capabilities for
online transactions, and storage of training transactions
separately within the training part of the branch database

Each training branch must be established and managed as a
logical branch

When in use for training sessions, each counter will
perform as a virtual branch independently of other counters
in the branch

PoS Reference data must distinguish the CTO branch as for
use only as a training branch. It must use the allocated
set of dedicated CTO branch codes (90XXXXX) within the Live
estate and fully manage the CTO branches within the
reference data system

A branch is designated as either Live or Training and
cannot change between the two.

The training branches will have their own reference data
that defines the branch and the products they can trade.
e CTO: This reference data will be identical in every CTO

e BFCT: BFPO rules apply for every BFCT

CTO branches must be automatically kept up to date with
Live Reference data. Post Office may specify additional
training products within Reference Data.

CTO branches must be maintained and updated in line with
the live environment

CTO branches must receive Post Office software and
software updates required to maintain the training solution
in line with the live environment and processes

As new products etc are introduced, the training solution
must be kept in step. This may include AP-ADC transactions
or products that require software changes. Note: this does
not include new online services which require changes to
the online service simulator to allow them to be used.

The CTO training environment must have access to the live
online help files

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19,

20.

21.

POL00035737
POL00035737

The CTO training environment must have access to the live
PAF files.

It must be as realistic as the live branch experience,
with the same look and feel.

It must support all live transactions, modified as
appropriate by the use of emulators where the transaction
relies on a third party system to allow the transaction to
complete. This live transactions will include

e How to transact all major product types

e How to produce and check end of day reports

e How to produce a branch balance

e How to perform system admin tasks such as; change a

user password, assign a user to a stock unit, how to
pair a PIN pad with the base unit

It must be fully compatible with all PoS hardware items,
including:-

e Touch screen

e Magnetic stripe reader
Keyboard
Barcode reader

e Counter printer

e A4 printer

e PIN Pad

e Network hub for branches with more than 2 counters

e Electronic scales

All CTO branches will be connected by LAN through the
single branch router to the live data centre i.e. through
the standard network connections. Mobile training offices
will work within similar constraints to the live mobile
solution (including regularly being left online overnight
in order to receive software updates).

The speed of response for transactions must be broadly
equivalent to the response time of the live environment

The physical security of the CTO branches must be
equivalent to the security of a normal branch - the CTO
will share the same network and physical infrastructure as
normal branches

Mobile CTO branches will have a permanent home location
where they will be initially set up and connected
periodically when not being used for off-site training
events. For example where they can receive software and
reference data updates overnight, or initialised in advance
of a training session

POL00035737

POL00035737

22. CTO branches must be supported though the standard break-
fix service

23. CTO’s will not be treated any differently from normal
branches in service monitoring reports

24. CTO branches will be opened, updated and closed using the
BAU OBC process

25. Mobile CTO branches are subject to the standard OBC rules
regarding temporary closure if they are to be left
disconnected for long periods of time

Classroom Training
26. Something about pre-set data
27. Something about re-set of data

28. Training data is retained until a trainer performs a data
reset. A reset is required 28 days after the last reset.
After this period, trainees are prevented from logging in
successfully until a reset has been performed

Process Flows

Business Collateral

Technical Specification

28.10n-line Interfaces

28.1.1 Emulators

For all transaction that do not require a call to a third
party application the CTO branch will respond as live,

Where transactions require a call to a third party application
as part of the transaction flow, the simulated response must
be provided by emulators at the data centre. This allows the
transactions to be completed as part of the classroom
training.

This is a high level overview of the product types, set up
data and user ID’s and passwords needed to be part of the FOA
emulated responses. The HNG CTO Emulated Responses document

POL00035737
POL00035737

was used as the basis for this list and has been reviewed to
remove any obsolete transactions.
An FOA emulator response document will be provided with the

specific details of each emulated transaction response
required for the classroom training.

Transaction Product List

e Debit Card - used to make payments and to do online banking
e POca - Used to complete all PO card account transactions
e Postal Orders - Sell and encash

e DVLA - a number of different scenarios to cover all DVLA
work

e Moneygram - Send and Receive transactions

e Telephony - Expression of interest anda sale

e Travel Insurance - Getting a quote

e Remittance Barcodes - any valid stock pouch will be checked

e Payout letter (this replaces the NS&I withdrawal transaction
currently available on the HOL emulator)

e Mobile phone top-ups - using swipe card or just system
generated activation code

e Post Office Bank Account - Post Office Current Account
opening and servicing of account

Transactions not currently available but we may like to
consider:

e Drop & Go - Balance, top up of account and count mail

28.1.2 Pre-set training data

CTO set up data
As well as transaction information the current emulator
provides a set starting position for Stock BB and the CTO can
be refreshed at the end of each course to reset the stock
position

e Initial Stock in stock unit BB

Additional Stock units set up:
¢ CA1 - for Camelot Transactions
The Stock Unit will be shared and not have any opening stock
balances
28.1.3 User management
User ID’s and passwords

The emulator also has 2 users set up on the system - the user
ID’s and passwords are the same in every CTO and the password
does not need to be reset when the user first logs on.
Passwords do not expire for 30 days after the CTO branch is

10

POL00035737
POL00035737

reset. Both users will be attached to DEF stick unit.

28.2 Reference Data

28.3 Other technical considerations

DRAID

28.4 Decisions

28.5 Risks

28.6 Actions

28.7 Issues

28.8 Dependencies

e User management - specific training profiles need to be
created for use on the Counter Training Office system.

Assumptions
e User ID’s for Post Office trainers will be set up centrally
e All branch user ID’s will be controlled by the local trainer

e When the training data is reset before each training course,
the users ID’s will still be available and the password will
be reset back to the known password

W

