POL00460566

POL00460566

Postmaster support
policy

Version 4.1

POST >
OFFICE.
POL00460566
POL00460566

Post Office is determined to reset its relationship with
postmasters and has introduced policies that set out guidelines
on how Post Office should support postmasters, specifically for
use across twelve areas.

The policies stand on their own but should be reviewed in
conjunction with each other. Support teams should have an
awareness of all twelve policies and how they link together.

The twelve Postmaster Support Policies are listed in section
3.2 of this policy and can be found on the hub, here.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 2 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

Contents page

1 Definitions

it

2 Overview.

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5

3 Risk appetite and required operational standards...

Sed
3.2
33
3.4
3.5

4 Procedures.

41

42
43
44
45
46

5 Where to go for help.....

5.1
5.2
5.3

6 Governance

61

7 Document control ...

Definitions...

Introduction......

Purpose.

Core principles...

Application...
The risk....

Risk appetite ......

Policy framework...

Who must comply?...

Roles and responsibilitie:

Policy required operational standards...

Issuing Transaction Corrections

Product matched accounts...

Mis-keys and enquiries

Timelines

Issuing Transaction Acknowledgements

Providing information and evidence...

Requiring more information about, or disputing, a Transaction Correction...

Control framework (controls reporting risks and process).

Reporting .....

Additional policies...

How to raise a concern...

Who to contact for more information

Governance responsibilities ..

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 3 of 22
POL00460566
POL00460566

7.1 Document control record .....0.:0

7.2 Oversight committee...

7.3. Company details

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 4 of 22
POL00460566
POL00460566

1 Definitions

1.1 Definitions

1, Service Level - In the case of this policy, this would be the maximum agreed time taken to
carry out an action.

2. Trading Period — A four or five-week cyclical financial period at the end of which the
postmaster reconciles the cash and stock position of a branch with the cash and stock
position shown on Horizon by completing a branch trading statement.

3. Transaction Acknowledgement — a notification to the branch on Horizon to acknowledge
and accept the transactions carried out the previous day on a system not linked to Horizon.
The effect of a postmaster accepting a transaction acknowledgement and transferring the
corresponding cash into the stock unit is that Horizon will be in balance.

4. Transaction Correction — corrections to errors made in branches, or by other Post Office
areas, that have been (i) identified in the reconciliation between files received from third
parties (clients or suppliers), or cash and stock centres, and the data recorded by the branch
in Horizon, or (ii) caused by mis-keys notified by the branch or a third party/client, or (iii) to
provide funds to the postmaster in some cases where repayment is required.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 5 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

2 Overview

2.1 Introduction

The Central Operations Director has overall accountability to the Board of Directors for the
management of Transaction Corrections and Transaction Acknowledegments in the network?. The
network is an agenda item for the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Post Office? board is
updated as required.

This policy is a non-contractual document provided for information. It does not form part of the
contract between any postmaster’ and Post Office.

2.2 Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimum operating standards relating to the identification
and issuance of Transaction Corrections and Transaction Acknowledgements. All cash held in
branches, which are not self-funded, is owned and funded by Post Office through the central funding
agreement that exists between Post Office and central government.

This policy details the procedures for issuing Transaction Corrections and Transaction
Acknowledgements to postmasters, which is intended to ensure that any discrepancies identified
between files received from third parties (clients or suppliers), or cash and stock centres, and the data
recorded by the branch in Horizon, are corrected accurately.

It is one of a set of policies which provide a clear risk and governance framework and facilitate an
effective system of internal controls for the management of risk across Post Office. Compliance with
these policies is essential to Post Office in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs
of postmasters, clients, and other stakeholders including our shareholder.

As many postmasters are limited companies or partnerships (and as individual postmasters may
appoint managers to operate a branch on their behalf) any steps that need to be taken by a
postmaster under this policy can be taken by someone authorised to act on that postmaster's behalf
(such as a director, partner or manager).

2.3 Core principles

Under agreements between postmasters and Post Office, postmasters provide products and services
to customers on behalf of Post Office. The cash and stock used to effect those transactions is owned
and funded by Post Office, unless the branch is self-funded.

1In this policy, “network” means branches not directly managed by Post Office
? In this policy “Post Office” means Post Office Limited.

3 In this policy, “postmaster” refers to a limited company, partnership, limited liability partnership, other entity or individual that
contracts with Post Office for the operation of a Post Office® branch.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 6 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

Errors can occur in branch that create discrepancies between client/supplier/cash or stock centre and
branch data, and Post Office will manage the investigation and correction of errors in good faith with
fairness, transparency, and professionalism (being the underpinning behaviours of Post Office).

Post Office has an obligation to its clients (i.e. a bank), to ensure that all branches are providing a
quality of service and adhering to agreed standards. Post Office is committed to supporting its
postmasters in this process by making sure that discrepancies are addressed fairly, that postmasters
have access to support when Transaction Corrections are issued and are able to dispute the
discrepancy or the Transaction Correction.

This policy, and its linked policies, sets out clear and consistent guidelines to ensure that:

Errors are promptly identified in the reconciliation between files received from third parties
(clients or suppliers, such as banks), or cash and stock centres, and the data recorded by the
branch in Horizon.

Enquiries from customers (of the branch), a postmaster or clients (i.e., a bank) alerting Post
Office of a potential error with a bill payment or banking transaction are investigated within
the timelines set out in section 4.1 of this policy.

Postmasters are notified, when a Transaction Correction is issued and, in the case of debit
Transaction Corrections, provided with an explanation as to the cause of the Transaction
Correction.

Support is given to postmasters to help them to understand the reasons for and
consequences of Transaction Corrections.

Transaction Acknowledgements are issued to branch, to ensure that the branch is aware of
the cash required to balance Horizon from transactions performed on third party devices (i.e.,
PayStation devices).

Post Office work to attempt to recover the error value of mis-keys that are notified to Post
Office by the postmaster or client (i.e. a bank).

A dispute option is clearly available to postmasters who wish to dispute Transaction
Corrections that have been issued.

Post Office will analyse Transaction Correction data to identify common and/or recurring
issues and themes and aim to work to reduce or mitigate them.

It is vital that the procedures followed in relation to Transaction Corrections and Transaction
Acknowledgements, are clear in order to ensure a fair, transparent, robust and consistent process for
all concerned.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 7 of 22
POL00460566
POL00460566

2.4 Application

This Policy is applicable to all for all Post Office employees‘ who deal with Transaction Corrections
and Transaction Acknowledgements and defines the minimum standards to control financial loss,
postmaster impact, regulatory breaches and reputational damage in line with the Post Office’s Risk

Appetite.

2.5 The risk

Transaction Corrections are sometimes needed to correct an error. Undue delays in identifying,
investigating, and issuing Transaction Corrections to correct the errors can cause inconvenience to
postmasters, clients, and customers (particularly in the case of high value Transaction Corrections).
Postmasters can be left with unresolved discrepancies whilst waiting for a Transaction Correction to
be issued to correct the error, or clients (i.e., a bank) may not receive the correct payment.

The risks in this area include:

* Increased transaction corrections through inaccurate branch accounting and a lack of
understanding around the reconciliation process.

e Transaction Corrections are not accurate and/or complete.
* Incorrect advice & guidance provided by postmaster facing teams.

Section 3.5 sets out the policy required operational standards that the Post Office has implemented

to control these risks.

“In this Policy “employee” means permanent staff, temporary including agency staff, contractors, consultants and anyone else
working for or on behalf of Post Office and, for clarity, does not include postmasters or postmasters’ staff.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 8 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

3 Risk appetite and required operational standards

3.1 Risk appetite

Risk appetite is the extent to which the Post Office will accept that a risk might happen in pursuit of
day-to-day business transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of activity and levels of
exposure that Post Office is willing and able to tolerate.

Post Office takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has:
*  Averse risk appetite to risks around service and support provided to postmasters.
*  Averse risk appetite to being non-compliant with our statutory and regulatory obligations.
*  Averse risk appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by Post Office employees.
«  Averse risk appetite for financial crime to occur within any part of Post Office or the network.
*  Averse risk appetite to risks around disputes and litigation.

« Averse risk appetite towards risks around our core operational processes that impact
postmasters.

* Cautious risk appetite towards the risk of service interruptions that would considerably
reduce branch availability across the network resulting in the inability to serve customers.

Post Office acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls have been
implemented a risk may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite/Risk Tolerance. Risks outside of
Appetite/Tolerance may be presented to the relevant governance forums for escalation/agreement of
the risk position.

If a risk is identified which is outside of agreed policy a risk exception note will be required, details of
which can be found here.

3.2 Policy framework

This policy is part of a framework of postmaster support policies that has been established to set the
minimum operating standards relating to the management of postmaster contract risks throughout
the business and network in line with Post Office's risk appetite. The framework includes the
following policies:

* Postmaster Onboarding
* Postmaster Training

* Postmaster Complaint Handling

* Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance Support
* Network Cash and Stock Management

* Network Transaction Corrections (this policy)

* Postmaster Account Support

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 9 of 22
POL00460566
POL00460566

e Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution
« Postmaster Contract Performance

e Postmaster Contract Suspension

e Postmaster Contract Termination

« Postmaster Contract Termination Decision Review

3.3 Who must comply?

Compliance with this Policy is mandatory for all Post Office employees who deal with Transaction
Corrections.

Where non-compliance with this policy by Post Office employees is identified by Post Office, Post
Office will carry out an investigation. Where it is identified that an instance of non-compliance is
caused through wilful disregard or negligence, this will be investigated in accordance with the Group
Investigations Policy.

3.4 Roles and responsibilities

« Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee — is the Committee of the Post Office Limited Board
which reviews and approves Postmaster Support policies.

* Risk and Compliance Committee - is the standing committee of the Strategic Executive Group
who review and approve Postmaster Support policies for recommendation to the Audit, Risk
and Compliance Committee.

* Retail Engagement Director — is the policy owner, who must comply with the governance
responsibilities set out at section 6.1.

* Head of Network Monitoring and Reconciliation — is accountable for the deployment of this
policy and the support of the team that manage Transaction Corrections. This role is also
responsible for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of this policy and for drafting any
amendments to the policy that may be required.

This person will lead a team of Branch Reconciliation Support Team Managers and Advisors
in carrying out the identification, issuance and investigation of Transaction Corrections.

* Branch Reconciliation Operations Manager — is accountable for the reviewing of aged open
items, failed and high value Transaction Corrections and the quality monitoring and
resolution of these. They are responsible for reviewing the Transaction Correction process

map every six months.

¢ Branch Reconcili

‘ion Team Managers — should:
© be conversant with this policy and linked policies;

o oversee the issuance of Transaction Corrections and review the Transaction
Correction failure log and aged open items;

© oversee and perform controls relating to the sending of bulk Transaction Corrections.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 10 of 22
« Branch Recon

POL00460566

POL00460566

Ensure that standard Transaction Correction narratives are used

‘ion Support Advisors — should:
be conversant with this policy and linked policies;

identify errors made by reconciling files received from third parties (clients or
suppliers, such as a bank) and the data recorded by the branch in Horizon;

investigate enquiries from customers (of the branch), a postmaster or clients (ie. a
bank) alerting Post Office of a potential error with a bill payment or banking
transaction within the timelines set out in section 4.1 of this policy.

aim to resolve any open items (which may result in the issue of a Transaction
Correction) as soon as possible, and within 45 days;

support postmasters and third parties (clients and customers) to resolve miskeys;

liaise with the Cash Centre to issue Transaction Corrections to correct errors relating
to remittence discrepancies and counterfeit notes;

ensure that support is offered to the postmaster, including by offering an
investigation by Post Office to help determine the cause of and reason for a
Transaction Correction;

where necessary, seek open and transparent dialogue with the postmaster to further
understand the background behind the postmaster’s query or dispute;

e Central Operations Insight Manager — is accountable for data analysis, insight and reporting
across Central Operations.

INTERNAL

Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 11 of 22
3.5 Policy required operational standards

A required operational standard defines the level of control that must be in place to manage inherent risks so that they remain within the defined Risk

POLO0460566
POL00460566

Appetite statements. This section of the policy also sets out the Business Area(s) responsible for managing that risk through their controls, and all employees

must ensure that they comply with the policy requirements. There must be mechanisms in place within each business unit to demonstrate compliance. The

policy required operational standard can cover a range of control types, i.e., directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks
are managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required policy operational standard in consideration of the stated risk appetite.

The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk area Description of risk Required operational standard Business Control(s) Frequency
owners
Network Increased transaction I Preventive control
Transaction corrections The Transaction Corrective narratives are reviewed, Branch Transaction Monthly
Corrections approved, and cascaded to the Branch Reconciliation I Reconciliation Correction -
Team Managers. The review covers changes that Operations narratives updated,
could arise from new products and services, and all Manager reviewed &
contact details. approved
Detective control
Each Branch Reconciliation Team will be monitored Branch Performance - Monthly
to make sure advisors are using the current approved I Reconciliation _ I Transaction
Transaction Corrective narratives for the products. Operations Correction narrative
Feedback will be provided to Team leaders, touse in I Manager
advisor 1:1s, where remedial action needs to be
taken.
INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 12 of 22
POLO0460566
POL00460566

Risk area Required operational standard Business Control(s) Frequency
owners
Detective control
Evidence to support the reason for the Transaction Branch Transaction When
Correction will be sent out to the postmaster on Reconciliation Correction — requested by
request. Operations evidence the postmaster
Manager
Detective control
If a postmaster does not agree with a Transaction Network Acknowledging On each
Correction, they can use Horizon to ask for it to be Resolution Transaction occasion
reviewed. Requests raised for a review by the Operations Correction Disputes
postmaster are acknowledged within three working I Manager
days.
Detective control
Branches can move amounts to a suspense account I Branch Transaction Weekly
while a Transaction Correction is issued. Once Reconciliation Correction - issued
issued, the branch will redeem the amount from the Operations not redeemed from
suspense account. If the branch does not redeem the I Manager suspense
amount from the suspense account, a Transaction
Correction will be issued to do this for them.
Preventive control
The Network Transaction Correction policy should be I Head of Review of the As required (but
reviewed and updated where necessary. RCC and Network Network reviewed at
ARC must approve any material amendments made Monitoring and Transaction least annually)
to the policy before the new versions are published Reconciliation Correction policy
and circulated to the business.
INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 13 of 22
POLO0460566
POL00460566

Risk area Required operational standard Business Control(s) Frequency
owners
Preventive control
The Branch Reconciliation Team, and any colleagues _ I Head of Refresher training Annually or, if
to whom this policy is relevant, must receive training I Network for the Network sooner, after the
on this policy with regular refresher training Monitoring and I Transaction policy has had
thereafter. Reconciliation Correction policy any material
amendments
approved.
Transaction Detective control
Corrections are not _I A\ll products are reviewed on a weekly basis to: Branch Weekly ageing Weekly
accurate and/or e Identify any Transaction Corrections issued Reconciliation analysis and review
complete. for incorrect values Operations
¢ Make sure any aged open items exceeding Manager
the 45-day target are addressed
¢ All failed Transaction Corrections are
reviewed to make sure remedial action has
been taken to resolve the issue.
Preventive control
Process flows exist to show the steps needed to Branch Six-month review I Every 6 months.
create an accurate transaction correction, including Reconciliation of the transaction
the controls needed at each point of the process. Operations correction process.
These are reviewed regularly to make sure they are Manager
up to date and correct.
Incorrect advice & Detective control
guidance provided Each Branch Reconciliation Advisor will have four Branch Performance - Call I Every Month
by postmaster facing I calls per month quality assured to make sure they are I Reconciliation _I monitoring
teams following the process and providing the correct Team Managers
information to postmasters.
INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 14 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

4 Procedures

4.1 Issuing Transaction Corrections

Issuing a Transaction Correction will balance the discrepancy created by the error in the branch. The
process of how to issue a Transaction Correction is documented in a process flow held on the SSO
Policy, Process, Risk & Controls Teams site.

Transaction Corrections do not have to be accepted at the time they are received, but they do have to
be resolved by the end of the branch's Trading Period. This means that on receipt, a branch can
either carry out its own investigations into the reason for the Transaction Correction, or use the
support offered by Post Office to either dispute or find out more information about the detail of the
transaction affected.

Product matched accounts

Transaction Corrections are used to correct errors made in branches that have been identified in the
reconciliation between files received from third parties (clients or suppliers) and the data recorded by
the branch in Horizon.

There are some areas, (Postal Orders, Drop and Go and Post Office Pay-out) where Transaction
Corrections are dealt with by the Central Finance within Post Office.

Mis-keys and enquiries

When the Branch Reconciliation Team receive an enquiry from a branch who have identified that
they have mis-keyed an entry, the Branch Reconciliation Team will assist the branch to attempt to
recoup the error value of the miskey from the client (j.e., the bank). The branch should report a miskey
to the Branch Support Centre but should not make a direct approach to the customer.

For banking enquiries, the banks need to contact the affected customer whose agreement is required
in order for the error value to be returned to Post Office through the bank. The Branch Reconciliation
Team will issue a Transaction Correction to the branch if the error value is returned.

When the Branch Reconciliation Team receive an enquiry from a client (i.e., a bank) who has
identified that a customer may have experienced a miskey in branch, the Branch Reconciliation Team
will work with the branch to establish if there is a corresponding discrepancy in the branch accounts
that could be attributed to a miskey. The Branch Reconciliation Team will issue a Transaction
Correction to the branch if a miskey is identified and the relevant surplus exists in branch.

Timelines
Transaction From when notification is received to From resolution to Transaction Correction
Corrections for resolution issuing Transaction is available on Horizon
enquiries Correction, if required in branch
Banking Enquiry Notification can be received up to 6 years I 7 further working daysto I The day after issue
(queried by bank) —_I following the transaction issue
* _ Sworking days to resolve

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 15 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566
Transaction From when notification is received to From resolution to Transaction Correction
Corrections for resolution issuing Transaction is available on Horizon
enquiries Correction, if required in branch
Bill payment Notification can be received up to 2 years I 7 further working daysto I The day after issue
enquires (queried by I following the transaction issue
bank)

* Maximum of 14 days to resolve
{depending on client)

Banking mis-key Notification can be received up to 6 years I Within 7 days of receiving I The day after issue
{reported to/by following the transaction funds from bank
branch)
* 24 hours to report to bank
* Chasers to be sent 21, 28, 35
calendar days after reporting to bank
* Escalation to Banking Operations
team at 42 calendar days
Bill payment mis- Notification can be received up to 2 years I 7 further working daysto I The day after issue
keys (reported to/by I following the transaction issue
branch)
* URGENT -5 working days to resolve
*  NON-URGENT - 20 working days to
resolve
Product matched ‘Appears as an open item the day after the I Within 45 days of the The day after issue
accounts transaction has been completed on transaction appearing as

Horizon an open item

4.2 Issuing Transaction Acknowledgements

A Transaction Acknowledgement is issued to a branch the day after the relevant transaction(s) have
taken place. For Paystation, a Transaction Acknowledgement is issued to branch the day after the
transaction, provided the batch control summary (list of all Paystation transactions) is produced in
branch before the cut off time, which is currently 5pm, but is subject to change. If the batch control
summary is produced after the cut off time, the Transaction Acknowledgement will be issued two.
days after the transaction took place.

When a postmaster accepts the Transaction Acknowledgement, and transfers the corresponding
cash into the stock unit, the record of cash and stock on Horizon will be adjusted accordingly.

If Transaction Acknowledgements fail, and are not sent to branch, attempts will be made to resend
the files. If this is not possible, a Transaction Correction may be issued.

4.3 Providing information and evidence

Investigation methods will vary by product type and whether they are product matched accounts or a
mis-key enquiry. Supporting information can be supplied to the Branch to evidence the error, on
request. This can take many forms, such as Horizon data, depending on the product and reason for
the error.

A Transaction Correction is sent to Horizon with a narrative which explains why it was issued.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 16 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

4.4 Requiring more information about, or disputing, a Transaction
Correction

Should a postmaster require more information about a Transaction Correction than is contained in
the narrative for that Transaction Correction, they can call the Branch Reconciliation Team for
support. The relevant phone number and the name of the relevant Support Advisor is set out on the
Transaction Correction notification.

If the postmaster wishes to dispute a Transaction Correction, they can raise a dispute with the
Transaction Corrections Disputes Team on a dedicated telephone number! a
email address (disputesteam(__ i

and

If the Transaction Correction dispute is still not resolved to the satisfaction of the postmaster, the
case can be further escalated internally.

Please refer to the Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution Policy’ for more information on the
processes in place when a Transaction Correction is disputed.

4.5 Control framework (controls reporting risks and process)

Self-assessment controls are in place around the risk descriptions, in Section 3.5 of this policy, and
these must be adhered to.

4.6 Reporting

Transaction Correction Data

A “Transaction Correction Pack" is created by the Central Operations Data team, analysed and
summarised by the Branch Reconciliation Operations Manager and sent to stakeholders throughout
the business. This will show:

« The common themes resulting in Transaction Corrections being issued
«Trends, relating to the issuance of Transaction Corrections, over a period of time
¢ Individual branch volumes and values

Data Analysis

Analysis of this data can give insights that can help devise methods for the mitigation of the causes
of Transaction Corrections.

A dashboard is maintained, by the Insights team, which allows quick visualisation of volumes and
values by product category. This can be filtered by branch characteristics and context data to gain
additional insights. The data can be used by the Service & Support Insights Manager to inform the
business on root causes and to identify solutions to address these, with the aim of reducing errors
made in branch.

5 The Postmaster Accounting Dispute resolution policy can be found on the hub, here.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 17 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

5 Where to go for help

5.1 Additional policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found on the SharePoint Hub
under Postmaster Support Policies.

5.2 How to raise a concern

Any postmaster, any postmaster’s staff or any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a
breach of this Policy should report this without any undue delay.

If a postmaster or any postmaster’s staff are unable to raise the matter with the area manager of the
relevant branch or if a Post Office employee is unable to speak to her or his line manager, any person
can bring it to Post Office’s attention independently and can use the Speak Up channels for this
purpose. Any person can raise concerns anonymously, although disclosing as much information as
possible helps ensure Post Office can conduct a thorough investigation.

For more details about how and where to raise concerns, please refer to the current Speak Up Policy
which can be found on The Hub under Post Office Key Policies, accessed here.

Please note that a postmaster may also contact the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters (NFSP)
for help and support, by contacting their helpline ont.

5.3 Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this policy or wish to report an issue in relation to this policy,

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 18 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

6 Governance

6.1 Governance responsibilities

The Policy sponsor, the Group Chief Retail Officer of Post Office, takes responsibility for policies
covering their areas.

The Policy Owner is the Retail Engagement Director who is responsible for ensuring that the content
is up to date and is capable of being executed. As part of the review process, they need to ensure
that the minimum controls articulated in the policy are working or to identify any gaps and provide an
action plan for remediation

Additionally, the Retail Engagement Director and the Central Operations Director are responsible for
providing appropriate and timely reporting to the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Audit,

Risk and Compliance Committee as required.

The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting Post Office's risk appetite.

INTERNAL Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 19 of 22
POL00460566
POL00460566

7 Document control

7.1 Document control record

Summary

andard impl

Martin Roberts (Group
Chief Retail Officer)

Version

41

Tracy Marshall (Retail Alison J Clark (Head of R&CC/ARC
Engagement Director) Network Monitoring and

Reconciliation)

Document review

period

Annual

Revision history

Policy ~ effective date Policy location
Postmaster Support

07/2024 Policies on SharePoint
Hub

0.1
0.2

03

0.4

0.4.1
and
0.4.2
1.0

Ba

12
13

14

15

INTERNAL

12th February 2021
15th February 2021

2nd March 2021
8th March 2021

9th and 19th March
2021

30th March 2021
29th April 2021
4th May 2021
11th May 2021

25th May 2021

25th February 2022

Draft Version Jo Milton
Amendments following review by Tim Perkins Jo Milton
Amendments following legal review Jo Milton
Amended risk appetite statements Jo Milton
Amendments following operational review Jo Milton
Final Version approved by ARC Jo Milton
Addition of timelines for Transaction Corrections Jo Milton
Alignment with other postmaster support policies

Risk appetite amendment Jo Milton
Updated TC Disputes contact number in 4.4 Jo Milton
Added linked policy statement to front page Jo Milton

Added reference to the Group Investigations Policy
to section 3.3 Who Must Comply?

Updated link to section 5.1

Added footnotes to link to other policies referred to

in this policy.

Annual Review Jo Milton

2.2 Addition of section stating that a postmaster
may authorise someone to act on their/its behalf

3.1 Updated risk appetite statements to include
Operational statements

Network transaction corrections policy v4.1 Page 20 of 22
2.0

21

2.2

3.0

3.1

1% April 2022

5t July 2022

3" October 2022

5" December 2022

19" June 2023

3.4 Updated job role responsibilities

Minor changes to wording in 3.5 Minimum Control
standards

Amended version number following approval

2.1, 3.4, 5.3, 6.1, 7.1 Updated owner and sponsor
7.1 Updated Implementer

Font updated to Nunito Sans

Annual Review

3.4, 3.5 Clarification around resolving open items
within 45 days.

4.1 Amended aim to issue TCs to within 45 days
5.2 ‘Whistleblowing’ changed to ‘Speak Up’
Updated to full version number following approval
at ARC

Updated owner

POL00460566
POL00460566

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

3.2

8" December 2023

Updated owner, some role and department names
3.1 Amended risk exception statement

3.2 Updated framework policy name — Contract,
Termination Decisions Review

Jo Milton

3.3

4.0

4.1

19* January 2024

3" April 2024

28" June 2024

‘Annual Review
2.3 Removal of reference to “Camelot devices”

5.2 Addition of NFSP contact details

Updated version number following ARC approval
Service and Support changed to Central Operations
GE replaced with SEG

2.5 Risks amended to reflect ServiceNow

3.5 Minimum Control Standards changed to Policy
Required Operational Standards and updated to
reflect ServiceNow

Alison Clark

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

7.2 Oversight committee

Oversight Committee: Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee

Committee Date approved

POL R&CC 12 MARCH 2024

POL ARC 20 MARCH 2024

Next review: 31 MARCH 2025

7.3, Company details

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers 2154540 and
084597 16 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is ZAO90585.

INTERNAL

Network transaction corrections policy v4.1

Page 21 of 22
POL00460566

POL00460566

