POL00192226
POL00192226

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce: lan Hendersory
Parsons, Andre
Crichton
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: Re: Minutes from today's meeting

Thanks Simon.
Best regards. Ron
Sent from my iPhone

On 16 Jul 2013, at 19:38, Simon Bake

All
Key messages

1, The October report will focus on the major themes

2. The MPs cases will not be the focus of the October report — Post Office to agree with JA and
MPs how best to conclude the MPs cases

3. Improvements required to Second Sight / Post Office ways of working

1, The October report will focus on the major themes
a. Second Sight to propose what key themes should be addressed in the October report
b. Second Sight to produce a matrix that will cross reference the key themes with the 47 cases,
this will help identify which themes to focus on
c. Post Office will need to discuss this shift in scope with JA (note: last time Second Sight
suggested it, it was rejected. JFSA would probably support this approach)

2. MPs Cases
a. Post Office to discuss with JA and individual MPs how best to conclude the outstanding 27
MP cases

b. Note: some cases will probably map to the key themes, so maybe addressed indirectly by
the October report

c. Post Office to investigate running workshops with Sub Postmasters effected, maybe with an
independent mediator to bring the cases to closure where possible.

d. Post Office to make clear the future independent adjudication process, as some cases may
be able to fall into this process

3. Improvements to Ways of Working

a. Second Sight requested a more interactive approach with Post Office, with direct access to
experts. Post Office to determine how best to set this up.

b. Second Sight requested that Post Office to provide Second Sight a dedicated resource, a
senior person with Branch Network expertise who could work with them full time. Post
Office to identify who can be provided. (Ron/lan suggested Angela Van-Den-Bogerd — but
this is probably not feasible)

c. Second Sight to consider if a junior Barrister to do some of the “leg work” would help
POL00192226
POL00192226

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance
<image001.png>
id Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

simon.bake
postoffice.co-UK

@postofficenews
<image002.png>

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
