POL00028034
POL00028034

MISC2016 Dec 2020 1 Section 6 Inland Mail V1.1

Inland Mail

Mail returns

peter er ee ee ee He HK HG

Remember!
Vou don't need to follow the prohibited and

The Royal Mail Returns service allows internet retailers to
provide a customer with a special label they can use to
return an item. This can be done at any Post Office branch

for fee: Trestricted items process for any Royal Mail I
. p Returns services, but please remember to check
There are three main types of Royal Mail Returns the size and weight of each item and segregate all I
returns into the right mail bags.
ee ee
+ Tracked Returns using a barcode supplied by the
retailer
+ Returns using a barcode supplied by Post Office
(PFU69) Tracked 48 eta

+ Labels to Go

1. Tracked Returns using a barcode supplied by
the retailer

+ From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the 2D barcode on
the label

+ Input the weight and press ‘Enter’

+ Issue the customer with a free certificate of posting
receipt

2. Returns using a barcode supplied by Post
Office (PFU69)

Ld ROYAL MAIL R I I

Ril IR2] [Mor

+ Make sure the return label is a Royal Mail Return
label, similar to those pictured opposite with an ‘R’
on them

+ These returns don’t have a barcode, so please place
a PFU69 barcode label onto the parcel

+ From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the PFU69 barcode

+ Input the weight and recipient address, press select
‘Enter’ Returns Barcode Label
+ Issue the customer with a free certificate of posting
receipt
3. Labels to Go returns
NX 1894 9603 9GB
+ — Customers will bring a barcode, either on their PFUCS.

phone or printed out, and their parcel which will
have no labels on it

+ Make sure the barcode is a standalone barcode
within an email and not part of a returns label

+ From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the barcode

+ Input the weight and press ‘Enter’

+ Insert a Post2 postage label into the printer - this
will print the recipient's address and barcode

+ Stick the label onto the front of the parcel

+ Issue the customer with a free certificate of posting
receipt

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.
POL00028034
POL00028034

Section 6 Inland Mail V1.1 2 MISC2016 Dec 2020

Inland Mail

Customer collections

Royal Mail and Parcelforce Worldwide provide customers with
the option to collect their mail from Post Office branches.

There are four collectons services:
Royal Mail Local Collect
Royal Mail Redelivery
+ Parcelforce Worldwide Convenient Collect

Parcelforce Worldwide Convenient Delivery
Accepting mail items into the branch

The Royal Mail delivery officer will scan the item:

Ifa signature is needed, the Royal Mail delivery
officer will write the delivery location (branch name)
on their PDA and sign with signature ‘XP1' on behalf
of the customer. When the customer tracks the
delivery, they will see ‘XP1’ followed by the branch
name (e.g. ‘XP1 Mount Pleasant’)

If a signature is not needed, simply accept the mail
item/s from the delivery officer

You need to confirm receipt of items by scanning them into
Horizon Online as soon as possible after accepting them
from the delivery officer. Scanning the items acknowledges
that they are in your branch and forms part of the tracking
process.

To enter them into Horizon Online:

From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Local Collect’, then
“Accept from Carrier’

Scan the barcode er

Then store the item/s securely

Service Barcode to scan
Royal Mail Ordinary Local Collect label eS Se Se ee ee oe Se
1 Remember I
barcode All items need to be scanned in on the same day they
Royal Mail Special Delivery I Service barcode ! are accepted. !
& Royal Mail Signed For ! I
Royal Mail Tracked 24/48 _I Service barcode 1 For Royal Mail Tracked, Royal Mail Special Delivery 4
Parcelforce Worldwide Service barcode I Guaranteed and Royal Mail Signed For items, you 1
have to scan the tracked barcode.
Note: Where appropriate the customer willbe advised that * -—=—=-—==-=-—-=--—--- = 4
the item is available for collection
Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
MISC2016 Dec 2020 3

Inland Mail

Local Collect Age and ID Verification

Local Collect items with "age verification" printed on the
label, as shown, can only be collected by customers who
are over 18 yrs old. The only acceptable ID for this service
is a valid passport or driving licence.

poco eee eee ee eK eH

I You don't need to check Age Verification ID if the I
customer is clearly over 25 yrs old

a ee I

Local Collect items with "ID verification" printed on the la-
bel, as shown, can only be collected by the addressee (the
person named as the recipient on the label). Only valid
photo ID is acceptable for this service, such as passport,
driving licence and other photo ID cards such as an NHS
or Royal Mail employee card.

poco tere ee ee ee ee

I _ You should not give ID verification labelled items to I
friends, family or neighbours of the intended recipient,
even if they produce valid photo ID of the addressee

bee ee ew ew ew ew ee ee ew A

Local Collect Inflight

Local Collect Inflight is a delivery option for customers
receiving items sent by retailers using Royal Mail Tracked
24/48 and Special Delivery Guaranteed by 9am/by Ipm
items.

Itallows the recipient to change when and where their item
is delivered, after it has been posted by the sender. One of
the delivery options for customers is a Post Office branch.

+ Customers who opt to change the delivery toa
Post Office branch will see a list of the five nearest
branches

+ Royal Mail will apply an Inflight label with the new
delivery address to the mail item next to the original
label. Normal acceptance procedures apply when
you accept an Inflight item into your branch

+ There is no fee payable by the customer for this
service

POL00028034
POL00028034

Section 6 Inland Mail V1.1

Special Delivery
Guaranteed by

Local Collect
Age Verification

Mi

oLoontion Rama) d.ocation Typa)

Special Delivery
Guaranteed by =

Local Collect
ID Verification

ll

Name

Inflight Delivery Address Change

csp
For Customer Collection at LJ

New Delivery Address
Inc Postcode

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document

to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
Section 6 Inland Mail V1.1 A

Inland Mail

Customer collecting an item from the branch

Before you do anything on Horizon, please accept the
missed delivery card or order confirmation from the
customer and check their ID. If a customer doesn't have a
missed delivery card or order confirmation, they will need
to produce two forms of ID, one of which needs to show
their address. There is a complete list of acceptable ID on
Horizon Online Help.

Locate the parcel and check the following:

+ Isa fee payable?

+ Isthe tracked barcode number the same as on the
missed delivery card OR the order confirmation
email/text message

+ — Is the name on the parcel the same as the ID shown
(remember - if someone else is collecting the
parcel for the recipient, they need to show ID for
the recipient, not for themselves)

To complete the collection on Horizon Online:

+ From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Local Collect’, then
“Customer Collection’ and scan the ID barcode

+ Check the customer's ID and complete the
Alternative Collection Service card P5769.

+ Obtain a signature and press ‘Enter’ to continue.
Note: Horizon will identify any extra checks for
Local Collect age and ID verification

+ Select option: ‘No Fee payable’ or ‘Fee payable’,
which will be clear from the Local Collect/
Convenient Collect/Convenient Delivery label

+ Collect the fee from the customer where
applicable and place it in the till. Note: if the
customer does not have or refuses to pay the fee,
you do not issue the item to them and you need to
cancel the transaction

+ Press ‘Settle’ to complete the transaction and hand
the item to the customer. If a fee was payable, then
the system will print a receipt

+ Destroy all missed delivery cards that you have
accepted from customers in return for their items,
either after each transaction or at the end of the
day. It is important that these are destroyed
completely (i.e. so that all personal details recorded
on them can no longer be read), as they contain
customers’ names and addresses etc

POL00028034
POL00028034

MISC2016 Dec 2020

=
Tet 24 Z

Local Collect

@us

Alternative Collection Service

Customer Name

CCstomer Signature

Date__/_/__

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
