POL00305792
POL00305792

From: Rodric Williams[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RODRIC WILLIAMSE9C1 14F4-B03F-4595-B082-
CE89BE5C79D47B]

Sent: Wed 20/08/2014
To:
Cc:

UTC)

Subject:
Dear Sir Anthony,

As you are aware, Chris Aujard is currently out of the country. Although we have not previously spoken, I have been
working with Chris Aujard on Scheme-related matters for some time, and have seen the email Belinda sent on your
behalf to Second Sight (copied to other Working Group members) asking Second Sight to complete their Part Two
Report for issue by the middle of this week. I understand that Belinda has sent you a copy of Post Office’s comments
on the Report, which Second Sight has shared with JFSA.

I understand that matters of substance are normally discussed by the Working Group prior to a decision being made
on how to proceed. I am concerned that on a matter as important as the Part Two Report, it may be disseminated in
Chris’s absence, and without such discussion having taken place.

As matters stand, and setting aside Post Office’s concerns about the quality of the Report (which are a matter
between Post Office and Second Sight), unless the final Report addresses the factual inaccuracies we have identified,
Post Office will have to write to each Applicant to correct the errors in the Report and provide Applicants with the
information the Report omits so that they can fairly assess Post Office’s position, and therefore the merits of their
case. We believe this is important so as to ensure that at the earliest stage, Post Office has done all that it can to be
transparent with Applicants and properly managed their expectations, therefore giving applications the best chance
of being resolved.

Post Office would therefore like to have an opportunity to try to agree with the Working Group, or as a minimum for
the Working Group to be aware of, the action Post Office would take before the Report is issued.

I would not have thought that this would need to wait for the next face to face Working Group meeting in September.
Given that the next Working Group call is scheduled for next week when Chris is back in the country, and that Second
Sight has not yet provided a final Report, could you possibly agree to a short delay in issuing the Report until that call
so that Post Office has the opportunity to consider the final Report and explain to the Working Group, if necessary,
how it plans to deal with it?

I will of course be available if you would like to discuss this further with me and/or Belinda.

Yours sincerely,

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

@ 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL00305792
POL00305792

(2) Post Office stories

© @postofficenews

