POL00070978
POL00070978

Page 1 of 2

Stephen Dilley

From: Richard Morgan:
Sent: 18 January 2006 08:50

To: Stephen Dilley

Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Stephen,

I am afraid that I am tied up in Court and cons all today and tomorrow. Any chance of you
resending this to me once other comments are incorporated so that I can see it in final form?
Thanks,

Richard

From: Stephen Dilley I.
Sent: 17 January
To: mandy.talbot.
Ce: Julian Summerhayes; Tom Beezer; Richard Morgan
Subject: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Dear Mandy,
I refer to my email of 13 January.

l attach a draft fax that I propose to dispatch to Mr Castleton's solicitors dealing with

their "experts" reports and disclosure requests for your approval. This deals with the important
point I mentioned on Friday i.e that the balance snapshot cannot be relied upon to prove that
the sum of £3,509.68 was not transferred into the suspense account and that their assertion
that Horizon was double counting losses is just plain wrong. It is important that we firmly put
this point across as they say the report will form the core of any report that Castleton intends to
rely on in Court,

John, do paragraphs 1 to 6 of the draft fax accurately reflect what we discussed last week?
Richard and Tom - if you have any comments on the draft, please let me have them. I will be
sending a separate letter again inviting Castleton to set aside the default judgment when I
serve the witness statements.

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.

Kind regards

Stephen Dilley

Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

www.bondpearce.com

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged
and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and
delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this

18/01/2006
POL00070978
POL00070978

»tephen Dilley

From: john.h jones,

Sent: 18 January 2!

To: Stephen Dilley

Ce: Julian Summ eezer; Richard Morgan; mandy.talboti,
tony.r.utting

Subject: Re: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Stephen

The letter reflects the incorrect assumptions being made by Castleton's representatives.
Tony: Do you feel there is any further comments to add to the correspondence.

John

John Jones

Area Change Manager

Network Change

Post Office Ltd

Sales & Service

Upper Floors, The Markets DMB, 6/16 New York Street, Leeds LS2 7DZ

“External Email:

Postlines, I Mobex

“Stephen Dilley"
i GRO.

To: <mandy.talbot.

<john.h.joned__.. GRO _

julian Summerhayes":

“Tom Beezer"

7 "Richard Morgan"
GRO °

17/01/2006 18:53 Subject: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Dear Mandy,

Irefer to my email of 13 January.

I attach a draft fax that I propose to dispatch to Mr Castleton's solicitors dealing with their "experts'"reportsand
disclosure requests for your approval. This deals with the important point I mentioned on Friday i.e that the
balance snapshot cannot be relied upon to prove that the sum of £3,509.68 was not transferred into the
suspense account and that their assertion that Horizon was double counting losses is just plain wrong. It is
important that we firmly put this point across as they say the report will form the core of any report that
Castleton intends to rely on in Court.

John, do paragraphs 1 to 6 of the draft fax accurately reflect what we discussed last week?

Richard and Tom - if you have any comments on the draft, please let me have them. I will be sending a separate
letter again inviting Castleton to set aside the default judgment when I serve the witness statements.

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.
Kind regards

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
