POL00448531
POL00448531

Forensics and Integrity
Services —Whistleblowing
Assurance Review

July 2022

Confidential

a
EY

Building a better
working world

A) -Y- I bt ae) } cy

Industry
Understanding Why EY & insights &
of your needs credentials best practices

Approach &

Proposed team methodology Commercials Dependencies

Contents
Section
Unc ding of your needs

Why EY & credentials

Industry insights and best practices

Appr h and metho
Commercials
Dependencies

Jentials

Understanding
of your needs

Why EY &
credentials

Slide Number

Industry

MQ,

best practices I Proposed team

Approach &
methodology

WY

Dependencies

POL00448531
POL00448531
POL00448531
POL00448531

EY understands the importance of having an effective whistleblowing framework

Our understanding of your requirements Key deliverables

» The Post Office requires an independent assessment of the current whistleblowing Awritten report to the Post Office, providing:

policy iprocesses'and.controls witha specific focus ons » An assessment of the current state of the Post Office's whistleblowing policies,

The current Speak Up policy (last updated c. one year ago) processes and controls

The appropriateness of the Conversant system for the Speak Up » An assessment of the Post Office's whistleblowing investigations and the
framework as well as of how it is used within the Post Office compliance with internal process, regulatory standards and industry standards

The communication with Speak Up reporters (from initial report through to » Acomparison to best practices including relation to both whistleblowing and
case closure) information gathering

The operational conduct of the investigations arising from Speak Up » Recommendations as to the target end state for those policies, processes and
reports controls identified in the assessment

» The effectiveness of protection provided to Speak Up reporters Ahalf day workshop to socialise our observations and recommendations with key
stakeholders and discuss potential next steps

You require this assessment of the extant policies, processes and controls to

independently verify the quality, effectiveness and current status of the existing
frameworks, including the consistency of application across the franchise business
model of the Post Office Limited Structure.

You require a comparison to best practices (to include mandatory requirements), Scope of the assessment
identifying where improvements can be made and providing recommendations as to
any changes that should be implemented to enhance those policies, processes and
controls, including identifying a target end state.

» Geography - This assessment will draw on global best and leading practices,
with operational effectiveness testing of controls limited to the UK

We have assumed that this assessment should also include operational effectiveness » Entities ~ This assessment will be specifically for The Post Office Limited
testing, focusing on the likely areas of weaknesses, to test how well the policies, >» Timeline ~We understand that this engagement shall commenceat the start of
processes and controls are understood and embedded within the business culture August 2022 with a final report and action plan to be delivered by October
and how effective the controls are in enforcing the policies and processes. 2022

You have articulated that this project is of a highly sensitive nature and » Should you wish this work to be performed under legal privilege, this can be
communication within your own business is required to be on a need-to-know basis. discussed prior to commencing work. We have experience working with the
As a consequence, the project team has been sized accordingly and due to the clients’ legal representatives and also in partnership with EY Law.

sensitivity of the project kept to minimum numbers.

Industry A ne
Understanding] Why EY& insights & pproacl .
of yourneeds I credentials I best practices I Proposed teamI methodology Commercials I Dependencies

POL00448531
POL00448531

We have the experience to conduct high profile, sensitive reviews under accelerated ,
timescales

Your requirements

The value EY will bring to the Post Office

a
I We have performed high-profile engagements for multiple corporate entities, demonstrating our experience in dealing with i
! sensitive initiatives and working for Boards and Senior leadership, including: Whistleblowing reviews, Senior Manager t

Accountability reviews and bespoke business reviews where we reported to UK regulators, several past business reviews that I
I fequired submissions to regulators. H
! We have also conducted similarly sensitive and high profile reviews as well as industry investigations for corporate institutions on !

behalf of regulators and other public authorities. t

Se en tt St

* Our team brings extensive experience of whistleblowing and investigations, drawn from first-hand practice in dealing with 1

whistleblowing cases, working with over 10 financial institutions on similar initiatives and through our proprietary survey and
I comparative data, which allows us to compare the Post Office to whistleblowing best practices '
! We are able to draw on our network to provide insights from both financial services and retail aspects which are most important to j
TO a ee !

1 We have put forward a senior team of professionals, led by Spencer John who has experience and credibility with regulators and
! public bodies. Our team has experience of conducting similar reviews of whistleblowing and investigations combined with expertise}

in controls assessments. i

Ge ae ee ee en A et tt a a

a eS A SO SH
! We will deploy a tried and tested approach that focuses on delivering a robust assessment that will stand up to challenge andis I
cognisant of your desire for confidentiality. Where needed, we will use our maturity assessment models to focus the assessment!

j 0n the areas that matter most, to provide a comparison to industry practice in accelerated timescales, and to support our findings. I
! Our approach is to run the framework review and effectiveness testing in parallel, sharing resources and information to increase I
t

cite speed of delivery and minimise the impact on Post Office stakeholders.

poe eh hee neste nh ne em eb Hn
I We understand the importance of effective whistleblowing and investigations to the overall health of a business. Our approach and!
I recommendations will focus on helping you to understand how your policy, procedures and controls compare to market practice I
{2nd provide you with actionable recommendations and define the target end state H

Industry
Understanding Why EY & insights &

Approach &
of yourneeds I credentials I best practices I Proposed teamI methodology

Commercials I Dependencies

POL00448531

POL00448531

Our experience and industry insights put us in a unique position to conduct this assessment

Sample cre: Is

Ir dient identified the seen and
‘enhancement of its whistleblowing framework -
asa key priority in prereee for ers
Tequlations

I provided Ge and. fi eldwork resource
during a Goup Internal Audit review of our
client's whistleblowing framework ‘

ea was eroded inalarge Fraud Risk ‘
Neneotient and es Presisnine

EY were engaged by the FCA Enforcement
division to investigate past governance and
sent Panos ofa ns UK bank I

EY was engaged to review a whistleblowing a
‘programme because a concerns about its

Understanding
of your needs

vvvvy

EY value added

A
I» We provided our client with an assessment of each element of the whistleblowing framework against the EY maturity model, to indicate how the bank I
1 compared to leading practice, allowing them to prioritise initiatives for improvement

1 We were able to provide valuable insights from our experience of current leading practice that were relevant to the bank, and give practical
1 recommendations to help them further enhance the whistleblowing framework.

' + our client valued our practical recommendations and have requested us to assess the enhanced framework following implementation of our
1 recommendations.

Wn i a a a a a ae a ee

Our team displayed sound judgement and knowledge of best practice in relation to the creation and operation of whistleblowing frameworks beyond a I
1 central whistleblowing line.
1» We worked alongside the internal audit team to upskill them in the technical area of whistleblowing and we received positive feedback on our support I
! to the team.
1

> EY assisted the client's Internal Audit team to provide deliverables of a high standard which stood up to testing when challenged by senior 1
L stakeholders within the business. t

1

1 > Amajor North American financial institution engaged EY to assist in benchmarking its Fraud Risk Management (FRM) against industry leading i

I practices and to provide recommendations to improve overall FRM effectiveness. Given that a large proportion of fraud is identified through I

1 whistleblowers, our work included an assessment of the bank's whistleblowing policies, procedures and reporting I
a

Wn ec a se a a a cr a a oo eS a 6 AS FO FE SS

Our work focused on four work-streams (corporate governance, accounting and risk management, loans and impairments and rights issues) and i
1 included evidence gathering, multi-disciplinary analysis and regulatory reporting I
1» This was a high profile and highly sensitive investigation with interest from the highest levels of the FCA. Due to the sensitivity, strategic importance I
and scale of the investigation it was critical to have a high level of partner and specialist involvement. 1
Our team included relevant industry experience, technical and investigation skills and knowledge of FCA processes. 1
> The final notice issued by the FCA resulted in the largest penalty imposed on a senior executive in the UK. '

Ma a i 0s re ae se a se a se es a ee el

j > The Board of a global logistics company operating in over 50 countries approached us to conduct a review of its whistleblowing programme because I
1 ofconcerns about its general operation, the quality of reporting and adherence to international legisation and regulation i
1 > Our recommendations have led to a significant uplift in reports across the entire business. I
i
1

Was nt es tet a a Sd nt

Industry
insights &
best practices

Approach &

Why EY &
methodology

= Dependencies
credentials RY

Proposed team Commercials

POL00448531
POL00448531

EY has proprietary market insights on industry best practices 7

I EY has developed leading maturity models which we will employ to assess the strength of design, suitability and operational health of the
I Post Office’s whistleblowing framework. In doing so, we will compare the Post Office against the current legal and regulatory landscape as
I well as against our experiences working with other organisations, including franchise model risks

In applying EY's whistleblowing maturity model to the Post Office, we will consider the following:

Legislation and regulatory focus — Including relevant legislation and regulations from the UK and US and global bodies such as the FCA’s SYSC requirements
including the Senior Managers Regime (appointment of a whistleblowing Champion), BCBS corporate governance principles, the G30 study on Conduct and
Culture, and OSHA guidance. Additionally, EY shall consider drawing on the most appropriate elements of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act and the
National Intelligence Model, where it is practical to apply in a commercial environment

EY’s experience — EY has practical experience of performing similar assessments in corporate and financial services industries, as well as performing
whistleblowing investigations, and has developed a view on what would be considered best practice. Spencer John has significant experience in control
ownership roles in the financial services sector and has delivered assessments of whistleblowing frameworks in the FS sector. Rachel Sexton, who will act as
the EY Quality Partner, has founded and chairs the Financial Services Investigators forum, providing unique insight into investigations best practice within
the financial services sector.

EY whistleblowing Survey — EY conducted a survey across over 40 companies from multiple industry sectors in the UK to discuss their whistleblowing
arrangements. “Across the companies surveyed, the average ratio of whistleblowing disclosures to staff was seven disclosures per 1,000 staff per year,
however almost 60%of respondents are not confident that they capture all disclosures made directly to a manager.”

EY EMEIA Integrity survey — The 2022 EMEIA Integrity Survey, which is our largest yet, represents the views of 4,762 board members, managers and
employees in 54 countries and provides compelling insight into perceptions of fraud, bribery and corruption across the region, including insights into
attitudes towards whistleblowing. Within the UK, 81% of respondents answered no to personally ever reporting issues of misconduct to management or to a
whistleblowing hotline

Industry A ne
Understanding] Why EY& insights & pproacl .
of yourneeds I credentials I best practices I Proposed teamI methodology Commercials I Dependencies

POL00448531
POL00448531

We bring an experienced pragmatic team that will deliver tangible value to the Post Office

complianc
le change prc

int experience in stakeh:

jons and financial crime

1 large

Rachel Sexton crime compliance partner with

Quality Partner She has r ewed the operations of investigations teams at two universal bz
internal lighted several areas of imr nt including the
Re he investigation at eight major bank

‘0 review their whistlebl
that need investigating
at EY and 8 years

ancial institutions and p

m at E

rience in conducting whistle

1d Forensic:

Abbie Steele
t Le:

number of whistleblowing review

ment an
unning r

Michelle Acton- ears

Phillip:
Engagemi

Nas ass

Delivery team

Fraud,

Whistle

workshops

pent extensive

is highly experienced in delivering wh

ws for

rime and Forensics team
n house investigation funct

n the
‘on

Evan Sarosik > E
Deliver

livering quality assurance r

nere his recom

sds on s

Evan recently completed ¢

Tom is highly experienced in delivering whistleblowing framewor or numer¢

Tom Bendor- > Tom works in the Financial Crime and
Samuel
Delivery and SMR

100 bank's whistleblow

30 worked on the impleme!

tion phase

ding policies and procedures updates

communications plan and pro 1 for employees facing

e experience of operatio

ge of or

Senior Consultant

e fairness of a financial institution’s determinations by

rN
A \
12)
<
Approach & .
Proposed teamI methodology I Commercials

Why EY & insights &
of your needs credentials best practices

Our proposed approach - overview

Document Review

and Interviews

Through a desktop review of available documentation and
interviews with relevant key stakeholders, we shall perform
Feview covering

Policy ~ Where we can build on the recent implementation
the Speak Up policy ents that
may y more accessibl dable and

areness, case
s keholder
Audit, external Counsel and SME

contributions su
support

Governance ~ Providing options for improved

s and greater alignment to global regu
This o: clude a common challenge ai

ent Information and Whistleblower protection

Our review will also be conducted with reference to the
requirements and standards of relevant regulation andi
legislation such as SYSC 18

Efficient use of your time: We s

possible, limiti

of your needs credentials

In our experience des!
aluabl
‘on how wel

very

confidence i

The sample case walkthroughs will focus on, for example
triage decisioning: time taken to investigate anc
d treatment of, the whistleblower

Why EY &

Operational
Effectiveness

mM previous reviews at

the pr

ional

op reviews and di:
but do not provide
\histleblowing Framework de

propose to conduct a walkthrough of a
small sample of cases, focusing on qualifying Speak Up
reports as well as those determined to be out of scope
v ploring other options for testing Op
ven

ff

issions can be

ano!

other

effective

tional

institutions in as:

and we c:

ci

s with operational control of

veness exe!

nolude

wareness assessment; review of policy

ds/ views; traini

insights &
best practices

completion.

Approach &
Proposed teamI methodology

embarked upon a
Whistleblowing program

There are many non

Maturity

Comparison

When assessing the Speak Up Framework
shall compare the existing arrangements with those of other
organisations we ha
known to have had

Whist

significant

wing prog!

Commercials

ss of conti

e worked with, in
cognition b
Ing progral

FOA and PRA tules rel
institutions
ual enhancement

cluding ir

regi
mes.

EY

Dependencies

partnered many such
sing or implementing these programme:
© leverage this experience to bring the Post
Office additional examples of the features and capabilities of

leading programmes.

POL00448531
POL00448531

ting to

e
f their

t the Post Office we

stitutions

ors for operating an

S corporate institutions that have also
ancement of th

POL00448531
POL00448531

Whistleblowing maturity model

nine key areas against which we

k. The model

vill inform our

maturity whi
industry pre

also drive recomm

ice and non-

Whistleblowing . — . i [ 7 —
framework I 9 Policy & 12) Confidential atthe “Oversight & Awareness & Osis cEOE 6 Gaee Investigation Effectiveness
elements procedures reporting culture. “top “Teporting training «=I Seaseofuse I Management ‘

Each of the above whistleblowing framework elements will be assessed against

EY’s maturity model as set out below
EY maturity ©
model - oe eve o i Established oo cet Advanced

Leading
Practice

Almost nothing exists for Some parts of this Performance factor is Performance factor is Performance factor is

this performance factor performance factor exist, pragmatically defined and defined in more detail and defined in more detail and
application on different consistently applied on a consistently applied on consistently applied on all
levels is inconsistent few levels most levels levels.

Evolving maturity

OS

a

=

Industry = :
Understanding] Why EY & insights & pproacl :
of yourneeds I credentials I best practices I Proposed teamI methodology Commercials I Dependencies

Whistleblowing maturity model

r

1 Each of the EY whistleblowing framework elements are assi

1 Oversight and Reporting at each maturity level
J

L.

Whistleblowing
framework
elements

ed against established control expectations. Below is an illustrative example of EY expectations of

POL00448531
POL00448531

No reporting to
the audit
committee &
external
stakeholders
about the
performance of No reporting to

the external stakeholders
whistleblowing

programme.

General overview
provided to the audit
committee and to
management at
various levels.

Understanding

of your needs

Established

Established systems for
reporting (whistleblowing
reports and outcomes) to the
audit committee, management
teams at all organisation
levels

External communication on
whistleblowing programme to I
customers, regulators, and

the public.

Effective record keeping
allowing FCA examination.

Anon-executive director
appointed as the whistle-
blowers’ champion.

BY
Industry
insights &
best practices

Why EY &
credentials

Advanced

Audit committee receives regular and
robust reports and metrics about the
whistleblowing programme including

operation and reported concerns.

External communications about
integrity and compliance are used to
compare against other organisations
and gain insight about external
perceptions of the organisation.

The whistleblowing champion has a
level of authority and independence
within the firm and access to
sufficient resources and information,
including access to independent legal
advice and training

Approach &
methodology

Proposed team

Commercials

Leading
Practice

Compliance and integrity are
‘embedded in the board's
comprehensive risk-management,
governance, and management-
review processes.

Tested board procedures in place to
conduct independent investigations
& manage related business, legal
and reputational issues.

Whistle-blowers’ Champion role
clearly defined & promoted across
the organisation, focusing on
integrity, independence and
effectiveness of the process and
protection of whistle-blower.

Dependencies
Stage 0:
Mobilisation and
planning

» Identity key stakeholders
Plan and conduct scoping
interviewswith the
business

Assess key documentation
Define further data
gathering/ validation
requirement

Ensure all key risks have
been identified

Design test procedures
Finalise timings from the
assessment

Our proposed approach - detailed

Stage 1: Document reviews and
interviews (3 weeks)*

Performdesign adequacy assessment
via interviews with relevant stakeholders
and walkthroughsof relevant processes
Assess the whistleblowing process
framework against the following
components (to be selected and agreed)
Quiture

Tone at the top

Policy and guidance

Oversight and reporting
‘Awarenessand training
Accessibility/ease of use

Triage and case management
Investigation

Effectiveness

©ervonsona

Key challenge areas such as
whistleblower protection and
management information can be
assessed in several of the above areas

» Detailed scope document

Issues / findings relating to the design of
the process, procedures and controls.
This will take into account regulatory
requirementsand guidance to identify
gaps and areas for improvement

Stage 2: Operating
effectiveness (2 weeks)*

Assess and document effectiveness

of controls using defined test
procedures.

Obtain evidence to substantiate
control operation

Document control gaps and propose

solutions to facilitate remediation

Select samples across all significant

business areas and channels
Run a “dummy” whistleblowing
incident to determine if escalated
through relevant channels

Issues / findings relating to the
operating effectivenessof controls

Stage 3: Maturity
Assessment!
‘Comparison (4
week")

POL00448531
POL00448531

Stage 4: Report
"findings and
“recommendations
(2 weeks")

» Compare whistleblowing
process against best and
leading industry practices
Develop prioritised
recommendationsfor
actions on the future state
of frameworks

Discuss report with the
stakeholders
leveraging market
insights to highlight
recommendations
Draft and finalise the
report

» Comparison analysis within
report

Draft and Final Report
Half day workshop for
senior stakeholders

Understanding
of your needs

To be run in parallel over a project period of four weeks

Why EY &
credentials

Commercials

Dependencies
POL00448531
POL00448531

Our commercial proposition —EY fee estimate

Our commercial proposition is bas ef provided and the fe are ha

J on our understanding of the

mptions documented in this prop

iss the 2, appr and further to rr cific requirements.

Rate

Activities and assumptions Fee (GBP) Dependencies and assumptions

0 Availability of Post Office stakeholders and
contributors for detailed discussions or workshops

3s are b 1 on the fees charges for similar sc ts with a similar sensitive nature. Our fee estimate excludes VAT and expe!

Whistleblowing core capability assessment

- 4 weeks
- Document review and interviews 0 Access to “as is’ documentation to quickly assess
- Operational effectiveness activities current state. To be provided prior to starting

- Market comparison

- Output: A report with findings and
recommendations for opportunities for
enhancement and a % day workshop to discuss 0 Only closed investigations will be part of the scope of
the results and next steps the engagement

1 Operational effectiveness exercise is dependent upon
the availability of data

Potential additional area: Investigation QC/ QA
Process 1-2 weeks

- Target completion by mid-September

- Can berun concurrently with core capability

eed based on

The information in this pack is intended to provide only a
general outline of the subjects covered. It should not be

assessment - A
regarded as comprehensive or sufficient for making

Potential additional area: Additional Deep dives decisions, nor should it be used in place of professional
on specific areas To be discussed and advice. Accordingly, Ernst & Young LLP accepts no
e.g. Investigations, triage and case management, agreed based on the responsibility for loss arising from any action taken or
conflicts of interest, operating model, etc. findings and priorities not taken by anyone using this pack.

identified by previous
Implementation support phases

Industry
Understanding Why EY & insights & Approach &
of your needs credentials best practices I Proposed team methodology

Dependencies

POL00448531
POL00448531

Working together to deliver project objectives

i Assumptions i

ee oe

EY is making the following assumptions

The Post Office will have one policy and a set of
processes for whistleblowing which are applied
across the business

Due to the sensitive nature of the work the
number of stakeholders we will interview will be
agreed upfront and will be focused to give us
adequate insight

We will performa sample of 10 whistleblowing
cases, sample selection to be agreed with you

i Dependencies H
4

Timely access to documents and availability of
relevant staff for interviews. To assist the
interview scheduling process, we would suggest
a representative of the Post Office is assigned
responsibility for arranging interviews with an
agreed list of key individuals.

Provision of relevant documentation prior to
starting. We will provide a detailed document
request list when the scope is finalised, however
we anticipate this will include:

Whistleblowing policy

Whistleblowing training and awareness
documents

Any relevant internal audit reports relating
to whistleblowing

Investigations policy

Whistleblowing MI and reports to the board
Timely feedback on our initial findings

Industry

. !
A Senior engagement ;

cm ns oo to et ots ol

We anticipate that we would want to interview
the following senior staff:

Whistleblowing team, including:
Head of Whistleblowing
NED/ whistleblowing Champion
Whistleblowing steering committee

Compliance professionals including Chief
Compliance Officer

Legal and investigations professionals
including General Counsel

Internal Audit

Understanding Why EY & insights & Approach &

of yourneeds I credentials I best practices I Proposed teamI methodology Commercials I Dependencies

EY I Assurance I Tax I Transactions I Advisory

About EY
EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality
services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the
world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our
stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people,
for our clients and for our communities.

EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of
Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Emst & Young Global
Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients, For more
information about our organization, please visit ey.com

Ernst & Young LLP

The UK firm Ernst & Young LLP is a limited iabilty partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0300001
and is a member frm of Ernst & Young Global Limited,

Ermst & Young LLP, 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF

©2017 Emst & Young LLP. Published in the UK.
All Rights Reserved.

ey.com

POL00448531
POL00448531
