POL00104881
POL00104881

Royal Mail
Ld

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

8.2. Guide to the Preparation of
Suspect Offender Reports,
England, Wales and Northern
Ireland

Version 1.0 Final
June 2011

Review Date: June 2013

Ray Pratt

Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Security

Mobex f “ADHYQTR I

Mobile I GRO
POL00104881

POL00104881
Contents
Key Accountabilities 3
1. Purpose 4
2. Introductions 4
3. Content of report 4
Change control 8
9

Glossary

Key Accountabilities

Mail 2011 - 8.2, Guide to the Preparation of Suspect Offender Reports - RM V1.0 Page 2
POL00104881
POL00104881

Who is
accountable?

What do I have to I When do I have

do?

to do this?

How do I do I
this? I

All members
of Royal Mail
Security

Ensure you comply I Ongoing

with these
procedures

As detailed
within these
procedures

8.2, Guide to the Preparati

POL00104881
POL00104881

Guide to the preparation of Suspect Offender reports

1. Purpose

1.1 The purpose of this Procedures and Standards document is to
give guidance on the completion of Suspect Offender reports.
The Suspect Offender report is to provide a storyboard of the
events and evidence of an investigation to the Royal Mail
Security Casework Management Team (CWM) and/or Criminal Law
Team (CLT) to enable a decision to be made as to the future
conduct of a case.

2. Introductions

2.1 This guide is produced for all RM Security Investigators,
irrespective of jurisdiction, so Investigation Team Managers
(ITM) and Investigation Managers (IM) in Scotland and
Northern Ireland will need to interpret some of the content
accordingly, e.g. for Scottish cases read ‘Exhibits’ as
‘Productions’.

2.2 The general principle is that the description of
investigation activities should read in the sequence they
occurred so it may be necessary to re-order the paragraphs or
elements within them. The following is only a guide to the
preparation of a Suspect Offender report and accordingly
relevant additional information should be included as
appropriate.

2.3 A single report is required in cases where more than one
suspect offender is identified and interviewed as being
involved in the same offence, however a separate preamble
must be included for each individual.

2.4 The text element of the Suspect Offender report should

commence immediately underneath the preamble/s. The
Header/Footer on the report should read ‘ROYAL MAIL -
CONFIDENTIAL’ .

2.5 Where reference is made to evidence or property in the body
of the report, the item reference number eg: AA/1 should
follow the description.

2.6 Use:
Font: Chevin Light
Style: Normal
Font size: point 12
Spacing: single

3. Content

3.1 The content of the Suspect Offender report should include the
following areas in either a positive or negative way. If any
of the headings below are not applicable it should be stated
accordingly in the report rather than just omitting them.

3.2 Background:
Describe the circumstances that initiated the enquiry.
Include detail of how the criminal offences were identified

Nail 2011 - 8.2. Guide to the Preparation of Suspect Offender Reports ~ RM V1.9 Page 4 of 9
POL00104881
POL00104881

e.g. information received, intelligence received,
Crimestoppers, locally received complaints e.g. Communication
Link in Every Office (CLEO), telephone complaints, local
analysis of complaints or diagnostic tools. Include
name/position of person reporting the matter unless the
source has been allocated an Intelligence Source Register
(ISR) number when that should be used, witnesses and any
other relevant parties with comments whether they will
provide a witness statement if not already obtained. Also
include all relevant dates eg: when mail was found, in
addition to dates on which RM were informed. A copy of the
Security Information Management System (SIMS) event printout
and any local reports should be referred to and associated at
Appendix ‘B’.

Operational Procedure.

Required in unusual cases where it is felt that information
about the Royal Mail process, e.g. pipeline, Track and Trace
system, etc. may be of use to the CLT. Ensure full
description/name is shown initially if abbreviations are
used.

Enquiries undertaken:

3.4.1This may include source of and evidence gathered, the
outcome of access/absence analysis, basis for suspicions
and applications for testing/surveillance operations.

3.4.2Signed copies of testing/Regulation of Investigatory
Powers Act 2000 (RIPA) applications must be associated at
Appendix ‘A’. Forms and outputs for other criminal checks
should be associated at Appendix ‘B’. The exception to
this is where a positive result has been obtained in
relation to a Police National Computer (PNC) check. In
these circumstances the conviction details must be placed
within a sealed envelope, marked ‘In Confidence’ and be
associated at Appendix ‘A’.

Planning:
It is sufficient to refer here to a copy of the Planned
Operation Risk Assessment (PORA) documentation being
associated at appendix ‘A’. If no PORA has been completed a
copy of the Investigator’s notebook entry demonstrating the
risk assessment undertaken must be associated at Appendix
‘A’. This entry must refer to the name/grade of the person
giving authority to proceed.

Operation:

3.6.1 To include details of the actual operation (not
what was planned), decisions made, results of
surveillance, arrest, searches conducted prior to
interview, property recovered, additional evidence found
etc. A copy of the notebook entry should be associated
at Appendix ‘A’ with a typed version if thought
appropriate. It is not necessary for the report to
include details that are covered in the notebook entry
such as the approach and introductions to the suspect.

3.6.2 The actions of the suspect that support a criminal
charge during any observations should be clearly
outlined. If observations were not conducted in the
office an explanation should be given as to why it was

© Royal Mail 2011 - 8.2. Guide to the Preparation of Suspect Offender Reports - RM V1.0 Page 5 of 9
POL00104881
POL00104881

inappropriate to do so. Copies of any observation logs
should be included in the papers.

3.6.3In arrest cases reference should be made to the reasons
and justification for the arrest with a copy of that
notebook entry being associated at Appendix A if it is a
different entry from the one above.

3.7Interview/Searches:

3.7.1 Give a synopsis of the interview in bullet point
style referring to admissions, denials, aggravating
factors and mitigation. It is not necessary to refer to
any tape counter times.

3.7.2It is also not necessary to include any references to
procedural matters such as issuing the caution, time of
interview, those present, tape seal numbers or the
completion of any forms unless anything untoward occurred
which should then be highlighted.

3.7.3 Detail the outcome of searches including all property
recovered, including test items, but it is not necessary
to refer to any of the search forms. Where appropriate,
schedules of recovered mail on forms GSOO8A, GS008B and
GSO08C should be prepared and associated at Appendix ‘A’
with comments on any factors of relevance eg: if the mail
was in walk order, related to the last streets on
delivery etc.

3.7.41It is important to avoid words such as “several” or
quantity” and to use precise figures when quantities of
mail are recovered or otherwise referred to. Approximated
figures should be avoided unless large quantities are
involved.

3.7.5 1f searches are not undertaken the reason for this
should be referred to.

wa

3.8 Review of Interview:

To include comment on the offender’s demeanour, an assessment
of their response to questioning, whether the full scope of
the offence has been admitted, recommendation on whether
prosecution, caution or no further action is considered
appropriate based on the evidence and suggested reason as to
why crime committed eg: greed, gambling.

.9 Suggested charges with evidence and statements obtained:

3.9.1 Give a summary of suggested charges. It is
sufficient to record “.......for the theft of 3 postal
packets on xxx”. The suggested charges should not be
written out in full and only the briefest of details are
required.

3.9.2 Summarise or use bullet points to give details of the
evidence available to support the suggested charges, eg:
admissions made, access/absence analysis, Closed Circuit
Television (CCTV), property recovered at searches etc.

3.9.3Give the briefest of details regarding the statements
obtained to support the suggested charges along the lines
of “addressee and sender statements have been obtained to
support charges of theft in relation to the postal
packets found at the home address”. It is not necessary
to include any specific details of the statements.

3.9.4Reference should be made here to any concerns as to the
reliability of a witness.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 8.2, Guide to the Preparation of Suspect Offender Reports ~ RM V1.0 Page 6 of 9
POL00104881
POL00104881

3.10 Domestic/Financial circumstances:

3.10.1 To include domestic situation, health, financial
position of suspect offender and any other relevant
mitigating circumstances.

3.10.2 Detail any enquiries carried out to confirm or
refute explanations or mitigation put forward by the
suspect at interview.

3.11 NPA Forms/Antecedents:
Refer to the completion of Non Police Agency (NPA) and
antecedent documentation. Copy documents are to be
associated at Appendix ‘B’.

3.12 Operational/Management failings:
Refer to how any failings may impact on a potential
prosecution and describe any action already taken to prevent
reoccurrence (eg: advice/guidance provided to Unit Manager)
and also whether the matter has been referred to Security
Risk Management (SRM).

3.13 Loss to Royal Mail and its customers:

3.13.1 In summary Investigators need to state and
describe the value of the financial loss that can be
directly attributed to the suspect based on the evidence
including admissions, and also any consequential loss
caused by their actions, for example the special
delivery of delayed postal packets and claims paid in
respect of unfulfilled Door to Door Postal Packets (D2D)
deliveries.

3.13.2 Losses to customers should be referred to as well
as to the business.

3.14 Outstanding enquiries:
Details of other avenues of enquiry to pursue, including
statements yet to be obtained.

3.15 Exhibits:

3.15.1 There is no requirement for exhibits to be listed
here. A separate schedule should be prepared
and referred to as associated at Appendix ‘A’ along with
copies (where practical) and/or photographs. Where
appropriate if photographs are taken of all mail
recovered, photographs of individual sample postal
packets should be provided. If due to the size and
condition of the exhibits it has been necessary to
retain them under controlled conditions then refer to
their location and provide the name of the Investigator
who controls access to the same.

3.15.2 Additionally comment on what action has been taken
to dispose of mail recovered during the enquiry eg:
items identified as NDB/1, NDB/2 etc, have been
specially delivered and sender/addressee witness
statements obtained. Investigators must obtain a
discharge for the recovered mail when it is handed back
to the DOM or other person. A notebook entry should be
made including the instructions given regarding the
correct disposal of the mail and this should be signed

© Royal Mail 2011 - 8.2. Guide to the Preparation of Suspect Offender Reports - RM V1.0 Page 7 of 9
POL00104881
POL00104881

by the DOM. A copy of the notebook entry should be
enclosed at Appendix A.

3.16 Restitution:
Comment on the circumstances under which restitution was made
and accepted. A copy of the form GS026 should be associated
at Appendix B and if relevant a copy of form GS025A.

3.17 Report Submission
It is not necessary to give an explanation why the case file
is submitted other than if there is a delay when brief
reasons should be given and reference to the fact that
Casework Management have been notified.

(Signature)

Investigators Name Contact
Number
Investigators Grade

Date

Alternative Contact (ITM or 2™ Officer)
Contact Number

Grade

Change Control

Draft

1.0

Ray Pratt
Peter S Smith
March 2011
Internal

Authorisation

Security Ray Pratt March 2011

© Royal Mail 2011 - 8.2, Guide to the Preparation of Suspect Offender Rep

ts - RM V1.0 Page 8 of 9
Distribution List

POL00104881
POL00104881

All Royal Mail Security via Nal
Security Sharepoint

March 2011

Documentation History
v.l
Final
Mar 2011
Mar 2011

Document Change History

v1 Document Produced
Glossary
CWwM Casework Manager
CLT Criminal Law Team
ITM Investigation Team Manager
IM Investigation Manager
CLEO Communication Link in Every Office
ISR Intelligence Source Register
SIMS Security Information Management System
RIPA Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000
cctv Closed Circuit Television
PNC Police National Computer
PORA Planned Operation Risk Assessment
NPA Non Police Agency
SRM Security Risk Management
D2D Door to Door Postal Packets

© Royal Mail 2011 - 8.2, Guide to the Preparation of Suspect Offender R

RY

9 Page 9 of 9
POL00104881
POL00104881

Document Summary

If you have any queries please

Peter S Smith
Royal Mail Security
6A Eccleston Street
LONDON

sW11 9LT

Mobile:

E-mail “peter.s.smith”

© Royal Mail 2011 = 8.2, Guid

contact:

ation of Suspect

