POL00043369

POL00043369

Kind Dideingow

Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting: 2 October 2013

Attendees:
Team/Function

Legal

Financal Services Centre (FSC)

Security

Communications

Network

Information Technology & Change (IT&C)

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Attendees

Rodric Williams (RW)
Jarnail Singh (JS)
Martin Smith of Cartwright King (CK)

Rod Ismay (RI)

Dave Posnett (DP)

Rob King (RK)

N/A

Gayle Peacock (GP)

Nick Beal (NB)

Steve Beddoe ($B)

Kendra Dickinson (KD)
POL00043369
POL00043369

Kind Dideingow

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Ci

Prestbury

Discs have arrived. Helen Rose will be asked to review them. Early
indication seems to indicate the branch did declare a discrepancy

on the day stated.

ATM Gluing Case

The details of the visits made by the engineer cannot be
obtained. A process needs to be in place going forward where this
MI can be provided. GP mentioned a wider issue of suppliers in
general not providing information to the business about which

branches have been visited.

Rhigos Branch

GP — Angela to meet with Colin and talk to the SPM. The case has
not yet been through the business process and therefore will not
qualify for mediation. To conclude internal process — to be kept

open.

ATM Not discussed specifically on the call but the banking team have
been made aware.
Post & Go Leeds branch is now balancing.

All branches balance differently. Wincor file goes into Horizon
and becomes part of balance. Process issue to ensure

consistency.

Visit to Durham has taken place. Again, they were using the old
instructions for balancing. This would be resolved with the new
version of ATMs but a communication will be used to ensure

branches with older machines are using the correct instructions.

POL00043369
POL00043369

Kind Dideingow

Leave action open until investigations finished

Appears to be an Operator issue rather than Horizon.

Belfast Refresh

No update

SB has provided RW and GP with an e-mailing outlining dates.

Nelson

GP has provided the discs to Helen Rose.

SB to obtain FJ response with regard to technical points

identified.

Point made on the call about the importance of written

documentation with this case.

GP made the point that the Horizon issues had already been dealt

with and those should not have been raised at the visit.

Cheques

RI up-dated that there is about £20k of un-assigned cheques and
the team are working to find the branches which have been

sending them in.

Pontycymer

Field Advisors have been sent out and the same approach will be

used as Nelson if need be..

New Issues Identified

DP

The appeals of North Connelly and Moy were mentioned. With
the case of Moy, the branch suffered a £22k loss and the
paperwork provided seems to indicate that the Trading Period

Report has a different number printed on it compared to the TP

POL00043369
POL00043369

Kind Dideingow

number on Horizon. Dave to send to Andy Winn to have a look at.

Darren James-King case at Heugh was also mentioned.

GP Two new branches identified on log which will need to be passed
to Steve Beddoe to investigate - Woodham and Charnley. Both

are citing Horizon issues.

NB No Issues
SB No Issues
KH on behalf of No Issues
AP

RW No issues
KD No Issues
Js No Issues

Action Points

1. Prestbury —- GP to ask Helen Rose to review data

2. ATM gluing case — Rob King to set up process in the interim with BOI to obtain engineer visit
information going forward.

3. Rhigos — Internal process to be completed. Update further in due course.

4. ATM

5. Post & Go — SB to update further once investigations have finished within the 3 branches.
6. Nelson - GP has disk of data — to speak to Helen to decipher data

7. Nelson - SB to obtain FJ response with regard to technical points identified.

8. Pontycymer — SB to carry out further checks. Matter to be updated following further review.
