POL00101884
POL00101884

Message

From: Melanie Corfiel

onbehalfof — Melanie Corfield!

Sent: 15/12/2014 19; .

To: Mark R Davies! } Rodric Williams
Subject: "Re: Fwd: One Show

PACE was def their strongest angle! So now apart from debate:

- "feudal contracts" allegation to paint picture of bullying and intimidation forcing people into false accounting
- keeping it current with serving postmaster talking of fear (and contracts expert)

And they have the QC casting doubt over cases (although v qualified from what we have seen)

Much weaker unless they haven't told us something

Mel

Mel Corfield
Communications Team

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Monday, December 15, 2014 06:05 PM

To: Melanie Corfield; Belinda Crowe; Rodric Williams; Chris Aujard; Ruth X Barker; Patrick Bourke; Tom Reid
f >; Tom Wechsler

Subject: Fwd: One Show
All
To see - they have dropped the issue around cautions and PACE.

I'd like to think about how we can chop away further or do we leave this now? I am struggling to see what new line they
have beyond pegging it to the parliamentary debate.

Any thoughts?

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:
From: Jane French!
Date: 15 December
To: 'Melanie Corfield
Ce: "Mark R Davie:
Subject: RE: One Show

POL-0101467
POL00101884
POL00101884

Thank you for your reply. I can confirm that because of the complexities surrounding how
subpostmasters are interviewed when concerns are raised about missing funds this will not now be
covered in our One Show film. However this is an area that we would like to return to in future
broadcasts as the mediation progresses and it would be helpful to discuss this at greater length once the
Wednesday programming is complete.

Jane French

Editor, Current Affairs

To: Jane French; Clare Hoban; Ingrid Kelly
Cc: Mark R Davies; Ruth X Barker
Subject: One Show

I attach the answers to the questions you have raised with us and also a short statement, for use in full
please, in the film.

Please let me know if you need clarification about any of the information.

Thanks

Mel Corfield
Communications Team

THD SI ID IUD IOI IID II ADIOS DDO OUI ODI DOI IDI III ROOD IIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Seer eertre ree terre ier ter ttt rieerertterreeretrec reteset tec rec irre tte}

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

SOHO SO SOI AIO RO III AIO II DIOS IDIIISOIIIIDI A I IAI IDI AIA

POL-0101467
