POL00341337
POL00341337

Message

From:

‘on behalf of

Sent: 28/06/2013 14:

To: Parsons, Andre’

Subject: RE: Horizon - Suspense Account Bug

From: Parsons, Andrew; _
Sent: 28 June 2013 14:27

To: Andrew Winn

Subject: RE: Horizon - Suspense Account Bug

Andy
Thanks for sending through the letter details.
I'd be grateful for your thoughts on the below which will form part of a larger briefing.

Thanks
Andy

The “14 Bug”:

iH affected 14 branches (4 Crowns, 10 subpostmasters)

ii. concerns a glitch in Horizon that caused historic accounting entries in particular branches in 2010 to be
erroneously reproduced in those branches’ accounts in 2011 and 2012. This caused some branches to
benefit from additional gains whilst other branches saw additional losses. The gains and losses ranged from

a penny up to £9,799.88

lf a SPMR declares that there is a discrepancy between the amount of cash/stock in the branch and the
amount of cash/stock recorded on Horizon (say following an ad hoc cash/stock count) this discrepancy will be
recorded in the "Discrepancy Account" on Horizon. This is a temporary accounting entry on Horizon that

allows SPMRs to track their net stock losses/gains during a trading period.

At the end of each trading period, the figures in the discrepancy account must be cleared before the branch
can move on to trade during the next trading period (called "rolling over"). To do this SPMRs can transfer any
discrepancies into a "Suspense Account". By doing this the discrepancies are removed from the branch's

records, so that the branch accounts now reflect the cash/stock actually in the branch at that point.

However, the "Suspense Account" must also be settled by the SPMR. If the Suspense Account is showing a
net loss, the SPMR must make a payment to POL. If the Suspense Account is showing a gain then POL
makes a payment to the SPMR. Once settled, the Suspense Account is cleared to zero. Difference between

MG & SC

The 14 Bug caused a small number of entries in the Suspense Accounts of 14 branches in 2010 to be
erroneously reproduced in those branches' Suspense Accounts for 2011 and 2012. Some of the entries were
losses and some were gains. This then forced SPMRs to re-settle those entries in order to clear their

Suspense Accounts in 2011 and 2012 despite those entries already having been settled in 2010.

In effect, some branches accidentally benefited from the same gain three times and some branches suffered

the same loss three times.

iii. issue discovered on Jan 2013 — awareness in early 2012 but not identified as a system issue and escalated.
POL00341337
POL00341337

iv. issue discovered because those 2 SPMRs who suffered significant discrepancies raised the matter with
POL. But multiple aged entries in POLSAP were also picked up. However, the error in the Suspense
Accounts was highly unusual, occurred only twice and only materially affected a very small number of
branches. POL did investigate this issue but it took over 12 months for POL to realise that this was an error in
Horizon rather than an error by an SPMR or by POL. In the interim period, POL did suspend any attempts to
recover known losses from affected SPMRs. However, some of the losses were not identified by the SPMRs
or POL at the time (usually because they were too small to raise any concern) and were therefore settled by
SPMRs.

v. subpostmasters notified on [ANDY — DON'T WORRY ABOUT THIS].

vi. relates to transactions dating from November to December 2010

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin)

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Rodric William:
Sent: 28 June 2013 12:

To: Parsons, Andrew

Subject: Horizon - Suspense Account Bug

Andy — here’s the extract from the Briefing Paper that we need to fill in describing the bug in the suspense accounts.

I'd be grateful if you could fill this in for us with Andy Winn’s help.
Kind regards, Rodric

a. The “14 Bug”:

i. affected 14 branches (4 Crowns, 10 subpostmasters)
ji. concerns [EXPLAIN]

issue discovered on [DATE].

iv. issue discovered because [TO COMPLETE]

v. subpostmasters notified on [DATE].

vi. relates to transactions dating from [X] to [Y]

POL00341337
POL00341337

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

Post Office stories

@postofficene’

©BO©OO®

Jeane ia IIIA II NEDO IIIS AITO IIIA III DIA IO IIIA IIA II ANIA III

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confiden
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not andrew.winyf
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or cop,

please notify andrew.
munication or attachn

ng of this co: sis prohibited and may be unlawful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
