POL00119730
POL00119730

From: Declan McHugh! _
Sent:
To:
Ce: Patrick Bourke,
Subject: RE: Stakeholder comms plan/matrix and collateral index - in strictest confidence
Attachment: PO comms plan 041119.docx
Hi all,

See document attached.

The contents page was vexing us just now but it seems to be fixed. You have to press Ctrl and click to follow the links
into the doc.

So all in all it is now in pretty good shape and should be quite easy to navigate. There are still a few bits of coloured or
highlighted text here and there that need finalising but I think it is fit to be seen by people.

Over to you!

Dec

From: Melanie Corfield: _
Sent: 04 November 2019 15:24

To: Declan McHugh; Laura Tarling; Patrick Foster

Cc: Patrick Bourke

Subject: RE: Stakeholder comms plan/matrix and collateral index - in strictest confidence

That's really helpful — thank you. Sounds like a sensible approach. ©

Mel

From: Declan McHughi..
Sent: 04 November 2019 14:05
To: Melani ield!
Foster {..
Ce: Patrick Bourke +
Subject: RE: Stakeholc

j Laura Tarlin, ; Patrick

al index - in strictest confidence
Thanks Mel,

We have almost completed changes ref the comments you sent earlier and we have added almost all the extra
sections that were blank. We will add these bits below in too and give it one final edit.

So you will have a final version from us probably around 4.30pm.

At that stage we will hand possession over to you guys for further updates as any additional info will be coming from
your end rather than from us. So I would keep hold of further comments at this stage as once we have sent through
the revised version it will be easier to add in or amend directly.

Hope that sounds ok,

Dec
POL00119730
POL00119730

From: Melanie Corfield! we
Sent: 04 November 2019 14:01
To: Declan McHugh; Laura Tarling; Patrick Foster

Cc: Patrick Bourke

Subject: RE: Stakeholder comms plan/matrix and collateral index - in strictest confidence

Hi again

Below is some more content. Will keep feeding more through re the ‘gaps’ and please do polish up, but hopefully this
gives you info. I

Are you still ok for this to be completed cob today? Let me know if any problems achieving that.

Mel
Customers

Context

There has been very little customer interest in the litigation to date outside a small number of social media
comments, the majority in support of the claimants. The results of our insight research undertaken for the GLO have
to date evidenced no negative impact on customer sentiment; this tracking is being continued for the Horizon Issues
judgment.

With the focus of the litigation moved to technical aspects of Horizon, a negative media narrative around system
reliability could raise customer concerns about products and services and specific reassurance messages on these are
included in our core narrative.

Handling approach

Customer service teams are being briefed and will be updated when the Judgment is made public. A process is in
place to monitor the numbers of GLO-related calls and includes relevant escalation.

Communications for scenarios such as branch closures are aligned to operational contingencies which include include
local posters, rapid Branchfinder updates and dedicated customer phone line.

Postmasters

Context

The vast majority of postmasters have shown little interest in the GLO to date. Proactive communications following
the Common Issues Judgment in March resulted in [x] enquiries from postmasters (a proportion of whom are
disaffected and frequent negative commentators). In recent postmaster forums and through other engagement led
by the field team issues from the GLO are not registering as a concern and their priorities are around growing business
and remuneration.

However, the Judgment from the Horizon Issues Trial will potentially increase interest, concern and queries, given
that there will likely be greater media coverage about a judgment concerning a large-scale computer system.
Postmasters will need to be reassured about the wider actions Post Office is taking to improve and help support the
value of their businesses, as well as in the robustness of Horizon itself.

The programme of improvements that has been continuing this year — including the new field team structure and
changes to the Branch Support Centre — provide evidence in our narrative that Post Office is listening to its
postmasters and working more collaboratively with them. The recently announced improvements to postmaster
remuneration further underline the business’s commitment to the relationship.

Handling approach

There will be proportionate and measured communications directly to postmasters (Memoview and One). The
POL00119730
POL00119730

communications will underline the programme of improvements and signpost to further information. Area Managers
and other teams engaging with postmasters will be equipped with briefing and a process is in place for handling
queries wherever they arise,

Clients
Context
Post Office’s relationship managers have continued to keep clients updated on the litigation. There have been no

significant concerns raised. Clients will continue to want to be reassured that Post Office’s plans minimise impact on
reputation and that their customers are not affected.

Handling approach

Relationship managers have been in touch with clients to provide an update on the litigation, to prepare the ground
for the HIT Judgment. When the Judgment is made public, clients will receive a personal call from relationship
managers who will also handle any queries or concerns (flagging/ escalating these if necessary).

From: Declan McHugh! GRO
Sent: 01 November
To: Laura Tarling GRO. >; Patrick Foster <_ GRO
Cc: Patrick Bourke}. >; Melanie Corfield
Subject: RE: Stakeholder comms plan/matrix and collateral index - in strictest confidence

GRO

Hi all,

So here are things as they stand.

Patrick has performed a Herculean task of creating a master document that pulls together all of the relevant strategic
stuff, messaging and collateral in a single document. That is attached in its current form, for now, alongside the excel
spreadsheet listing collateral. Those in yellow are in the master document. Those in red are missing.

You will note that there are sections that now need fleshing out — notably on tone, handling and some specific stuff
around the context and handling plans for the four key audiences we discussed. We will do that on Monday insofar as
we can (you will need to add some stuff on areas like Corporate clients where we are somewhat blind). But the key
point is that we have the template now so this will be a bit arduous but not too difficult to do.

In short, we think this will be in decent shape by end of play Monday. So I think this should provide some comfort.

If you have thoughts on it ahead of then send over — though I suggest you don’t track any changes into the current
document as it will be evolving.

Dec

From: Laura Tarlin GRO

Sent: 31 October 2019 18:36

To: Declan McHugh; Patrick Foster

Cc: Patrick Bourke; Melanie Corfield

Subject: Stakeholder comms plan/matrix and collateral index - in strictest confidence

Hi all
POL00119730
POL00119730

And here’s the final two documents from me,

Any questions please let me know,

Laura

Laura Tarling
Internal Communications Manager

Finsbury Dials
20, Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 94Q

3 fe 2k 2 2 2 2 2 2 ee ee 2k 2 2 2 2 2 2 9 ee 2c 2k 2k 2 2 2 2 2 9 ee 2c 2k 2k 2 2g a ee 2 2c 2k 2k 2 2 ee ee ee 2c 2k 2k 2 2k ag ag 9k oo ok 2

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise

specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

HERR RRR A CORR RRR A OR RR EGR A COR RR ORR ACORN AO RGR ao

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at w e.co.uk/privacy”

