POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

02

Driving business benefits through
the consolidation of data review

Post Office Fraud Solution

NetReveal

By David Hutcheson and Jade Ferrari
18 May 2012

NRRA1207.01D001
29 pages including cover

Detica

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/1
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

Version history

Version Date Author Action
24 16 April 2012 JLF For Post Office Review
22 14 May JLF PO adjustments included

Copyright statement
© BAE Systems plc 2011. All Rights reserved.
BAE SYSTEMS and DETICA are trade marks of BAE Systems plc.

Other company names, trade marks or products referenced herein are the property of
their respective owners and are used only to describe such companies, trade marks or
products.

Detica Limited, trading as ‘BAE Systems Detica’, is registered in England & Wales under
company number 01337451 and has its registered office at Surrey Research Park,
Guildford, England, GU2 7YP.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 2 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/2
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

Executive summary

1 Overview
Post Office efforts in the area of fraud detection, prevention and reporting are currently
limited by the lack of consolidated, data driven intelligence across the disparate IT
systems. Detica was engaged to conduct a review of the data environment, understand
current fraud detection and analysis processes and produce a high level plan to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of these activities.
This report provides the Post Office an overview of the data environment and a high level
roadmap offering options for improving fraud detection and prevention, in different
timeframes and budgets.
1.2 Key findings
Post Office operations are hindered by;
* Gaps in understanding of the Credence database - use and content;
* Day to day operations are reliant on bespoke databases;
« Unclear data ownership across the business;
* Fraud detection based on summary, rather than transactional level data;
* Employee data is sub-postmaster reliant and difficult to access; and
e A query based model for data access, so only known problems can be verified.
1.3 Recommendations
* Consolidate data access: to reduce inefficiencies and duplication of data.
« Enhance available data: to enhance profiling ability.
* Automate fraud detection: To reduce manual interrogation and improve returns.
NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 3 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/3
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

List of contents

Executive summary... 3
14 Overview . 3
1.2 Key findings. 3

3

1.3 Recommendations
2 introduction... se 5
21 Problem overview . 5
2.2 Project scope..... 5
2.3 Document structur 5
3 Approach . 8
3.4 Methodology 6
3.2 Identification of interviewees. 6
3.3 Supporting literature 7
4 Key findings
5 The data environment
5.1 System view...
5.2 Key databases
5.3 Bespoke databases
6 Fraud detection.
641 Teams involved .
6.2 Fraud MOs
7 Recommendations . 20
7A Consolidation of data access and usage. . 20
7.2 Enrich available data ......... 20
7.3 Automated identification of risk. 24
8 Solutions.

8.1 Our recommendation
8.2 Solution implementation roadmap.
A Appendix t....
AA Databases
A2 Batch feeds .
A3 Data gateways
NRRA1207.p..r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 4 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/4
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

2 Introduction

2.1 Problem overview
Through operational experience and previous external reviews the Post Office was aware
that there was evidence of fraud hidden in their data. The Security team was attempting
to exploit this opportunity using existing tools. However to maximise savings they
recognised the need for an enhanced fraud identification capability.

2.2 Project scope
The project aim was to provide options for how Post Office data could be better utilised
for fraud detection. To achieve this we examined some of the fraud MOs that are
currently affecting the Post Office and collated a holistic view of the existing data. Our
principal focus was on internal fraud, as the majority of Post Office offerings are third
party products and services, therefore the Post Office is not usually fiscally liable. We
have, however, also considered how best to exploit this data in the future to enable the
Post Office to develop a comprehensive anti-fraud solution.
Using this information we have examined the benefits that bringing in third party data,
analytics software and a consolidated data view could provide to improving fraud
analysis. We have also examined what benefits a consolidated data view could offer to
the wider Post Office.
There are strategic workstreams within the Post Office which consider data consolidation,
data access, IT architecture and the future of the general data environment. The focus of
this report is the IT systems which could be used to improve fraud analysis, rather than
the business processes that underpin their use. Internally the Post Office is addressing
many of the issues which will be highlighted around users of the data. While they would
be key to successful integration and new systems; these are dependencies for the
process rather than part of the roadmap itself.

2.3 Document structure
The main body of the document sets out the approach, key findings, a system and fraud
overview and recommendations, structured as follows;
. Executive Summary: Overview of the study and content
. Introduction: The context and details of the document
. Approach: The methodology used
. Key Findings: Key observations identified from the evidence collected
. System Overview: Key systems
. Fraud MOs: Collated view of fraud perpetrated
. Recommendations: Areas of potential improvement
. Solutions: Solution options
¢ Our recommendation: Our recommended roadmap forwards

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 5 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/5
Commercial in Confidence

POL00002078
POL00002078

3 Approach

3.1 Methodology

Detica conducted interviews with data owners and users across the Post Office over a six
week period. The interviews involved a semi-structured format and focused on;

Understanding the data environment;

How data is extracted and analysed;

Limitations on operational procedure which come from the data environment;

Collating fraud MOs; and

The impact of fraud on the business.

3.2 identification of interviewees

Interviewees were nominated at the beginning of the project by the Security team. Those
interviewed then provided more names of those who could be of use, or had specialist
knowledge of a particular area of interest. Further names were obtained from Post Office
literature, e.g. the risk register. Interviews (multiple in some cases) were conducted with
the following individuals.

Pete Newsom, Fujitsu

Dawn Brooks, Product and
Branch Accounting (P&BA)

Sally Smith, Security

John Scott, Security
Joanne Hancock, Security
Kim Abbotts, Security

Andy Hayward, Security
Matt Warren, IT & Change
Ashley Hall , IT & Change
lan Trundell, IT Architecture

Nina Trueman, Sales
Planning and Analysis

Chris Howard,
Remuneration
Development/Agents Pay
Development

Andy Terrett, Remuneration
Advisor

Paul Meadows, Head of
Risk and Compliance

Kevin Lenihan, Senior
Information Services

Kjetil Fuglestad, Network
Design Manager

Sean Farrow, Supply Chain

Andrew Stevens,
Operations Manager,
National Stock Centre

Graham Tiley, Retail
Inventory

Chris Furmanski, IT
Architecture

Paul Lebeter, P&BA

Dave King, Information
Security

Lester Chine, Security
Cathy MacDonald, P&BA

Jason Collins, Security

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10

Commercial in Confidence

Page 6 of 29

F/935/6
POL00002078

POL00002078
Commercial in Confidence
e Phil Jeary, Post Office e Nick Fox, Market Planning
Model Office
¢ Mark Smythe, Kings
e Dave Burford, Business Security
Support Manager

* Katherine Mearman, Senior
Brand & Format Manager

3.3 Supporting Hterature

Our findings are also based upon documentation provided by the Post Office, including
the annual security report, risk register and reports from IntelliQ and Deloitte on projected
fraud losses.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 7 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/7
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

4

Key findings

The following section summarises what we consider to be the main obstacles hindering
fraud detection and prevention within the Post Office.

Gaps in understanding of the Credence database - use and content

The Credence database sits at the heart of fraud analysis in the Post Office. It holds a
transaction record for everything sold in the Post Office from the till, online sales and
other Post Office sales machines e.g. Post and Go. Transactional level data is available
to the Post Office for 90 days and a summarised view is available for 2 years. The
Credence database was designed to support the non-compliance and fraud detection
work of the Product and Branch Accounting (P&BA) team. Should a branch appear to
have unusual activity Credence will be used to investigate transactions. In addition, it is
used throughout the business for other activities such as branch profiling, network
transformation and any analysis that requires transaction level information.

Across the 380 system users there are varying levels of understanding as to what data
sits in Credence. Some users view the system as ‘clunky’ or believe that sophisticated
queries are not possible. They informed us that queries can specify transaction data to be
extracted by product type or by time period, but not both. Users are not supported by an
up-to-date data dictionary (one was originally maintained by Logica, but has not been
updated). Indeed whilst many users view Credence as an MI (Management Information)
system, Fujitsu, who host the system, informed us this was not its original purpose.

This has led to the majority of data interrogation, research and analysis activity from
Credence being conducted outside of the system itself - through the use of bespoke
databases running across exports of data.

Day to day operations are rellant on bespoke databases

The limited understanding of how Credence interrogation can operate and no centralised
data repository means that the majority of teams do most day to day operations on
bespoke Access and Excel databases. Microsoft database products were not designed to
hold multi-million volume records, nor conduct the complexity of queries that Post Office
users are currently utilising them for. The Network Transformation team in particular
referenced using 12 bespoke databases on a daily basis, one of which uses
approximately 30 billion transaction level records as required, all of which are stored in
excel format on DVDs.

These databases provide limited functionality, despite many parts of the business
developing very sophisticated macros. They are not future proofed, many only being able
to be operated by current employees. In addition these databases are prone to failure, as
they are operating beyond capacity. Due to multiple copies of the same data no single
version of the truth exists within the Post Office.

Unclear data ownership across the business

The reliance on bespoke database has led to a fractured data usage picture. Users in
different parts of the business are unlikely to know who is using the data and for what
purpose.

This can lead to bespoke database failures when the central or core databases are
subject to system change. Examples of this include:

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 8 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/8
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

« The Security team’s efforts to identify anomalous levels of spoilt postage by
deriving mean branch figures from Credence data. When the data was changed,
this view was no longer possible through the Security team’s methods.

¢ The Network Transformation team’s branch profiling spreadsheet began to reject
batch data when change notification process failed to identify all the users of
Credence when new data streams were added to it.

The prevalence of bespoke databases held within specific teams also means that
analysis which could be valuable in other areas of the business is not being exposed to
end users across the organisation.

Fraud detection based on summary, rather than transactional level
data

Partial understanding of the transaction level data available and limited functionality of
investigative tools has meant that fraud detection at a high level has focused on summary
data. However this does not offer the granular view required for effective fraud detection.
The Product and Branch Accounting team look for fraud by monitoring branches for
unusual activity. This is completed using a data feed from POLSAP, which is summary
level data offering an amalgamated branch view.

Gaps in understanding the scale, nature and impact of fraud

Although the Post Office has an understanding of how and where fraud has impacted the
business, primarily through the investigation of internal frauds, there is a recognised gap
in relation to the actual scale and impact (financial or otherwise) of fraud across the
enterprise. Similarly, there is awareness within the Security Team and beyond of
particular fraud MOs that have been used in the past, which inform current monitoring
and risk mitigations efforts; however many of these are identified reactively and there is a
gap in relation to the strategic analysis of fraud across the business.

Employee data is sub-posimaster reliant and difficult to access

Each individual working in the Post Office branch network has a system login ID. This is
recorded in any transactions they complete and should therefore act as an identifier for
fraudulent activity. However the Post Office has over 11,000 branches, more than 95% of
which are run by sub-postmasters.

Sub-postmasters are checked against the electoral register, CCUs and bankruptcy when
they apply to the Post Office — however their employees are not subject to any scrutiny.
Sub-posimasters are required to return a list of their employees annually, and update the
Post Office should this change, but this system relies on the discretion of the sub-
postmaster. In addition logons are known to be used interchangeably by employees, both
deliberately and accidentally. Identifying an individual who completed a transaction, even
with their unique identifying code, can therefore be difficult.

A query based model for data access so only known problems can be
verified

The main data source for fraud investigations is Credence, which has a three month
window during which the Post Office can extract data. After this point a request has to be
sent to Fujitsu. Therefore analysis on the data is limited by time period and can only be
reactive. Only problems which are already identified can be verified.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 9 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/9
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

5.4

The data environment

The data environment in the Post Office, in common with other large government
organisations, is complex. There are multiple databases which hold different views of the
same information for different processes and purposes. Included in this section are those
systems which we believe have potential value in a fraud solution. Further systems which
were understood, but not prioritised, can be read about in Appendix 1. In mapping the
system numerous views were provided, all of which offered subtly different perspectives.

Our understanding of the Post Office data environment comes from multiple interviews
with the data ‘owners and users’. However as data ownership in the Post Office is not
always Clear, it has been challenging to identify a single version of the truth.

System view

The system diagram below was one provided to Detica by the Post Office IT department.
It outlines the batch system — which feeds from the Horizon transaction data, the area this
report focuses on. In the second view we have added in some databases we are aware of
interacting with those systems. It also indicates those systems we consider to be a priority
in developing an anti-fraud solution.

I Rreaten Sens

Figure 1: Post Office system

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 10 of 29

Commercial in Confidence
F/935/10
Commercial in Confidence

POL00002078
POL00002078

5.2

ok
dou I

som II Apa
Oe

et y
Tons B

2

Figure 2: Post Office prioritised data sets

The Post Office is currently transitioning from the EDG data gateway to the PODG.
Details can be found in Appendix 1.

Key databases

The table below outlines the current Post Office datasets which could be part of a fraud

solution. These systems offer transaction information, current MI and fraud detection
capability or a view of branches or employees.

Data Set

Use

Horizon

transactions where the Post Office is providing a third party good or service,
the transaction is an application. A data feed will be sent to the client (suppli

Post Office as a sale.

through the Horizon system. A long-term goal within the Post Office is to

encompass all.

The Horizon system is the operating system on all Post Office branch terminals,
with all transactions made through the till recorded there. Transactions can be
sale or non-sale transactions depending on the nature of product being bought.
Stock purchases are sales as the transaction is closed at that point. For some

the good/service) and if this is accepted it will be separately confirmed to the

Other transaction data sources (e.g. Post Office Kiosks) do not automatically go

rationalise the data journey so all transaction information passes into the Horizon
data feed. This has begun with some transaction data sources, but does not

then
ier of

Branch
Database

Database is hosted by Fujitsu, who also have a mirror image system that rui

All transactions made at Post Office counters in Horizon are stored in the Branch
Database. Data is accessible for two months before it is archived. The Branch

Ins a

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10

Page 1

Commercial in Confidence

1 of 29

F/935/11
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

few seconds behind, as a backup.

The Post Office has a limited number of data queries (est. 750) annually that it
can request. Beyond that point queries are £400-500 each, due to a database
administrator having to extract the data over potentially multiple archives on
multiple servers. This model of query based data access means that only
problems already identified can be verified and on a limited time scale.

Credence The Credence database holds transaction level data for three months and a
summarised view for data after that period. It is fed from multiple sources,
including a subset of Horizon data, which is chosen by the business depending
on need. Other feeds come from the External Data Gateway (EDG) for third party
suppliers and through Post Office Financial Services (POFS) for third party
financial suppliers. At present it is not possible to marry the Horizon application
transactions and the external sales transactions. The data streams that go to
clients (suppliers of Post Office branded goods and services) do not necessarily
include Post Office unique identifiers, therefore a transaction that is confirmed
and returned as a sale cannot be easily matched to its original application.

The database was originally designed to support the operations of the P&BA
team for compliance and fraud detection. It has many further business functions,
including being used as the main Post Office MI system. It is also used to
translate data for remuneration in SAP HR, as transaction volume data is the
basis for selected payments to sub-postmasters. It acts as a reconciliation point
for data that comes from Horizon and third party data to ensure that expected
values of transactions have been accurately reported into the Horizon system.

Third party data entering Credence is usually automatically ingested via the Post
Office Data Gateway, which loads third party data into various Post Office
databases. However some data flows are manually entered by Post Office
employees.

Data from third parties largely does not require transformation, however there are
instances where the data is manually transformed outside of the system before it
is entered. This is usually to support the remuneration process, such is the case
for over 50s life insurance.

Customer data is not stored in Credence, as the system does not have sufficient
security accreditation. It does however hold postcodes for those records where
that information was collected. However what information can be extracted from
Credence is dependant on which universe (a view of specific items of data from
the business data warehouse, presented in an organised manner) the data sits
in. The universes do not interact and have different user restrictions.

POLSAP POLSAP is a summary level accounting system with two main functions - POL
FS (financial services) and the stock system. It receives a summary feed from
Credence, TPS (Transaction Processing Systems database) and third party
financial clients such as Moneygram.

POLSAP has 4 modules;

¢ General ledger accounts (income/control/stock/liability accounts/client
matching);

¢ Vendor (accounts data for settlement with clients);

* Customer (Post Offices have an account associated to a customer
number, these are monitored by P&BA to recover debt); and

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 12 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/12
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

¢ Other transactions (clearing/materials management/payment runs/
transaction corrections/ journal postings)

General Ledger accounts are used by the P&BA team to monitor branch activity.
It acts as the basis for their compliance and fraud detection.

MDM/Reference I MDM data (previously referred to as Reference data) is a master data
data management system, supported by Logica, utilising Kalido software. It acts as
the Post Office core master data, which allows all other systems to operate.

The system holds data for each Post Office branch including;
« Sub-postmaster
¢ Contract type
¢ Opening times
* Branch address
* Products sold
e Product names (multiple)
¢ Details of the product (vary by type)
e Prices
«Barcode information
* Cana sale be reversed
¢ Is there an employee discount
* Product supplier

This information is provided to Fujitsu (without the HR information, which is
unnecessary), verified by them, and then sent to other systems including
Horizon, Credence and POLSAP. Should any of this information be set up
incorrectly then these systems will reject the records which conflict, or in the case
of Horizon a transaction will not be able to complete. The system also underpins
the website branch finder and a similar, more detailed, internal branch viewer.
The information is updated daily by HR who provide it to IT and Change, who
send it to Fujitsu.

SAP HR SAP HR is the remuneration system for sub-postmasters. The system receives a
monthly data feed from Credence and uses it to calculate the remunerations to
sub-postmasters. This data is made up of both Horizon and third party sources
and is a summarised version of both, containing an amalgamated branch view
required for remuneration calculations. The system converts the data to pay, but
does not add information. The remunerations team describe SAP HR as the
“end” of the data line.

Depending on the contract type certain sub-postmasters might not be paid by
transaction, so the data will vary by branch. All transactions can be linked back to
employee IDs from Credence data; who the ID corresponds to is held in SAP HR.
SAP HR is the hub of employee information within the Post Office. It should
contain records of all employees, sub-postmasters and branch employees.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 13 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/13
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

5.3 Bespoke databases

Much of the analysis of data within the Post Office is completed in Excel and Access
databases. In the scope of this review it would be impossible to map them all. However
some of those which lie at the heart of fraud analysis are listed here.

Bespoke Use
database

P&BA POLSAP. P&BA teams investigating trends in branch holdings take a daily feed of
POLSAP data into Excel. This is now semi-automated through the use of a
macro and takes approximately 20 minutes daily to complete. This tracks
trends for branches for 10 weeks to detect unusual behaviour.

Conformance data I Information is kept in separate databases about branches which have been
investigated or reprimanded for non-conformance or fraudulent behaviour. The
multiple databases do not follow the same schema, with location and branch
being recorded differently in the databases.

Branch This is a log of every branch that has been investigated or where there was
Investigations some kind of unusual activity. If a situation arises which might indicate the
need for an audit, the P&BA team record this in a SharePoint system, which
holds approximately one year’s worth of data.

Recruitment risk If an individual has been barred from working with the Post Office they should

register be recorded in the recruitment risk register.

Credence in All the transaction level data from Credence since 2004 held in multiple Excel

Network spreadsheets and run through an Access database as required. This totals

Architecture something equivalent to 30 billion records and is used for branch profiling
purposes.

NRRA1207.p..r.Dnnn-0.10 Pago 14 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/14
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

6.1

Fraud detection

Our principal focus within this review was on internal fraud. The vast majority of Post
Office offerings are third party products, thus losses to the Post Office through fraud
would largely be reputational rather than fiscal.

Teams involved

Fraud detection within the Post Office falls within the remit of the Security team -
however, multiple teams are involved with analysing the data in an attempt to reveal
potential fraud MOs.

Product and Branch Accounting

P&BA monitor Post Office data to detect behaviour which may indicate fraud or non-
conformance. The main areas of investigation are;

* Client settlement; transactions/over the counter/web onward sending of funds;
« Managing discrepancies between transactions;

* Debt recovery; and

* General reconciliation.

Client settlement

Client settlement teams manage the payments that are owed to the suppliers of Post
Office sold goods and services. For example Santander receives weekly updates of
expected deposits and the APS (Automated Payments System) provides Santander a list
of expected revenue from the week. This relies on sub-postmasters conforming to Post
Office accounting procedures. Any degree of non conformance could mean a disparity
between actual transactions and what the client is paid thus result in penalty charges.

Managing discrepancies

Discrepancies between expected and reported cash holdings are managed by issuing
transaction corrections to branches, which creates a loss or a gain in the branch cash
balance. Transaction corrections at crown offices are written off as a business loss / gain.
If any of the other network branches have losses which they are unable or unwilling to
pay the central Post Office, the value will be added as debt from the office. This debt is
then pursued through the debt recovery process.

Managing discrepancies has seen a rapid reduction since the automation of most Post
Office products. Manually keyed in products have an error rate of approximately 1 in 100,
whereas the scanned goods rate is 1 in 4000. This has reduced the number of staff
required to monitor error from 1000 to 80.

Debt recovery

Debt recovery is either current sub-postmaster or former sub-postmaster debt owed to the
Post Office due to transaction discrepancies (transaction corrections) or cash loss.

Former sub-postmaster debt for 2011/2012 will exceed £8.7million, with new debt
comprising £2.3million, £1.5million of which will be written off as a loss.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 15 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/15
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

General reconciliation

General reconciliation of expected branch holdings and transactional data is a key part of
identifying internal fraudulent activity within the Post Office. Cash holdings, cheques,
rejected and spoilt postage and ATMs are all monitored for unusual trends across the
network. Behaviour is analysed over a three month period by the fraud and non-
conformance team within P&BA to generate an expected view of the branch activity.

This has been a successful way of picking up fraud at an earlier stage while the loss is at
a lower value. P&BA do not investigate fraud, but can recommend an escalation to
obtain more information, recommend training for the branch, request a case to be raised
via Security or apply for an audit / intervention visit.

In the 2011/2012 financial year over 104 escalations were raised due to P&BA data
reviews, estimated at approximately £1.5 million in losses to the Post Office. This
represents loss due to non-compliance and fraud.

Security

The Security team investigates Post Office branches which have been deemed high risk.
The initial flag for investigation can come from;

Grapevine report;

Customer complaint;

Internal analytics by the Security team;
Central analytics form the P&BA team;
Police enquiry; and/or

Internal investigation.

Behaviours which can trigger initial interest in a branch include;

¢ Ifa Crown branch has a loss of more than £250 that they cannot account for;

* Diversion from expected patterns of sales behaviour or cash holdings;

¢ Losses of more than £1000 from non-Crown branches that cannot be accounted
for.

Credence is used to investigate the anomalous behaviour. If the transaction period in
question is outside of the 90 day Credence window then transactions will be requested
from Fujitsu. These requests can be for a branch for either a one day or month long view.

The Security team owns the relationship with Fujitsu in relation to data requests. As part
of their managed service they have approximately 750 free requests per annum. Should
they exceed this quota then they are charged between £400-500 per data request. Any
requests which come from the Police as part of a criminal investigation must be
honoured, which can put a strain on this system.

In addition to the Security team’s audits, random audits are conducted throughout the
year. These successfully identify non-compliant and fraudulent losses; however these are
largely reactive tactics. A data analytics tool could provide a more systematic profiling
process, using branch views over time to highlight potential problem branches before
losses occur.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 16 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/16
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

6.2

6.2.1

$.2.2

Fraud MOs

The Post Office Security team have built up a view of the types of internal fraud that the
business is exposed to. Some of these fraud types are identifiable from current data,
some are not.

The value of internal fraud within the Post Office is currently an unclear figure. There is no
systematic account of what has been lost through specific fraud MOs. Some fraud types
will have direct fiscal impacts but also reputational impacts for the Post Office either with
clients or customers.

Faise Accounting

Many of the fraud MOs could be termed as false accounting. The simplest way for a sub-
postmaster to achieve this is to record less takings in Horizon than were achieved and
keep the difference. This can be via the ATM, cash or cheques. This is currently believed
to be the biggest direct fraud loss to the Post Office.

How to identify automatically: Anomalous/high error rate compared to other branches of
similar size/profile from Branch Database or Credence

Value to business: HIGH

REM reversals

Sub-postmasters may use REM reversals in order to hide cash loss. When a cash
remittance is entered into Horizon, the physical pouch is scanned into the system, then
placed into a safe until it is collected by the central Post Office. The digital money is
entered in a suspense account.

If a sub-postmaster has a loss they wish to cover up then they may scan an empty pouch,
and enter a fictitious amount into Horizon to balance the amount of cash they should be
physically holding. If this amount remains in suspense for more than 41 days then it is
automatically re-entered into the system. The sub-postmaster may reverse the amount
back into the system to avoid detection, then simply REM the same amount out at a later
date.

REM reversals can be done genuinely for legitimate reasons but can also be a way to
steal money and cover up the loss of the physical funds.

How to identify automatically: Large sums being ‘REM’d out/in’ during certain timeframes;
repeated instances of this occurring.

Value to business: HIGH

Payment reversais

Some payments for goods are manually entered into the Horizon system. Therefore a
payment of £20 could be made, and then reversed out as the sub-postmaster claims that
they mistakenly entered the amount, and there should only have been £2 worth of goods
sold. The sub-postmaster then keeps the extra cash.

How to identify automatically: Anomalous/high error rate compared to other branches of
similar size/profile from Branch Database or Credence.

Value to business: MEDIUM

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 17 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/17
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

6.2.4 Accepting counterfeit notes
Counterfeit notes identified in Post Office branches are returned centrally to the Cash
Centres, entered on to POL SAP against the branch, but with the Post Office accepting
the loss. If a counterfeit note is identified in a customer’s banking deposit it can be
claimed from the respective customer. Therefore some branches may accept counterfeit
notes from beneficial clients, as they will still be paid for the transaction and the Post
Office will compensate them for the note.
How to identify automatically: N/A.
Value to business: LOW

6.2.5 Pre-paid mail acceptance
Sub-postmasters may inflate the value of the pre-paid postage they accept in order to
increase the amount of remuneration they receive for the transaction. The post that
departs from the branch is not monitored for accuracy.
How to identify automatically: Anomalous/high value of pre-paid postage relative to
branch profile from Branch Database or Credence.
Value to business: LOW

6.2.6 Multiple transaction remuneration
If a customer asks for a transaction which is large or has multiple parts, then a sub-
postmaster may do this as multiple transactions, to increase the amount of remuneration
they receive, e.g. a large banking deposit may be broken down into multiple smaller
deposits.
How to identify automatically: Anomalous/high rate of transaction relative to branch
profile, temporal proximity of transactions from Branch Database or Credence.
Value to business: MEDIUM

6.2.7 Non-barcode driven items
Items without a barcode can be charged at an inflated price and then the sub-postmaster
keeps the difference. This potentially has a negative impact to the Post Office customer
reputation.
How to identify automatically: N/A.
Value to business: LOW

6.2.8 Commission theft on currency exchange
A sub-postmaster might exploit the commission on currency exchange by completing
sales outside of the Horizon system.
How to identify automatically: Monitoring of frequency of exchange rate requests not
leading to transaction from Branch Database.
Value to business: LOW

6.2.9 Spoilt and rejected postage
When a postage label is printed, the printer can malfunction. If the label is unusable then
the transaction is rejected, and has to be processed again. The sub-postmaster can print

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 18 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/18
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

6.2.10

6.2.11

two valid labels, sell one through Horizon, and sell the second one privately. If a
transaction cannot be completed after the label is printed then the label should be ‘spoilt’
and stored in the branch for audit purposes. A sub-postmaster can claim a transaction
was spoilt, and complete the sale privately but would not have a label to support the spoilt
transaction.

How to identify automatically: Anomalous/high levels relative to branch profile from
Branch Database or Credence.

Value to business: MEDIUM
Returns from pouches

Stock which needs to be returned to the stock centre, e.g. Camelot scratch cards after a
game is closed, are REM’d out of the Horizon system and sent to the stock centre. There
is a slip in the pouch which the sub-postmaster completes to state what should be in the
pouch; this is then checked against the stock within the pouch but it is not reconciled
against the Horizon system, as the stock and Horizon system are not linked. Although all
Post Office Ltd stock is checked, only a 10% random check is done on Royal Mail
products. Therefore offices could keep excess goods and sell them independently. In
addition sub-postmasters can claim some goods never arrived at the branch and sell
them independently.

How to identify automatically: Linking stock system and Horizon to reveal discrepancies at
branch level.

Value to business: MEDIUM
Post Office card account

When a withdrawal is made from a Post Office card the sub-postmaster can claim the
transaction did not go through and ask the individual to re-enter their pin details. They
then keep the duplicate cash. This is particularly targeted at those collecting pension and
benefits, who are vulnerable and less likely to notice the money has been taken. This
potentially has a negative impact to the Post Office customer reputation.

How to identify automatically: Duplicate transactions and temporal proximity from Branch
Database or Credence.

Value to business: MEDIUM
Annual leave

When a sub-postmaster takes annual or sick leave they are compensated by the Post
Office to have someone cover their position. Sub-postmasters can claim to be on holiday
and keep the compensation, whilst covering the position themselves.

This MO will diminish over the medium to long term as this payment is no longer paid with
the new contracts signed under the Network Transformation Programme.

How to identify automatically: Horizon logon profile compared with holiday information
from HR data.

Value to business: MEDIUM

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 19 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/19
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

7.4

7.2

Recommendations

The following recommendations are designed to enable the Post Office to achieve its
core aim of improved fraud detection, through better use of its data.

Consolidation of data access and usage

Users across the organisation would benefit from enhanced ability to search, sort and
analyse Post Office data.

As is discussed in the key recommendations section, a lack of understanding of
Credence has meant much of the data analysis in the Post Office occurs in bespoke
databases. This has created a number of problems for the organisation, particularly;

* Multiple versions of data means no single version of truth;
* The databases are operating beyond capacity and are therefore prone to failure;

¢ Databases are not future proofed, many are only usable by their current
operators; and

¢ Limited sharing of data analysis across the business.

The Post Office therefore requires an effective data fusion capability which provides a
single view of the branches, employees and customers. This would be realised through
the creation of a new database including;

e Transactional information from Credence or Branch Database;

* Customer information from the Post Office or third party suppliers;
* Employee information from HR SAP; and

¢ Stock movements from the Galaxy system.

Ideally the new database would also have a powerful data analytics tool and a new, more
user friendly, front end.

Enrich available data

Effective data analytics relies on good quality data. When its purpose is to underpin an
automated fraud detection system it is vital that this data is rich in entity information
(names, addresses, telephone numbers, bank accounts and other individual identifiers).
Improved data quantity, quality and access would enhance the Post Office’s ability to;

Profile branches and producis

Profiling can be achieved through the unique identifiers for products and branches
held in Horizon transactional data. Access to this data, coupled with an enhanced
data analytics tool and new user friendly interface, would allow analysts and
investigators to navigate through data easily and intuitively. This would have
widespread application across the Post Office. The addition of a transactional
analysis capability would allow the identification of potential indicators of non-
compliance and fraud. This would be reliant upon established fraud MOs that were
identifiable purely through transactional patterns.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 20 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/20
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

identity ‘internal’ fraud and single view of the employee

The initial set of data analytics would enable profiling of individual Horizon IDs. This
could provide a single view of an employee's interaction with all Post Office
products at transactional and summary level. Matching the Horizon IDs to individual
names and personal details through the use of HR SAP would allow for improved
analysis of risk, particularly in conjunction with data from third parties. Third party
data sets of particular value would be;

¢ Credit reference, e.g. Equifax or Experian;
e Identity data, e.g. GB Group;

e Fraud data (confirmed or suspected) from the wider fraud community, e.g.
National Fraud Intelligence Bureau (NFIB) and Insurance Fraud Bureau
(IFB); and

* Other government agencies and industry partners.

identify ‘external’ fraud and single view of the customer

The Post Office does not bear the financial loss for third party financial and
insurance products. Nevertheless it is important for the organisation to understand if
and where fraudsters are targeting Post Office-branded products and branches.

The third party product providers are likely to have their own anti-fraud measures in
place. However fraudsters are adept at identifying and exploiting weaknesses within
fraud detection capabilities. Therefore it is important for both the Post Office and the
third party provider to have a view of how their Post Office-derived customers are
interacting with third party providers.

As the Post Office does not generally hold personal customer data, claims data and
post-account creation transactional data for these products, it is difficult to
understand the scale or nature of this fraud. Identifying and matching data across
multiple data sets is vital in building a full picture of an individual or group’s activities
and contacts. Automating the building of these ‘social networks’ is in turn critical to
understanding fraud activity associated with an individual or account — and indeed
across a network. To develop this view, data must have entity values, e.g. names,
addresses, phone number, account information, email address etc.

Any comprehensive anti-fraud solution must be supported by customer data,
allowing for a single view of the customer to enhance efforts at understanding and
mitigating fraud.

Enhancing the relevant datasets in this way will pose some challenges, principally in
capturing and storing customer data. However it is critical for the Post Office to develop a
comprehensive analytical and investigative platform. With the enriched data a system can
provide automated fraud detection, single view of customers, employees, branches,
detailed management information and multiple analysis and research capabilities to
benefit the wider user community.

7.3 Automated identification of risk
With a richer set of data a sophisticated fraud detection, analysis and investigation
platform could be implemented that would achieve;

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 21 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/21
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

« Automated identification of risk and potential fraud linked to branches or
employees;

¢ Prioritisation for further investigation through the use of sophisticated scoring
models (to identify entity and network behaviours of interest);

* Proactive identification of fraud trends including, for example, specific
geographical areas and products that are susceptible to fraud;

* Enterprise search capability to allow users to rapidly identify all data of interest;
and

* Provision of Management Information (MI) across all relevant areas of the
business.

In essence, this type of capability would provide the Security team and the wider
organisation with a comprehensive analytical and investigative tool that would realise a
wide range of benefits. Automated identification and prioritisation of risk removes
laborious research and analysis processes that currently occur every day. In addition the
ability to easily search and sort data will allow for user driven analysis and investigation
across the business.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 22 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/22
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

8 Solutions

ez/Se6/4

There a number of options the Post Office could pursue to improve their current fraud detection. These offer different levels of capability, at different costs,
timescales and project prerequisites. Each option can be combined in full or in part with the other options. The strengths and weaknesses of each option refers
to the situation in the Post Office today, they are not innate weaknesses of the systems themselves.

Solution Purpose Estimated I Prerequisites Project I Strengths Weaknesses
Cost timescale
1) Stand- Understand current trends in 75-100k Provision of data from Post 1-2 This data analysis would present Provides a one time view of the
alone data _I the transactional data for the Office/third party providers; months I usable intelligence from complex, large- data, without any ability for the
analytics Post Office, from Branch : : scale transactional data, from easily Post Office to continue their
Database or Credence. Decide on what analysis would be obtainable sources with no additional _ interaction with it. It would be
Provide a breakdown of the valuable to obtain. customer or employee data required. It expensive to do continually and
data by branches, employees would clarify what can or cannot be of limited value for fraud
(Horizon IDs) and products. derived from the available data and detection without investigation
provide a foundation for future and further data.
implementation of a more
comprehensive solution.
2)Record- I Understand current trends in I 75-100k _I Provision of data from Post 12 A low cost option to sort data and Without initial data analytics as
based the transactional data for the Office/third party data providers; I months _I improve trend analysis. Enables quick described in option 1, it would be
enterprise Post Office, from Branch . and easy access for Post Office difficult to define risky behaviour
search and I Database or Credence. Decide on how the search tool employees and could provide alerts for _ to search for without
analysis Provide a breakdown of the should categorise data and how it perceived fraudulent behaviour. ‘encountering a high rate of false
data by branches, employees should be to interact with. positives, as there would be no
(Horizon IDs) and products. baseline. Enterprise searches
work best on entity based data,
but much of that will be missing
here.

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10

Commercial in Confidence

Page 23 of 29
POL00002078

POL00002078
Commercial in Confidence
3) To allow user-driven 100-500k I Provision of data from Post 23 Allows for user-driven interrogation of I Transaction-based, so limited in
Transactional I interrogation of transactions to Office/third party data providers; months I transactional data to reveal potential terms of an entity-based fraud
analysis identify specific behaviour of a non-compliance or fraudulent analysis and investigation
interest (in relation to specific Identification of key users to behaviour. Automatically identifies data capability; more expensive from
branches, employees, and contribute to the building, of interest across high volume of a product licensing and
products). Automated search development and maintenance of transactions much more rapidly and implementation perspective than
across all data for specific the system; effectively. options 1 and 2. It also requires
fraud MOs visible in more commitment from Post

Understanding how fraudulent

transactional data, behaviour appears in transactional

Office during scoping,
implementation and day-to-day

data.

use and maintenance of the
system.

4) Network- I Provision of acomprehensive I 1-2 million I Provision of all relevant datasets I 6-12 This option will provide the capability for I Relies on entity-rich data not

based data fusion capability that will I for product I including customer/employee data I months I proactive fraud identification, currently available within the

automated I provide automated risk/fraud I licence _I from across the Post Office investigation and prevention. The Post Office environment; longer

detection of I detection, enterprise search, I and enterprise; breadth of automation and user driven _ implementation time; greater

fraud and management information and_I implement access will allow Security and the wider _ costs attached to licensing and

risk, complementary types of ation* Detailed understanding of Post business to achieve savings. This will implementation of the solution.

including analytical and investigative Office business and system include significant financial benefits

enhanced functionality for use across requirements from across the user (through direct savings and efficiencies)

analysis and I the Post Office. community; and through wider business benefits

investigation Identification of key users to (increased reassurance to third party

capability government and commercial partners,

contribute to the building,
development and maintenance of
the system.

improved reputation for combating
fraud/loss).

pziSe6/4

*Potentially significantly more if multiple products required for integration

NB: Each option description is dependent on the specific scope of the project, but should provide an indicator to support decision making in relation
to next steps. Prices are not including any costs associated with extracting data from Fujitsu or other managed service providers.

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 24 of 29

Commercial in Confidence
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

8.1

Our recommendation

Our recommendation is that the Post Office begins its data journey by completing option
1, combined with a pilot of option 2. The Post Office is currently not sufficiently mature to
take advantage of the full benefits of option 3 or 4 — although options 2,3, or 4 could all be
possibilities for the future.

As the true value of fraud in the Post Office remains an unknown and there is no clear
understanding of how it can be best identified in data, the correct tool to tackle fraud can
not yet confidently be selected. A clear view of normal business operations is key to both
writing rules and successful transaction monitoring. If a comprehensive data analysis is
undertaken it will expose the picture of typical branches, employees and products. This
will provide the basis for a more comprehensive on going solution. In addition it will clarify
the need for further, possibly external, data.

Simultaneously an investigative tool should be piloted to allow the exploration of historic
fraud cases and known MOs to show how fraud appears in data. Combined this
knowledge will clarify what is the right solution for the Post Office to progress with.

To achieve desired results the Post Office should address the issues highlighted in the
recommendations section of this report. To achieve options 1 and 2 the Post Office will
need to;

*¢ Obtain a data sample from its hosting providers; and

* Agreement from the wider business on the incorporation of employee information
into the core dataset, including plugging any gaps in employee data (such as
sub-postmaster employees not currently captured by HR).

° Establish appropriate project management and oversight functions for the life of
the implementation (and beyond).

If appropriate, to move forwards into option 3 or 4 the Post Office will also have to;

¢ Construct a model of suspicious behaviour with data experts and those involved
in fraud detection.

For option 4 there will be two further tasks;

« Identify core users for the analysis and investigation function that would be
driven by this capability, potentially including the recruitment of new staff for this
purpose; and

e Investigation of options for incorporating customer data from third party product
providers; and

Oversight of the project is unlikely to be a significant issue for the Post Office given its
experience of managing large data/IT projects. However the other tasks will undoubtedly
present some challenges.

We believe the best way to approach implementation of a full solution is in a phased
manner. This approach has the benefit of providing a strong foundation for the
development and implementation of a comprehensive anti-fraud management tool, whilst
providing benefits to the potential user community as the project progresses.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 25 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/25
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

8.2

8.2.1

8.2.2

Solution implementation roadmap

Phase 1 - Initial data analytics and the provision of search and analysis capability
{supplier}; preparation for future implementation, including scoping and resolution
of data quality issues (Post Office)

Combining solutions 1 and 2 in a “proof of concept” environment will reveal multiple key
findings from Post Office data. Work in this phase will effectively profile the business at all
levels and provide useful intelligence for the Security team and beyond.

In order to do this successfully any supplier is likely to require data from at least
Credence, Branch Database, HR SAP, POLSAP and MDM Reference Data. As no single
database can identify the journey and impact of a transaction, (from counter creation to
remuneration) it is important that a slice of data from across these databases is available
for analysis.

During this phase the Post Office can work to fill any recognised gaps related to data
quality/availability, business processes, staffing and any other areas identified during pre-
project discussions.

Articulating direct financial benefit (through loss/fraud savings) is challenging given the
recognised gaps in understanding the scale, nature and impact of fraud (as mentioned
previously in this report). It is, however, anticipated that there will be numerous tangible
business benefits realised by the Post Office by the end of phase 1.

During this period the Post Office will benefit from the findings of the data analytics
workstream and also allow users to become comfortable with a new user interface which
will provide access to, and categorisation of, data in ways that have previously been
difficult (if not impossible) to achieve through current databases. It also provides a project
window within which the Post Office, in conjunction with data and industry partners
(where applicable) and through support from their chosen supplier(s), can create the
conditions required to progress to phase 2. This should facilitate an easier and more
successful implementation of a full analysis and investigation capability.

Phase 2 - Currently unknown

Phase 1 may expose that a complete picture of the Post Office data with a
comprehensive sort and search capability it is all that is required to prevent the majority of
internal fraud, if coupled with proactive investigation. In this case formalising option 2 may
be sufficient to tackle fraud.

Alternatively, should there be strong evidence of fraud by deviation from an accurately
calculated, branch, product or individual profile; a transaction monitoring tool may be
appropriate.

Finally, if an initial analysis indicates that a transaction based view would be overly
prescriptive and give insufficient context to anomalous behaviour, then a full network
solution utilising third party data may provide the optimum solution.

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 26 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/26
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

A Appendix 1
Further system components which were identified but are unlikely to play a part in a fraud
solution are included here.

AA Databases

AAA Salestorce
Salesforce is currently only available to Financial Services experts in branches on specific
laptops. As part of the Post Office 3 year IT strategy it is intended to hold a holistic view of
the customer's holdings within the Post Office offerings.

AAZ Post Office Financial Services (POFS)
POFS is an Oracle database that is the first point of contact for financial services
provider's data to enter the system. For certain product feeds (such as BT home bill
payments) the data is transformed before it enters Credence so it is usable for
remuneration purposes. Largely, it just transfers data to Credence and sends customer
data to the Brands database.

AAS Brands
The Brands database is used by the Post Office for marketing and advertising. It is fed by
third party data feeds from Post Office Financial Services. It is being developed to provide
a single view of the customer for the commercial and advertising teams. It currently holds
some transactional level data, but sporadically. Coherence of content will be part of its
on-going development.

AAA Steck system
The stock system operates the warehouse control system and manages
transtrack/different delivery companies. It generates consignment item numbers, and is
exclusively used by the national stock team.
Currently the stock system is not linked to the Horizon system, so the warehouse cannot
track stock movements from branch to the warehouse. The business relies on sub-
postmasters accurately reporting to the warehouse what they have returned, as they
cannot verify that with what has been removed or ‘REM'’d out’ from the branch system.

ATS Grapevine
The Grapevine system allows Post Office staff to report crimes to Kings Security, e.g. use
of false notes in branch. If they think there is a risk of duplicate crimes occurring in the
local area they will notify other high street businesses in the area via text blasts. Post
Office branches can choose to join this system.
Currently the Post Office and Kings are in the process of developing multiple activities
that tackle physical fraud within the Post Office network.

AAG Customer database
The customer database shows all of the products the Post Office hold. It is currently used
by the sales team.

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 27 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/27
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

AAT Sales centre
The Sales centre shows trends in sales and the market for Crown Offices. It is currently
used by Brands.

ALB ICOW database
The ICOW database holds signage, floor plans, design manuals and employee data for
all the Crown offices. It is currently used by Brands.

AAG APS (Automated Payments System)
Converts a branch database feed into expected payments which are owed to each client.
This feed is also sent to TPS.

AA48 TPS (Transaction Processing Systems)
TPS takes the client payment feed from APS and compiles reports for the Post Office on
sales and marketing. A feed of those sales figures are summarised and sent to POLSAP
and a transactional view is sent to Credence.

Aad DRS (Data Reconciliation Service)
DRS reconciles Branch Database transaction data and incoming banking data. If the two
data sets do not match then a report is sent to P&BA who identify the cause of the error.

AA42 Online Mapinfo
In the near future the Network Transformation team intends to launch an intranet mapping
view of Post Office data. It currently exists but is largely outdated.
The new version will be overlaid data onto Google maps with some of their most common
information queries available, including appropriate security controls.

A2 Batch feeds
These data sources provide Post Office transactions that were completed out of the till,
therefore out of the Horizon system. They batch feed into the Horizon data in the system,
either going into Branch Database or Credence.

A24 Post and Go
Post and Go machines offer goods and services as an alternative to the counter till. This
data is owned by Wincor and provided to the Post Office. The Post Office will then send
the expected revenue amount back to the branch for confirmation, and the takings are
then put into the till. Post and Go has experienced some problems completing
transactions meaning duplicate transactions have had to be completed in Horizon. The
Post and Go data feed now joins Horizon before it goes into Credence and Branch
database.

AZZ Paystation
Paystation terminals can process bill payments when Post Office counters are shut. The
system records the transaction which is owned by Ingenico. This information is then sent
in a batch to the Horizon feed.

NRRA1207.p.q.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 28 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/28
POL00002078
POL00002078

Commercial in Confidence

A.2.3

AS

ASM

AB.

AEL

Holds the biometric data services which the Post Office provides for the DVLA and
others. The system is owned by Cogent and like the Post and Go machines the
transaction feed enters the Horizon feed. However the biometric information itself is
securely stored separately.

Data gateways

The Post Office system has many incoming data streams, APOP and EDG act as a
conformance check and to transform and load data.

APOP (Automated Payments Out Payments)

APOP translates incoming data to the Post Office and acts as a processing bucket. It
checks data for conformance to rules and reject anything that does not conform before it
reaches the Post Office Data Gateway. Any data which is rejected will be sent to the Post
Office admin team to resolve the issue and have the data resubmitted.

EDG (External Data Gateway)- transifioning to PODG (Post Office Data Gateway)

The EDG extracts data from non-Post Office systems, transforms it into a useable format
for internal databases, and loads it into the final destination. It is also able to send data to
clients. Largely it is focused on transforming and loading incoming third party data for
systems, particularly Credence and POLSAP. It provides the ability to send different sub-
sections of the data to multiple destinations, using the same ID number. An example of
this is the data captured in a Moneygram transaction. Anti-money laundering legislation
means some data collected in a Moneygram transaction is not for the client; instead it is
captured and provided to the government. Data can be transferred via web, FTP, connect
direct and secure email (for internal data transfers only).

NRRA1207.p.¢.r.Dnnn-0.10 Page 29 of 29

Commercial in Confidence

F/935/29
