POL00104806
POL00104806

ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

P&S Doc. 10-

STANDARDS OF BEHAVIOUR AND COMPLAINTS PROCEDURE x

1. PURPOSE.

The aim of this document is to provide Royal Mail Group Security
personnel with clear guidance concerning the required Procedures &
Standards in relation to the above subject and ensure that they know
and understand the behaviour expected of them and the relevant business
processes for the investigation of reports of alleged unprofessional
and/or unlawful behaviour.

2. INTRODUCTION

2.1 I Royal Mail Group Security (RMGS) personnel conduct inquiries into
criminal and suspected criminal activity. It is vital to the
success of these inquiries and to the status of Royal Mail as a
public authority (with the additional powers this provides) that
employees, members of the public, the Police, Home Office and the
Criminal Justice system have absolute confidence in the integrity,
conduct and professional status of RMGS personnel in performing
their role.

It follows that allegations of improper behaviour by RMGS

2.2 I personnel during a criminal investigation are viewed in a more
serious light than if the individual occupied a less responsible
position.

This means adherence to the law, code of business standards,
Business Policy and Standards and Group Security Policy,
Procedures and Standards at all times. RMGS personnel are advised
2.3 I that although not formally referred to in the aforementioned
business means of communication, inappropriate conduct or
behaviour outside of work (including work related functions),
likely to bring Royal Mail Group into disrepute or give cause to
question an individual's suitability to perform a role within RMGS
may be subject to actions referred to in these P&s.

Due to the nature of the job Investigators in particular will be
at greater risk of complaints being made about their
conduct/behaviour whether they be genuinely made, vexatious or
designed to undermine an investigation/prosecution. Irrespective
of the source/motive RMGS has a responsibility to assess and
investigate all complaints with impartiality and where appropriate
take action.

3. RULES AND STANDARDS

3.1 I Rules and standards governing Royal Mail Group Security personnel
are grouped into three broad areas. Links are provided to the
relevant Policies and Standards.

3.2
LAW
Document Title: Standards of Behaviour and Complaints Procedure
P&S Doc. Ref.: No.10-X Version 2
Date: Oct 2007

Owner: Policy, Standards & Investigation Support Manager
POL00104806
POL00104806

ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

Criminal acts committed by RMGS personnel in the course of their
duties will be investigated as per section 6, Criminal
Investigation. Proceedings concerning criminal acts outside work
must be reported to line managers and investigated in accordance
with the Royal Mail Conduct Code and assessed as per Agreement
s.12 where the manager must consider “whether the offence is one
that makes the individual unsuitable for his or her type of work”.

RMG POLICY & CODES OF PRACTICE
Code of Business Standards
B&H Investigators Guide.pdf
Data Protection Act Policy
Information Security Policy

GROUP SECURITY POLICY, PROCEDURES & STANDARDS
RMG Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Policy

The Group Security Procedures & Standards can be located on the
Group Security Database.

4.

REPORTING/COMPLAINT ASSESSMENT

4.1

Complaints will normally be referred to either the Head of
Investigations (Royal Mail, PFWW or POL) or to the Complaint
Manager (RMLS Policy, Standards & Investigation Support Manager)
or his nominated deputy for initial assessment and selection of
the business procedure to be applied, namely Criminal
Investigation, Grievance Procedure, Conduct Code or the Bullying
and Harassment procedure (see ‘Procedures’ below).

Dependant on the nature of the complaint the initial assessment
may be made in conjunction with the Criminal Law Team or, in the
case of complaints made via the Bullying & Harassment procedure,
the Regional Case Manager.

All complaints relating to a breach of PACE, RIPA powers, CP&I Act
and their associated codes and guidelines and/or the unauthorised
disclosure of sensitive information will be logged and monitored
by the Complaint Manager.

In the event of a multiple issue complaint the initial assessment
will include a decision as to whether the matters are dealt with
under one process or whether there is a need to utilise more than
one. An example being if general conduct matters are raised
alongside an allegation of criminal behaviour. The latter would
be investigated as per section 6 with the other matters being
dealt with under another business process.

Where more than one process is utilised and one of them is a
criminal investigation the sequencing of any investigative
activity will be agreed between the complaint manager and the

Document Title: Standards of Behaviour and Complaints Procedure
P&S Doc. Ref.: No.10-X Version 2

Date:
Owner:

Oct 2007
Policy, Standards & Investigation Support Manager
POL00104806
POL00104806

ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

people leading on the business process. The complaint manager
will also be advised of any investigation outcome prior to the
complainant being notified of the result/decision. This is to
ensure that due consideration is given to the impact of any
communication on the ongoing element of the complaint
investigation.

All complaints referred to the Complaints Manager will be recorded
and a log maintained detailing the business procedure applied and
any conclusions reached.

5. PROCEDURES

5.1 IAll complaints (irrespective of whether raised by an employee,
member of the public, external agency or the Investigatory Powers
Tribunal) about the conduct or behaviour of a Royal Mail Group
Security employee will be investigated utilising existing business
processes. The subject of the complaint will have the same rights
under each process as any other employee of Royal Mail Group Ltd

To demonstrate independence and impartiality the investigation may
be undertaken by an investigator from a different business unit
than the subject of the complaint or in some circumstances by an
investigator within a different territory. The complaint manager
5.3 I will make this decision in consultation with the relevant Head/s
of Investigations.

All complaint investigations will be carried out in a timely
5.4 fashion and/or within business process timescales and will not
normally be delayed due to an ongoing criminal investigation or
prosecution.

Where the complaint relates to an ongoing criminal investigation
or prosecution the Criminal Law Team will be notified and kept
informed of progress by the nominated person investigating the
said complaint. Any decision to delay a complaint investigation
will be made by the complaints manager in consultation with the
CLT and the person leading the investigation.

6. CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION

6.1 The Lead Investigator will be selected from a different business
unit within Royal Mail Group Security or, where resource is
scarce, from a team reporting to a different SB8 within Royal Mail
Group Security than the subject of the investigation.

The conduct of a criminal investigation will be determined by the
Lead Investigator in the case in consultation with the Complaint
Manager, Criminal Law Team (including 3rd party review if deemed
6.3 I necessary) and the Police if applicable.

Document Title: Standards of Behaviour and Complaints Procedure
P&S Doc. Ref.: No.10-X Version 2
Date: Oct 2007

Owner: Policy, Standards & Investigation Support Manager
POL00104806
POL00104806

ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

6.4 I The suspect will have the same rights as any other employee of
Royal Mail Group Ltd.

The outputs of the investigation may represent the fact-finding

stage of the conduct code and will be referred to the 1° or 2m

line manager. Where prosecution is a consideration the Criminal
Law Team will advise.

7. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

7.1 IThe following link takes you to the process to be followed for
complaints raised under the Grievance procedure. Grievance
Procedure Guidelines

If it is considered necessary, or the complainant requests it and
provides a substantial reason, the investigation may be conducted
away from the line. The outputs of the investigation may
represent the fact-finding stage of the conduct code and will be
referred to the 1°t or 2™4 line manager.

8. THE BULLYING AND HARASSMENT PROCEDURE

8.1 I Complaints made via the Bullying and Harassment procedure about
the conduct of an employee of Royal Mail Group Security during the
course of their duties connected with criminal investigations will
be managed by the Royal Mail B&H team or will be referred to the
Complaints Manager to instigate an investigation.

Where the Bullying & Harassment team manage the investigation
guidance will be provided to them by the Criminal Law Team and/or
a Senior RMGS Manager to ensure an understanding of the nature and
8.3 I complexity of the role performed by an employee of Royal Mail
Group Security.

8.4 I Complaints made via the Bullying and Harassment procedure and
referred to the Complaints Manager will be investigated in

accordance with the B&H procedure.

The investigation findings will be presented to the 1°* or 2™4 line
manager of the subject of the complaint.

B&H Investigators Guide.pdf

9. CONDUCT CODE

9.1 I Unless, following initial assessment, an independent, impartial
investigation is considered necessary, any matters relating to the
conduct of an employee of Royal Mail Group Security will be
referred to the subject’s 1°* or 2" line manager to investigate.

9.2
If it is considered necessary for the investigation to be
Document Title: Standards of Behaviour and Complaints Procedure
P&S Doc. Ref.: No.10-X Version 2
Date: Oct 2007

Owner: Policy, Standards & Investigation Support Manager
POL00104806
POL00104806

ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

conducted away from the line then the outputs may represent the
fact-finding stage of the conduct code and will be referred to the
1°* or 2™ line manager.

Conduct Code Process Link

10. CASE RESOLUTION

10.1] The responsibility for responding to the complainant, line manager
or representative of the complainant about the outcome of an
investigation under any of the aforementioned processes will
normally rest with the person leading the investigation. When
responding care will be taken to ensure that the wording of the
letter is fair, in that it conveys to the complainant the thorough
nature of the investigation but also recognises the dignity and
10.2I rights of the subject of the complaint.

If the complaint is made by a member of the public or an external
agency such as the Police or Investigatory Powers Tribunal, the
10.3 I response will be provided by either the Head of Investigations
(Royal Mail, PFWW or POL) or by the Complaints Manager or his
nominated deputy.

The Complaint Manager will be responsible for addressing any
consequent matters that arise out of an investigation that have an
impact on policy, procedures & standards or training.

11. APPEALS

11.1] Any appeals against either an investigation and/or a decision will
be managed in accordance with Royal Mail Group Ltd procedures.

12. REVIEWS

12.1] The Complaint Manager will carry out a monthly review of the
complaint log to ensure that case timescales are being met and any
relevant updates are recorded.

12.2
An annual review of these Procedures and Standards will be
undertaken on behalf of the Group Security Council by the Criminal
Investigation & Prosecution Policy Group

Document Title: Standards of Behaviour and Complaints Procedure

P&S Doc. Ref.: No.10-X Version 2

Date: Oct 2007

Owner: Policy, Standards & Investigation Support Manager
