POL00156681
POL00156681

From: Rodric Williamst:
Sent: Mon 25/04/2016 11

To: Matthews, Gavin j
Parsons, Andrewf_

Subject: FW: Full Review - Misra - NEW INSTRUCTION

Attachment: Receipts-Payments Mismatch Issue Notes.pdf

Attachment: Correcting Accounts for Lost Discrepancies.pdf

Attachment: FULL REVIEW - SEEMA MISRA.PDF

Attachment: Post Office Ltd - 68966

Attachment: 20150413133005950. pdf

Gavin, Andy — here’s the email (and attachments) I raised when we met last Wednesday, and the advice received in
response from Cartwright King (Simon Clarke), concerning POL’s duties of disclosure in prosecutions and cooperation
with the CCRC.

I remain a little uncomfortable with simply ceding responsibility for disclosure to the CCRC, and wonder if there is
anything more POL needs to do to comply properly with its duties (Misra s.17 Notice also attached as a sample).

Could you please take a look — it may be something we want to take to Brian Altman for specific advice? Please give
me a call if you need to discuss.

Rod

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 22 September 2015 15:21
To: Chris Powell

Ce: Martin Smith; simon.clark
Subject: RE: Full Review - Mis

Chris — thank you for sending this over.

I note that because the full prosecution file was not available to Simon when he produced his note, he undertook his
review and based his advice on the information he was able to extract from the trial transcripts.

Through the disclosure exercise we are undertaking in response to the CCRC’s review of Ms Misra’s prosecution, we
have now obtained a substantial number of prosecution documents which concern the disclosure made in the
prosecution, including in response to Defence challenges about Horizon reliability. These documents can now be
reviewed through the Millnet dataroom set up to facilitate the disclosure of material to the CCRC.

I also attach two internal Fujitsu documents concerning a “Receipts-Payments Mismatch Issue”, which documents.
came to light through the investigation work undertaken with Second Sight Support Services Ltd.

Conscious of Post Office’s continuing duty of disclosure in criminal cases, I wonder whether Simon should revisit his
advice in the context of the attached notes and original prosecution documents. As noted above, the documents
available for review in the Millnet dataroom are substantial (c.2,000), and therefore I would be grateful if Simon could
please contact me to discuss and agree the approach to this once he has had a chance to consider this email.

I will also need in due course an eSRF to cover your firm’s costs of undertaking this work.
Please let me know me if you need to discuss anything further.

Kind regards, Rodric

POST
OFFICE

POL00156681
POL00156681

From: Chris Powell ; GRO. j
Sent: 04 September 2015 10:20

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Martin Smith

Subject: Full Review - Misra

Dear Rodric

Martin has requested I send you the attached review document on the case of Misra, compiled by

Simon Clarke.

Kind regards

Chris Powell
chris.powell
chris.powell4 GRO H
Tel:

CartwrightKing

meme SOLICITORS =m

Offices Nationwide

www.cartwrightking.co.uk we inI 8 i

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE
This e-mail is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. If you have received
it in error please notify us immediately by return email, do not copy it or its contents to anyone
else and delete it. Thank you for your cooperation.

A list of directors is available at each office. Cartwright King is authorised and regulated by the
Solicitors Regulation Authority No: 312459. VAT Registration No: 737837295

We cannot guarantee that this e-mail and any attachments are virus-free, but you should please
check.

POL00156681
POL00156681
