POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC MANAGED SERVICES

Service Specification Document
POL00337657
POL00337657

CONTENTS

1. ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT
11 Introduction and document structure

1.2 Glossary
2. INTRODUCTION ..
21 The Post Office Limited
3. OVERVIEW OF THE POST OFFICE REQUIREMENT.
3.1 EUC Drivers for Change
3.2 Post Office Branches Userbase Overview

3.3 Colleague Userbase Overview .
4. TECHNOLOGY FRAMEWORK.
44 Technology Framework Overview
4.2 Shared Services....
4.3 Branch Technologies
44 Test and Release

45 Colleague Technologies ..
5. SERVICE OPERATING MODEL
5.1 Post Office Service Support Operating Model .....

5.2 Incident Management

5.3 Major Incident Management
5.4 Incident Priority Definitions
6. SERVICE SPECIFICATION
6.1 Service Operating hours ..
6.2 Architecture...
6.3 Cloud / Infrastructure Management & Support...

6.4 Engineering Services

6.5 Build, Software Packaging & Release Management .

6.6 Service Management

6.7 Service Operations ..
68 End User IMACD
6.9 Security .....
6.10 Project Services...

6.11. Monitoring and Reporting
7. SERVICE LEVELS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ..
7A Service Level Agreements.

7.2 Key Performance Indicators
8. TOOLING

Page 2 of 193
10.

11.

8.1 List of Tools.

IMPLEMENTATION

9.1 Implementation Overview

9.2 Implementation Objectives .....

9.3 Implementation Principles.

9.4 Implementation Services

9.5 Implementation Delivery Approach ..

9.6 Implementation & Integration...

97

9.8

9.9

9.10 Security...

9.11 Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery ..
9.12 Transition of Staff (Relevant Transfers) .....
9.13 Business Communications ....

9.14 Implementation Governance ....

9.15 Reporting

9.16 Supplier Implementation Team.

9.17 Document Deliverables.

9.18 Implementation Milestones...

9.19 Implementation Schedule

9.20 Acceptance Criteria.

9.21 Testing.

9.22 Change Freeze

TRANSFORMATION ..

10.1 Transformation Overview...

10.2 Phases of Transformation Project

10.3 Project Governance

10.4 Change Freeze

10.5 Colleague Windows 10 Upgrade Project
10.6 Shared Services Separation Project ...
10.7 Analytics Project (Exercisable Option)
10.8 Remote Device Management (Exercisable Option)

POST OFFICE FUTURE ROADMAP / PROJECTS.....

11.4
11.2
11.3
11.4

POL00337657
POL00337657

Post Office Future Roadmap / Projects Overview ..
Strategic Platform Modernisation .
Microsoft 365 ES ese

CviT (Cash & Valuables in transit) Drivers PDA Replacement

Page 3 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

12. GOVERNANCE
12.1 Summary of Service Specification Governance / Meeting Requirement:
13. I APPENDIX A-LIST OF DOCUMENTS

Page 4 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

1. ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT

11 Introduction and document structure

This document has been produced as part of the Further Competition pack, for the Post
Office Ltd End User Computing (EUC) Services tender, under the Crown Commercial
Services RM3804 Technology Services 2 Framework. The SSD is written to convey the
service specifications for the Post Office EUC Colleague and Branch IT services to potential
Suppliers in order to allow them to effectively bid on the respective supply of services to the

Post Office.

This document forms part of the complete Further Competition documentation set, as
illustrated on the following page in Figure 1. Post Office EUC Tender Documentation

Structure.
Document Section Purpose
Section 1 Description of the purpose of the SSD and its relationship to the
About this document other Further Competition tender documents.
Section 2 Provides an initial introduction to the Post Office Limited and our
Introduction key aims.
Section 3 Introduction to the Post Office EUC Services requirement, the

Overview of the Post
Office Requirement

key change drivers and the overview of the Branch and
Colleague areas of the Post Office business.

Section 4
Technology Framework

Provides a detailed description of the technology used across
the Post Office and which is in-scope for the EUC Supplier.

Section 5
Service Operating
Model

Details of the Post Office Service Operating Model including the
internal Post Office IT team areas, the high-level roles and
responsibilities.

Section 6
Service Specification

Detailed definition of the EUC Services requirements, these
services apply to the scope of the Technology Framework.

Section 7
Service Levels
Agreements and KPIs

Describing the required Service Level Agreements and Key
Performance Indicators in relation to the Services.

Section 8
Tooling

Description of the key toolsets which the supplier is required to
use/integrate with, or provide input data feeds for.

Section 9
Implementation

Provides the requirements for the Implementation of the
Supplier EUC Services solution to deliver the Run state
requirements under the new contract.

Post Office Future
Roadmap / Projects

Section 10 Details of requirements for the in-scope Transformation projects
Transformation which the supplier will be required to implement.
Section 11 An overview of additional changes and projects which the Post

Office are likely to implement in the future, and which may
require the assistance of the EUC Supplier, but do not form part
of the initial scope.

Section 12 Summary diagram of the key Governance forums which are
Governance specified in the individual Service Specification section.
Appendices Supporting data and reference documents for the SSD.

Table 1: Service Specification Document Sections

IMPORTANT NOTE TO SUPPLIERS:

Suppliers should ensure they have read all sections of this document and all related documents
including the referenced Post Office documents in Appendix A, the Further Competition ITT, the draft
Order Form, as well as the CCS framework T&Cs, Call Off contract T&Cs and the selected Additional
T&Cs, before raising questions.

Page 5 of 193

RM3804
Framework
T&Cs

RM3804 Call Off
T&Cs

RM3804
Alternative and
additional T&Cs

(See appendices for summary
description)

POL
Requirements

Supplier Bid

The CCS Framework T&Cs operate
between CCS and the Supplier, setting
out the core terms of the framework and
the scope of services within the
available Lots.

The Call Off T&Cs operate between POL
and the Supplier, setting out the specific
terms between the parties. The services
and scope are invoked through the
Order Form, and are augmented by
POLs service specification and the
Supplier bid response.

These schedules provide an extension of
the terms within the Call off T&Cs and
are invoked (selected) through the
Order Form. The additional schedules
shown to the right have been selected
buy POL in the draft Order Form and
apply to this tender/contract.

POL specific service requirements,
Service Level & KPIs and Pricing Model,
which form part of the Further
Competition ITT and ultimately are
added to the final Order Form along with
the supplier bid to provide the full legal
structure of services.

The Supplier's respond to POL’s Further
Competition ITT questionnaire and the
winning bidder's response (including the
completed Pricing Model) is inserted in
the final Order Form along with POLs
Service Specification and SLAs to
provide the legal structure of the
services.

Figure 1: Post Office EUC Tender Documentation Structure

Framework

T&Cs

Order Form

Il Off T&CS Components
Calin uets5 inserted in final OF:

ance of ICT

aff Transfer A
uipment

urity Requirements

Related POL

Processes &

Policies (E.g.
Security
Policy)

Service
Specification

Supplier Bid
Response
(Including

Pricing)

Further
Competition
nT

Business Continuity

Increase of the Call

Off Contract Charges

Service Levels
& KPIs

Continuou

Benchmarking

Addit

Pricing Model

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 6 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

1.2 Glossary
In this Service Specification the following words and phrases have the following meanings:
Term Definition
AAD Hybrid Azure Active Directory Hybrid
ADFS Active Directory Federated Services
Admin Referring to the Post Office Colleague estate, some

documentation may contain a legacy name of ‘Admin’ which
equates to the Colleague part of the Post Office Business

ADSL Routers

Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line Routers

Android tablet MDM Android Tablet Modern Device Management
AEl Application Enrolment & Identity

AGMP. Advanced Group Policy Management Tool
API Application Programming Interface

AV Device Audio Visual Device

AWS Amazon Web Service

AWS SEC Amazon Web Service Security

AWS Sec Hub Amazon Web Services Security Hub

BAU Business as Usual

BC/DR/HA Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery/High Availability
BYOD Bring your own device

CAB Change Authority Board

ccs Crown Commercial Service

CDU Counter Deployment Utility

CFS Core Finance System

Change Freeze

Periods of time around where changes cannot be made to the IT
estate, usually Christmas and End of Year but exact dates to be
confirmed by the Post Office

cl Configuration Item

CISCO Trade name, manufacturer of networking & security products
COA Customer Operational Architect

CMDB Configuration Management Database

Counter Deployment
OSD

Operating System Deployment

Counter PoS

Counter Point of Sale

CVviT Cash and Value in Transit

DB Services Database Services

DBS Check Disclosure and Baring Check

DHCP. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

DMB Directly Managed Branch

DMBs Directly Managed Branches

DNS Domain Name System

DOCX Microsoft Word file suffix, as in "filename.docx
EOL Status End of life status

e2e End to End

DR&ITSM Disaster Recover and Information Technology Service

Commitments

Management Commitments

Page 7 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

End User IMACD

End user Installation Move Addition Change Deletion

Enhanced Support

A level of end user support that goes above the standard support
model and provides a VIP one-on-one integration usually in
person

EUC

End User Computing

Feature updates

Technically new versions of Windows 10, which become
available twice a year (roughly every six months) during spring
and fall.

FMI SAP Financial Management Information
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation
GLO IT Group Litigation Order Information Technology
GPO Group Policy Object
GUI Graphical User Interface
HNGA Horizon Next Generation Anywhere

(Terminal device on the counters)
HR SAP. Human Resources Statutory Accounting Principles
laaS Infrastructure as a Service
ICT Information and Communications Technology
IMACD Installation Move Addition Change Deletion
Incidents MIM Incidents Major Incident Management
IPAM IP Management tool
IP Management Internet Protocol Management
IPSEC Internet Protocol Security
ITIL Information Technology Infrastructure Library
ITSM Information Technology Service Management
ITSM Toolkit Information Technology Service Management Toolkit
ITT Invitation to Tender
KPI Key Performance Indicator
KVM Keyboard Video Mouse
Labels Used for labelling mails items and home shopping returns
LPOSS Legacy Point of Sale System
LST Live System Test
LTSB Windows 10 "Long Term Servicing Branch"

LTSC (Windows 10)

Long-Term Servicing Channel

MBAM

Microsoft Bitlocker Administration & Monitoring

MDOP MBAM Microsoft Desktop Optimisation Pack that includes a few tools
including Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring
(MBAM) which provides an administrative interface to enterprise-
wide BitLocker drive encryption.

MDT The Microsoft Deployment Toolkit

MDT Build Microsoft Deployment Toolkit Build

MDM Master Data Management

MFA Multi Factor Authentication

Microsoft Defender ATP I Microsoft Defender Advance Threat Protection

MITRE ATT& CK I A framework which helps organisations manage cyber risk better

Framework and plan what data needs to be available for cyber threat
detection or investigating a security incident

MSI &APP-V Microsoft Installer & Microsoft Application Virtualization

Page 8 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

NDES Cert Network Device Enrolment Service

NetBIOS Network Basic Input Output System

PAM Privileged Access Management

PAT Testing Portable Appliance Testing

Patch and S/W Patch & Software Release

Release

PC Personal Computer

Pcl Payment Card Industry

Pcl DSS Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards

PCI Legislation Payment Card Industry Legislation

PCI SSC Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council

PID Project Initiation Document

PIM/PAM Privileged Identity Management/ Privileged Access Management

PIN Personal Identification Number

PKI Public Key Infrastructure

PKI Cert Public Key Infrastructure Certificate

PKI Cert Services Public Key Infrastructure Certificate Services

POG Post Office Group

POL Post Office Limited

Post Office SAP Post Office Limited Statutory Accounting Principles

Post Office SOC Post Office Limited Security Operations Centre

PPE Pre-Production Environment

PSU for Branch Devices I Power Supply Unit

RACI Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, Informed

RAID Risks, Assumptions, Issues, Dependencies

RBAC Role Based Access Restrictions

Receipts Records of a service purchase or a banking withdrawal/deposit

Retail Referring to the Post Office Branch areas of the business.
Branch and Retail are used interchangeably in the Post Office
Business.

RDT Reference Data Test Environment

RFC Request for Change

RTO/RPO/RTA Recovery Time Objective/ Recovery Point Objective / Recover
Time Actual

SACM Service Asset & Configuration Management

SCCM System Centre Configuration Manager used for Client
Management

SCEP Single Certificate Enrolment Protocol

SecOps Security Operations

SEPAV Symantec Endpoint Protection Antivirus.

SIAM Service Integration & Management

SIEM Security Information and Event Management

SME Subject Matter Expert

SOAR Functions Security, Orchestration, Automation and Response Functions

SOC Security Operations Centre

Page 9 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Software Distribution I Microsoft application package installation formats

(MSI & APP-V

SQL Server Sequel Server

sso Single Sign On

SubCA Sub Certificate Authority

SV&I Environment Solution Validation and Integration Environment

T&C's Terms and Conditions

Transtrack CWC Transtrack Cash Web Community

TLS Transport Layer Security

Traka 32 Support software for Traka cabinets which provides graphical
representation of the cabinets and allows users easy visual on
activities happening on each Traka cabinet

UAT User Acceptance Testing

VSAT Very Small Aperture Terminal. (It is the satellite dish connection
to the internet.)

VIP Engineer Very Important Person (Engineer)

VNet Peer Virtual Network Peering

VPN Virtual Private Network

VPN Clients Virtual Private Network Clients

Windows 10 LTSC. Windows 10 Long Term Servicing Channel

2FA Two Factor Authentication

Table 2: Glossary of Key terms

Page 10 of 193
2.
24

POL00337657
POL00337657

INTRODUCTION

The Post Office Limited

We're here, in person, for the people who rely on us

“We’re here”

UK-wide physical presence is our strongest differentiator.

Our strategy must right size the network: providing the right services in the right place
at the right time.

We are the UK’s largest retail network with circa 11,400 branches.

90% of people in the UK live within one mile of a Post Office branch.

“In person”

Postmasters are the Post Office. There is no Post Office without them. They should
be at the heart of everything we do.

Postmasters serve our Customers reflecting the diverse communities they serve.
Everyday Postmasters and Customer-facing colleagues are making important,
personal and human connections with the Customers and communities they serve.
That human, personal touch is what makes us different.

Post Office Limited’s role is to be here for Postmasters — supporting and working with
them to deliver for Customers and corporate clients.

This doesn’t mean that we are turning our back on digital or online. Digital and
automation will always be an important enabler of our physical services, however, at
our core, we are here, to serve people, in person.

“For the people who rely on us”

This refers to our core Customers — those who rely on us.

In the past, we have tried to appeal to everyone — we have lacked focus and
prioritisation.

We must accept that not everyone needs us every day. However, everyone needs
the Post Office at some point in their lives.

As the world changes around us, some people will rely on us more than others. For
example, as retail bank branches close on the high street, we will need to be there to
carry out banking services.

We are relied and depended upon to deliver simple, trusted services for people,
small businesses and our corporate Customers when they need them.

Page 11 of 193
3. OVERVIEW OF THE POST OFFICE REQUIREMENT

The current Post Office End User Computing (EUC) services are supported under the current contract until 29th April 2021.
The contract includes a ‘Termination Services’ provision allowing the services within this contract to continue beyond the 29" April 2021 so
they may be maintained whilst the Post Office moves to the EUC services model defined in our EUC Services specification.

There are three distinct phases of the EUC contract - Implementation, Run and Transformation. This Service Specification Document
describes the requirements of each of these phases and the related Technology Framework, as summarised in the below diagram:
Deliver contract / in-scope transformations (See Section 10
Transformation for project requirements). These transformation
activities are described in the EUC requirements with the Supplier process), invoked through contract
required to provide plans and costs in the tender response: variation/change control if required. E.g, future

1. Colleague Win 10 Upgrade Project 0365 ES security requirements (See Section 11
Post Office Future Roadmap / Projects)

Engage EUC supplier for future change projects
via Project Services capabilities (i.e. RFQ

Complete procurement

fo eslect iuiane'EUG 2. Shared Services Separation Project

POL00337657
POL00337657

service provider.

Future change and projects

Transformation
A implementation (Section 10) (Section 11) .

Procure EUC Services }
(Section 9) Run

(Section 4, 5,6, 7 & 8)

Section 9 Implementation describes the Run the service, managing both Legacy and Modern

Implementation requirements for how the EUC technology solutions whilst Transformation completes,

Supplier will implement their solution to provide Fulfilling the requirements of Section 6 Service
the Run services in the new operating mode Specification.

defined in the service requirements.

Figure 2: EUC contract phases and relationship to SSD sections)

The following section provides a summary of our End User Computing key drivers for change and a high-level overview of the Colleague and
Branch areas of the Post Office business.

Page 12 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

3.1 EUC Drivers for Change

The Post Office is split into Colleague and Branch, with Colleague representing the Post
Office corporate and administrative organisation and Branch representing the Post Office
retail organisation that serves the public.

Whilst the Post Office is seeking a single EUC supplier to deliver the requirements of this
tender, these areas are operated as distinct business areas within Post Office Limited and
will need to be clearly distinguished with regards to services, service levels and costs
delivered through the EUC contract.

The renewal of our EUC contract provides an opportunity to re-think and re-implement the
structure and ways of working for EUC services, which will help to deliver our current and
future business needs, providing a more agile, more targeted and more commercially
competitive service for the Post Office, our postmasters and our staff.

We want to put the Postmaster first:

e The traditional retail Branch environment is under significant external pressures with
increasing competition. There is a continued expectation that systems are stable, always
available when our Postmasters need them, highly robust and transparent.

e Our services need to be delivered to Postmasters with a proactive care, avoiding or
mitigating issues and events which impact a Postmaster.

« We need to ensure services are underpinned by strong service level agreements which
represent not only reactive targets but should also reflect Postmaster service
satisfaction.

e Our Postmasters need an effective support solution, both via remote support and also
through field engineering services, whereby, engineers visit Branches in order to perform
routine services such as IT tasks required to set up branches, maintain systems and
equipment or perform break-fixes/replacements quickly so Postmasters can continue to
provide their services to Customers.

e We need IT change managed in a way which is reflective of the size and diversity of the
Post Office Branch network.

« We expect our field engineers to be the face of Post Office IT and provide help with
routine maintenance and be a representative of the wider Post Office brand to the
Postmasters.

We want to ensure we have Colleague Focused Services:

e Within Post Office Colleague we want to be able to adapt to business needs quickly,
recognising the different service needs in Colleague compared to Branch.

e Our Colleague systems need to be secure, available and kept updated for our staff.

e¢ We want to drive transformation in Colleague in order to gain the benefits of modern
device management and further adoption of cloud services, providing more dynamic
access to Post Office systems.

« We want to maximise flexibility in terms of home and office working, recognising the
long-term need for different working styles.

« We want future flexibility to extend services to the wider Post Office Group (POG) if
corporate synergies can be found.

Page 13 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

We want to Implement a Technical Separation of EUC Shared Services:

The ‘back office’ systems required to run Post Office laptops and desktops are currently
combined for Colleague and Branch as ‘Shared Services’. By separating these out into
Branch and Colleague component parts, we will:

« Allow Colleague change to be more agile and quicker paced.

« Create a clear and real airgap between Colleague and Branch systems, removing the
tisk of change relating to one area impacting the service performance, availability
and resilience of the other.

e Allow the Branch technology strategy and the Colleague technology strategy to
select the technical platform / tools which will best meet the needs of their respective
business areas (allowing technical divergence between Branch and Colleague where
this is beneficial).

We would therefore like to technically separate the two estates to better facilitate the
corresponding strategies for each part of the business. This driver reflects the very
different parts of the Post Office business and the different levels of technical complexity
and diversity.

We want specialist partners to achieve our aims:

To achieve our aims, we need the right partnerships and specialist suppliers in place. We
want an EUC supplier who will:

. Be fully accountable for their services, driving innovation and improvement.

. Deliver the core services consistently and competently with skilled resources and
specialisms.

. Provide strong management controls and proactive behaviours. Our suppliers must

excel in planning, checking, rehearsing and validating delivery of the services and in
change activities needed for our Post Office business.

. Be straightforward and direct with communications.
. Cooperate seamlessly with our organisation and wider supplier network.
. Routinely and consistently demonstrate and report delivery of Post Office’s EUC

Service requirements and quality expectations.

We are therefore asking Suppliers of the Crown Commercial Services RM3804 Technology
Services 2 framework to submit proposals for how they would manage the required services
which are detailed within this document.

3.2 Post Office Branches Userbase Overview

The EUC contract supports the hardware, core software builds, build updates with feature
releases, security patching, software and hardware asset management including chain of
custody for PCI-DSS items, and field engineering services across the Post Office Branch

network.

The Post Office Branch Network represents a substantial footprint of approximately 11,400
active branches nationally across the UK with circa 25,000 counter positions. These 11,400
branch locations are the active service points or ‘Branches’ which include remote /outreach

Page 14 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

locations such as village halls and Post Office ‘In a Van’ services. Each outreach location is
homed on a Post Office Shop location, or ‘Home’ location, and hence multiple outreach
locations will be related to a single Home location. As such there are currently circa 10,000
Post Office Branch / Home locations which are in scope of this EUC Contract, but this exact
number varies through the process of branch opening, change and closures (see Section 6,
Service Specification: Operational Business Change (OBC).

Full details of the Post Office Branch / home locations are provided in Appendix A: Ref
Doc- 007 Branch and Colleague Locations.

Post Ottce

UK Network

Figure 3: Branch UK Network

The impacts of the global Covid-19 pandemic resulted in some branches temporarily closing,
and Post Office will be actively growing the network to return to the required BEIS target of
11,500 active branches.

As part of modernisation and improvement activities, branches are categorised into a small
number of “Branch Types”. This enables the Post Office to target IT solutions to the
individual needs and challenges of this wide and diverse retail environment.

Whilst the exact number and the ratio of types of branch will change over time, to provide
Suppliers with an indication of the ratios of branch types, the current branch types are:

DMB - Total: c118 A “Directly Managed Branch’ is a traditional branch model
where the staff are managed directly by Post Office Limited. These branches have
connectivity to the Colleague environment to enable the Branch to access Post
Office colleague technologies e.g. corporate email services and Windows 8.1
laptops.

Page 15 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Main — Total: c3,400 A 'Main Branch’ is a large multi-counter Branch which is run by
a franchisee agreement. A 'Mains Post Office’ is designated as such because it is
designed to offer a modern environment and, in many cases, extended opening
hours. These branches have dedicated Post Office counter(s) offering Customers a
full range of products and services, during standard hours. In most cases there will
also be Post Office service provisions at the retail position, providing access to a
wide range of services including Post Office Card Account withdrawals and everyday
banking services during extended opening hours. These branches are expected to
have larger footfall and transaction volumes.

Local & Local + — Total: c4,200 A ' Local Model Branch’ is usually situated in a
Retail Environment and a lower number of counter positions (between 1 and

3). Also known as a ‘Local Post Office’. It will carry a set product range which is a
subset of the full range that a Main post office would offer. These branches are open
when the shop it is housed within is open.

Traditional — Total c2100 All other Post Offices that are not one of the defined
branch types

Outreach / Access Points— Total: 1,600 Post Office provide ‘outreach’ post office
services to remote rural communities. This includes those operated out of local
buildings, such as village halls or community centres, and the fleet of 59 mobile post
office vans serving over 520 communities. Mobile Post Offices visit communities at a
set time on set days and provide a walk-in service on wheels.

Others — In addition there are other formats of branches which are included in the
above figures such as British Forces Post Offices (BFPO’s) and non-customer facing
branches e.g. House of Commons.

A full list of Post Office Branch locations is provided in Appendix A: Ref Doc- 007 Branch
and Colleague Locations.

Page 16 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

3.2.1. Branch Counter Device Overview

The following is a high-level summary description of the Branch Counter equipment. A
detailed technical breakdown is provided in Section 4: Technology Framework.

Note - the point of demarcation between the EUC and Network Supplier is the egress of the
Branch router.

Device Description Branch
Name Type
Branch Point of Sale device used at counters to process Customer I All
Counter transactions. These include:
e Base unit (BoxTech Cielo tablet or Lenovo M79 / PX-
35)

e The till operating system is “kiosk” version of Windows
which is Windows 10 LTSC

¢ Bar Code Scanner

e Multifunction printer (Receipts and Labels) - Epson
TM7200 — Designed for Post Office

e Specialised Keyboard = Tipro Keyboard - TIP-002-999

e Electronic Scales (may be shared between counters at
2:1 ratio)

e Pin Entry Device (Ingenico IPP350)

¢ Scales Connector (shared between counters)

AEl ¢ KVM Switch for Application Enrolment and Identity Some
(AEl) booths. The KVM Switch is used to switch branches
between a normal Horizon transaction and a AE (1000)
transaction

Identity ¢ Identity Tablets managed by MS Endpoint Manager Currently

Tablets (Intune) This includes Device Management, App 800 Devices

Management, Security Management, Content
Management, Email Management and Containerisation
Backoffice I A Backoffice counter that is used for drop and go, balancing I Some
Counters and stock ordering Branches

Backoffice I Canon A4 printer used for account balancing and report

Printer purposes All
Branches
8 Port Hubs I Hubs providing internal network connectivity for branch I Some
connected devices. branches

Table 3: Summary description of the Branch Counter equipment

Page 17 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

3.3 Colleague Userbase Overview

There are approximately 3325 directly employed staff in Post Office. 38% of this headcount
is based across five primary sites (Finsbury Dials in central London, Future Walk in
Chesterfield, Birmingham CVIT, Wheatstone House Swindon, and PS Service Centre
Bolton. The remainder (47%) are based across multiple sites such as cash processing
centres and stock management warehouses. A small number of staff will also be based in
premises which are also shared by Directly Managed Branches (DMBs).

Colleague Locations

45, 1% 923% 95, 3%

86, 3%
42, 1%
35, 1%
352, 11%
341, 10% 450, 59%

Other 1m Birmingham CVIT
= Chesterfield 1m Field Based - England
1 Field Based - Scotland ‘= Finsbury Dials (Admin Site)
m Home Based - England London East CC
m London East CVIT PS Service Centre Bolton (Admin)

™ Wheatstone House Swindon

Figure 4: Colleague locations

The total number of Colleague locations is 154 and of these about 131 have 20 Colleagues
or less.

The mix of location and staff numbers during business as usual operation was 43 (1%) of
colleagues were home-based, 352 (11%) of Colleagues were field based (England) and 1%
(Scotland). Due to the impact of Covid-19 restrictions and the Post Office’s need for
compliance and continued delivery of key services to our Customers, around 99% of head
office staff have pivoted to home working.

In the vast majority of cases, resolution of Colleague related issues prior to, and throughout
Covid-19 operations is achieved remotely, accepting that some equipment delivery/
collection is completed by the EUC Supplier.

A full list of Colleague Office locations is provided in Appendix A: Ref Doc- 008 Branch
and Colleague Locations

Consumers of Colleague IT Services can be broadly separated into seven Personas;

Page 18 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Third Parties Knowledge Workers.

Branch Worker

Task Workers

Roaming Worker

Figure 6: Consumer types - Colleague IT services

In terms of total numbers of each Persona, there are approximately:
¢ 990 Branch Workers

920 Knowledge Workers

880 Task Workers

380 Mobile Knowledge Workers

110 Roaming Workers

45 Digital Creators

3.3.1 Existing (As-Is) Colleague User Device Overview

The majority of the Colleague employees have one device allocated to them; however, some
employees do not require continuous or regular access to a device and will utilise Kiosk
mode devices primarily based in cash processing centres.

Of the circa 2650 existing devices, approximately 600 of these devices are desktops
(Lenovo M79), and almost 90% of the remaining are laptops (Lenovo T440s), both of which
are on average 5 years old. It is worth noting that all T440s devices have reached End of
Service Life and supplies are no longer generally available.

There are a small proportion (c.200 devices) of users who have received a Windows Surface
Pro as pilot devices and are utilising these for their day to day activities. This pilot introduced
Windows 10 along with the new device hardware but did not include any service integration
into the existing shared services used to underpin the estate (for example the devices
therefore cannot utilise Follow Me Print, are not included on some security groups, etc).
Details of the Windows 10 build can be found in the Technology Framework section 4.

The EUC estate for Colleagues also extends into the Branch network for the c.350 directly
managed branches. The staff who work in these branches also have access to “back office”
IT equipment in the form of either laptops & desktop to access the email system, all other
employee IT systems and a print solution.

Page 19 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

4. TECHNOLOGY FRAMEWORK
41 Technology Framework Overview

This Technology Framework section provides details of the technology used across Post
Office and in-scope for the EUC Supplier. This framework represents the technology
environment which will be managed by the EUC supplier under the EUC contract at the point
of Implementation of EUC services. This Technology Framework will evolve over the lifetime
of the EUC contract through agreed changes and change projects. Details of in-scope
Transformational projects are provided in Section 10 of this Service Specification Document.

4.2. Shared Services

Shared Services refers to back-end infrastructure-based technologies and services that
support the Branch and Colleague estates.

Shared Services infrastructure includes Microsoft Endpoint Manager (Intune), Active
Directory and its associated technologies such as DNS and DHCP, SCCM and certificate
services.

Currently, shared services are managed as a single unit of infrastructure that serves both the
Branch and Colleague end user computing environment. This has previously caused a
number of issues including where changes made in relation to the Colleague technologies
have impacted the Branch environment and Postmasters ability to serve our customers. To
minimise this, the new supplier will be required to work with Post Office to migrate Colleague
to new and modern technologies where all devices and applications are managed and
delivered through native cloud technologies. This will leave the existing Shared Services for
the management of Branch counters and devices only (please see specific ‘Shared Services
Separation Project’ requirements in Section 10).

The Post Office Limited is in the process of migrating the current on-prem EUC Infrastructure
Shared Services to Azure laaS Cloud Services and will have completed this migration prior
to the award of the new EUC Services contract (see further details below).

The Shared Services technologies are shown in the below figure:

Page 20 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Branch IW Legacy Shared Services Colleague

Tl Modem Management Tecnnotogies

Security & Hardening

Patch and s/W release

jmant and Wi

WT

Figure 6: Shared Services Technology

4.2.1 Post Office Azure laaS Cloud Services

The new Azure Platform benefits from a hub-spoke topology to provide scale with the ability
to share key resources. Scale has been achieved by the additional spokes which share
services in the hub to reduce cost and complexity. The hub-spoke topology is recognised as
one of Microsoft's best practice models and is the topology of choice for Post Office's
standard Landing Zone service.

This design is based on the foundation topology with the introduction of a second hub-spoke
model within the UK’s second region pair partner UK West, this is in addition to the UK
South Region. This provides additional resilience for selective applications in the form of
failover but strategically is used to architecture modern applications and provide load
balancing and resilience across both regions.

The hub hosts the Azure Firewall and Domain Controllers as shared services with the former
being used to control all traffic entering the hub from the spokes or externally as well as
providing internet breakout. The placement of these services within the hub is in-line with
Microsoft's reference architecture.

The Azure environment is connected via Microsoft's private circuit ExpressRoute and then
onto the wide area network provided by Verizon that provides connectivity to the Post Office
estate and partner locations.

Azure Log Analytics has been used for collecting and analysing logging and performance
data from Azure resources such as Recovery Services Vaults, Key Vaults, VNets, Network
Security Groups, Azure Firewall service and Virtual Machines.

Log Analytics has been deployed alongside ScienceLogic to collect logging data from
supported Azure resources and Virtual Machines. A Log analytics workspace has deployed
into the common services hub in each region and is used to collect logging data for
resources within the same region, this will provide resiliency in the event of a region outage.

Page 21 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

To protect and detect more advanced threats centrally in Post Office’s Splunk SIEM solution,
logs from critical Azure workloads and services are ingested in Splunk.

The Colleague and Shared Services technologies listed below are to be hosted in the Post
Office Azure environment:

Services Description No of Operating System
servers

AD/DNS Active Directory and DNS Services 6 Windows Server 2012 R2

AGMP Advanced group policy management tool 41 Windows Server 2012 R2

Nessus Vulnerability Scanning tool 2 Windows Server 2012 R2

Anti Virus Symantec Endpoint Protection 3 Windows Server 2012 R2

Print Post Office Managed Print services used in Colleague I 7 Windows Server 2012 R2

MBAM Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring 2 Windows Server 2012 R2

ADFS Active Directory Federation Services 4 Windows Server 2012 R2

AAD Connect I Azure Active Directory Connect 41 Windows Server 2012 R2

Certificate Certificate and NDES 3 Windows Server 2012 R2

Dell Active I User and Group account management tool 2 Windows Server 2012 R2

Roles

Email Exchange Hybrid Services including Mimecast 4 Windows Server 2012 R2

Services

SCCM System Centre Configuration Manager used for client I 7 Windows Server 2012 R2
management

IPAM IP Management tool 1 Windows Server 2012 R2

PPE Pre-Production Environment used for testing and pilot I 48 SQL and Windows
purposes. Server 2012 R2

sal Microsoft SQL servers used for EUC services 8 sa_

Table 4: Shared Services Servers hosting in Azure

The following diagram illustrates the new Azure laaS environment where the above
technologies services are to be hosted.

Uk West-FUC PPE (Spoke)

UC Werkonde

UK West -EUC (Spoke)

am

Figure 7: Azure laaS environment

UK South-EUC (Spake)

Page 22 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

4.2.2 Disaster Recovery

The Azure Site Recovery service is used to replicate selected EUC workloads running on
Azure Virtual Machines from the primary UK South Azure region to the secondary UK West
region to provide redundancy in the event of a region outage.

The service protects workloads by replicating Virtual Machines from the source location to
the target destination for Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery purposes. When an
outage occurs at the primary location, a failover can be initiated to bring the workloads online
in the target location by initiating a recovery plan to restore the latest recovery point and
failed back when the primary region is available.

The following solution on a page illustrates the failover of EUC workloads from the primary
Azure region to the secondary region using Azure Site Recovery. An Automation Account is

used to update the Site Recovery Mobility service extension on replicated Virtual Machines.
EUC Subscription

Wirt Europe

Azure Ste Recovery
Feallover from primary to
secondary region in the event of

UK-South (Primary) ‘region outage

‘8

Page 23 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657
Figure 8: Azure Site Recovery configuration
The below table provides a summary of in-scope Post Office EUC services for Azure Site
Recovery.
No. Service Name
1 AD Group Policy Management Hosts the Advanced Group Policy
Management console used by support
personnel
Zi SCCM Configuration Management tool providing
Patching, Software Distribution & Build for
Post Office Colleague clients and Branch
counter devices
3 ADFS incl. AD Sync Providing single sign on for cloud applications

including Office 365. AD Connect provides
directory synchronisation between Windows
Active Directory and Azure Active Directory

4 MBAM Providing BitLocker Administration and
Monitoring services for encrypted devices on
Post Office Colleague clients and Branch
counter devices

5 Certificate incl. NDES Supplier's public key infrastructure (PKI)
providing public key cryptography, digital
certificates, and digital signature capabilities
for EUC services.

Network Device Enrolment Services (NDES)
allows the Intune managed mobile devices to
obtain SCEP certificates from the CA

6 SQL Server Hosting database and reporting services for
selective services
9 Managed Print (print server Providing ‘follow-me’ printing facilities for
infrastructure only) Post Office Colleague clients. Azure Site

Recovery for the print servers, Managed Print
software is the scope of Managed Print
Supplier.

10 Email Services incl. MIME Provides secure mail routing between on-
premises and Exchange Online
Table 5: In-scope Post Office EUC services for Azure Site Recovery

Active Directory Domain Controllers, DNS and Symantec Endpoint Protection services are
not included in Azure Site Recovery configuration. These services are designed and
implemented in an Active/Active setup, providing high availability services that run in both
Azure regions.

Note: With the migration of EUC infrastructure to the Post Office Azure environment Post
Office is reviewing the BCDR/ITSC Plans and Policies, including Recovery Point Objectives
(RPO) and Recovery Time Objectives (RTO) for the EUC Services. These documents will be
provided to the EUC Supplier at contract signature to input in to the required EUC Supplier
Disaster Recovery Plan.

Page 24 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

4.2.3. Server Build

The standard operating system used on all Post Office servers is Windows 2012 R2 that is
designed and delivered through Microsoft Azure Image Builder. This technology is used to
create standardised build images for Virtual Machines and Shared Image Gallery which
provides image storage, management and distribution functionality.

The Azure Image Builder related resources are deployed into a single Resource Group
within the Post Office EUC subscription located in the UK South Azure Region.

Images are built in the West Europe region and are distributed to UK South and UK West
regions for consumption.

A Storage Account is created to store build artefacts such as applications and scripts that
are downloaded to the build image during the customisation process.

The Azure Image Builder Service uses a Managed Identity to access Azure resources such
as the Shared Image Gallery and build artefact storage account.

Monthly patches and security updates are all reviewed and deployed using SCCM on all
servers.

The servers are all located in their dedicated OUs in Active Directory, where organisation
wide configurations are applied using Group Policy Objects. This includes security
configurations and customisations.

4.2.4 Active Directory

Post Office’s Active Directory Forest is setup based on Microsoft's best practices with a sub
Domain name of postoffice.co.uk. The sub Domain name for this forest is
euc.postoffice.co.uk. The legacy NetBIOS name is EUC.

The forest functional level is set to Windows Server 2012 R2. Only Windows Server 2012 R2
Domain Controllers are currently supported at this level.

The Domain functional level of 2012 R2 includes the following features:
« Kerberos armouring.
e DC-side protection for Protected Users.
« Authentication Policies.
e Authentication Policy Silos.

Two Domain Controllers are deployed in each region (UK South and West) within each hub.
The two production spokes participate in their region hubs Windows Domain via the VNet
Peer.

All Domain Controllers in the Domain are configured as Global Catalogue servers without
any functional or performance penalty.

Directory site is configured to host all other subnets not specifically included in an Active
Directory site.

4.2.5 DNS

Page 25 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Post Office has a registered DNS Domain name of postoffice.co.uk. The name is used
externally as the suffix for employee’s e-mail addresses and for web presence. A sub
Domain of EUC prefixes the registered name to separate internal and external name spaces.

All Domain Controllers host the DNS service and all zones are AD integrated. Configuration
of DNS is standardised across the DNS servers with the exception of a designated server
that is configured for DNS scavenging.

4.2.6 DHCP (out of scope for EUC contract)

The DHCP servers dynamically assign an IP address and other network configuration
parameters to each device on the network, so they can communicate with other IP devices.
An example of this is the that all Colleague devices such as desktops and laptops receive
their DNS servers IP addresses from the DHCP servers.

DHCP is used in Branch during build deployment only. Counters are setup to use static IP
addresses. Colleague user devices are fully dependent on DHCP. Currently Lease is set to 8
hours when the clients request IP renewal every 4 hours.

Historically, DHCP services have been provided from the current EUC Supplier's
datacentres. Since DHCP services cannot be delivered from MS Azure, Post Office are in
the process of migrating DHCP services to the current Networks service supplier who will be
delivering DHCP services from their datacentres. The EUC supplier will need to work with
the Networks supplier to ensure that all in scope clients are using optimal DHCP.
configurations. This includes the ongoing management and configuration of DHCP on all
Colleague clients and Branch counters, where applicable.

4.2.7 Config Manager (SCCM)

Config Manager provides systems management facilities for both Windows clients and
Windows servers operating within the Post Office environment. The current SCCM design is
based on a single primary site implementation of Config Manager that can be scaled up to
support a maximum of 100,000 clients.

The functionality of the solution includes additional products such as:
« The Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT). This provides OS deployment capabilities.
e 1E Nomad. This provides a peer-to-peer content distribution mechanism.

The server infrastructure, that forms the operational core of the solution, is centralised in
Azure and resides within the EUC.POSTOFFICE.CO.UK Active Directory domain. All
managed clients are located within this domain. The Config Manager solution is hosted in
Azure UK South and includes duplication for some of the critical server roles to ensure a
high level of fault tolerance is achieved.

The solution delivers the following systems management facilities within the Post Office
environment:

e Desktop and Server Management.
Windows 8.1 deployment for both Colleague and Branch devices and users.
Software distribution (MSI & App-V).
Hardware & Software Inventory.
Patch management for Windows products.
Helpdesk remote support to devices in the Colleague departments Device
management.

Page 26 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

4.2.8 Certificate Services

An internal Certificate Authority is available that essentially provides a private base
certificate which can issue other private certificates for internal servers and users. Common
uses of Private CA's include:

«Intranet Sites.

« Device identification.

° VPN.

e Securing communications between internal sites.

Additionally, as part of modern management, in conjunction with Microsoft Endpoint
Manager, an NDES server is used to manage Certificate enrolment using SCEP (Simple
Certificate Enrolment Protocol) profiles to deploy, retire and revoke certificates.

4.2.9 Microsoft Endpoint Manager (Intune)

Microsoft Endpoint Manager services provide access to corporate data through device and
application management controls to corporate and non-corporate devices.

At Post Office Microsoft Endpoint Manager is used for the management and delivery of:

Compliance policies.

Device enrolment.

Enterprise deployment profiles (Android and Windows 10 Autopilot).
Application deployment and protection.

BYOD policies.

Conditional access.

Microsoft Defender ATP.

Device health reports.

Windows Devices:
« Autopilot Windows 10 Colleague build and its ongoing management.
e¢ Currently 200 pilot devices deployed.

Mobile Devices build and device management:
e Colleague mobile devices (Out of scope of EUC contract).
e¢ 20 Colleague Pilot CViT Android.
e 800 Branch Android tablets for identity services.

4.3 Branch Technologies

The EUC Branch technology environment is comprised of:

e Branch Point of Sale (POS) technology devices (base unit, keyboards, scanners,
monitors, receipt/label printers).

e Infrastructure Technology (Datacentre/Azure hosting, compute, system management,
identity, security solutions, application delivery etc).

e Shared Technology (Active Directory, Domain Name Services, Print Management,
Anti-virus, device certificate management etc) used to under pin and facilitate
delivery of Branch technology (note this is currently shared with Colleague).

4.3.1 Branch Devices

Page 27 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Branches have a base set of technology (with some variation of actual equipment) that
enable the provision of core services (mails, banking, billpay). In addition to the base set of
technology, some branches also have additional technology to enable further services, or
ways of working (e.g. Self-Service Kiosks - SSKs).

There is also variation in technology depending upon the type of Branch (e.g.
Outreach/mobile sites have variations to allow mobile working).

As part of a Branch refresh programme the below counter hardware models were deployed:
Phase 1 roll-out (c.8000 counters) based around M79 build
Phase 2 roll-out (c.15000 counters) based around PX35 build

The table below highlights the setup of the counter models and their corresponding
peripherals:

Item Required I Required Required Required
per per per per
counter counter Branch Branch
M79 PX35 M79 PX35

Lenovo M79 1 [ [ [

PX35 1

PX35 Red Cable used on Pinpads - 1

100%

PX35 Blue Cable used on Scales- 1

100%

PX35 Green Cable used on devices 0.5

with Rateboards (50%)

Epson Printer 1 1

Epson Cartridge 1 [4 I I
Barcode Scanner with cable 1 1

RJ12 to serial for M79 2 I I I
USB A-B 2mtr 1 1

USB A-B 4Mtr I I if
USB A-B 5Mtr - if 4mtr not available

Coupler - Direct to BB ff I I
Ethernet extension 2mtr - Direct to BB 1

15' monitor 1 I I I
Tipro keyboard 1 1

Canon printer I I fi
Serial to USB - M79 Rate Board 0.5

Table 6: Counter Setup Devices

The following table provides an overview of all branch devices, including peripherals:

Device Description Branch Type I Supplier
Name Scope
Branch Till I Till used at counters to process Customer All Yes

transactions. These include:

e Base unit (BoxTech Cielo tablet or Lenovo
M79 / PX-35).

e The till operating system is “kiosk” version
of Windows which is Windows 10 LTSC

¢ Bar Code Scanner.

e Multifunction printer (Receipts and Labels) -
Epson TM7200 — Designed for Post Office

Page 28 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

e Specialised Keyboard = Tipro Keyboard -
TIP-002-999

e Electronic Scales (may be shared at 2:1
ratio).

e Pin Entry Device (Ingenico IPP350).

e Scales Connector (shared between
counters).

AEI e¢ KVM Switch for AEI devices (shared Some Yes
keyboard). branches
(1000)
Identity e Android Identity Tablets managed by MS Currently 800 I Yes
Tablets Endpoint Manager (Intune) This includes Devices
Device Management, App Management,
Security Management, Content
Management, Email Management and
Containerisation.
PayStation I PayStations enable Customer to make bill DMB, Main & I No
payments. These devices are independent of Local
the branch counter, using their own separated
comms links. PayStations are managed directly
by Paystation, an arrangement which falls
under the Branch Network Business
department in Post Office.
Backoffice I A Backoffice counter that is used for Some Yes
Counters management processes, balancing and stock Branches
ordering.
Backoffice I Canon Ad printer used for account balancing Yes
Printer and report purposes. All Branches
Safe Used in branches to store cash and valuables. DMB, Main & I No
Local
Alarm Branch burglar alarms and CCTV surveillance DMB, Main & I No
System /I systems. Local
CCTV
Anti- Anti-burglary fogging system installed and All High-Risk I No
robbery maintained by third party supplier in 2000 high Branches
fogging risk branches.
system
Branch ADSL routers provided by Verizon as part of DMB, Main & I No
Router branch networking service. Some routers Local
provide branch Wi-Fi.
Branch Branches connected via either ADSL, Mobile or I DMB, Main I No
network VSAT network connections. Where possible the I Local, &
circuit mobile network is used as a redundancy Outreach
solution.
8 Port Hubs I Hubs providing internal network connectivity for I Some Yes
branch connected devices. branches

Table 7: Overview of Branch Devices

4.3.2 Peripherals

The peripherals used in Branch vary a great deal depending on the branch type which

determines the service which are offered to Customers. The following table summarises the

Page 29 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657
set of peripherals used in Post Office branches which fall within the supplier management
scope:

Peripheral Description

Bar Code Bar code scanner used with Branch Counter to scan product details.

Scanner

Epson Printer A multifunctional printer used with Branch Counter to print postage
labels, Customer receipts and secure items such as Postal Orders.

Counter A specialised robust keyboard used with Branch Counter.

Keyboard

Cash Drawer A secure cash drawer that is not activated by the Branch Counter.

Scale Connector I Connection between Postage scales and the Branch Counter to weigh
letters and parcels to determine postage rates.

Pin Entry Device I An Ingenico IPP350 pin pad used with Branch Counter to verify
Customer card PINs.

Magnetic Stripe A magnetic stripe reader used for gift cards and bill payments.
Reader

Table 8: Overview of Branch Peripherals

4.3.3 Cabling

The supplier is responsible for managing the cabling in branches, and this includes network
cabling, KVM switches (used for the AEI identity terminals) and other device cabling e.g.
power supplies and port connector cables.

The supplier should organise/ reorganise branch cabling to ensure that cabling is managed
in an ordered way, cables are labelled in terms of their use, and through the use of colour
coding to facilitate supplier engineers and remotely assist branches to self-serve.

4.3.4 Branch Network

Branches use a variety of network setups in order to provide connectivity between branches
and the central Post Office services.

The network type used in branches is related to the size of the branch. Network types
include ADSL, mobile 4G connections and Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT). Branches
use private networks which reduces the vulnerability to outside attacks.

The branch circuits, circuit terminating equipment, and network devices (such as switches
and Wi-Fi routers) are managed by Verizon Networks which makes use of a number of Talk
Talk ADSL circuits.

The following is a branch network architecture diagram used to illustrate the branches
networks, comms links and network devices in relation to the wider Post Office networks.

Page 30 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Figure 9: Branch networks, comms links and network devices

4.3.5 Counter Application Delivery

The Horizon Next Generation Application (HNGA) is the application used by Postmasters in

every Post Office branch when serving Customers. Although the Postmaster only ever sees
one GUI (Graphical User Interface), HNGA is not a single application, it is actually made up

of a suite of individual applications including runtime utilities such Java and Microsoft Visual
Cc.

Note that it is possible that the number of applications that make up HNGA may increase or
decrease over time.

The HNGA supplier develops the HNGA application for the Post Office and whenever they
release a new version, one or more of the above components may change to a newer
version.

When a new version of HNGA or its components are available, the EUC supplier will need to
update the existing HNGA package in SCCM and arrange for its deployment in production.

As part of the deployment the EUC supplier will need to adhere to Post Office’s change &
release management processes & policies and arrange for the necessary tests which should
be completed in the Pre-Production Environment (see below) and if necessary, on physical
counter devices, before the new application is released for UAT and Pilot testing.

44 Test and Release

All software releases and patch updates are fully tested by the EUC and Counter Software
suppliers and validated by Post Office before they are released into the production
environment.

The EUC Supplier manages the hardware and the operating system core build which runs
the Branch counter application provided by another Third-Party Supplier. For the Branch
counter application to operate successfully, additional reference data is used to support the

Page 31 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

configuration, which is controlled and maintained by Post Office. For any changes to the
hardware or software, at any level, consideration and End-to-End testing needs to be
coordinated across the relevant parties and test environments.

The following environments are used for test and validation purposes.

4.4.1 EUC Pre-Production Environment (PPE)

An EUC PPE environment is available for staging and testing purposes that resembles Post
Office’s EUC production environment. The primary use of this environment is to perform the
initial test for all installation/configuration/migration/patching/OS build updates activities and
procedures before they're deployed in the Production environments. This ensures all major
and minor upgrades to a production environment are completed reliably, without errors, and
in a minimum of time.

The PPE is configured to mirror our actual production environment as closely as possible for
testing of key applications such as Horizon and the supporting technologies such as SCCM,
OS Builds and Active Directory.

The PPE environment is hosted in the Azure UK West region (Shown in Figure 7) which
consists of 38 Servers providing key EUC technologies such as Active Directory, DNS, PKI,
SCCM, SEP, SQL, ADFS and Exchange Hybrid. Additionally, there are 6 virtual desktops
used for core build and application testing purposes.

Post Office requires the EUC supplier to fully manage the PPE platform which should mirror
the production environment.

4.4.2 Solution Validation and Integration (SV&l) - 3° Party Environment used by Post Office

The second environment used during the test and validation process is SV&I. This
environment is used to provide test assurance of any IT changes undertaken on the Horizon
Point of Sale system which has connectivity to the many Third-Party client test systems and
allows us to perform End To End (E2E) testing in a realistic manner. Integration testing
when changes span multiple systems is also undertaken on this environment. The bulk of
Horizon changes are implemented via reference data, however the remainder of changes
are through APADC scripting or core Horizon code changes.

The EUC Supplier will provide break fix support for the SV&l hardware and peripherals
which comprises of Branch counter positions which are only connected to test environments.

o 28 counter positions, each with a mixture of peripherals (e.g. PIN pads,
barcode scanner, counter printer, back office printer, weigh-scales, FOREX
tate-board etc).

o SV&I Kit located at Finsbury Dials and Future Walk.

3 home deployed counters.

co Types of testing undertaken on the kit:

= Functional testing of significant Reference Data changes — i.e.
introduction of new products/services.

= E2E testing with external 3" parties.

= Branch Counter Regression testing when other integrated systems
change, including network and infrastructure changes.

= Regulatory changes (e.g. PCI, GDPR).

= System Accreditation / Certification testing.

°

Page 32 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

= Support Post Office UAT.
= Functional testing includes:
e Current production defects retrofits
¢ Inherited defects
« Landscape Defects
¢ Core regression
e End to End testing

4.4.3 LST -—Live System Test (3 Party Environment)

This environment consists of physical counters which are used and managed by the Third-
Party counter software supplier to prove deployment and support processes prior to change
deployment in production. This environment is exclusively owned and operated by the
software supplier. When required, independent penetration testing of the counter software
solution is performed on this environment.

The EUC Supplier will provide break fix support for the LST hardware and peripherals which
comprises of Branch counter positions which are only connected to test environments.

4.4.4 Reference Data Test (RDT) Customer Environment

This environment is used to develop, maintain and verify reference data, and for small
simple changes. For complex reference data changes, or changes that span multiple
systems, this is undertaken on the SV&I environment providing independent test assurance.
Upon request, the test team also support to the Post Office running User Acceptance
Testing (UAT) to verify changes from a user perspective.

co 13 counter positions with a mixture of peripherals (e.g. PIN pads, barcode
scanner, counter printer, back office printer, weigh-scales, FOREX rate-board
etc).
o 3 home deployed counters.
Kit located at Finsbury Dials and Future Walk.
co Types of testing undertaken on the kit:
= Reference Data Development, Unit Testing and Verification

°

The EUC Supplier will provide break fix for the Reference Data Rigs hardware and
peripherals which comprises of Branch counter positions which are only connected to test
environments.

4.4.5 Model Office - Customer Live Environment

The final part of the test is to deploy all releases to the Model Office counters. This consists
of 7 counter positions which can be set up to reflect 5 different type of live branches, so we
are able to demonstrate any transaction, providing a real-time experience the same as that
which our Postmasters would see in their branches.

Model Office has the same technology as you would expect to see throughout our network
including Horizon kit, barcode scanners, counter printers, back office printers, PIN pads, Self
Service Kiosks, AEI, Cash Deposit Machine, Paystations etc.

Upon confirmation of successful deployment, the Supplier arranges for the production
deployment.

Page 33 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The above process is illustrated in the Counter Patch Management diagram provided below
in figure 10.

4.4.6 Configuration Baseline and Compliance

Post Office requires that branch counters are always kept compliant for a specific version of
HNGA. The counters must not be allowed to run unless they are compliant with the correct
version of HNGA.

Each release of HNGA must have its own Configuration Baseline configured in SCCM which
is then deployed to a base device collection. This allows easy targeting of the Baseline by
using Include Collection rules to target the baseline at collections of devices. Each baseline
is made up of a single Configuration Item that contains 12 registry checks, one for each of
the component applications that make up the HNGA suite.

During the build, a version of HNGA is installed, and then at the end of the build, Build Stage
compliance AD groups and Collection memberships are used to set the HNGA baseline
version that the counter needs to be compliant to. At the end of the Task Sequence stage of
the build a set of PowerShell scripts will execute which will test the counters compliance to
the designated HNGA baseline. If the counter is Non-Compliant, it will go through the
standard process to become Compliant, and when the counter is confirmed as Compliant the
build will complete successfully.

The EUC supplier is responsible for the implementation of the SCCM Configuration
Baselines to ensure that HNGA is kept at the correct version on every branch counter. It is
accepted that there will be different versions deployed in the estate as part of test and pilot
activities and during upgrade periods.

4.4.7 Branch Counter Design

Windows 10 Enterprise 2016 LTSB x64 build is deployed to the counter devices through the
OS deployment features provided by the SCCM solution. The deployed counter devices run
the HNGA applications and are managed by the systems management infrastructure
technologies.

All devices are deployed as new devices. No data or state information is migrated from
existing legacy point of sale system (LPOSS) counters to new modern point of sale system
(MPOSS) counters.

Windows 10 Enterprise 2016 LTSB x64 volume license media is stored within SCCM to form
the basis of the deployed builds.

The build is installed on production and non-production counter PCs at the current Supplier's
DC Configuration Centre. These counter PCs use the generic builds, in advance of their
deployment and personalisation as a counter within a Post Office branch. Two physical
SCCM servers are installed in the current EUC Supplier's Configuration Centre to support a
concurrent build volume of up to 160 devices. The use of shift patterns caters for up to 200
deployments per day.

The latest operating system updates that have been tested and approved for use with the
build HNGA are then installed during the deployment process.

Once delivered to site, the counter PCs are installed for the particular branch and counter
node position in order to comply with financial audit requirements. This process is referred
to as “personalisation” and is performed by the deployment Engineer using a custom script
developed by the current EUC supplier known as the “Counter Deployment Utility” (CDU).
The CDU prompts the Deployment Engineer for a number of parameters for the particular
branch and counter instance and communicates with the Horizon software supplier Services

Page 34 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

data centre to retrieve configuration parameters. When the CDU finishes and personalisation
is complete the counter client is locked down.

4.4.8 Counter Anti-Virus — Windows Defender

Microsoft Windows Defender is part of the default Windows 10 installation that provides
protection against viruses or other malware that may have infiltrated the computer. Windows
Defender is retained as the standard anti-virus and malware protection product on Branch
Counter Windows 10 devices and is centrally managed and updated using SCCM.

4.4.9 Counter Patch Management

The build is patched centrally as part of the EUC Supplier's patch management service. The
patch management process and associated testing must be carried out in line with PCI
requirements.

The patches and updates are currently delivered and installed by the SCCM infrastructure,
and 1e Nomad which has been installed to improve SCCM content download.

The EUC Supplier uses SCCM and 1e to deploy monthly patches to all Windows 10 LTSB
counters. As part of this activity the supplier performs:

e Discovery — Ensure there is a comprehensive inventory of all end point devices.

¢ Monitor for new patches and vulnerabilities - Understand MS patch release schedules
and perform vulnerability assessment. Where possible, only install the necessary
patches.

e Patch testing —- Use the PPE/Testing environment to avoid being caught off guard by
unintended issues.

e¢ Configuration management - Document any changes about to be made via patching.
e Patch release — Follow patch deployment procedures.

e Auditing - Conduct a patch management audit to identify any failed or pending patches
and continue monitoring for any unexpected incompatibility or performance issues.

e Repair - Proactive deployment remediation on counters where deployments have failed.
e Reporting - Produce a patch compliance report.

e Review, improve and repeat - Establish a cadence for repeating and optimising the
above steps.

Page 35 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

The below figure shows the processes required to complete patch deployment on counters:

Create Pre-
Cache Task
Sequence

Download and
prepare update
package

Deploy Pre-
Cache Task
Sequence

Create Update
Installation
Task Sequence

Test Pre-Cache
ona Virtual
Machine

Deploy Update
Installation
Task Sequence

Test Update

Fix Pre installation on
Cache issue z a Virtual
Machine

Confirmed Pre-

Deploy Update Greate Update Cache and
Rollback Task Rollback Task Update
Sequence Sequence installation

works correctly

Pre-Cache

Test Rolback Fix the peek
ona Virtual rollback pane

Machine issue =

Test Monthly Test Monthly
Update in SV&I Update in
and LST SV&I/ LST? Meme Model Office

Rollout
update into
Production

Was the Updat
successful in
Model Office?

No

Figure 10: The processes required to complete patch deployment on counters

Page 36 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

4.5 Colleague Technologies

The EUC Colleague technology environment is comprised of:

« Windows 8.1 on Lenovo laptops & Desktops — Managed using Microsoft System
Centre Config Manager (SCCM).
e Pilot Windows 10 on MS Surface Pro tablets - Managed using Microsoft Endpoint

Manager (Intune).

Standard Core build applications and utilities.

Office 365 and Email Services including Anti-Spam and Anti-Phishing.

Supplier's SubCA Certificate Services.

Federation Services.

Anti Virus Services.

Infrastructure Technology (Datacentre/Azure hosting, compute, system management,

identity, security solutions, application delivery etc).

e Shared Technology (Active Directory, Domain Name Services, Print Management,
Anti-virus, device certificate management etc) used to underpin and facilitate delivery
of Colleague technology (note this is currently shared with Branch devices).

e Device supply and repair.

e Application Delivery.

4.5.1 Colleague Devices

The majority of the Colleague employees have at least one device allocated to them;
however, some employees do not require continuous or regular access to a device and will
utilise Kiosk mode devices primarily based in cash processing centres.

The below table provides an overview of Colleague devices:

Device Models Numbers Operating System
Main Desktops M79 SFF 591 Windows 8.1
Additional Desktops I M79, M910, P510 8 Windows 8.1
Desktops Total I 599
Main Laptops Thinkpad T440s 1659 Windows 8.1
Additional Laptops T440, T450, T450s, I 200 Windows 8.1
T460s, T540p, T560,
1570
Laptops Total I 1859
Tablet (Pilot) I Surface Pro 7 200 I Windows 10
Tablets Total I 200
Devices Total I 2658

Table 9: Colleague Devices

In addition to the above managed devices, the supplier will need to support a small number
of Post Office owned Apple devices for VIP users who are Post Office executives. The
supplier will need to provide warranty repair or replacement, end-user support and asset
management.

The EUC Supplier should note that Post Office do not require options for ‘Device as a

Service’ solutions. The scope of the EUC Contract services requires the EUC supplier to
deliver the device management /managed device services only.

4.5.2 Windows 8.1

Page 37 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Post Office has 1859 laptops and 599 desktops with Windows 8.1 as an operating system
with 200 Microsoft Surface Pros operating on Windows 10.

The standard operating system used on End User devices is Windows 8.1. A Zero Touch
Windows 8.1 MDT build has been created using SCCM that can be deployed to all
supported End User devices. This build includes standard core applications and utilities
such as:

e Hardware drivers and utilities including attached printer drivers and drivers for the
FollowYou printers.

MS Office 365 Apps for Enterprise.

SEP AV.

Adobe Reader.

Cisco AnyConnect VPN Client.

1E Nomad.

Eracent (Asset Management tool required, deployed and fully managed by the
current EUC supplier).

MDOP MBAM.

MS Visual C++.

Post Office Screen Saver.

Device and user Certificates.

Corporate fonts.

Custom desktop and wallpaper.

A full list of packaged software applications is provided in Appendix A: Ref Doc-004 POL
Device Software.

The build is managed through SCCM and is updated twice a year unless there is a
requirement for a major change.

The Colleague build core applications, drivers and utilities are updated on a request basis.
Most of the drivers and utilities have not been updated since the first major build release in
2015.

All devices are AD/AAD hybrid joined and are configured using AD Group Policy Objects.
OS and Application specific GPOs are linked to the OUs where the devices and user
account objects are located.

4.5.3 Application Delivery

All applications are packaged in MSI format and deployed through SCCM to the end point
devices. Requests for new application packages or existing ones are created in the
corporate ITSM tool. This process also includes asset and license management activities to
ensure compliancy.

4.5.4 Patch Management

All Builds including the desktop and laptop contain the agreed patches to protect against
known security vulnerabilities and any further patches reasonably required.

As part of this service Monthly Microsoft Quality Updates and Microsoft Security Updates
(aka security Patch Tuesday) are deployed in the estate based on an agreed patch
deployment schedule. The schedule includes deployments in Test, Pre-Production & Pilot
environments before they are deployed in production.

4.5.5 Anti-Virus

Page 38 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The Anti-Virus solution currently deployed within the Post Office’s Windows 8.1 estate is
Symantec Endpoint Protection.

The SEP Suite consists of the following components:
Live Update Server (LU).

Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager (SEPM).
Symantec Endpoint Protection Agent (SEP).
Shared In-Sight Cache (SIC).

Symantec Endpoint Protection Engine (SPE).

e Database, using Microsoft SQL Server

The current SEP solution runs SEP 12.1 and runs only from the UK South Azure
environment. Resilience is provided by a replicated SQL cluster that has instances in both
UK South and West.

In normal operations all SEP Clients will talk to the 2 SEPM servers in the UK South Azure
environment. In a DR scenario, all SEP Clients will automatically switch to communicate with
the 2 SEPM servers in the UK West Azure.

4.5.6 Windows 10 Pilot

To prepare for the target state, an Autopilot Modern Management Windows 10 build has
been created to pilot the migration of all devices & apps from Windows 8.1 to Windows 10.
Currently there are 200 Windows 10 Surface Pro devices that are Azure AD joined and are
enrolled within Microsoft Endpoint Manager to enable the functionality for Post Office to
control the devices configuration and apply restrictions.

4.5.7 Windows 10 Design

This build is designed based on Windows 10 Autopilot where the serial number of the
approved corporate devices are managed within Microsoft Endpoint Manager portal. The
build is Azure AD integrated where all Windows 10 devices are AAD joined and
authentication is achieved through AAD user IDs.

Applications are packaged and delivered through Microsoft Endpoint Manager to Company
Portal to the users. Additionally, Microsoft Endpoint Manager Application protection is
configured to help protect Post Office company data, by using Microsoft Endpoint Manager
Application Protection policies that will control the use of managed applications with the use
of the user’s corporate credentials.

Windows 10 build includes standard core applications and utilities such as:

Hardware drivers and utilities.

MS Office 365 Apps for Enterprise including Teams.

Cisco AnyConnect VPN Client.

Microsoft Edge.

MS Visual C++.

Post Office Screen Saver and branding.

Microsoft Defender ATP.

Bitlocker encryption.

Zscaler Client Connector - Forwards user traffic to the Zscaler cloud and ensures that
security and access policies are enforced. This solution should be reviewed as part
of the Windows 10 Upgrade project highlighted in the Transformation section.

Page 39 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The Windows 10 Autopilot allows for the build deployment and customisation to be
completed in a self-service manner by the users remotely or in the office.

During the build deployment, the customisation process that is developed and deployed
through Microsoft Endpoint Manager, will configure the devices with security and features
required by Post Office. This includes implementing all security policies, branding, installing
core build applications, utilities and publishing user applications in company portal.

4.5.8 Application Delivery

All applications are packaged and deployed through Microsoft Endpoint Manager and
delivered to the users in Company Portal in a self-service manner. Requests for new
application packages or existing ones are created in the corporate ITSM tool (ServiceNow —
See Section 8 for details). This process also includes asset and license management
activities to ensure compliancy.

4.5.9 Patch Management

Windows 10 devices are kept up to date with all Quality updates to protect against known
security vulnerabilities and any further patches reasonably required.

As part of this service all Monthly Quality Updates (every security Patch Tuesday) are
deployed in the estate based on an agreed patch deployment schedule. The schedule
includes deployments in Test, Pre-Production & Pilot environments before they are deployed
in production.

Windows 10 Feature Updates and device drivers are reviewed and assessed in collaboration
with Post Office’s IT and security teams before they are deployed to the clients.

4.5.10 Windows 10 DR Build

Post Office is in the process of creating an Autopilot Win10 DR profile with a set of standard
DR applications to provide the key users with equipment in the event of loss of access to
Post Office sites. This solution negates the requirements for having dedicated recovery sites
and office spaces for the DR plans. This solution will provide circa 120 DR laptops.

4.5.11 Office 365

The Post Office transitioned away from the traditional volume licensing approach for
Microsoft Office to subscription-based licensing model in 2019. To be compliant, Office 365
1908.11929 (Semi-Annual Enterprise Channel) has been installed on all Colleague Windows
10 and Windows 8.1 devices. This includes apps such as MS Word, PowerPoint, Excel,
Outlook and Onedrive.

All Office 365 apps and services are connected, both to each other and to the wider web,
facilitating teamwork, saving employees time and enabling them to work better together
through tools such as Teams chat, online meetings, co-authoring and sharing files, and
group emails. The inclusion of cloud storage and mobile apps in the Office 365 suite also
allows the colleagues to work wherever, whenever, with secure access to content,
conversations, tasks, and schedules.

The Post Office owns and is responsible for the licensing of Microsoft 365 Apps. The
Supplier is responsible for the management, packaging and deployment of all 365 &
Enterprise apps including productivity and collaboration suite of applications.

Page 40 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

SCCNM is used to download the required Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise source
components, using the in-built Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise Client Management
functionality. It is also used to deploy the Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise client
applications using the download and execute model, in association with 1E Nomad.

Group Policy Objects in Active Directory are used to configure all MS Office applications on
Windows 8.1. devices.

Microsoft Endpoint Manager has been used to deploy using the download and execute
model and manage Microsoft 365 Apps on all Windows 10 devices. This includes the
deployment of monthly patches. This also includes all configurations and security settings.

Applications which require additional licences e.g. Visio and Project, are managed
separately to ensure licence number compliance and installed versions are deployed via
SCCM and Microsoft Endpoint Manager.

4.5.12 Email Services

Post Office uses Office 365 to manage all workflows including the management of mailboxes
and filtering.

The Microsoft Outlook client version 1908.11929, included in the licensed version of Office
365, is installed and configured on End User Devices to connect to Office 365 for emails and
other tools such as calendar appointments, tasks, contacts, and notes. User mailboxes are
configured to run in cache mode allowing users to work offline when needed.

Post Office also has 2 On-prem Exchange 2013 CU23 Hybrid servers (with the latest patch
releases) to allow secure mail routing between on-premises and Exchange Online. The
Hybrid servers also provide SMTP relay for applications which are unable to relay via Office
365.

4.5.13 Federation Services and Identity synchronisation

Post Office has Active Directory (AD), Azure Active Directory Connect (AADC) and Active
Directory Federation Services (ADFS) infrastructure provisioned and configured.

The federation farm uses the ADFS servers to provide claims-based authentication tokens,
which can then be consumed by the Office 365 and other federated SaaS applications.

The ADFS infrastructure is installed into the Post Office production environment and hosted
in the Azure UK South region. To support disaster recovery, all servers are replicated to the
Azure UK West region. The service is comprised of two internal AD FS servers, two Web
Application Proxy (WAP) and a single Azure Active Directory Connect server, synchronising
user IDs and passwords.

Diagram below illustrate the design with all workloads located in Azure. Additionally, it
illustrates the authentication processes for SaaS applications.

Page 41 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Cloud Resource

OY
oe

Microsoft Azure

Sign on

Window 10 authetiate wih Azure AD

Figure 11: Azure Workloads

4.5.14 CViT Windows CE PDA’s (Out of scope of EUC Contract)

CViT (Cash & Valuables in transit) Drivers currently use 350 Windows CE Devices running
on Zebra MC65s PDA devices which are specialist devices that are supported by the
supplier Barcode Warehouse. They are used to access the TransTrack mobile solution,
which is used to track and control Cash pouches, delivered and accepted by its CViT
vehicles.

The Zebra device hosts this as the sole application (boots to TransTrack). It has an in-built
optical barcode scanner used to scan the cash pouches when loading vans / delivering to
Postmasters. There is also a separate Bluetooth printer that is still used for interim receipt
production.

Connectivity to the back office TransTrack application is achieved via docking stations which
both charge and provide ethernet connectivity to the Post Office WAN. To pair a device to a
router and retrieve (and submit) data the operator must enter the server IP and unique port
(obtained from the back-office application) into the device. Once in the dock, the device will
contact the server and synchronise data. The operator must wait for both ends to confirm
synchronisation before removing the device from the dock.

The devices are managed using a legacy SOTi Mobile Device Management server.

Currently the O/S (CE) is end of life, as is the Zebra MC65 device and the support partner
are cannibalising old devices to keep the estate working.

4.5.15 CViT Android devices

Arecent successful pilot of 20 Samsung Android devices at the Newton Abbot depot tested
out a more modern infrastructure stack. This included the following technologies

e Microsoft Endpoint Manager for full MDM device management.
e Android devices (Samsung Tablets / Android Phones).

Page 42 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Corporate Wi-Fi connectivity in the Depot.

Over the wire route synchronisation.

Zscaler mobile client to secure internet access.

0365 Productivity stack (Teams, Yammer etc) for collaboration and knowledge
sharing.

¢ The latest TransTrack Android client.

These devices now provide a small-scale production solution and therefore the support of
these Android CViT devices is in-scope for the EUC contract

Post Office would like to evaluate the roll out to other depots in the future depending on the
SCM strategic review work but with a fully managed device policy applied rather than a joint
work / personal profile as in the pilot and will consider 5G when it has sufficient spread to
cover the depot areas. Details of this potential future project are provided in Section 11.

4.5.16 Mimecast

Mimecast is an Email security tool used for Spam, Malware, Mail filtering and archiving. A
plugin is installed in Outlook that would enable these security features on all devices.

Mimecast is also used for Data Protection searches for SAR / FOI and as such it is
considered also as a compliance archive. This also includes the support for searches on the
compliance archives.

4.5.17 lronscales

lronscales is a service that allows end uses to report phishing emails. Ironscales plugin is
installed in Outlook that enables this security on all devices.

4.5.18 Managed Print (out of scope for EUC contract)

Delivery of the Managed Print service is the responsibility of the Managed Print supplier,
however, the management and support of the required server infrastructure which delivers
the FollowYou Print solution forms part of the scope of server hosting for the EUC supplier.

The Managed Print supplier remotely monitors print consumption and ink levels in MFDs.
When toner levels become low on an MFD, the Managed Print supplier will ship toner to site,
enabling a Post Office individual to replace the depleted toner with the fresh one. Paper for
MFDs is provided by Post Office facilities.

The FollowYou Print solution is configured in both the Production (UK South Azure) & Pre-
Production (UK West Azure) environments. The Pre-Production environment is configured
as per the Production environment and is used for offline testing and patch testing prior to
deploying to a live environment. Additionally, there is a ‘passive’ Disaster Recovery
environment which is designed to be instigated in the UK West Azure Environment in the
event of Data Centre failure in the UK South.

Although Managed Print is out of scope for the EUC contract, for the avoidance of doubt it

should be noted that label and other non-standard branch printers which are listed as branch
peripherals are in scope of support of the EUC contract.

4.5.19 Joiners, Movers and Leavers (JML)

Page 43 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Post Office have implemented an automated service for the Joiners, Movers and Leavers
(JML) utilising Microsoft Identity Manager (2016 SP1). Microsoft Identity Manager (MIM) has
been integrated heavily with active directory and is fully supported by the EUC Supplier. This
includes patching the operating systems, antivirus, maintain the application, SQL database
support and providing 3rd line level support.

The Platform is responsible for managing user lifecycle (joiner, movers and leavers) and
Identity Data of internal (employees and contractors) users that exist in the HR system, SAP
Success Factors. The platform is also used to manage access to several key Post Office
systems.

The MIM Synchronisation Service is used to configure connectivity into the below connected
identity data stores:

« SAP Success Factors.

e EUC Active Directory.

e Microsoft Exchange.

« File Servers.

« Teams.

« MIM Service.

The MIM Service and Portal is used for the configuration and management of the following:
e Provisioning / deprovisioning of users.
« Sets, workflows, policies and notifications.
« Group / Application management.
e User self-service (requests / approvals).

Microsoft identity Manager is hosted in Customer’s Azure tenant, in a dedicated subscription
called POL_Back_Office. This environment is currently connected using a dedicated
Expressroute to the Customer's network. To further improve the design and optimise the
network traffic, Post Office plans to migrate Microsoft Identity Manager to a dedicated
Subscription in the main EUC Azure laaS environment where shared technologies are
hosted. From here, data is imported from SAP Success Factors and exported with
Connectors to other data stores.

Page 44 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The diagram below shows a high-level logical architecture of the overall solution.

a

Office 365,

MIM Components

Marosol »
Azure AD —.
I SQ. Database MIM Service
Server & Portal Server

J n .

4. AD user data > <

is staged into
MIM tool during +
initial setup 4

Active
Directory domain

3. SAP Success Factors Connector
replaces flat file ‘authoritative data
source’, data is joined with existing

User information in MIM tool

(MIM Synchronization
Service Server

Figure 12: High-level architecture of the overall solution

g—

User Admin /
Manager

2. HR employee data
extract is imported
into MIM tool and

joined with existing
user data to become
HR Flat I authoritative data
File Source ae
Key:
+ Hdentity data
> Flat File Connector data

Success Factors Connector data
Password writeback data
Endpoint access (HTTP/HTTPS)
MIM data flows

Page 45 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

5. SERVICE OPERATING MODEL.
51 Post Office Service Support Operating Model

Over the past 12-18 months, the Post Office has been transforming the way technology
services are supported by our supplier partners. The Post Office has been moving from a
largely outsourced Tower and SIAM model, to one where some of these services have been
brought back into the Post Office, and others have been disaggregated and re-tendered as
smaller more specific supply categories.

A key aspect of this transformation has been the insourcing of the service desk function and
the service integrator responsibilities which are now delivered by the Post Office IT function.

Centered around our investment in the ServiceNow platform we have consolidated our 1st
line service desk function from our Chesterfield Operations Centre. With a focus on
supporting our Branch estate with user centric experiences modelled to deliver to their
individual needs, this has been supported with investing in our IT Operations team to provide
consistent ITIL operational practices.

As Post Office continues to mature SIAM capabilities, our intention is to follow
recommendations from the Public Sector in onboarding new suppliers directly onto our
instance of ServiceNow.

By adopting this model Post Office can consolidate services by:
« Having a consistent data source and providing visibility across services.
e Dynamically responding to events via workflow across the support and delivery
supply chain.
« Lowering risk; lowering cost; improving speed, agility and service visibility.

Post Office IT delivery is largely aligned to the ITIL framework whereby work is carried out
and coordinated under service processes (such as Request, Incident, Problem, Change). It
is a blend between in-house and outsourced capabilities which deliver into a Post Office
service integration layer.

EUC is an outsourced capability which depends on several internal capabilities such as the
Service Desk, processes, and security operations.

5.1.1 Post Office IT Organisation

The Post Office IT organisation has 155 staff members and is organised into the following
technology areas and organisational departments:

[Technology Area Organisational Department Staff
Service Desk (Service Integration) Service Desk 24
End User Computing janaged by current EUC Supplier -
Networking lanaged by Verizon Business -
Front Office (Branch Customer Branch & Digital Engineering (Front Office) 21
[Facing Business Applications) Horizon & GLO IT (Front Office) 9
(Cloud & Data Services sou Centre of Excellence 15
(Change & Technical Assurance 5
ISecurity InfoSec Compliance/Vendor Compliance 3
(Cyber Operations & Incident Management 10
IT Controls 2
[Service Management & Enterprise IT [Service Management 59

Page 46 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

(Contract & Vendor Management

Solution Architecture

Leadership

Senior Management 7

Table 10: Post Office IT Organisation

As well as Post Office having its own IT organisation capabilities, Post Office leverages third
party suppliers to help complement their delivery of end to end services, and strong
partnerships have been formed with multiple partners.

The following table provides the key IT function and who these areas are managed by:

[Function Managed by [Description
IThe first point of contact for IT service for all users in
Service Desk _— Post Office the Post Office organisation (Branch and

(Colleague).

[End-user Supplier scope of Provide desktop and field services to Branch and
(Computing his tender process __IColleague.
Managed Print Ricoh Provide print services to Colleague.
Physical server hosting, and Azure/ AWS cloud
Hosting A mix of in-house —_ environments. (Note: EUC systems are delivered
eams and Suppliers Ithrough Azure services and major Branch
applications via AWS).
. Management of the Post Office networks includin:
Networks erizen branch connectivity and network devices. 8
Fujitsu and [Provide Customer-facing applications which directly
Front-Office \nccenture perform business functions. For Branch, Fujitsu
support the single branch application, Horizon.
Manage the back-end applications and enterprise
Back-Office JAccenture \database systems including POLSAP, HR SAP, CFS
jand FMI, Transtrack CWC, Traka32, Credence,
Master Data Management (MDM) Business apps.
Management of the Azure and AWS cloud
(Cloud Team Post Office lenvironments.
IBranch Hub Post Office Management of the Branch Hub support and
Support Team fulfilment delivery tools and processes.
\ServiceNow Post Office Management and configuration of the ServiceNow
[Team ITSM toolset.
Information Post Office Responsible for defining and enforcing Post Office
[Security security policies.
Projects Post Office Management of the Post Office pipeline of projects.
Responsible for defining Post Office architecture
[Architecture Post Office lstandards, architectures that fall into their remit and
joverning supplier defined architecture.
Responsible for ensuring that new or changed
Service Design Post Office services are defined, process integrated and handed
\& Transition over in line with the Post Office service
requirements.
Post Office has a number of process owners and
leams e.g. Incident Management, Major Incident
Process Teams [Post Office Management, Problem Management, Change

Management and SACM. Suppliers feed into Post
\Office universal processes. Event Management is
largely a supplier side activity.

Table 11: Major Functions in the Post Office IT Organisation

Page 47 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

5.1.2 Service Model

The diagram below outlines the service model with Post Office acting as the service
integrator.

POL Service

POL Management and
Controls Layer
POL Service Desk,
service processes, & POL Service
Integrator layer

‘SNOW ITSM Toolset

EUC Supplier EUC Supplier Service
‘Management layer

EUC Branch EUC Colleague

EUC Supplier EUC Supplier
Services - Branch Services - Colleague
‘Supplier EUC

Services

POL Contracted Supporting Services

Figure 13: Hierarchical view of the Supply Chain

Post Office will always perform 1° line triage and attempt incident resolution or request
fulfilment where possible. Should the 1* line teams not be able to achieve this, then they will
functionally or technically escalate the incident or request to the appropriate next level in the

hierarchy via the Post Office ServiceNow platform.
The EUC supplier will perform the role of 2" & 3” line as well as collaborating with Post

Office 3" line SMEs as and when appropriate.

EUC Service Support Operating Model

Page 48 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Figure 14: Support Model
The EUC Supplier will deliver into a Post Office Service Integration layer which comprises of
the Post Office Service Desk, universal processes, support model, and Service
Management.

The EUC Supplier will provide services using an integrated mode of operations with Post
Office, meaning that the EUC Supplier will work operationally as part-and-parcel of Post
Office's IT and business operations. This includes using and supporting Post Office business
processes and interfaces, and integrated process workflow pipelines e.g. request, incident,
problem, change. To further enable this joint working the EUC Supplier will directly use Post
Office’s ITSM toolset which is ServiceNow.

The EUC Supplier's direct use Post Office’s ServiceNow instance will avoid the need for
using disparate ITSM tooling with e-bonding and will ensure a conformity of data and
performance. With ServiceNow as a central data platform this will reduce the need for
manual reporting though utilising performance analytics and reporting dashboards,

5.1.3. Split of Branch and Colleague

The EUC Services contract outsources the operational activities in terms of the Branch and
Colleague EUC, while retaining the final say in terms of governance, design authority,
service level management and the service/ process integration layer on which operations in
the service are built.

The supplier should maintain a separation between service delivery to the Post Office
Branch and Colleague business areas to ensure that services delivered to each of those
business areas are delivered to meet the business requirements and operational practises of
the business which are very different. Additionally, it is necessary to ensure that the impact
of changes across these business areas is minimised.

By ensuring a clean separation between the two key business areas, the supplier will reduce
complexity for Post Office and reduce the level of “plate-spinning” work which Post Office
service management currently undertakes with regards to the current ways of working.

5.2 Incident Management

The following sections provide a description of how Post Office defines and managed the
key area of Incident Management, detailing the separation of Incident Management from
Major Incident Management, and providing the definition of Post Office’s Incident Priority
definitions.

The specific Incident Management requirements are further defined in the following section 6
Service Specification.

An Incident is defined as a P1 to P4 incident with regards to Post Office's internal incident
definition detailed below.

The EUC Supplier will remediate IT incidents relating to the scope of the EUC service in
order to minimise any related disruption to operations.

While the Post Office Service Desk will carry out an initial business impact prioritisation on
incidents (based on urgency and impact), an incident record will be allocated to the EUC

Page 49 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Supplier to initiate the correct responses and resolve in-line with the corresponding Service
Level Agreement.

The EUC Supplier incident priorities will be fully defined in the incident matrix which defines
the criticality, impact, resolver groups and further important information and will be reflected
in the CMDB for the corresponding Configuration Item.

The EUC Supplier will also perform Queue Management against all work item queues for
which they are responsible, meaning that the EUC Supplier will proactively track and follow
up on any outstanding work items and keep aged tickets to a minimum.

5.3 Major Incident Management

A Major Incident is defined as a P1 or P2 incident with regards to Post Office’s internal
incident definition, with P1 incidents receiving a greater degree of priority and visibility. Major
Incidents are owned and managed by the Post Office Major Incident Management Team
(MIM Team).

Upon a Major Incident, the Post Office Major Incident team requests that related suppliers
and teams attend an incident bridge call for the duration of the Major Incident. The Post
Office Major Incident Team produce or coordinate the Business Communications related to
Major Incidents with technical and business impact support from the suppliers.

For all P1 & P2 incidents a problem record is automatically created, and a corresponding
root cause analysis report will be undertaken by the resolving supplier in line with the
Problem management requirement

The Post Office MIM Team operate during business hours, and additionally they are on call
during all other hours. Similarly, the EUC Supplier is always expected to provide resources
to attend Major Incidents.

The incident support model reflects the three key components of the EUC Service:
1. Infrastructure, Shared Services and Security.
2. Branch End user Services.
3. Colleague end user services.

5.4 Incident Priority Definitions

The Incidents are classified in order of priority 1-4 with a further set of service classifications
and resolution times for Priority 3 Branch and Colleague end users.

Priority 1 & 2 Incidents are managed by the Major Incident Management process.
Priority 3 & 4 Incidents are managed by the Incident Management process.

The Incident Priority Definitions are provided below for each of the support model
components.

5.4.1. Infrastructure, Shared Services and Security Incidents

Infrastructure and Security incidents covers the key platform, hardware, software and
application used to deliver the EUC services and all elements of Security. The SLAs and
response times reflect industry standards and best practice reflecting the urgency and
criticality of restoring service and returning business operations with minimal impact and are
covered by the priority definitions listed below:

Page 50 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657
e P14 Major Incident
e =P2 Significant Incident
¢ P3 Standard Incident
¢ P4 Minor Incident
Incident Resolution Target
Priority Description Examples
Level
P1 (Major IA material failure or outage I This is a Major Incident
Incident) that (i) affects the Customer I affecting entire sites,
IT infrastructure resulting in a I multiple departments or
Follows the loss of ability to trade, and/or critical systems and ;
Major deal with Customers, and/or applications running in a
inniient settle or report to regulators, Iproduction environment
and/or satisfy any regulatory Ior an agreed managed
process for ae im , :
ieee ittion obligation, and/or (ii) results I test environment. e.g.:

in potential or realised
financial loss to Customer
and/or damage to the
reputation of Customer ,
and/or (iii) a significant impact
to business operation (iv)
Security:

Data Loss, Malware, Denial
of Service, Confirmed
compromise

e key application not
Available with real
business impact

e directory services
corruption resulting in
an inability to login

Security breach

e¢ multiple counter
functionality latency
issues

e¢ multiple branches
with reduced
application
functionality

¢ collaboration and / or
communication

applications i.e.
Teams failure

0 breaches of the 4
Hours resolution
time

Page 51 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657
Incident Resolution Target
Priority Description Examples
Level
P2 A substantial but limited —_I Significant impact to
(Significant impact or potential business operations
Incident) failure or outage or partial I below the level of a P1
outage that is including test and non-
Follows the (i) a degradation, failure I Production systems
Major or outage which has a which have a significant
Incident serious internal impact —_Iimpact on business
process for that is likely to lead to operations. E.g.:
resolution delay or interruption to
important, time critical * key batch processing
working processes for a failure
group and/or og
i a: Yellen ar cue e application not
(ii) a fail 4 9 available with threat
affecting multiple Users (as yet unrealised) of
with no effective business impact Ob h fthe 8
: , reaches of the
(iii) Security: Theoretical test system a Hours resolution
threat becomes active as I* security vulnerability I time
a security P1 if not * reduced branch
promptly addressed application
functionality
¢ intermittent issues
with a ‘key
application’ or an
issue with a key
application that has
an acceptable
workaround
¢ intermittent issues
with email /
communication
platforms / directory
services
P3 An Incident that is not a Major I Noncritical application
(Standard [Incident or a Significant fault, single network
Incident) Incident which requires a connection failure,
standard response and access constraints, 98% within 12
recovery. solution available through fo With
Follows the oe . workarounds 9" I Service Hours
Incident Security: Phishing email or B
process for Ia@ctive threat spreading
resolution _ [infection

Page 52 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Incident Resolution Target
Priority Description Examples
Level
P4 (Minor Any Incident that is not a For example, a non-
Incident) Major Incident, a Critical impacting threshold alert

Incident, or a Standard or non-urgent call. Non-

Incident. critical issue to a test
Follows the i
Incident ISecurity: environment 98% within 24
process for Malware, phishing, miss Service Hours
resolution configuration that could

affects security

Table 12: infrastructure & Security incident Priority Definitions

5.4.2. Branch P3 Incidents

Branch Incidents are for Incidents which impact a single Branch site. An incident impacting
multiple (more than 1) Branches would be classified as an Infrastructure, Shared Services

and Security P1 or P2 Incident and would follow the definition and response requirements

described above.

All other Branch Incidents are defined as Priority 3 Incidents with the three levels of P3
categorisation and associated resolution requirements. These categories are defined below:

e EUC-BR-ENG-01 (Major Branch Incident)
EUC-BR-ENG-02 (Standard Branch Incident)
e EUC-BR-ENG-03 (Minor Branch Incident)

For the Branch estate the critical activity is ensuring that they can trade, and this is reflected
in our requirements and Service Levels.

The Branch estate is made up of many different branch configurations, with a large
proportion of the Branch Network being single trading counter branches, where even a
peripheral failure can result in a branch not being able to serve the Customers that depend
on the Post Office.

The Post Office openly acknowledging the challenges of delivering services to very remote
locations, and from that standpoint uses an approach of grouping branches based on
geographic location and assigning an SLA response time for physical visits.

The table below identifies the branch types, criteria and Service Levels for a Major Branch
Incident, based on the EUC segmentation of Branches into City & Town; Urban; Rural; and
Remote.

A number of Exception locations are also defined, including Non-Customer Facing; Island
Exceptions; and Outreach locations.

Page 53 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

1 ClyBTown — ABranch tuaed wins lage setlement ‘hours ‘4500 Branch’

2 Uten ‘Branch stuated coset a age setement 26 Sheurs 4700 Brane's

3 Rural ABranch situated within a settlement in open 6-10 hours ¢ 420 Branch's
‘ABranch situated withina settiementin open —_

4 Ramet aainwialarge separator anehtewng 0 unk 2hows 6170 Branc's
with large population

5 NOncustemer srachthat doesnt tad wih he gene puble wa NA © 198raneh's

a) ‘Branch stated on a remote island wih restited = wa two rancns
ABranch that is operated out of local buildings, such

5 lems as vilage halls or communty centres, and a fleet of cn rn CID

‘mobile post office vans maintained by a central Post
Office

Figure 18: Branch Segmentation types and Exceptions

Each Post Office Branch has been geo-tagged, and the 3 nearest branches have been
identified and a distance recorded for each of these branches:

« NrstDist = nearest distance to the next branch

¢ 2NrstDist = 2° nearest distance to a branch

¢ 3NrstDist = 3” nearest distance to a branch
The more remote a branch is, the larger the NrstDist number is (recorded as miles). By using
the 3NrstDist number it provides an accurate indicator on how remote or how central a
branch is to others.

Using the 3NrstDist metric, branches are allocated to EUC segmentation locations (City &
Town, Urban, Rural and Remote) with a corresponding field engineering response time.

The picture below is an example of a branch and the 3 nearest branches. As the 3NrstDist
has a measure of 3.01 this results in the branch being classified as Urban and will receive a
5 hours field engineering response time.

PF 182923 Godalming 5 High Street Godalming GU71AZ 497194 143865
—————— pet ae

ea
Figure 16: Branch Segmentation3NrstDist example.

Page 54 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The EUC supplier will need to work with Post Office departments (Branch estate, IT Service
Management, etc) to create innovative support solutions to better service the Branch estate
in order to meet the Service Levels and requirements. For example, a managed stock of
replacement parts and spares in remote locations utilising the Post Office estate as depos
and utilising postal services to aid Branch break-fix, so Branches can mail back and receive
replacement parts.

Remote Locations and Exceptions: The EUC Supplier will need to support the Branch
estate's full geographical locations, which covers very remote locations from the Eastern
Isles to Shetland that provide critical services to their communities. Supporting these types
of Branches takes diverse solutions to ensure they receive, wherever possible, the same
level of service as the rest of the Network. Transport links to these locations are often
infrequent, for example ferries twice per week or need special access arrangements.

Again, working with the Post Office the supplier will need to provide alternative solutions via
utilising Postal Services, remote support and direct access to spares to enable the branches
to resolve issues as quickly as possible and commence trading.

Qutreach Branches: There are also a number of outreach branches, meaning mobile
branches operated in public locations on a temporary basis, or which travel to the homes of
Customers (Post Office van services). It is assumed that outreach branches will drop off any
equipment relating to engineer visits at their parent branch locations, and SLAs in respect of
visits to outreach branches will be dependent on this. There is sometimes the need for an
engineer to support an outreach location and this will be arranged in conjunction with the
Postmaster, Post Office support teams and the supplier (with reference to the SLA
exceptions above).

Please refer to Appendix A: Ref Doc-007-Branch and Colleague Locations for a full list
of Branch allocations to the EUC Segments: City & Town; Urban; Rural; and Remote (and
identification of the exception locations: Non-Customer Facing; Island Exceptions; and
Outreach).

Page 55 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

oe Description Examples Rese lisrem tim
A failure or outage that (i) This is an Incident
results in a complete failure I affecting a single branch GP aniisin:
of an individual Branch to _I that cannot trade. 95% within:
trade, and/or deal with Multiple branches with
Customers, and/or (ii) a reduced functionality or I4 Service Hours
significant impact to application running for City & Town
EUC-BR-ENG- I business operation for a slowly Branches
01 multi-counter branch (iii) * single counter
(Major Branch actual financial impact to ie branch unable to 5 Service Hours
Incident) Reconciliation or Cash trade for Urban
Management impact to the I* multiple counter Branches
Follows the Postmaster branch with i “
Incident reduced availably I § Service Hours
process for e Inability to provide for Rural
resolution essential Branch Branches
services such as Gas
/ Water / Electricity F
Bill Pay / Pre-Pay 12 Service Hours
OR ability to for Remote
access/Deposit Cash Branches
EUC-BR-ENG- I Branch IT fault with reduced I Single Branch IT fault 95% within:
02 (Standard I counter functionality and/or I with a workaround. Multi
Branch solution available through —_I counter branch counter .
Incident) workarounds for single Branch with two counter 24 Hours for City
counter branch. Branches _I failure. Reduced counter and Rural.
with up to 75% counter functionality, with branches
Follows the failure. workarounds.
Incident
process for 36 Hours for:
resolution Remote branches
EUC-BR-ENG- IBranch Requests or non- Non critical peripheral 95% within:
03 (Minor urgent call or Postal service. I fault, replacement cable I
Branch or postal service request I48 Hours for: City
Incident) and Town, Urban
and Rural
branches
Follows the
Incident 72 Hours for
process for Remote branches
resolution

Table 13: Branch P3 Incident Priority Sub-Categorisation

5.4.3. Colleague and Supply Chain P3 Incidents

Page 56 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The Colleague Incident categories are defined to reflect the impact within support roles for
our Colleague and corporate environments and the delivery of key business applications in
the running of the Post Office.

Similar to Branch Incidents, Colleague and Supply Chain Incidents which impact multiple
Colleagues/Colleague Locations due to a material or significant IT failure would be classified

as an Infrastructure, Shared Services and Security P1 or P2 Incident and would follow the
Major Incident Management process and response requirements described above.

All other Colleague and Supply Chain Incidents are defined as Priority 3 Incidents with the
three levels of P3 categorisation and associated resolution requirements. These categories
are defined below:

« EUC-CO-ENG-01 (VIP Colleague Incident)
e EUC-CO-ENG-02 (Significant Colleague Incident)
EUC-CO-ENG-03 (Standard Colleague Incident)

Colleague Resolution time
P3 Description Examples
Categories
A failure or outage of an This is a high priority
end user device, software, Iincident that is affecting a
EUC-CO- application or EUC end VIP user from conducting
ENG-01 user services that is linked I their business activities
(Colleague toa VIP. either end user hardware,
VIP Incident) software or key a
applications e.g. 98% within 4
A Service Hours
Follows the ¢ Laptop Failure
Incident e Office365 availability
plocess) for e Security breach
resolution -
« Network connectivity
A failure or outage of an This is a priority incident
EUC-CO- end user device, software, I that is affecting a
ENG-02 application or EUC end business-critical user from
(Colleague user services that is linked I conducting their business
Business to a business-critical user. I activities either end user
Critical User hardware, software or key a
Incident) applications e.g. eet within 8
« Laptop/Desktop Failure SMI TIOUnS
Follows the ¢ Office365 availability
Incident ¢ Security breach
process for a
resolution « Network connectivity

Page 57 of 193

POL00337657
POL00337657

Colleague Resolution time

P3 Description Examples

Categories

EUC-CO- A failure or outage of an Noncritical application,

ENG-03 end user device, software, I connectivity or hardware

(Colleague I application or EUC end fault for a single user.

Standard user services that is linked

Incident) to a non-critical user. 98% within 12
Service Hours

Follows the

Incident

process for

resolution

Table 14: Colleague P3 Colleague incident Priority Definitions

Page 58 of 193
6. SERVICE SPECIFICATION

This section describes the requirements for the ongoing service required by the Post Office.
The EUC Supplier is required to provide a solution that supports all of the Services specified

POL00337657

POL00337657

in this section for the Technology Framework described in Section 4 above, within the

framework of the Operating Model defined in Section 5 above. All Services unless otherwise

specifically stated, are included in the Service Charges. The Supplier shall be responsive,
adapting to the current and future requirements of Post Office and in doing so will be
committed to an approach of providing continuous service improvement by proactively
anticipating needs and adjusting services accordingly.

The high-level service model is comprised of the following service categories which are
described below and accompanied by the detailed service requirements:

(459) architecture :

Architecture and Strategy

Cloud/Infrastructure Management& [J
Support

Common infrastructure Services
Idenlity and Access Management
Remote Access and Support
Cloud Plaiform Management

Engineering Services 5

Engineer Services
Enhanced Engineering Services

Field Engineering Services (Branch and colleague Home Suppor!)
Slock Management

Configuration Management

Build, Software Packaging & Release
Management 4

Release and Deployment Management
Build and Software Updale Management
Equipment and Software Refresh
Packaging and Software Distribution
‘Modern Deployment Management

Service Management

®

Financial and Conract Management
Risk and Compliance

Service Catalogue Management
Service Management

Asset Management

Controls

aE] Service Operations

Incident Management
Problem Management

Service Integration

Knowledge Management

Service Operations Change Management

IT Service Continuity Management

Remote Device Management (Exercisable Option-see section 10)

BUpH End User IMACD

End User Services
End User IMACS

Peripherals

Print Services

Repair and Maintenance
Accessibility on Demand Service

Security
End User Compuling (EUC) Build

=~

(el Project Services

Project Change Management
Operational Business Change (OBC) - Branch Only
Service Design and Transifion

Request to Quole (RTQ)

fe

Monitoring and Reporting

Availability Management
Capacity Management

Event Management

IT Operations Centre

‘Monitoring and Reporting

‘Moniloring & Reporting

Demand Management

Analylics (Exercisable Oplion- see section 10)

Figure 17: EUC Managed Service - Service Capabilities (Requirements)

6.1 Service Operating hours

Page 59 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Service Operating Hours

Architecture,

8am — 6pm Monday — Friday excluding
Public bank holidays

Service Management,

8am — 6pm Monday — Friday excluding
Public bank holidays

Project Services,

8am — 6pm Monday — Friday excluding
Public bank holidays

Build, Software Packaging

8am — 6pm Monday — Friday excluding
Public bank holidays

End user IMACD

8am — 6pm Monday — Friday excluding
Public bank holidays

Support

Cloud/infrastructure Management & 8am — 6pm Monday — Friday excluding

Public bank holidays

Engineering Services including Field
Engineering Service, Service Operations,

8am - 8pm Monday — Friday excluding
Public bank holidays
08:00 to 16:00 Saturday — Sunday

Monitoring and Reporting, 24hr a day all year

Major Incident Management (priority 1 and

24hr a day all year

2 incidents)
Release Management 24hr a day all year
Security 24hr a day all year

Table 16: Service Operating hours

6.2 Architecture

This service area provides Architecture capabilities to Post Office to support the design and
assurance of changes to the Post Office EUC environment. The Supplier shall provide their
processes, tools, methodologies and experiences in all aspects of business and technology
architectural change in the Post Office IT services within the scope of EUC Services.

6.2.1 Architecture and Strategy:

Architecture and Strategy defines the structure of Post Office Systems or IT services,
including the relationships of components to each other and to the environment they are
in. Architecture also includes the Post Office Standards and Guidelines which guide the
design and evolution of the solutions.

Req. ID

Requirement Description

EUC-AS-01

The Supplier shall, at all times adhere to the Customer’s Architecture and
Security Standards in the delivery of their Services.

EUC-AS-02

The Supplier shall, contribute to the Customer's Enterprise Architecture
Standards relevant to its services as required.

EUC-AS-03

The Supplier shall, be compliant with the Customer’s Enterprise
Architecture Standards including verification that all changes comply. If
requested, the Supplier shall produce a summary of compliance/non-
compliance architecture standards reports for the Customer.

EUC-AS-04

The Supplier shall, implement, track and report on agreed remediation
actions in respect of any non-compliance with the Customer’s Enterprise
Architecture Standards.

Page 60 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-AS-05

The Supplier shall, provide an EUC architecture reference model showing
the EUC capabilities provided as part of the service and technology
platforms / architecture patterns used to deliver the services.

EUC-AS-06

The Supplier shall, assist the Customer in developing and updating
roadmaps, IT systems, processes, technical architecture and standards.
The Customer's roadmaps will be developed, on a quarterly basis, and
stored in the Customer’s architecture repository. This shall include a
rolling three (3) year projection of anticipated changes (subject to the
Customer's business and planning requirements).

EUC-AS-07

The Supplier shall, support the Customer by participating in a monthly
architecture review forum regarding:

(a) review of the current infrastructure;

(b) risk, issues and changes where they are aware of such;

(c) development plans; and

(d) performance and capacity.

EUC-AS-08

The Supplier shall, support the Customer by participating in a quarterly
architecture review forum regarding:

(a) equipment and software architecture and standards;

(b) industry and technology trends;

(c) regulatory issues/changes where they are aware of such;

(d) data and lessons learned from the Operating Environment;

(e) trend analysis from data to predict future demand;

(f) good practice from their other accounts and centres of excellence; and
(g) any element of the infrastructure or architecture which is forecast to

go end of life within the following 12 months and includes configuration
which may be depreciated due to releases.

EUC-AS-09

The Supplier shall, provide an architectural engineering function to
include, but not limited to: -

(a) producing technical designs and support requirements to meet the
Customer's architecture and security standards in the management of the
Infrastructure;

(b) provide As-ls and transitional architecture states to assist with project
delivery (to be included in any new Solution Design documents);

(c) ensuring all solution designs have traceability to functional and non-
functional requirements;

(d) presenting solution designs to Customer's Architecture Governance
Committees to get approval and make amendments to designs based on
feedback from Architecture Governance Committees and re-present as
required;

(e) translating Customer's architecture requirements into specific
configuration and deployment templates;

(f) developing and propose new or enhanced Infrastructure plans and
designs on an on-going basis;

(g) producing required documentation and updates in accordance with
the Customer's ITIL Service Management Processes; and

(h) engineer the Infrastructure to provide optimisation and increased
efficiencies including cost controls.

EUC-AS-10

The Supplier shall, where developing or upgrading technical solutions,
make considerations for enabling action to be taken at first line support.

Page 61 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-AS-11

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, provide and maintain in
scope middleware components available on the End User Device.

EUC-AS-12

The Supplier shall, in collaboration with Customer's Technical Architects
support the following:

(a) review platform selection decisions and provide technical support and
configuration advice;

(b) review Customer business cases and suggest alternatives as needed.
(c) participate in proof-of-concept projects, including suggesting industry
best practices.

(d) contribute to or develop requirements and statements of works for
new technologies and architectures with a view to improving Customer
experience of the services provided;

(e) provide analysis and input to support the ongoing design and
configuration standards for architectural purposes; and

(f) update and provide documentation as architectural designs and
decisions are approved.

EUC-AS-13

The Supplier shall, share with the Customer their internal technology and
innovation disciplines, to bring continual innovation, enhancements and
industry best practice to the Customer's End User Computing solution.

EUC-AS-14

The Supplier shall, maintain within the Customer's architecture repository,
Technical Design documents, ensuring they are updated for material or
significant changes.

EUC-AS-15

The Supplier shall, maintain the Customer's low-level Designs ensuring
they are updated for material or significant changes and be visible to the
Customer in real-time for searching and querying.

EUC-AS-16

The Supplier shall, provide a dedicated Customer Operational Architect
(COA) resource on a full-time basis who will work as an integrated
member of the Customer and the Supplier’s EUC infrastructure
engineering function, and with other suppliers or subject matter experts
as required.

EUC-AS-17

The Supplier shall, attend Customer Architecture Review Boards and
provide input in line with Customer's architecture governance framework.

EUC-AS-18

The Supplier shall, as requested by the Customer, perform architecture
impact assessments for evergreen Platform as Service (PaaS) or
Software as a Service (SaaS) services to ensure any changes are
identified and impact is understood.

EUC-AS-19

The Supplier shall, be responsible for paying all costs associated with:
(a) licenses for their software; and

(b) packaging all of the Customer's ‘official’ software, when requested by
the Customer.

EUC-AS-20

The Supplier shall, continually review documentation to ensure:

(a) DR and ITSCM commitments are upheld for any changes;

(b) any architecture changes are regression tested against the existing
environment to ensure no breaking changes are introduced.

EUC-AS-21

The Supplier shall, provide representation and support for technical
change reviews relating, but not limited to:

(a) Technical CAB,

(b) CAB;

(c) DR; and

(d) Major incidents etc.

Page 62 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-AS-22

The Supplier shall, deliver all services, where applicable, to PCI
legislation and compliance activities associated with, but not limited to
infrastructure, engineering, operations and processes.

6.3 Cloud / Infrastructure Management & Support

Setup, configure, run, monitor, and optimise the components of Post Office cloud
infrastructure related to EUC. Manage Post Office's Back-end services, which includes
resource groups and other related tasks, within the cloud environment.

6.3.1 Common Infrastructure Services

The provision on IT systems and software for the delivery of EUC Services to Post Office
Colleague and the Branch estates.

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-CIS-01

The Supplier shall, provide, manage and work with Customer and the
relevant Suppliers to implement the EUC Infrastructure solution and in
accordance with the Customer's Security Standards.

EUC-CIS-02

The Supplier shall, work co-operatively with the Customer and Third Party
Vendors in optimising and implementation EUC Infrastructure services.

EUC-CIS-03

The Supplier shall, maintain synchronisation of the EUC servers and
Access Devices within agreed time sources and the Master Time
Reference provided by the Customer or nominated agent.

EUC-CIS-04

The Supplier shall, provide and maintain Directory Services (Pre-
production and Production). The pre-production environment must reflect
the production environment.

EUC-CIS-05

The Supplier shall, enable other Third-Party Vendors to utilise the
Directory Services, in order to commission additional services for which
there may be a reliance on components of the Directory Services.

EUC-CIS-06

The Supplier shall, support and maintain the infrastructure, the integrity of
replication and quality of data used for directory replication within Domain
Controllers.

EUC-CIS-07

The Supplier shall, ensure Authentication Services comply with the
Security Requirements, Security Policy and processes.

EUC-CIS-08

The Supplier shall, support and deliver 2FA / MFA as required by the
Customer.

EUC-CIS-09

The Supplier shall, maintain and support the Authentication Technology
Service for all Users and Access Devices.

EUC-CIS-10

The Supplier shall, provide an Azure Active Directory (AAD) and Active
Directory (AD) integration capability that enables single sign on and
Authentication Services for Users where applications are configured to
use Active Directory as the main authentication method.

EUC-CIS-11

The Supplier shall, extend the single sign on service (where technically
possible through the AD and AAD) to add such new applications as may
be specified by the Customer.

Page 63 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-CIS-12

The Supplier shall, ensure that the Authentication Services enable Users
to logon to an appropriate connected Access Device so that the User may
securely access applications, print services and data for which they are
authorized.

EUC-CIS-13

The Supplier shall, maintain Remote Access Service (RAS) configuration
information provided by the Customer or nominated Third party in the
deployed VPN clients.

EUC-CIS-14

The supplier shall, manage and administer directory services, included
but not limited to:

(a) configuration management;

(b) group policy management;

(c) topology and replication management;
(d) schema management;

(e) user and group account administration;
(f) reporting;

(g) monitoring connectivity;

(h) net logon and trust relationships; and
(i) replication.

EUC-CIS-15

The Supplier shall, support and enable Internet access for all in scope
devices through automation and policies subject to the security
constraints.

EUC-CIS-16

The Supplier shall, process Service Requests relating to the Directory
platform, in accordance with the Customer policies and subject to the
security constraints.

EUC-CIS-17

The Supplier shall, provide Operational Support and maintenance of the
Customer's Directory Services.

EUC-CIS-18

The Supplier shall, manage administration and system accounts in
accordance with the Customer account management Policy. Where these
policies do not exist, the Supplier shall ensure Industry Best Practice in
agreement with the Customer.

EUC-CIS-19

The Supplier shall, provide Operational Support of the in-scope Public
Key Infrastructure (PKI) platform certificate services which are hosted in
the Cloud.

EUC-CIS-20

The Supplier shall, create, authorise, issue, renew and revocation of
certificates in accordance with the Customer's policies. Where these
policies do not exist assist in the development of policies and standards.

EUC-CIS-21

The Supplier shall, respond to service requests related to PKI certificates
associated with the Services.

EUC-CIS-22

The Supplier shall, monitor their sub CA PKI database of issued
certificates to identify if any certificates are nearing expiry and shall report
these, with recommendations to the Customer at agreed intervals.

EUC-CIS-23

The supplier shall, manage, maintain and administer the Customer’s
Domain Name System (DNS) services. This includes creation,
management and administration of DNS records and zones for
computers, services, or other resources connected to the Internet or a
private network.

Page 64 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-CIS-24

The Supplier will perform Azure Virtual Machine Back up Service in line
with the following schedule:

(a) Retention of Daily Backup Point

Retention Range For: 14 Days

(b) Retention of Weekly Backup Point

Retention Range On: Sunday For: 4 Weeks

(c) Retention of Monthly Backup Point

Retention Range On: Last Day: Sunday For: 6 Months

(d) Retention of Yearly Backup Point

Retention Range In: January On: Last Day: Sunday For: 1 Year

6.3.2 Identity and Access Management

The process of defining and managing the roles and access privileges of End Users and the
circumstances in which End Users are granted or denied those privileges.

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-IAM-01

The Supplier shall, ensure that the Identity and Access Management
Service supports the Customer’s Access Management Standard
including the ability to audit and attest.

EUC-IAM-02

The Supplier shall, make the Identity and Access Management Service
available to the Customer's Security Information and Event Management
(SIEM) platform in near real time for analysis, incident management and
assurance, and make available to other Suppliers to support the Asset
Management Standard — Access Control Standard.

EUC-IAM-03

The Supplier shall, implement and enforce the Customer’s Password
Management Policy covered under Access control standard for the
Identity and Access Management Service, unless otherwise agreed with
the Customer.

EUC-IAM-04

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, create the Identity
and Access Management Service processes and Procedures in
accordance with the Customer’s Access Management & Control
Standards.

EUC-IAM-05

The Supplier shall, enable the capability for Customer Services to query
the Identity and Access Management Service Master Directory.

EUC-IAM-06

The Supplier shall, manage, maintain and support Connectors to enable
the provisioning and synchronisation of identity and attribute data.

EUC-IAM-07

The Supplier shall, work collaboratively with Third Party Suppliers to
agree a specification for any new Connector, including but not limited to:
(a) Third Party attributes to be synchronised to the Customer’s Master
Directory;

(b) Customer's attributes to be synchronised from the Master Directory to
Third Party Suppliers; and;

(c) frequency of synchronisation.

EUC-IAM-08

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, ensure the Identity
and Access Management Service synchronises with identity and attribute
data between Identity and Access Management Service and the systems
provided by the Third-Party Suppliers and the Customer.

EUC-IAM-09

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, work with Third
Party Supplies to grant the required access to the Customer’s Services.

Page 65 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-IAM-10

The Supplier shall, manage, maintain and support a Federated Identity
and Access Management capability for the Customer Services and Third-
Party Suppliers.

EUC-IAM-11

The Supplier shall, provide, maintain and support a self-service
password management function in accordance with the Customer's
Access Control Standard. This update is to be synchronised to all
applicable target Services.

EUC-IAM-12

The Supplier shall, provide, maintain and support a secure self-service
facility to allow End Users or Customer representatives to amend agreed
personal attribute information held within the Identity and Access
Management Service.

EUC-IAM-13

The Supplier shall, work and collaborate with the Customer to ensure that
the Supplier's self-service facility is delivered through the Customer's
Azure self-service portal.

EUC-IAM-14

The Supplier shall, configure and support the Identity and Access
Management Service such that any change synchronises all data to
target Services within one (1) hour of the change being committed on the
originating system.

EUC-IAM-15

The Supplier shall, be responsible for the management and support of
the Customer’s Shared Services platform hosted in the Customer’s Cloud
tenant.

EUC-IAM-16

The Supplier shall, be responsible for the management of shared
services technologies including but not limited to, directory services,
dynamic naming system, system configuration utilities, certificate and PKI
services, end point management.

EUC-IAM-17

The Supplier shall, be required to manage the Customer's EUC Cloud
landing zone, subscriptions and services, in adherence with Customer's
cloud policies.

EUC-IAM-18

The Supplier shall, ensure access to the meta data in the form of log
ingestion to SIEM for PIM/PAM and SSO and support Security Incident
management directly with the Customer's Security Operations Centre
(SOC).

EUC-IAM-19

The Supplier shall, provide the Customer with the reports necessary to
conduct assurance reviews, in relation to general access and privileged
access control.

6.3.3 Remote Access and Support

The provision of IT infrastructure for end users who are remotely working away from
corporate networks in order to access Post Office systems.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-RAS-01 I The Supplier shall, in conjunction with other Third-Party Suppliers, ensure
that End Users have secure remote access to the Customer's internal
network and services.

EUC-RAS-02 I The Supplier shall, provide software deployment and patch distribution for
remote End Users in accordance with information security policies and
procedures.

Page 66 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-RAS-03

The Supplier shall, provide software updates as per policy in emergency
situations (for example, malware, security threats) to remote End Users.
The distribution of the software updates to End Users will be
automatically executed upon connection.

EUC-RAS-04

The Supplier shall, provide solutions according to policy, to protect
equipment that is directly connected to the internet by use of end point
security solutions that meet or exceed Industry Standards.

EUC-RAS-05

The Supplier shall, ensure that all remote End Users can access a
centrally provided file and print service in all sites.

EUC-RAS-06

The Supplier shall, provide integration (in the form of log ingestion into
the Customer's SIEM solution) for, but not limited to Access Management
meta data.

EUC-RAS-07

The Supplier shall, provide support for Security Incident Management
directly with the Customer's Security Operations Centre (SOC).

6.3.4 Cloud Platform Management

Management and supporting of Post Office’s EUC Cloud Infrastructure as a Service
providing computing infrastructure, provisioned and managed over the Internet.

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-CPM-01

The Supplier shall, support and maintain appropriately resilient and
available cloud hosted solutions in accordance with defined business
and/or technical requirements (BC/DR/HA).

EUC-CPM-02

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and processes for:
(a) the purpose of detection and prevention of unauthorised cloud hosted
data loss;

(b) detection and prevention of data loss (DLP)

(c) privileged access management; and

(d) account management.

EUC-CPM-03

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and measures to
protect cloud hosted systems from threats, which includes but is not
limited to Anti-Virus and Anti-Malware.

EUC-CPM-04

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and processes to
manage cloud data ingress/egress, which includes but is not limited to
Firewall management and Route management.

EUC-CPM-05

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate integration with Identity
Management Services, to authenticate and grant permission to End
Users, applications, Services and other resources (IAM).

EUC-CPM-06

The Supplier shall, provide and be responsible for appropriate measures
to support Role Based Access restrictions (RBAC).

EUC-CPM-07

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and measures to
identify, assess and report on system and resource threats.

EUC-CPM-08

The Supplier shall, provide mechanisms and processes to maintain the
security of cloud-based applications, systems and services, which
includes but is not limited to:

(a) patching;

(b) software/system upgrades; and

(c)_ vulnerability management scanning logs.

Page 67 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-CPM-09

The Supplier shall, in accordance with defined polices and best
practices, provide appropriate mechanisms and measures to identify,
assess and report on system wide compliance, which includes but is not
limited to applications and platform configuration.

EUC-CPM-10

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms to manage system,
application and service credentials, which includes but is not limited to
Managed Secrets and the management and monitoring of EUC SubCA
Certificates services.

EUC-CPM-11

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and processes to
gather and distribute security log and alert data for the purpose of
monitoring and analysing the Customer security posture (SoC-
integration).

EUC-CPM-12

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and processes to
gather, collate and present cloud resources and services for cost/charge
information.

EUC-CPM-13

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and measures to
analyse, report and act upon system/resource usage, which includes but
is not limited to resource rightsizing and instance reservation.

EUC-CPM-14

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and processes to
gather and distribute log data for the purpose of operational monitoring
and analysis (Log Management).

EUC-CPM-15

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and processes to
gather, report and act upon application, system and service level events
(Event Management).

EUC-CPM-16

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms to dynamically
report on cloud-based application and resource state, which includes but
is not limited to:

(a) resource/service dashboards;

(b) metric analysis; and

(c) status reports.

EUC-CPM-17

The Supplier shall, provide mechanisms and processes to update cloud-
based applications, services and systems through appropriate patching
and/or software/system upgrades, which includes but is not limited to:
(a) maintenance updates; and

(b) functionality enhancements.

EUC-CPM-18

The Supplier shall, organise and facilitate a monthly management
meeting to report on in-scope cloud hosted resources, which includes
but is not limited to current usage and performance to represent target
solution forecast metrics.

EUC-CPM-19

The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms and processes to
ensure cloud hosted applications, services and systems are backed up
in accordance with solution requirements, which includes but is not
limited to:

(a) laaS platform VMs and installed applications (SQL); and

(b) periodic system and data restores being tested in accordance with
the solution and Customer's requirements.

EUC-CPM-20

The Supplier shall, in accordance with defined security and retention
polices, provide mechanisms and measures to ensure all cloud hosted
data is stored securely and managed appropriately.

Page 68 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-CPM-21 I The Supplier shall, provide appropriate mechanisms to ensure cloud
hosted applications, services and systems can be recovered in
accordance with defined business and/or technical solution requirements
(RTO/RPO/RTA).

EUC-CPM-22 I The Supplier shall, provide mechanisms and processes to ensure cloud
hosted resources can be easily identified (Enforce tagging/labelling).

EUC-CPM-23 I The Supplier shall, support the provisioning of cloud services and
infrastructure through code (laC) and include continuous integration and
delivery (CI/CD).

EUC-CPM-24 I The Supplier shall, provide, support and be responsible for all associated
costs for the appropriate integration with the Customer Service
Management Platform (ITSM).

EUC-CPM-25 I The Supplier shall, ensure integrations with ITSM and SIEM platforms
which includes, but not limited to:

(a) DLP;

(b) Anti-Virus;

(c) Anti Malware;

(d) Firewall Management;

(e) IAM;

(f) RBAC; and

(g) Vulnerability Management.

6.4 Engineering Services

This service includes:
« Engineering Support Services — Second line support function for the restoration and

delivery

of services in the Branch and colleagues.

e Enhanced Engineering Services - A Colleague VIP Engineer service (2nd Line)
which includes providing support engineers for both office-based and remote

workers;

; and

e Field Engineering Service — For the Branch estate as an extension of our branch
support/management team capable of supporting all Postmaster needs.

6.4.1. Engineer Support Services

Second line support function for the restoration and delivery of services in the Branch and

colleagues.

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-ES-01

The Supplier shall, provide engineering support when requested by the
Customer to assist with network connectivity and hardware at Customer
sites to include, but not limited to:-

(a) Router (Inc. WIFI and Cellular);

(b) Switches;

(c) Hubs;

(d) Cabling.

EUC-ES-02

The Supplier shall, resolve Incidents associated with equipment and
software failure or degradation of in-scope assets or services and
infrastructure under the supplier provision and provide in line with Service
Level agreements:

Page 69 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

(a) break/fix support;

(b) remote fix;

(c) configuration support/fix
(d) access support/fix

(e) advice; and

(f) assistance to End Users.

EUC-ES-03

The Supplier shall, hold spares and replace equipment and/or Software in
order to conduct a repair, copy the data and perform backups to ensure
that no data is lost or corrupted. Any lost data and associated costs of
recovery is Supplier's responsibility.

EUC-ES-04

The Supplier shall, wherever possible, support and repair the defective
equipment using remote system management tools with which corrective
maintenance can be performed on an End User's device in-line with the
Customer's Security Process and Policy.

EUC-ES-05

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, provide approved
alternative solutions for End Users (including branch equipment)
experiencing an equipment or software Incident to access replacement
equipment.

EUC-ES-06

The Supplier shall, provide, in agreement with the Customer, nominated
sites to which End Users (including branch equipment) can attend when
requiring an equipment or software upgrade, repair or replacement
equipment.

EUC-ES-07

The Supplier shall, upon repair of malfunctioning equipment: -
(a) return the repaired item to the spares loop;

(b) direct to the End User; and

(c) or to the appropriate Nominated Office for collection.

EUC-ES-08

The Supplier shall, ensure that 3d barcodes / asset tags and support tags
are replaced as applicable on all kit.

EUC-ES-19

The Supplier shall, provide engineering services for the Customer's
Production, Pre-Production, and other End User Test Devices, including
devices located in Third Party locations.

EUC-ES-10

The Supplier shall, provide on-site support to one defined location and
additional part-time support to two defined locations which shall include:
(a) floor walkers; and

(b) drop in surgeries / Tech bars to support End Users.

6.4.2 Enhanced Engineer Services

The provision of enhanced arrangements for defined VIP Colleagues or Branches.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-EES-01 I The Supplier shall, provide a contact number to enable the Customer's
support staff to contact the VIP services.

EUC-EES-02 I The Supplier shall, provide a solution for VIP Services, which allows for in
person and remote engagement, to a number of identified VIP Users
which has enhanced SLAs that meet the needs of the Customer’s VIPs.

EUC-EES-03 I The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, provide enhanced

support up to a max. of 50 Colleague VIP users. These services will
include but, are not limited to:

(a) Incident Management;

(b) Request Management;

Page 70 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

(c) Knowledge Share;

(d) User Experience;

(e) Asset & Configuration Management;
(f) Audio Visual (AV);

(g) Security support.

EUC-EES-04 I The Supplier shall, provide support to VIPs while out of their normal office

location including while at their home or in transit.

EUC-EES-05 I The Supplier shall, be responsible for assuring any engagement is logged

and recorded in the Customer’s ITSM tool, on behalf of the VIP user.

EUC-EES-06 I The Supplier shall, ensure the details of VIP Users held by the Supplier

are kept aligned with the Customer's details within the ITSM tool and
Asset Configuration Management records.

6.4.3 Field Engineer Services

Our Field Engineering teams are an important face of the Post Office to the Postmasters,
and they should act as brand ambassadors, playing their part in explaining the benefits of
the Post Office and its support structure. Field Engineers are seen as a key interface
between the corporate head office and the Branch network. Field teams provide a break/fix,
support and maintenance service for Branch counter hardware, as well as providing services
for Branch opening, changes and closures (See Operational Business Change Process).

In addition to responding to a fault incident, Field Engineers should also provide:

Support guidance (e.g. use of engagement methods Branch Hub & Service Desk,
numbers to call, how to escalate etc).

Technical guidance (e.g. tips on peripherals such as keyboards, screens brightness
settings, how to clean the printer, how to reconnect the scanners).

Counter hardware support & maintenance.

Network router connectivity and cabling support.

Proactive fault reporting and resolution - For example if a Branch raises an incident
ticket with regards to a till, and during a field visit, it emerges that a scanner device in
the branch is out of service, the field engineer should proactively carry out the

necessary administrative tasks to initiate break-fix / replacement (e.g., raising a
ticket), and following this carry out the repair task.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-FES-01 I The Supplier shall, adhere to Institute of Electrical and Electronics

Engineers (IEEE) standards as well as the Customer technical and
security policies and guidelines.

EUC-FES-02 I The Supplier shall, provide a dedicated field engineering dispatch resource

to support the Customer's service desk and support teams for the
management and allocation of field engineer workorders and prioritisation
of demand.

Page 71 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-FES-03

The Supplier shall, provide Field Engineering Services to ensure:

(a) IT equipment is available and optimised;

(b) End User compliance and competence in the use of the equipment;
(c) End User Branch training;

(d) End Users are aware of any ongoing changes to the infrastructure and
operating systems.

EUC-FES-04

The Supplier shall, provide a dedicated Engineering and Field Engineering
Service Manager to the Customer and provide a monthly service review
management report/dashboard and meeting review.

EUC-FES-05

The Supplier shall, ensure that all engineers that visit any Customer site
has been DBS checked in line with the Customer’s clearance and vetting
policy.

EUC-FES-06

The Supplier shall, ensure all engineers that visit any Customer site will
comply with the request and directions of the Branch Manager whilst on
site.

EUC-FES-07

The Supplier shall, ensure that all engineers details are recorded and
maintained on the Customer’s database of approved engineers
(verification table) used for Branch end users to verify point of entry.

EUC-FES-08

The Supplier shall, coordinate with the Customer’s Service Desk, Internal
and Third-Party Suppliers to manage all on-site technical support requests
to Resolution and Closure within Scope of service.

EUC-FES-09

The Supplier shall, support Branches in remote locations including islands
within the UK, Northern Ireland and those with restricted access where
arrangements must be made with the End User and consideration made to
journey travel times, constraints and opening times.

EUC-FES-10

The Supplier shall, support Branches in Third Party premises where
arrangement must be made with the End User and consideration made to
access times constraints and minimise disruption to their business
operations.

EUC-FES-11

The Supplier shall, support End User environments in domestic locations
where arrangement must be made with the End User and in consideration
of constraints and working hours.

EUC-FES-12

The Supplier shall, bundle work together by Branch or Geographic area to
optimise the schedule ensuring it meets the Customer's SLAs.

EUC-FES-13

The Supplier shall, utilise the Customer's field engineer tooling solution for
the deployment, tracking capability and Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA)
information for the management and deployment of the Filed Engineering
service.

EUC-FES-14

The Supplier shall, ensure that all actions taken during a site visit are
recorded in the Customer's ITSM tool prior to the engineer leaving site.

EUC-FES-15

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, perform planned
maintenance on a calendar or condition-based schedule (whichever is
appropriate for the asset type).

EUC-FES-16

The Supplier shall, dispatch appropriate trained and equipped field
engineers in response to an Incident or Service Request as per ticket
priority and timescales defined in Service Level schedule.

EUC-FES-17

The Supplier shall, ensure peripherals deployed in the estate are asset
tracked by serial number, location, deployment date and updated in the
Customer's ITSM tool.

EUC-FES-18

The Supplier shall, if requested by the Branch Manager or Customer
support teams and time permitting, during a site visit, perform counter
network and peripheral cabling checks and any necessary remediation
actions.

Page 72 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-FES-19

The Supplier shall, if requested by the Branch Manager or Customer
support teams, when attending a location undertake a Branch
conformance review and functionality checks to maintain availability of the
IT equipment and record the outputs within a centralised repository so the
Customer can easily access them.

EUC-FES-20

The Supplier shall, be accountable for the management of PCI compliant
activities associated with any applicable processes, this includes:

(a) providing secure storage for all assets; and

(b) delivery and tracking of all assets to branch locations to ensure
continual chain of custody.

EUC-FES-21

The Supplier shall, where requested by the Customer, undertake a simple
(1 or 2 questions) Customer Satisfaction Engagement Survey with the End
Users and provide the results in a consolidated report.

EUC-FES-22

The Supplier shall, provide stock distribution points throughout UK in
secure Customer location, Supplier warehouses or alternative solution to
aid resolution response times with a focus on remote and very remote
locations where achieving Service level are at most risk of breaching.

EUC-FES-23

The Supplier shall, provide the ability for End Users to:
(a) receive their devices and/or peripherals at home or work location; and
(b) receive or return their devices and/or peripherals via post.

EUC-FES-24

The Supplier shall, be responsible for informing the Customer of any
Health & Safety issues relating to any site visits that will prevent the
engineer starting, completing or continuing with their allocated workload.

EUC-FES-25

The Supplier shall, ensure that Field Engineering will support the
Customer's Branch estate for the installation, checks, removals and
replacement of IT cabling:

(a) between network equipment and end user hardware;

(b) between End User IT hardware;

(c) End user IT and 3rd party IT equipment; and

(d) Third party IT hardware and network equipment.

EUC-FES-26

The Supplier shall, provide an engineering service at peak periods, or as
requested by the Customer, for proactive maintenance visits and
enhanced service levels to agreed sites (tbc estimated 50 - 100 sites).

EUC-FES-27

The Supplier shall, during a site visit, provide Support and Technical
guidance when requested by the Customer, including:

(a) guidance on support engagement methods and escalations; and
(b) basic technical guidance including tips on branch devices and
peripherals.

EUC-FES-28

The Supplier shall, provide engineering support when requested by the
Customer to assist with network connectivity and hardware at Customer
sites to include, but not limited to:

(a) Router (Inc. WIFI and Cellular);

(b) Switches;

(c) Hubs; and

(d) Cabling.

EUC-FES-29

The Supplier shall, provide proactive fault reporting and resolution where
additional faults are identified by the engineer whilst on site responding to
an initial Incident raised by the Branch.

EUC-FES-30

The Supplier shall, deliver the Services in line with the Customer's
geographical definition of branch locations in the Network Segmentation
Report:

(a) City & Town;

(b) Urban;

Page 73 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

(c) Rural;

(d) Remote;

(e) Island Exceptions;

(f) Outreach; and

(e) None customer facing.

EUC-FES-31

The Supplier shall, ensure the Customer has the ability to request a
change of location for an individual branch due to circumstance change,
mis-categorisation, error or new branch or change of location occurs.

EUC-FES-32

The Supplier shall, ensure the Customer has the ability to change the
priority level of a Branch incident resolution level (either up or down) to
support business needs or escalation.

EUC-FES-33

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, maintain defined stock
levels for the in-scope hardware.

6.4.4 Stock Management

The process of ordering, storing, tracking, and controlling inventory.

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-SKM-01

This requirement is purposely blank.

EUC-SKM-02

The Supplier shall, provide the ability to forward forecast Stock levels
required to meet demand based on historical data and other leading
indicators.

EUC-SKM-03

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, maintain defined stock
levels for the in-scope hardware

EUC-SKM-04

The Supplier shall, ensure that where it is viable/practicable, assets
remain installed in locations for their lifespan to deliver maximum value for
money.

EUC-SKM-05

The Supplier shall, proactively identify inactive assets and coordinate the
removal or reallocation of such assets with the guidance of the Customer
IT security team.

EUC-SKM-06

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, ensure when hardware
is procured from a Third-Party Supplier, they will manage the stock in
accordance with this contract.

EUC-SKM-07

The Supplier shall, ensure that all of the End User equipment returned to
or from the spares loop is tracked throughout its lifecycle.

EUC-SKM-08

The Supplier shall, provide a monthly report for all items that have been
removed from the asset register that are beyond economic repair and
seek approval to be decommissioned.

EUC-SKM-09

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, define and deliver a
process for ensuring scrappage, data deletion and decommissioning of all
end user equipment, and provide certification of completion.

EUC-SKM-10

The Supplier shall, provide all logistical services (for example,
provisioning site preparation etc.) associated with the movement of the
equipment or software from Third Party Suppliers.

EUC-SKM-11

The Supplier shall, verify that equipment is stored in a secure area and
are not subject to extreme heat, cold, dampness, dirt, etc.

Page 74 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-SKM-12

The Supplier shall, ensure all assets:

(a) contain a visible asset identifier, which is robust and visible to the End
User which matches the digital identifier;

(b) are stored and recorded within the CMDB before the asset is used;
and

(e) are updated, whenever practicable, to ensure that the asset and
configuration record is current.

EUC-SKM-13

The Supplier shall, ensure when any asset loss or theft has
been identified inform the Customer immediately outlining
the:

(a) asset details;

(b) value;

(c) user information;

(d) any data loss or potential risk;

(e) the circumstances and investigation; and

(f) where applicable and agreed with the Customer , invoke
remote wipe as per the Security standards.

EUC-SKM-14

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, provide a stock report
outlining but not limited to the following:

(a) usage of branch assets;

(b) asset age and end of life (EOL) status;

(c) current level of stock required to meet SLA and Operational Business
Change needs;

(d) details of consumables e.g. cables and PSU for branch devices;

(e) PAT testing on receipt of powered equipment; and

(f) maintenance / reporting on PAT re-test status.

EUC-SKM-15

The Supplier shall, for each Service Period, produce a disposal report
detailing assets disposed of, last user and confirmation of secure data
destruction in accordance with security policy and process.

EUC-SKM-16

The Supplier shall, provide secure storage for in scope End User devices
which need to be covered by chain of custody for PCI-DSS.

EUC-SKM-17

The Supplier shall, sample check, no more than monthly, all stock
inventory to ensure quality whilst held in the Supplier's secure storage.

EUC-SKM-18

The Supplier shall, provide the Customer with a report, no more than
monthly or as required by the Customer, detailing the Supplier's stock
management information.

6.4.5 Configuration Management

The Process responsible for tracking and reporting the value and ownership of Assets
throughout the Contract Lifecycle.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-CONM- I The Supplier shall, at all times adhere to the Customer’s Asset

01 Configuration Management Policies and Processes in the delivery of their
Services

EUC-CONM- I The Supplier shall, be responsible for managing and ensuring the

02 accuracy of their services and components, including mapping of
components into services within 1 week of receipt, into the Customer's
CMDB.

Page 75 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-CONM-
03

The Supplier shall, ensure all assets, licensing and/or Configuration
Management information is updated in the Customer CMDB to reflect the
changes which have resulted from the installation or movement of assets
and initiation of Services.

EUC-CONM-
04

The Supplier shall, enable discovery and service mapping access to their
estate for the purposes of real-time CMDB population in the Customer's
ITSM tool.

EUC-CONM-
05

The Supplier shall, as defined by the Customer, ensure that Configuration
Items (Cls) are identified in the CMDB by:

(a) attributes that describe their functional and physical characteristics;
and

(b) linked to immutable asset tags.

EUC-CONM-
06

The Supplier shall, ensure that Configuration Items are recorded from
receipt to disposal, including accurate data within the Customer CMDB
tool.

EUC-CONM-
07

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, attend CMDB review
and performance meetings, including responding to queries and requests
concerning the Configuration Items or supporting information.

EUC-CONM-
08

The Supplier shall, if a discrepancy is found with information regarding a
Configuration Item, take corrective action to address the discrepancy,
including but not limited to:

(a) identifying any Cls not recorded in the Customer CMDB or incorrectly
recorded by adding or correcting such records;

(b) reporting on, updating and removing of assets/Cls that cannot be
located;

(c) be responsible for any items that can't be located; and

(d) taking corrective action if a physical audit identifies any deficiency in
the accuracy or completeness of the records in the Customer CMBD.

EUC-CONM-
09

The Supplier shall, proactively monitor and resolve the expiry of
Configuration Items, including licenses, tokens and assist the Customer
and Third-Party Suppliers with keeping the information current.

EUC-CONM-
10

The Supplier shall, be responsible for:

(a) producing monthly reports that outline a 12-month look ahead to all
major software publisher renewals.

(b) respond in a timely manner to queries and requests concerning the
hardware and software asset inventory data or supporting information;
(c) ensure that all deployment of software procured by the Customer or
the Supplier is compliant with the number of purchased licenses; and
(e) conduct assurance reviews and audits and provide evidence to the
Customer and its auditors of the accuracy and completeness of the
records in the Customer CMDB and the existence of Cls.

6.5 Build, Software Packaging & Release Management

The Provision, packaging and maintenance of Post Office devices operating systems and
corporate applications.

6.5.1 Release and Deployment Management

Page 76 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Hardware, software, documentation, processes or other components required to implement
one or more approved Changes to Post Office IT Services.

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-RDM-01

The Supplier shall, work with the Customer in defining the delivery of the
Release Management process and agree ways of working.

EUC-RDM-02

The Supplier shall, implement documented processes and standards for
software and patch deployment procedures which meet requirements and
adhere to Customer-defined policies.

EUC-RDM-03

The Supplier shall, design, build, configure, and test all releases in
conjunction with the Customer and/or the other Suppliers as necessary.

EUC-RDM-04

The Supplier shall, obtain sign off for the testing approach, testing, UAT
and results from the Customer for all releases and deployment.

EUC-RDM-05

The Supplier shall, develop and publish a quarterly release software
schedule for in scope assets in alignment with the Customer's standards.

EUC-RDM-06

The Supplier shall, validate that all items being rolled out, or changed, are
secured in accordance with the Customer's Information Security
Standards and traceable through the Customer CMDB.

EUC-RDM-07

The Supplier shall, resolve all release issues for services within their
scope, escalate cross functional issues for resolution, support business
deployment acceptance testing and acquire governance sign-off in line
with the Customer's Policies and Processes.

EUC-RDM-08

The Supplier shall, establish and maintain software control and
distribution procedures, including the management of the software
Configuration Items and their distribution and implementation.

EUC-RDM-09

The Supplier shall, support the Customer in their delivery and release
impact assessments planning which includes but is not limited to:

(a) Security assessments;

(b) DR impact;

(c) Architectural regression impact and

(d) Testing.

EUC-RDM-10

The Supplier shall, maintain and manage the pre-production and test
environments for Services, as required, in support of releases.

EUC-RDM-11

The Supplier shall, provide and manage testing for releases before they
are transferred to the production environments, including testing of
rollback as described by the agreed back-out plans.

EUC-RDM-12

The Supplier shall, review and test changes including, but not limited to,
hotfixes, patches, Quality updates, Feature updates and service packs
with the Customer's End User hardware builds for compatibility with
existing Customer builds/ hardware to ensure that no bugs or issues are
introduced as a result.

EUC-RDM-13

The Supplier shall, monitor, assess and test End User Devices (to the
appropriate level as agreed with the Customer) patches, hotfixes,
Windows updates and service packs, and recommend those which should
be applied to improve stability, performance or security.

EUC-RDM-14

The Supplier shall, deploy security patches in accordance with information
security recommendations and associated SLAs. Where the Supplier
deems that such patches are inappropriate to be delivered within the
timeframes specified by the information security team, the Supplier shall
notify the Customer and agree a suitable action plan.

Page 77 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-RDM-15

The Supplier shall, advise the Customer of additional vulnerabilities and
bug fixes during the ongoing management of the Customer's servers, End
User devices and other supported equipment as they become known to
the Supplier, including:

(a) the means of protecting against these vulnerabilities where known;
and

(b) applying the agreed protection and any further patches in accordance
with the Customer's Change Control Procedure and SLAs.

EUC-RDM-16

The Supplier shall, ensure all builds including Standard server, End User
Devices and other support equipment builds contain the agreed patches
to protect against known security vulnerabilities and any further patches

required by the Customer.

EUC-RDM-17

The Supplier shall, test the updates on the relevant Standard Builds in a
test environment.

EUC-RDM-18

The Supplier shall, use where practical, a remote and automated
deployment tool to deploy the updates to the Customer's supported
equipment.

EUC-RDM-19

The Supplier shall, liaise with the Customer service owner to arrange a
suitable time to perform the patch deployment where the Customer's
supported equipment is agreed to be excluded from the automated patch
management process.

EUC-RDM-20

The Supplier shall, maintain and provide suitable documentation of the
patch management process.

EUC-RDM-21

The Supplier shall, prior to full deployment of Third Party-supplied
corrections and patches, work with the Customer to pilot and test such
corrections to confirm compatibility or special requirements.

EUC-RDM-22

The Supplier shall, prior to each release, produce an overview report
outlining code content, objectives, outcomes and risks which shall be
reviewed and approved by the Customer in accordance with the
Operational Change Process and Policies.

EUC-RDM-23

The Supplier shall, conduct a post deployment review to be provided to
the Customer.

EUC-RDM-24

The Supplier shall, document & resolve Incidents and Problems related to
software distribution that has failed on End User devices.

EUC-RDM-25

The Supplier shall, prior to distribution, communicate to the Customer's
user community any updates on:

(a) releases of software and patches;

(b) knowledge / support articles; and

(c) user training, etc.

6.5.2 Build and Software Update Management

The process of creating, updating and maintaining the standardised build images and
approved application list, compiling them into a build artefact.

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-BSUM-01

The Supplier shall, be responsible for the secure development,
maintenance and support of multiple Client Builds that meets the
requirements of the Customer.

Page 78 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-BSUM-02

The Supplier shall, develop a set of standardised images and use the
remote Software distribution system to deploy those images to all End
User devices.

EUC-BSUM-03

The Supplier shall, securely administer and control in line with the
Customer's policies and processes, the distribution and installation of
software, in accordance with the relevant software license agreements.

EUC-BSUM-04

The Supplier shall, maintain master copies of the software packages
version approved by the Customer in a secure, central location
accessible by the Customer.

EUC-BSUM-05

The Supplier shall, be required to ensure that all End User devices
provided from the Customer’s Service Catalogue are compatible with
the Customer's standard build.

EUC-BSUM-06

The Supplier shall, work with Third Parties as required to deliver images
installed on all applicable End User devices.

EUC-BSUM-07

The Supplier shall, at a minimum N-1 or as agreed with the Customer
and where applicable, test, maintain, and update End User device
images to meet the Customer's business requirements.

EUC-BSUM-08

The Supplier shall, continually review Software and End User devices
and Configurations of the images for compatibility against current and
planned environments and take appropriate action to maintain them in
accordance with the Long-Range IT Plan.

EUC-BSUM-09

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, be responsible for
configuring End User devices with personalisation to minimise
deployment and engineering times at the Customer's sites.

EUC-BSUM-10

The Supplier shall, on a quarterly basis update the build images with the
latest security updates, utilities and software releases prior to an End
User device being deployed.

EUC-BSUM-11

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, ensure that all
software and patch deployments follow an agreed maintenance window
to reduce the impact on business activities.

EUC-BSUM-12

The Supplier shall, provide input on End User training materials to the
Customer for approval as part of the release of each build update.

EUC-BSUM-13

The Supplier shall, be responsible for management of the Customer's
cloud-based productivity suite of applications, collaboration services and
continual upgrade to latest supported versions.

EUC-BSUM-14

The Supplier shall, ensure that all Client Builds be included in the
‘Definitive Media Library (DML)’ at a minimum N-1 or as agreed with the
Customer.

EUC-BSUM-15

The Supplier shall, where required, make Client Builds available to the
Other Suppliers at the request of the Customer.

EUC-BSUM-16

The Supplier shall, define the configuration of each Client Build and
provide the configuration document to the Customer.

6.5.3 Equipment and Software Refresh

The cycle of regularly updating key elements of the contracted IT infrastructure to maximize
system performance.

Page 79 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-ESR-01

The Supplier shall, be responsible for deploying in-scope agreed
equipment and software associated with any refresh and updating the
DML in accordance with Customer’s Standards.

EUC-ESR-02

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, refresh the in-scope
assets during the Call Off Contract Period including management
responsibility for the assets, the implementation, and on-going support.

EUC-ESR-03

The Supplier shall, for in scope assets, be responsible for any obligations
to refresh which will include, but is not limited to:

(a) provision of personnel who are adequately trained in the use of the
equipment or software to be deployed as part of the refresh, and provide
such training prior to the refresh;

(b) provision of minimal disruption to the Customer’s business operations
associated with technology refresh;

(c) performing all Operational Changes to equipment and software;

(d) commercial coverage for third parties if needed; and

(e) providing license costs.

EUC-ESR-04

The Supplier shall, provide information regarding the availability of new
items of hardware and software available in order to maintain the
technology estate in accordance with the Customer’s Continuous
Improvement Schedule.

EUC-ESR-05

The Supplier shall, work with other Third-Party Suppliers to identify new
hardware or software to meet technology refresh needs.

EUC-ESR-06

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer and where
applicable, maintain registered software levels at n-1.

6.5.4 Packaging and Software Distribution

This service covers the application code releases in respect of application code fixes or
changes developed by Post Office or its third parties. This includes application code fixes or
changes in respect to the Horizon branch application and colleague window devices.

This includes all element associated with application release management including
application packaging, UAT testing and package deployment to till devices in branches.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-PSD-01 I The Supplier shall, in adherence to the Customer's change management
process, provide secure packaging, associated configuration, sequencing
and deployment of all defined software.

EUC-PSD-02 I The Supplier shall, ensure all packages can be regressed to the previous
working state/last known good configuration and perform regression.

EUC-PSD-03 I The Supplier shall, ensure all packages are regression tested against the
environment to ensure no conflicts.

EUC-PSD-04 I The Supplier shall, investigate and resolve all install failures efficiently
through root cause investigation and remediate packages as necessary.

EUC-PSD-05 I The Supplier shall, notify the Customer of any updates and upgrades
made available by other Suppliers in relation to any software in the scope
of the Customer's End User environment where the update or upgrade
addresses any issue (Inc. security).

EUC-PSD-06 I The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, remediate any packages

released before, during or after deployment, deemed not to be fit for
purpose during the package lifetime. This will include repackaging,
updating or deleting the existing package.

Page 80 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-PSD-07

The Supplier shall, ensure that all deployed packages should be scripted
so as to minimise End User intervention including automatic reboots.

EUC-PSD-08

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer be responsible for
keeping all software up to date on the Customer’s End User environment,
including security fixes, patches and software revisions as described in the
Technology Framework (section 4 — Technology Framework).

EUC-PSD-09

The Supplier shall, minimise impact on business operations when
distributing or installing software.

EUC-PSD-10

The Supplier shall, inform End Users of any reboot required by a software
installation and allow users to postpone reboot (within limits agreed with
the Customer) other than in an emergency situation.

EUC-PSD-11

The Supplier shall, document and perform Quality Assurance testing of the
installation and configuration of the application package including
coordinating with the Customer's authorised users for user acceptance
testing.

EUC-PSD-12

The Supplier shall, perform application package conflict detection against
the Customer's defined core applications and provide resolution and re-
packaging, if required.

EUC-PSD-13

The Supplier shall, provide documentation in relation to this service, which
includes help files for packages, package knowledge articles and such
documentation as required by the Customer.

EUC-PSD-14

The Supplier shall, develop package request forms and documentation
templates (e.g. test scripts) pursuant to the Customer's requirements.

EUC-PSD-15

The Supplier shall, ensure that Application Packages and Standard Builds
are tested and integrated with other Applications to ensure interoperability.

EUC-PSD-16

The Supplier shall, ensure that no End User data is lost or corrupted as a
result of the package installation including business content or
configuration data.

EUC-PSD-17

The Supplier shall, provide reporting showing but not limited to:
(a) the number of packages successfully installed;

(b) those pending;

(c) error ratios; and

(d) remediation plans.

EUC-PSD-18

The Supplier shall, for Android devices, provide:
(a) 3 packaged applications; and
(b) 2 app store applications per year, as requested by the Customer.

EUC-PSD-19

The Supplier, shall create application packages, which are ready for
deployment within 10 working days from approval, that:

(a) automate the installation of Customer's applications; and

(b) customise the Customer's configuration requirements and Supplier's
standards.

6.5.5 Modern Deployment Management

The process for managing legacy and new applications in a unified way by providing
enhanced oversight, security, and awareness.

Req ID

Requirement Description

Page 81 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-MM-01

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, ensure that the
Modern Management Service is capable of delivering multiple builds and
operating systems (e.g. Windows 10, iOS and Android).

EUC-MM-02

The Supplier shall, configure and maintain the End Point Manager in
compliance with the Customer's policies and processes.

EUC-MM-03

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, configure and
maintain the approved application list within the definitive media library.

EUC-MM-04

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, configure and
maintain the Autopilot profiles.

EUC-MM-05

The Supplier shall, monitor the End Point Manager performance using
native Azure technologies.

EUC-MM-06

The Supplier shall, no more than monthly, report on the configuration
details of the devices to enable impact assessment for demand.

EUC-MM-07

The Supplier shall, implement and maintain configuration profiles for
multiple builds.

EUC-MM-08

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, ensure all Windows 10
devices are Autopilot ready.

EUC-MM-09

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, ensure that all devices
are registered in End Point Manager to support self-service deployment.

EUC-MM-10

The Supplier shall, manage and administer Microsoft Defender ATP. This
includes but is not limited to:

(a) management of dashboards;

(b) the review and implementation of security recommendations;

(c) management and remediation of vulnerabilities;

(d) corrective actions to remediate security incidents; and

(e) forecast, notify and test (when possible) signature updates before
deployment to live.

EUC-MM-11

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, provide regular End User
Devices health reports and take pro-active action on any irregularities or
risks highlighted.

EUC-MM-12

The Supplier shall, manage and maintain the Customer's Windows 10, iOS
and Android build and policies.

EUC-MM-13

The Supplier shall, implement and maintain the Customer's Azure AD
groups used for application access and delivery.

EUC-MM-14

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, enable and manage the
integration of other supported technologies into End Point Manager.

EUC-MM-15

The Supplier shall, manage and administer Endpoint Security suite
including but not limited to disk encryption and firewall policies.

EUC-MM-16

The Supplier shall, review and test Feature Updates for compatibility with
existing Customer builds and hardware to ensure that no bugs or issues
are introduced as a result.

EUC-MM-17

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, deploy approved Feature
Updates to all in scope End User devices.

EUC-MM-18

The Supplier shall, create, manage and deploy mechanisms, such as
running scripts on End User devices, to allow for the automation of manual
task.

EUC-MM-19

The Supplier shall, support and manage the Customer’s conditional
access policies and BYOD policies, in line with business requirements.
Where the policies do not exist the Supplier shall ensure Industry Best
Practice in agreement with the Customer.

EUC-MM-20

The Supplier shall, monitor the active and non-active inventory of devices
and provide monthly reports to the Customer.

Page 82 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

6.6 Service Management

The Post Office will manage the Supplier in a way consistent with a managed service
provider, meaning that the Supplier will have autonomy and decision-making power over its
scope, however at the same time Post Office will require visibility of certain low-level aspects
of the service.

The Supplier will participate in the Post Office governance of its services by providing
reporting packs or utilising the Post Office ServiceNow dashboards and reports and
participating in governance and operational forums.

At the same time, Post Office needs to have a level of visibility and audit control over a
number of aspects the supplier technology environment, services and activities with regards
to assuring that the IT delivery meets the required quality, security and compliance
standards. This level of visibility includes governance activities, but also an expectation that
the Supplier provides to Post Office a high level of visibility of the operational environment,
workflows, controls, right to audit and compliance status information.

Post Office are moving to a more user-centric focus to service delivery, including
undertaking user feedback surveys to gauge levels of user satisfaction, and driving
remediating issues that are identified by user surveys.

The Supplier is expected to take a proactive approach to service delivery which includes
ongoing management of outcomes, discovering the causes of failures, actively bringing
about improvement where shortfalls are identified, measuring and managing Customer
satisfaction, and providing a continuous improvement approach.

6.6.1 Financial and Contractual Management

Financial control and accountability within the Post Office is split between the Service
Management and Contract Management functions. The Post Office Service Manager
manages the day to day spend and authorisation of invoices along-side the checks and
controls of the Contract Manager.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-FCM-01 I The Supplier shall, at all times adhere to the Customer's Financial
Management Policies and Processes in the delivery of their Services.

EUC-FCM-02 I The Supplier shall, comply with the Customer's requisition, purchase order
and invoice management processes and submit financial reports, where
requested, by the Customer via the appropriate IT systems.

EUC-FCM-03 I The Supplier shall, provide the Customer with any pro-forma invoice for
approval, by the Customer, prior to submitting the invoices to the Finance
department.

Page 83 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-FCM-04 I The Supplier shall, ensure all submitted invoices for Services rendered
address any SLA amendments and are accompanied by backing data, in a
format agreed with the Customer, to assist the Customer to review and
reconcile charges prior to invoice payment.

EUC-FCM-05 I The Supplier shall, invoice the Customer, within one calendar month, in
arrears for services rendered.

EUC-FCM-06 I The Supplier shall, when unable to invoice the Customer within one
calendar month, notify the Customer any charges not yet billed and agree to
invoice within 6 months of Services rendered. The Customer will not accept
any charges older than 6 months from date of service delivered.

EUC-FCM-07 I The Supplier shall, cooperate with the Customer to answer any questions, to
resolve any invoice or consumption dispute and/or any invoice adjustments
that may arise.

EUC-FCM-08 I The Supplier shall, assist the Customer in the development and
implementation of the consumption reporting and invoicing processes.
EUC-FCM-09 I The Supplier shall, provide a consolidated operational spend report (split by
business function), of which the format should be agreed with the Customer,
of the actual IT costs over agreed periods (at the minimum monthly) to the
Customer.

EUC-FCM-10 I The Supplier shall, provide a quarterly report on the utilisation of each role
on the contracted Rate Card outlining consumption and utilisation of each
element.

EUC-FCM-11 I The Supplier shall, provide, as agreed with the Customer, a regular monthly
statement of account.

EUC-FCM-12 I The Supplier shall, create and manage a financial tracking model which
includes but, not limited to:

(a) contracted commitment with the Supplier by financial year with total
contract value agreed as per signed contract;

(b) forecast by financial year and by month;

(c) actuals and forecast by month for the current financial year that can be
reconciled back to monthly invoices; and

(d) breakdown of any Contract Management Notes (CMN) over and above
the base contract.

EUC-FCM-13 I The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, attend a monthly financial
review meeting which will include but not limited to:

(a) review of the financial tracking model to cover actuals and forecast
against contract values; and

(b) review of any Purchase Order / Invoice / Billing queries.

EUC-FCM-14 I The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, attend a monthly
contractual review meeting which will include but not limited to:

(a) provide evidence of compliance;

(b) agree actions to meet their unmet obligations and identifying key risks for
escalation;

(c) provide remediation plans and timelines;

(d) review contract performance; and

(e) review contract change notes.

EUC-FCM-15 I The Supplier shall, lead an annual contract conformance exercise signed off
by both parties.

6.6.2 Risk and Compliance

Page 84 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The Post Office Process responsible for identifying, assessing and controlling Risks.

Req ID

Requirement Description

EUC-RC-01

The Supplier shall, at all times adhere to the Customer’s Risk Management
Processes in the delivery of these requirements for their services.

EUC-RC-02

The Supplier shall, achieve and maintain its own accreditation and
certification required as specified by the Customer's policies or standards.

EUC-RC-03

The Supplier shall, hold a full risk register detailing all known Risks,
likelihood, impacts and mitigation plans to the Suppliers scope of Service.

EUC-RC-04

The Supplier shall, use automated tools, integration or access directly with
the Customer’s Risk management tools for recording and updating all risks.

EUC-RC-05

The Supplier shall, agree with the Customer the relevant point at which a risk
should transfer to the Customer.

EUC-RC-06

The Supplier shall,:

(a) notify the Customer of all risks with the associated scope of Services;
(b) provide to the Customer details of how all identified risks impact the
provision of the Services;

(c) provide the Customer with activities/plans/costs and associated
timescales to mitigate the risk;

(d) execute agreed risk mitigation plans; and

(e) advise the Customer of any residual risk.

EUC-RC-07

The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, provide assistance,
investigation and remediation (where applicable to the Suppliers scope) to
the Customer in the support of risks identified by the Customer or other third
parties.

EUC-RC-08

The Supplier shall, provide a monthly report and attend a monthly meeting to
review all risks relevant to the services.

EUC-RC-09

The Supplier shall, facilitate the activities of the Customer’s staff, auditors or
regulators in conducting assurance activities in relation to the design,
operation, effectiveness, investigation or audit of any key risk or assurance
controls across the provision or management of any Services provided to the
Customer.

6.6.3 Service Catalogue & Request Management

Request management within the Post Office follows a standard ITIL process and is fully
managed within the Post Office ServiceNow platform. Requests can come from a number of
routes within the Post Office, directly from end users via the Service Catalogue or created
outside of the catalogue e.g. by the Post Office Service Desk.

The Post Office Service Catalogue is a centralised service catalogue delivered via
ServiceNow. Users can request new catalogue items (such as hardware, software), IT
services, project requirements, product enhancements, office supplies, or any other
business service, all from one end user portal. When an end user has requested a catalogue
item the supplier will be provided with a request for processing.

Catalogue items are either pre-approved where no authorisation is needed by a budget
holder and are automatically passed to the supplier as a request for fulfilment (e.g. low value
items or consumables). For high value items (e.g. laptops) a Post Office representative will
authorise the purchase before it is passed to the supplier for fulfilment.

Page 85 of 193

POL00337657
POL00337657

Each item on the Service Catalogue will have a set price/cost, specification and SLA for
fulfilment. This sets the expectations for the end user and via ServiceNow will keep the end
user updated on the progress of the request.

As the catalogue and requests are delivered via ServiceNow the management of the service
will be delivered via the dashboard, performance analytics and data. The supplier will hold
regular (monthly) service reviews with Post Office to review supplier performance,
opportunities for future items and the standard service management activities.

The current list of related service requests is provided in Appendix A: Ref Doc-006 Service
Catalogue v2.0

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, work with the Customer in defining the delivery of the
01 Service Catalogue process and agree ways of working.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, in a format specified by the Customer, provide details
02 of all items and services to be included in the Customer Service Catalogue
and ensure that the data is up to date and accurately reflects the items.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, ensure that any changes to catalogue items (including
03 additions, amendments, and deletions) shall be affected in accordance
and agreement with the Customer.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, participate in periodic reviews (no more than monthly)
04 of the Service Catalogue to ensure the catalogue is updated and reflects
the Business Rules. This review will also include the Supplier:

(a) sample checking the catalogue for completeness and accuracy; and
(b) conducting test request exercises to validate the Users end to end

experience.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, act as a reseller responding to Customer requests for

05 pricing quotes for EUC-related products that are not defined in the Service
Catalogue.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, when requested by the Customer, enable the

06 purchasing of stock items in bulk to enable competitive pricing and
enhance response times.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, ensure when items are procured via the Service

07 Catalogue, the User is provided with appropriate guidance or instructions

in respect of the use of the hardware/software. Such guidance shall
include familiarisation, training and post installation hardware
configuration.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, be responsible for administering and co-ordinating

08 Requests on an end-to-end basis throughout their lifecycle.
EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, in a format agreed with the Customer, provide regular
og status updates including closure to the Requester for the purpose of

tracking, managing and closing Requests.
EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, use the most cost-efficient way of fulfilling the Request

10 in line with Service Levels and Customer needs.
EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, provide shipping of equipment to and from Customer
11 Locations (Including temporary facilities), as requested by the Customer.

This also may include Supply Chain Members or any Third-Party Supplier.

Page 86 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, be responsible for all freight and transportation costs
12 associated with the shipment and receipt of equipment between the

Customer, Supplier and equipment manufacturer locations. The Supplier
shall, provide the Customer with tracking references and confirmation of

delivery.
EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, provide the Customer with tracking references and
13 confirmation of delivery including:

(a) returns where items are defective;
(b) damaged on receipt; or
(c) no longer required.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, retain full responsibility for all shipped items until

14 confirmation of receipt is received at the end destination and/or by the
Requester.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, be responsible for changing the priority of a Request if

15 requested to do so by the Customer.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, be responsible for invoking triage to determine a

16 suitable course of action when Requests cannot be fulfilled or will be

fulfilled outside of the agreed timescale and will escalate, as per the
agreed process.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, provide a process to support the Customer in the

17 fulfilment of authorised requests that are not covered on the Service
Catalogue.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, advise on expected delivery times for Requests and if

18 these times are likely not to be met. The Supplier shall, always advise on
any potential or actual issues with the delivery of any Requests as they
arise.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, notify the Customer of any financial implications,

19 resulting from the cancellation of a Request, and co-operate with the
Customer to minimise any adverse effects.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, provide responses to all request queries to ensure the

20 Requester has clear guidance of resolving the query, without referring the

Requester to another party.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, retain overall responsibility for Requests for their

21 services until the Request is closed. The Supplier is responsible for closing
fulfilled Request Records following confirmation from the Requester and
initiating closure Processes.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, where they have performed closure of the Request in
22 accordance with agreed guidelines, ensure all necessary Data is captured
or updated on completion of a Request including updating the CMDB.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, agree with the Customer any variations required to the
23 End User Client Devices and will ensure such variations are applied to the
Service Catalogue in accordance with the Customer's Catalogue
Management Change Control Process.

EUC-SCRM- The Supplier shall, ensure they provide or support services, as listed in the
24 Customer's Service Catalogue which include:

(a) hardware and software provision and procurement;

(b) JML Services/requests;

(c) End User administration activities;

(d) business services requests; and

(e) requests from Customer's business unit.

EUC-SCRMI- The Supplier shall, provide a dedicated resource to support the request
25 and Service Catalogue processes and any escalation management for the
service.

Page 87 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-COL- The Supplier shall, where instructed for Equipment which has reached its
SCRM-01 final staging destination within the End User Estate:

(a) liaise with facility staff at the location to coordinate delivery times/dates;
(b) minimise disruption to the working environment (e.g. noise or working
space);

(c) adhere to any and all health and safety advice;

(d) ensure the area is left in the same condition when the work is
complete; and

(e) ensure that facility staff have approved for the contractor to leave the
site either during installation or on completion.

EUC-BR- The Supplier shall, for equipment and/or software which has reached its
SCRM-01 final staging destination within the Branch Estate and prior to its actual
installation include the following:

(a) unload, un-crate and/or remove the packaging that was used to ship
and contain the product;

(b) remove or otherwise arrange for the disposal of all shipping and
packaging materials from the Customer's premises in an environmentally
responsible manner as agreed with the Customer ;

(c) assemble and/or test the product, including assembling a complete or
partial configuration, if required by the agreed installation plan;

(d) provide the specific configuration required to complete the assembly
and/or installation of the equipment and software;

(e) use agreed standard Configuration for the underlying type of
equipment and/or software for all new equipment and software, unless
otherwise approved by the Customer;

(f) provide configuration specifications and assembly/test instructions to
the Customer , Supply Chain Member or Third-Party Vendor in electronic
format and/or paper copy as needed;

(g) provide all parts and materials necessary for proper assembly and
installation of equipment, software, Services and IT services, unless
agreed otherwise with the Customer , Supply Chain Member or any Third
Party Vendor;

(h) provide all on-site training needed for end user acceptance;

(i) coordinate with all Third Party Vendors that are supplying peripheral or
ancillary equipment or software; and

(j) provide replacement parts/units to remedy out-of-box failures or
equipment found inoperable during assembly.

6.6.4 Service Management

The relationship, process and interaction between the Post Office and Supplier in delivery of
the contracted services.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-SM-01 I The Supplier shall, adhere to the Customer's Supplier governance model for
separate Branch and Colleague Services, which will include but not limited to:
(a) daily stand up service reviews

(b) weekly service line operational meetings

(c) monthly service review to cover all aspects of contracted services

(d) ad-hoc operational meetings e.g. Major Incident Review; and

(e) quarterly service strategy review meeting.

Page 88 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-SM-02

The Supplier shall, record Continual Service Improvement (CSI), via the
Customer's ITSM tool, and update (no more than once a week) all records to
reflect progress.

EUC-SM-03

The Supplier shall, deliver their services, at a minimum ITIL v3 and adopt the
latest ITIL framework, in line with the Customer's processes and policies

EUC-SM-04

The Supplier shall, develop, within 3 months of the baseline data being
captured, and maintain thereafter, its own Service Improvement Plans (SIPs)
with measurable improvement targets and provide its plans to the Customer
for review and acceptance.

EUC-SM-05

The Supplier shall, be responsible for facilitating reviews of Service data to
analyse trends, aggravating factors, weaknesses, improvements and
changes.

EUC-SM-06

The Supplier shall, collaborate with the Customer to define the Customer
satisfaction survey questionnaire.

EUC-SM-07

The Supplier shall, support and analyse End User feedback, via the
Customer Satisfaction Process, and incorporate into the Service
Improvement plans to reflect actions to address the feedback.

EUC-SM-08

The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, provide dedicated
Service Management resources who are accountable for the day to day
delivery and performance of the scope of Services.

EUC-SM-09

The Supplier shall, escalate issues in accordance with the escalation
procedures approved by the Customer.

EUC-SM-10

The Supplier shall, support the Customer at conferences and other events,
where requested to provide ad-hoc engineering support, assistance and
technical expertise, including temporary “pop-ups”.

EUC-SM-11

The Supplier shall, provide all relevant information (and underlying
information) relating to Service Levels, Service Level Targets and Key
Performance Indicators for the EUC Services. The Customer have to right to
see this data presented at a granular level by type of site, geographic region,
and device.

EUC-SM-12

The Supplier shall, where the Customer requests, provide regular information
on the Suppliers performance against each SLA in real-time, where possible.
Where real time data is not available, the Supplier will provide data as
requested and in agreement with the Customer.

6.6.5 Asset Management

The Post Office CMDB and Asset Management process and system maintain a central, up-
to-date record of the set of assets that comprise the service and operational environment, for
example Branch Point of Sale devices, tablets, Colleague computers and back-end

infrastructure.

The Suppliers Configuration Item (Cl) data will be integrated into the Post Office
consolidated Configuration Management Data Base (CMDB) to maintain the set of
relationships between service assets such as the relationships between services and
businesses, owners and Branches that devices are assigned to, support teams, Suppliers
and assets (often known as ‘service maps’).

Page 89 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The Post Office CMDB is maturing due to a move to ServiceNow and is constructed to a
Post Office CMDB schema which contains a layered hierarchy of elements. The CMDB shall
be deemed to be the master CMDB in which the master records are held.

The CMDB assets are updated in the CMDB after every event in the lifecycle of an asset i.e.
purchase, issuance, changes, reassignments, retirement and disposal for the CMDB to
reflect the current status and assignment of assets at any point in time.

To retain audit and control of the assets there is a need to label all computers, printers and
significant devices with an identification number that is stored in the CMDB, thus facilitating
the support and management of devices.

For all major Suppliers within the Post Office Supplier base, a systems integration to the
CMDB is created in order to periodically feed all Cl records to the Post Office CMDB. The
contents of the supplier CMDB and CMDB feed to Post Office is defined by the methods,
format and structure that are prescribed by Post Office.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-AM-01 I The Supplier shall, create an Asset Register of all equipment and
provide ongoing maintenance of the register, for software and related
IT services. This includes assets owned or leased on behalf of the
Customer and held in stock or deployed at Customer sites, Supplier or
Third-Party locations.

EUC-AM-02 I The Supplier shall, record the individual data elements defined by the
Customer for each in scope Asset and record in the Customer's Asset
register which will include, but is not limited to:

(a) currently allocated employee or End User;

(b) asset type;

(c) make;

(d) model;

(e) firmware version;

(f) physical location; and

(g) PCI compliance needs.

EUC-AM-03 I The Supplier shall, at their cost and in agreement with the Customer:
(a) provision and maintain End User asset management discovery
tools to N-1 software levels; and

(b) record the individual data elements defined by the Customer for
each in scope Asset.

EUC-AM-04 I The Supplier shall, ensure all in scope assets are tracked throughout
their lifecycle and record in the Customer asset register.

EUC-AM-05_ I The Supplier shall, track assets for support including but not limited to:
(a) EOL;

(b) End of service life;

(c) Extended support; and

(d) Warranty.

EUC-AM-06 I The Supplier shall, produce a periodic (at a minimum monthly) asset
report detailing, but not limited to:

(a) the current estate deployment;

(b) all assets in storage or spares loops;

(c) all software installed on assets; and

(d) asset usage trends including last logged in user to know which user
is using a particular asset.

Page 90 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-AM-07 I The Supplier shall, provide a Definitive Media Library (DML) which
includes but not limited to:

(a) licensing and cost information;

(b) application ownership;

(c) deployment instructions;

(d) compatibility; and

(e) support.

6.6.6 Controls and Best Practice

The Post Office control framework organises and categorises our internal controls, which are
practices and procedures established to create business value and minimize risk.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-CBP-01 I The Supplier shall, adhere to COBIT 5 including submitting evidence into the
Customer controls application on a monthly basis or as defined by the
control requirement.

EUC-CBP-02 I The Supplier shall, nominate a dedicated resource who shall act as a single
point of contact and also be responsible for the management of Control
adherence for the Supplier.

EUC-CBP-03 I The Supplier shall, produce (where applicable), maintain and improve, no
more than annually, all processes and procedures used in delivering the
services to the Customer.

EUC-CBP-04 I The Supplier shall, when requested by the Customer, support the Customer
in defining policy and process using their industry knowledge and best
practices.

EUC-CBP-05 I The Suppler shall, define and implement remediation actions where
specified controls are found to not be effectively implemented.
EUC-CBP-06 I The Suppler shall, sample check 10% of controls on a monthly basis with
the Customer to ensure that submissions, evidence and responses are
appropriate and correct.

6.7 Service Operations

The Post Office Service Desk is the universal service front-end for users, serving the user
community of the Branches and Colleague business unit.

The Post Office Service Desk captures work items from end-users, logs the work items into
the ServiceNow tool, and applies an initial prioritisation level to the work items (e.g. incident
priority).

The Post Office Service Desk manages the first line support, which includes the provision
and management of knowledge articles, training and support for end users. The EUC
Supplier is there to support the 1st line service desk in resolving on first contact or when a
ticket has been escalated through the support model to provide engineering support to
resolve the ticket as part of a standard operating model:

e 1% line —- The Service Desk provided by Post Office

e Field Engineering — Provided by supplier

e  2°4/ 3rd Line Support — Remote support, provided by supplier for the remediation of
escalated incidents

Page 91 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

The Service Operations service includes the provision of knowledge articles, training and
support for the 1st line Service Desk to resolve on first contact or escalate through the
support model.

Right to left shift: The supplier must attempt to empower the Post Office Service Desk to
perform first-time fix by providing training, knowledgebase articles and assistance as
required.

6.7.1 Incident Management

The Post Office process between the Post Office Service Desk and supplier resolver groups
for the resolution of Incidents to return the IT Service to normal for End Users as quickly as
possible.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-IM-01 The Supplier shall, at all times adhere to the Customer's Incident
Management, IT Security Incident Management and Major Incident
Management Processes in the delivery of their Services.

EUC-IM-02 I The Supplier shall, utilise and update the ticket or task with all relevant
information, (adhering to Customer's Information Security Standards and
guidelines) relating to each Incident, including the impact of the incident,
actions being taken to resolve and estimated time to resolution.

EUC-IM-03 The Supplier shall, escalate issues to the appropriate levels for resolution
in accordance with all agreed escalation procedures, including Security
escalation procedures, and in line with all SLAs.

EUC-IM-04 The Supplier shall, manage communication with End Users in respect of
Incident status and resolution and ensure that reasons for information
supplied to the End User are recorded in the Customer’s ITSM Tool.

EUC-IM-05 I The Supplier shall, be responsible for liaising with End Users to diagnose
and troubleshoot resolution of incidents.

EUC-IM-06 I The Supplier shall, where appropriate, ensure where Incidents relate to
assets the Incident is linked to the affected Cl's within the Customer
CMDB.

EUC-IM-07 I The Supplier shall, be responsible for supporting the Customer in
classifying and determining IT and Cyber Operations Incident categories,
impact and urgency. Incident Priority will be based on agreed impact and
urgency measures in accordance with Service Levels.

EUC-IM-08 I The Supplier shall, for all major incidents, provide prompt notification via an
incident ticket within the Customer ITSM tool and a physical communication
to the 1st line Service desk or incident management team in line with SLAs.

EUC-IM-09 I The Supplier shall, provide the relevant technical resource to be available
to attend meetings with the Customer and Other Suppliers, in support of
cross functional activities as required to diagnose escalated incidents,
Major Incidents and post incident activities.

EUC-IM-10 The Supplier shall, restore the Service as quickly and efficiently as
possible, utilising temporary workarounds where appropriate, to the
required Service Levels while minimising any adverse Impact on the
Customer's business operations.

Page 92 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-IM-11 The Supplier shall, coordinate with the Customer to open new or update
existing Problem Management records, where new workarounds are
applied to resolve an incident, and ensure that knowledge articles are
updated.

EUC-IM-12 The Supplier shall, conduct necessary tests to ensure that an incident is
resolved and log the details to confirm resolution of Incident.

EUC-IM-13 The Supplier shall, inform the Customer, via an agreed escalation path, if
Incidents exceed, or, are expected to exceed their Target Resolution
Times.

EUC-IM-14 I The Supplier shall, provide a solution to enable 1st Line support services to
contact the Suppliers SME/2nd Line support to facilitate 1st contact
resolution via multiple channels, including web chat.

EUC-IM-15 I The Supplier shall, take responsibility and ownership for all incidents raised
and resolve them in line with the appropriate Service Levels.

EUC-IM-16 The Supplier shall, use all reasonable endeavours to contact the End User
when an incident has been assigned for resolution.

EUC-IM-17 The Supplier shall, be responsible for coordinating and managing any
required revisits for failed changes within 24hr of receiving the failure
notification from the Customer.

EUC-IM-18 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, manage and control a
list of VIP users, applications & branches to reflect the business criticality
and appropriate SLA response.

EUC-IM-19 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, support the initial
population and ongoing management of the Incident Matrix which will
define the criticality and appropriate SLA for all incident types the Supplier
shall be accountable for.

6.7.2 Problem Management

The Problem Management process is to support the Post Office to determine the root cause
of error conditions that fall within the wider Post Office Service and the EUC remit. Post
Office is considered to be the process owner of the Problem Management process and
therefore performs central ownership and decision making around problems, including
delegating tasks such as Route Cause Analysis (RCA) report production to Suppliers.

Problem records will be created for P1 and P2 Incidents and Root Cause analysis reporting
with regard to these problem records will be undertaken. For recurring lower severity
incidents, the supplier is expected to perform its own investigation or support Problems that
have originated from the Post Office or other supply chain members. These will be managed
as part of the engagement with the Post Office Service Management or Operational teams.

The supplier will need a high degree of technical capability such that deep-dive type
investigations into issues such as investigations into platforms and software may be carried
out, which can include investigating Windows event logs, machine boot sequences,
operating system configurations, operating system files and software log file investigation.

Where a problem has been identified and workarounds put in place, Knowledge Articles and
training will be created for the Post Office Service Desk and the EUC Supplier’s own support
teams where possible, pending the full investigation of a problem and associated
remediation work.

Page 93 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The problem process may generate work items to be carried out in order to remediate the
root cause issues. In line with the requirement below the EUC Supplier will be required to
log, and track actions resulting from Problems and progress the actions through the
appropriate forums and tooling.

As with ITIL best practice the EUC Supplier is required to carry out a Proactive Problem
Management approach in order to implement measures to prevent issues from occurring in
the future and support the shift left approach for the Post Office Service Desk for decreasing
contacts and end user impact.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-PM-01 I The Supplier shall, adhere the Customer’s Problem Management Policies
and Processes in the delivery of the Services they are providing the
Customer.

EUC-PM-02 I The Supplier shall, provide a nominated Problem Management resource to
coordinate and support the Customer in the delivery of the service.
EUC-PM-03 I The Supplier shall, retain overall responsibility for all problems or tasks
allocated to them until the problem or task is closed.

EUC-PM-04 I The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, review Incidents to:

(a) identify Incident trends or patterns and develop remedial plans;

(b) identify single point of failure from incidents and propose remedial plans;
(c) provide proactive analysis identifying faults that may lead to incidents;
(d) undertake regular reviews of incident management performance and root
cause analysis information to identify preventative measures to reduce the
frequency of incidents; and

(e) implement preventative measures.

EUC-PM-05 I The Supplier shall, provide to the Customer an initial route cause
assessment report within 24hrs of a Major Incident.

EUC-PM-06 I The Supplier shall, create a problem record and document the root cause of
the problem and associate incidents, relevant Cls within the known error
record.

EUC-PM-07 I The Supplier shall, be responsible for updating and reviewing the Service
Knowledge Management System (SKMS) and Known Error Database
(KEDB) for Known Errors and workarounds.

EUC-PM-08 I The Supplier shall, keep the KEDB updated with all incidents that have
occurred and have fixes and/or workarounds.

EUC-PM-09 I The Supplier shall, ensure the documented Root Cause Analysis (RCA) is
completed to agreed standards and timelines which comply with the
outcomes specified within the Customer's Problem Management Policies
and Process. Where there is a need for further information the Supplier shall
be responsible for providing any additional information and include this within
the RCA.

EUC-PM-10 I The Supplier shall, work with the Customer and any of the other suppliers to
assist in the identification, investigation and resolution of Incidents, Problems
and Known Errors and the delivery of Root Cause Analysis.

EUC-PM-11 I The Supplier shall, implement, in agreement with the Customer,
recommendations arising from Root Cause Analysis.

EUC-PM-12 I The Supplier shall, be responsible for ensuring Problem Records are
updated with the Problem investigation and possible solutions.
EUC-PM-13 I The Supplier shall, be responsible, in collaboration with the Customer, for
identifying if the solution agreed to the Problem is a workaround or a
permanent fix.

Page 94 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-PM-14 I The Supplier shall, for in scope Services, proactively identify components
that are susceptible to failure, and provide the Customer alternative or
remediation plans for resolution and approval. Any remediation actions will
be deployed at the Suppliers expense unless in agreement with the
Customer.

EUC-PM-15 I The Supplier shall, verify with the Customer that a problem is resolved
before recommending it for closure.

EUC-PM-16 I The Supplier shall, perform Root Cause Analysis on all Priority 1 and Priority
2 Incidents, in respect of Incidents assigned to them and report their findings
to the Customer in line with SLAs.

6.7.3. Service Integration

The End-To-End delivery of services across multiple Suppliers and systems

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-SI-01 The Supplier shall, for each financial year, work with the Customer to define
and agree the licence needs for the use of the Customer's tooling solutions
for the delivery of the contracted Services.

EUC-SI-02 The Supplier shall, up to twice a year and in line with ServiceNow releases
participate and execute associated regression and integration testing during
upgrades.

EUC-SI-03 The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer , configure Single Sign
On (SSO) for access to MS Office 365 Suite and other federated
applications where:

(a) such access originates from devices authenticated by the Corporate
Identity Services or Collaboration Toolset directory; or

(b) such access originates from devices connected via a Secure RAS or
LAN Services.

6.7.4 Knowledge Management

To enable an end-to-end integrated service the Post Office and EUC Supplier will require the
sharing and creation of knowledge for the purpose of providing a reference knowledge to
itself and Post Office support, operational teams and the end users in order to facilitate
support, administration and management of the technology environment.

To deliver the services they will need to be documented in the form of IT architecture
documents, processes and procedure documents, work instructions, training documents and
knowledge base (Kb) articles to facilitate day-to-day support. The service is delivered from
the Post Office ServiceNow tool for the purpose of document management, including the
document repository and a corresponding management system in order to ensure the
production, and continued validation of documentation.

In order to deliver and maintain the Services for its staff and the Post Office Operational and
Support teams there is a need for the supplier to provide Post Office Business training for
new change to services and ensure that the Service Desk Kb is up to date and accurate.
The Post Office have a dedicated Knowledge Manager in support of the Service Desk and
Operational team and the Supplier will be expected to regularly liaise with the Manager to
review feedback, check compliance and support the general improvement of the service.

Page 95 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The Post Office has invested in the Branch and Colleague self-serve solution which includes
the provision of end user knowledge and training articles, videos and other digital
communication channels to end users.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-KM-01 I The Supplier shall, work with the Customer in defining the delivery of the
Knowledge Management process and agree ways of working.

EUC-KM-02 I The Supplier shall, update the Service Knowledge Management System
(SKMS) immediately as new knowledge articles, FAQs and other assets are
produced, or existing knowledge updated.

EUC-KM-03 I The Supplier shall, conduct regular assurance activities to ensure information
required to manage the Services is captured, stored, and presented
accurately and completely in the Service Knowledge Management System
(SKMS).

EUC-KM-04 I The Supplier shall, develop and maintain new instructions, detailed guidance,
FAQs and training materials in response to any changes to the Services and
make such instructions, guidance and training materials available.

EUC-KM-05 I The Supplier shall, work with the Customer in defining the Tone of Voice
process and agree ways of working in the creation of knowledge articles and
will submit to the Customer for approval before any article is published, unless
in agreement with the Customer.

EUC-KM-06 I The Supplier shall, when requested by the Customer, respond to any
questions raised via the ITSM Portal and/or update any Knowledge Articles.
EUC-KM-07 I The Supplier shall, create, as agreed with the Customer, videos and other
media content, Knowledge and Self-Help articles that will be uploaded to the
Customer's platform.

EUC-KM-08 I The Supplier shall, ensure that its resources involved in creating and maintain
Knowledge are sufficiently skilled in the relevant communication techniques to
create engaging and easily understandable content relevant to the target
audience e.g. technical, End User etc.

6.7.5 Service Operations Change Management

Change Management within Post Office has a central control function across all supplier and
clients within the Post Office IT eco system. All suppliers follow and adhere to the single
Post Office process and definitions and the EUC Supplier will manage planned IT changes
carried out in their technology environment which may impact technology or business
operations.

The Post Office Change Management process is delivered in line with ITIL best practice and
the EUC Supplier will be required to define, input, manage and progress Request for
Change (RFC) tickets to completion which are either generated from their own environments
or impacted from external RFCs. Post Office Change Management act as a point of
assistance, validation and control to the EUC Supplier change activities and will define the
correct change type for changes.

As part of the process the EUC Supplier will attend Post office Change Advisory Board
(CAB) meetings in respect of Significant and Major Change types and participate in the
impact assessments for all RFCs raised in the CAB.

Change types: The table below provides details of the Change types used in Post Office with
the corresponding lead timed and approval requirements:

Page 96 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Type Lead time Approval Requirements
Standard N/A Preapproved change
Minor 1 day Ticket electronic approvals

only
Significant 5 day CAB attendance required
Major 10 day CAB attendance required
Emergency Immediate For P1/ P2_ incidents.

Approval provided via Major

Incident call

Table 16: Change Types

Req ID Requirement Description
EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, at all times adhere to the Customer's Operational Change
01 Management Policies and Processes in the delivery of their Services.
EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, where required, cooperate with the Customer, other
02 suppliers and designated representatives to minimise disruption of normal

business processes and proper receipt of the Services.
EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, retain overall responsibility for all Operational Changes

03 allocated to them until the Operational Change is closed.
EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, attend the Customer's Change Advisory Board (CAB)
04 meetings in respect of Significant and Major Change types and participate in

the impact assessments for all Request for Change (RFC) raised in the CAB.
EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, collaborate in the operation of the Customer's Change

05 Advisory Board (CAB) for changes that are not just their own but may impact
their services by providing input including:

(a) evaluations of change impact;

(b) recommendations for approval or otherwise;

(c) recommending steps within implementation plans;

(d) recommending appropriate participation; and

(e) recommending any security concerns or impacts.

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, assess the impact, costs, benefit and risk to the Services

06 of the proposed Changes and document the results in the Request for
Change.

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, identify the impacted Configuration Items set out in the

07 Customer CMDB and associate the Operational Change Record to the

relevant configuration items.

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, manage the effective entry of Operational Request for
08 Change Records into the Customer's ITSM Tool, including, the correlation of
associated incidents, problems and known errors.

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, update all operational and other documentation affected

og by the Change, including any design documentation and Knowledge Articles.
EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, after implementation of a change, provide feedback
10 regarding actual performance and functionality checks of the Service versus

the acceptance criteria.

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, support post implementation reviews of Operational

1 Changes to identify opportunities for improvement.
EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, support joint reviews of any Operational Change failure
12 so that the root causes of post-Operational Change issues can be

identified, in addition, the Supplier shall implement
any improvements required to prevent a recurrence.

Page 97 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, ensure that any change which results in an Issue, has an

13 Incident raised for it and is linked to the change record in the Customer's
ITSM tool.

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, provide testing for all change implementation plans as set

14 out in the relevant Operational Change before they are transferred to the

production environments including testing of rollback as described by the
agreed back-out plans.

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, after consultation and as instructed by the Customer,
15 adhere to any changes following any updates/changes to the Customer's
Policies and Processes.

EUC-SOCM- I The Supplier shall, participate in monthly ServiceNow patching and execute
16 associated regression Integration Testing.

6.7.6 IT Service Continuity Management

IT Service Continuity management (ITSCM) ensures that the required EUC IT technical
and service capabilities can be resumed within required and agreed business timescales.

The Supplier is required to delivery ITSCM services pursuant to RM3804-Alternative-and-
additional-tc-v4, Schedule B1 Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, and in
addition the requirements defined below:

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, at all times adhere to the Customer's IT Service

01 Continuity Policies and Processes in the delivery of their Services.
EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, ensure their Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
02 (BCDR) Plan and procedures comply with the Customer's Data Retention

Policies and Processes.

EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, proactively work with other suppliers as one team to
03 ensure the Customer can integrate the Supplier's IT Service Continuity
Plans, with other service providers who deliver Services to the Customer,
such that an integrated end-to-end IT Service Continuity Plan can be

produced.
EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, provide the Customer with a formal report of the business
04 Continuity test results within five (5) Working Days of each test. Ata

minimum, these reports shall include:

(a) the results achieved;

(b) any failures in the BCDR Plan (including the BCDR Plan’s procedures)
revealed by the test;

(c) measures of performance as compared with normal production
performance;

(d) a comparison of the results to the measures and goals identified in the
respective Continuity Plan;

(e) feedback from Users as to the adequacy of continuity for their respective
areas; and

(f) The Supplier’s plan and a schedule to remedy any gaps revealed during
testing, to include any User feedback collated by the customer and made
available to the Supplier that is applicable to the Services.

EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, ensure all Service

05 Continuity test planning will be designed to minimise business impact and
outages.

Page 98 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, declare disasters in accordance with procedures agreed
06 with the Customer (documented in the BCDR Plan) and notify the Customer
of situations that may escalate to disasters as soon as reasonably possible.
EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, where services are being backed up, implement controls
07 to ensure viable backups and corresponding records can be used to restore
services to agreed levels. The Supplier shall also ensure that back-ups are
full, complete and confirm the results of restoring from backups.
EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, create and maintain backups, file recovery capabilities
08 and historical archive of files, data and Software (including, where applicable,
object code) utilised to process data which are consistent with meeting the
Customer's recovery objectives to agreed levels in respect of time and with
minimum data loss.

EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, ensure that backups adhere to best IT Security

09 standards, such as Encryption at Rest and in line with Ransomware Data
Recovery methodologies.

EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, ensure that all Backups
10 are tested and provide a report detailing the test results. Backup tests shall
include the ability for the Customer to request sample file restore tests.
EUC-ITSCM- I The Supplier shall, following any disaster, conduct a post-disaster meeting
11 with the Customer as soon as reasonably possible, in order to understand
the cause of the disaster, approve actions to restore the Services to pre-
disaster Service Levels (if necessary) and agree actions to develop and
implement plans to eliminate or mitigate future occurrences.

6.8 End User IMACD

Provision, packaging and maintenance of Post Office devices operating systems and
corporate applications.

6.8.1 End User Services

The provision of IT core build functionality to end users.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-EUS-01 I The Supplier shall, provide and support a managed 0365 Productivity
Platform, including a SharePoint Service site creation, management of
templates, restore and export services.

EUC-EUS-02 I The Supplier shall, provide support and management of the services within
the Customer’s Technology Framework (Section 4 Technology Framework),
which include but not limited to:

(a) capacity management;

(b) access management;

(c) monitoring and alerting;

(d) troubleshooting;

(e) setup and ongoing configuration;

(f) continuous service improvement and optimisation; and

(g) compliance and security.

EUC-EUS-03 I The Supplier shall, manage the environment for email accounts that are not
directly connected to a single End User.

EUC-EUS-04 I The Supplier shall, provide End Users with a capability to access email over
the internet that meets baseline minimum best practices and the Customer's
standards for encryption in transit and non-repudiation.

Page 99 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-EUS-05 I The Supplier shall, provide maintenance and support, through detailed
instructions and guidance, to enable End Users to use the archive and
retrieve facility.

EUC-EUS-06 I The Supplier shall, enable retrieval of all data and/or associated materials
and documentation to support forensic examination for the Customer security
purposes.

EUC-EUS-07 I The Supplier shall, provide support and maintain software for all End Users to
enable access to the Customer overall Unified Communications services.

EUC-EUS-08 I The Supplier shall, ensure that all automated local data encryption is enabled
for all End User Devices including mobile and remote Users.

EUC-EUS-09 I This requirement is purposely blank.

EUC-EUS-10 I This requirement is purposely blank.

EUC-EUS-11 I The Supplier shall, provision login facilities and any necessary Customer
software to allow secure access to the Customer's business systems.

EUC-EUS-12 I The Supplier shall, provide each End User with at least one unique account,
unless agreed otherwise with the Customer.

EUC-EUS-13 I The Supplier shall, provide the Customer for each monthly Service Period,
information on the number of accounts with no activity in the previous Service
Period. The format of the information shall be agreed between the Supplier
and the Customer.

EUC-EUS-14 I The Supplier shall, implement audit facilities and provide management
information which includes but is not limited to: -

(a) messaging transmission patterns and profiles; and

(b) source and destination journaling of transmitted messages.

EUC-EUS-15 I The Supplier shall, configure the End User Devices so that they are provided
with a cache of the End User's mailbox to enable the End User to work when
their End User Device is not connected to a network.

EUC-EUS-16 I The Supplier shall, configure and support the Customer’s Corporate Voice
and Video Conferencing Service to provide End Users with the capability to
hold voice and video conferences.

EUC-EUS-17 I The Supplier shall, manage and maintain access to MS Office 365 Suite from
Client Devices through Client Software including Internet browsers.

EUC-EUS-18 I The Supplier shall, enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) access to the MS
Office 365 Suite, except where:

(a) such access originates from devices authenticated by the Corporate
Identity Services or Collaboration Toolset directory; and

(b) such access originates from devices connecting via the Secure RAS or
LAN Services (unless otherwise agreed with the Customer).

EUC-EUS-19 I The Supplier shall, review and test changes including, but not limited to,
hotfixes, patches, Quality updates, Feature updates and service packs with
the Customer’s End User hardware builds for compatibility with existing
Customer builds/ hardware to ensure that no bugs or issues are introduced
as a result.

EUC-EUS-20 I The Supplier shall, provide End User Device builds incorporating hardware
drivers and Software as defined in the Technology Framework (Section 4 —
Technology Framework).

EUC-EUS-21 I The Supplier shall, in conjunction with the Customer, seek to ensure that all
End User Devices meet required local storage requirements and report to the
Customer where required local storage requirements are not met.

Page 100 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-EUS-22 I The Supplier shall, maintain log on scripts/log off scripts and start-up and
shut-down scripts that enable defined End User Device behaviours and
controls.

EUC-EUS-23 I The Supplier shall, maintain and refresh operating systems and core build
software, so they remain under manufacturers' standard support, unless
otherwise agreed with the Customer.

EUC-EUS-24 I The Supplier shall, monitor, assess and test End User Devices (to the
appropriate level as agreed with the Customer) patches, hotfixes, Windows
updates and service packs, and recommend those which should be applied
to improve stability, performance or security.

EUC-EUS-25 I The Supplier shall, develop, test and maintain End User Device builds in such
a way that facilitates self-service deployment.

EUC-EUS-26 I The Supplier shall, use reasonable efforts, as agreed with the Customer, to
continue to support software even where the Software has reached end of
life.

EUC-EUS-27 I The Supplier shall, provide the facility for all End Users to access web-based
applications, through standard browsers that meet the Customer security
requirements, supporting common industry standard plug-ins.

6.8.2 End User IMACD

The process for the Installation, moves, additions, changes and deletions to end user
equipment, hardware and software.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-IMACD-01 I The Supplier shall, plan, schedule and undertake IMACDs in accordance
with the Customer Request Fulfilment Process and Change Management
Process within agreed timescales.

EUC-IMACD-02 I The Supplier shall, ensure that all relevant databases / systems are
updated where an IMACD relates to an End User Joiners Movers Leavers
(JML).

EUC-IMACD-03 I The Supplier shall, agree and implement a process with the Customer by
which removable media may be sent for secure disposal.

EUC-IMACD-04 I The Supplier shall, undertake and co-ordinate all installations, de-
installations, moves, additions, refurbishments and changes for the
Customer's End User Environment, and related End User Services at
Customer sites.

EUC-IMACD-05 I The Supplier shall, provide remote provisioning, support for new or
changed devices delivered to remote users.

EUC-IMACD-06 I The Supplier shall, create and document the procedures to enable IMACD
execution in line with the Customer's Policies and Processes.

EUC-IMACD-07 I The Supplier shall, where required, conduct Customer Site surveys to
determine the location(s) of the IMACD and any special requirements at
the location(s).

EUC-IMACD-08 I The Supplier shall, ensure that cabling is provided and connected from the
device to the network outlet where applicable.

EUC-IMACD-09 I The Supplier shall, define a standard test and success criteria for Customer
agreement and approval in the delivery of IMACDs.

Page 101 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-IMACD-10 I The Supplier shall, provide guidance, as appropriate, to the End User(s)
receiving the IMACD.

EUC-IMACD-11 I The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, perform IMACDs for
Supplier Personnel.

EUC-IMACD-12 I The Supplier shall, on request, de-install and, remove any assets used in
the provision of the Services. Following removal, any assets or items which
cannot be re-deployed must be disposed of in respect of sustainability, IT
Security, health and safety and the Waste Electrical and Electronic
Equipment (WEEE) Regulations.

EUC-IMACD-13 I The Supplier shall, securely erase all Customer Data on un-installed assets
when taken out of service, or where being re-allocated, in accordance with
the Customer’s Document Retention and Disposal Policy.

EUC-IMACD-14 I The Supplier shall, promptly confirm to the Customer, as appropriate, that
all equipment, software, parts, cabling, or any other services necessary to
execute the IMACD will be available as of the date(s) scheduled for the
IMACD.

EUC-IMACD-15 I The Supplier shall, promptly confirm the new and/or existing Configuration
of the equipment and software associated with the IMACD.
EUC-IMACD-16 I The Supplier shall, test the equipment, software, and related Services after
the implementation of the IMACD, to include testing in relation to network
access.

6.8.3 Joiners, Movers and Leavers:

The Post Office has a diverse and sizable technology estate, where many systems operate
shared authentication and authorisation systems. There are several user management
approaches in use, which means account management when staff and contractors join,
change roles, or leave the organisation is centralised through our Microsoft Identity
Management (MIM) solution. This ensures all the processes that drive our joiners, movers
and leavers activities are more resilient with clearly defined roles and responsibilities,
supported via HR policies & guidance. The supplier as part of the hosting solution of MIM
and will also provide a request service for supporting the administration of JML via the MIM
solution.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-JML-01 I The Supplier shall, monitor, support and maintain the Customer's Joiners,

Movers and Leavers (JML) infrastructure solution and integration feeds for
both production and non-production environments.

EUC-JML-02 I The Supplier shall, on request from the Customer, access and administer

non-automated requests via the JML portal.

EUC-JML-03 I The Supplier shall, monitor and resolve any file transfer, access, errors or
processing issues related to the data feeds.

EUC-JML-04 I The Supplier shall, ensure the integrity of the data within the JML systems
and support the Customer’s data owners in resolving issues or potential
issues.

EUC-JML-01 I The Supplier shall, monitor and maintain the Customer's Joiners, Movers and
Levers (JML) infrastructure solution and integration feeds for both production
and non-production environments.

6.8.4 Peripherals:

Page 102 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The supply and management of auxiliary IT devices.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-PH-01 The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, procure a selection of
peripherals which will be available to request via the service catalogue.

EUC-PH-02 The Supplier shall, ensure the peripherals supplied meet Customer's security
requirements and have the best balance of cost versus user experience.

EUC-PH-03 The Supplier shall, ensure that peripheral and ancillary devices which are
contained within the Service Catalogue are supported and compatible with all
End User equipment.

EUC-PH-04 The Supplier shall, integrate peripheral equipment with End User Devices
and Customer Builds as required to ensure that they are fully functional.

EUC-PH-05 The Supplier shall, where the Customer, Supplier or Third-Party Suppliers
identify that peripheral equipment is no longer capable of delivering the
Services, will advise and propose alternative peripheral equipment to the
Customer.

6.8.5 Print Services:

The enablement for end users to access the services offered by the Post Office Managed
Print Services provider.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-PS-01 The Supplier shall, work with other Third Parties to ensure:

(a) network connectivity to enable the end-to-end printing solution; and
(b) maintain printer integration for all applicable End User devices.
EUC-PS-02 The Supplier shall, work with other Third Parties to ensure network
connectivity to enable the end-to-end printing solution

EUC-PS-03 The Supplier shall, identify, prepare, test, distribute, manage, maintain and
provide user support for the required drivers for the range of directly attached
printers and scanners issued by the Supplier on behalf of the Customer.

6.8.6 Repair and Maintenance:

The process and interactions for the repair and replacement of IT assets

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-RM-01 I The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, provide warranty repair
services for the in-scope End User devices which are in warranty.

EUC-RM-02_ I The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, provide an out-of-warranty
repair service for the list of in-scope End User devices which are out of
warranty.

EUC-RM-03 I The Supplier shall, provide a temporary like for like replacement for any in-
scope End User Colleague devices that are taken for repair.

Page 103 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-RM-04_ I The Supplier shall, on a timescale agreed with the Customer, advise of any
components that are coming to end of life and recommend an alternative
component/model.

EUC-RM-05 I The Supplier shall, ensure routine maintenance, calendar based, or usage
based is maintained in line with manufacturer recommended preventative
maintenance.

6.8.7 Accessibility:

The Post Office process for ensuring its current and future IT can be used effectively by
everyone, including individuals with disabilities including in Branches.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-ADS-01 I The Supplier shall, comply with all relevant Customer Policies, including
Security Policies, Processes and relevant external legislation in the relevant
jurisdiction, by ensuring all Services, including all associated guidance and
communications, are accessible and usable, including those requiring the use
of assistive technology.

EUC-ADS-02 I The Supplier shall, provide additional support to End Users, including
configuration of equipment and /or software to meet the specific needs of the
User following receipt of a request via the Services Catalogue.

EUC-ADS-03 I The Supplier shall, provide secure End User Device services and support for
Accessibility Solutions in the manner that best meets the User's needs in any
Site, or, where required, in the User's home.

EUC-ADS-04 I The Supplier shall, where requested by the Customer, perform an
Accessibility Assessment, by a qualified Supplier Personnel, at any Site or
End User’s home address to determine the most appropriate items from the
Products and Services Catalogue to meet their needs.

EUC-ADS-05 I The Supplier shall, co-operate with the Customer and Third-Party Suppliers
when arranging and conducting the Accessibility Assessment. The Supplier
shall, ensure that proposed solutions are coordinated with other
assessments.

EUC-ADS-06 I The Supplier shall, as part of fulfilment of the request for an Accessibility
Assessment, produce a report recommending a suitable Solution for the
User.

EUC-ADS-07 I The Supplier shall, on request from the Customer, conduct an accessibility
training of recommended Solutions to End Users at any Site or, where
required, an End User’s home address.

EUC-ADS-08 I The Supplier shall, conduct accessibility training and configurations, within
five Working Days of the request being made, unless the accessibility training
relates to a product that is not listed within the Products and Services
Catalogue, in which case a separate timescale may be agreed with the
Customer.

EUC-ADS-09 I The Supplier shall, provide exception reports, as agreed with the Customer,
on all requests and Incidents for Accessibility Solution Services that have not
been delivered within the timescales of any relevant Service Levels and Call
Off Contract KPIs.

6.9 Security

This Service defines the Post Office Security Requirements in relation to the EUC Services.

Page 104 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

6.9.1 Security

The Supplier is required to delivery Security services pursuant to RM3804-Alternative-and-
additional-tc-v4, Schedule E Security Requirements, and in addition the requirements
defined below:

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-SEC-01 I The Supplier shall, implement and maintain the controls to the levels laid out
in the Customer's Security Policy & Standards.

EUC-SEC-02 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
maintain their Cyber Security model and describe how it adheres to the
Customer Security Policy, Standards & Governance.

EUC-SEC-03 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
maintain the specific Cyber Security controls to be used for End User
Computing (EUC) at the enterprise, network, platform, application and data
level to protect services and data.

EUC-SEC-04 I The Supplier shall, assure the Customer’s data owners that they provide full
disclosure (aka ‘transparency’) regarding security practices and procedures
as stated in their SLAs, Customer's Security Policy & Standards and Cyber
Security controls

EUC-SEC-05 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
manage how encryption is managed across all offerings.

EUC-SEC-06 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
manage the segregation of data between Customer's and environments.

EUC-SEC-07 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
manage the practices used for data cleansing.

EUC-SEC-08 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
manage the controls in place to access the Customer’s cloud resources,
providing services and processing data.

EUC-SEC-09 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
manage the controls that are in place to prevent loss of service or data
availability.

EUC-SEC-10 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
manage the Cyber security standard operating procedures documented in
place for the delivery of the service.

EUC-SEC-11 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, detail, implement and
manage a robust solution for protection against malware and malicious
software.

EUC-SEC-12 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer:

(a) conduct Security Tests (IT Health Check Security Test), at least annually,
across the scope of the contract by an independent Third Party and
additionally after any change or amendment to the service that falls below
the agreed standards and terms, as set out in the Customer's Security and IT
policies and standards; and

(b) from the Security Tests detail the findings and remediation reports
providing the Customer with a remediation plan to resolve any findings.
EUC-SEC-13 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, document and manage
a vulnerability management process which will address:

(a) how and when testing takes place; and

(b) how and when vulnerabilities are reported, remediated and signed off.

Page 105 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-SEC-14 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, provide details of
named individuals (key personnel) who will be assigned duties detailing:
(a) experience;

(b) qualifications; and

(c) security vetting clearance.

EUC-SEC-15 I The Supplier shall, if they are not compliant with PCI SSC standards for any
reason, will inform the Customer in writing of the non-compliance or likely
non-compliance.

EUC-SEC-16 I The Supplier shall take all steps, in accordance with Good Industry Practice,
to prevent the introduction, creation or propagation of any disruptive
elements (including any virus, worms and/or trojans, spyware or other
malware) into systems, data, software or Customer Confidential Information
(held in electronic form) owned by or under the control of or used by the
Customer.

EUC-SEC-17 I The Supplier shall deploy and maintain, throughout the Term, an ISO27001
Information Security Management System (ISMS) certified by an accredited
certifying body and integrated with the cross-supply chain. The ISMS scope
shall include technology; people; process; and locations used for the delivery
of services to the Customer and the ISMS scope agreed & shared with the
Customer.

EUC-SEC-18 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, document and manage
the solution for logging of critical security and service events, provided for
systems audit, security audit and incident management purposes. The
Supplier shall, agree with the Customer the period for which logged events
are retained.

EUC-SEC-19 I The Supplier shall, ensure that all security events must be configured in
agreement with the Customer within the native security event management
system.

EUC-SEC-20 I The Supplier shall, provide access to security related logs against all
assets/services where the Customer Intellectual Property is processed
and/or stored, in the form of ingestible logs into a SIEM tooling.

EUC-SEC-21 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, ensure it has secure
procedures to mitigate threats from social engineering within
the Supplier's organisation including any sub-contractors.

EUC-SEC-22 I The Supplier shall, detail, implement and manage a process on how security
incident and event management reporting data will be made available to the
Customer for the purposes of supporting Customer-led governance,
compliance and incident management activities.

EUC-SEC-23 I The Supplier shall, in the event of a data breach or major Cyber Security
incident, participate in Customer-led incident management activities and
make available appropriate staff and other resources to allow a full
investigation of the incident.

EUC-SEC-24 I The Supplier shall, regularly audit and review its information security
controls, processes, policies and procedures to ensure their continued
effectiveness and determine whether adjustments are reasonably required in
light of new circumstances including, without limitation, changes in
technology, changes in information systems and threats or hazards to Data
or to delivery of the Services.

EUC-SEC-25 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, have a process in place
to assess the criticality of security updates, against the Customer's estate,
and provide a deployment plan.

EUC-SEC-26 I The Suppler shall, support e-discovery of data on an End User device at the
instruction of the Customer's authorised personnel.

Page 106 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

6.9.2 End User Computing (EUC) Build

This Service provides the configuration, testing, installation, commissioning, operation,
monitoring, maintenance, tuning, modification and decommissioning of Post Office desktop
standard operating environment (“SOE”), including laptops, desktops, Mobile Devices and
Peripheral Devices

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-EUCB-01 I The Supplier shall, ensure all the Customer's Data is protected, in
accordance with its classification and criticality, against threats to
confidentiality and integrity, as it transits any untrusted or uncontrolled
networks which may include, but is not limited to:

(a) the use of aggregating, channel-level, IPsec or TLS VPNs; and

(b) per-Application or stream level.

EUC-EUCB-02 I The Supplier shall, ensure the data stored on the device will be encrypted
when the device is in its “rest” state. For always-on devices, like tablet
devices, this is when the device is locked.

EUC-EUCB-03 I The Supplier shall, ensure a user is only granted access to the device after
successfully authenticating to the device.

EUC-EUCB-04 I The Supplier shall, ensure any attempts by users to circumvent access
controls by making modifications to the device, including “jailbreaking” or
“rooting”, the device shall be reported to the Customer.

EUC-EUCB-05 I The Supplier shall, ensure a user is only able to access enterprise services
after successfully authenticating to the service, via their device.

EUC-EUCB-06 I The Supplier shall, provide access to enterprise services which is
determined by authentication of the user and/or the device.

EUC-EUCB-07 I The Supplier shall, ensure End Users, and where applicable devices, shall
be granted access only after appropriate authentication and authorisation
for such access has been verified. The level of access and any restrictions
on access (e.g. controls on usage on the device) shall be determined based
on the Customer's standards.

EUC-EUCB-08 I The Supplier shall, ensure any unauthorised entity shall not be able to
modify the boot process of a device, and any attempt to do so should be
detected.

EUC-EUCB-09 I The Supplier shall, implement application-level control to ensure that
continued secure operation of the device is possible, even if an application
or process is compromised.

EUC-EUCB-10 I The Supplier shall, document how they manage the integrity of critical
system files.

EUC-EUCB-11 I The Supplier shall, ensure the Customer can define which applications are
able to execute on the device, and these policies are robustly enforced on
the device.

EUC-EUCB-12 I The Supplier shall, ensure the device can detect, isolate and defeat
malicious code which may impact the device.

EUC-EUCB-13 I The Supplier shall, deploy anti-virus software on all systems commonly
affected by malicious software, and ensure that the antivirus
programme is capable of detecting and removing all known types of
malicious software.

Page 107 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-EUCB-14 I The Supplier shall, ensure Security policies set by the Customer are
robustly implemented across the platform. The Supplier will technically
enforce a minimal set of security-critical policies on the device which cannot
be overridden by the End User.

EUC-EUCB-15 I The Supplier shall, ensure the device is able to constrain the set of ports
(physical and logical) and services exposed to networks and devices.

EUC-EUCB-16 I The Supplier shall, issue security updates and remotely validate the
vulnerability level of your entire device estate.

EUC-EUCB-17 I The Supplier shall, ensure the device reports security-critical events to their
audit and monitoring service, and where required the Customer's SOC
(Security Operation Centre). The user MUST be prevented from tampering
with this reporting.

EUC-EUCB-18 I The Supplier shall, maintain logs of all key events and where required by
the Customer assist in identifying or investigating incidents, including but
not limited to, breaches of access rights occurring in relation to the
Customer's Data.

EUC-EUCB-19 I The Supplier shall, keep such logs as specified by the Customer's Data
Retention Policies and Processes.

EUC-EUCB-20 I The Supplier shall, ensure they have an incident response plan and
understand the impact of security incidents. This should be supported by
appropriate functionality within the devices.

EUC-EUCB-21 I The Supplier shall, within 24 hours, notify the Customer of any incident
affecting cardholder, personal or business sensitive information. Information
collected needs to follow chain of custody.

6.10 Project Services

Support the Post Office change activities via the Project Portfolio Management activities to
identify, select, prioritise and evaluate projects in order to deliver the defined work order for
any commercially agreed projects.

6.10.1 Project Change Management
Project services in the Post Office is in respect of changes that are large in scope and scale.

The Suppliers project services falls into two categories; the supplier carrying out entire
projects on behalf of Post Office, and the supplier providing resource into Post Office
managed projects.

The supplier in line with the requirement below will have a project engagement point to Post
Office to which requests for new projects are submitted via a RTQ request and a PMO
function in order to coordinate and control project activity.

When the supplier has been requested to deliver into a Post Office managed project, the
supplier will provide work items, SME time or other inputs in line with the Post Office ways of
working and governance.

Where projects are managed by the supplier on behalf of Post Office, the projects are to be
governed and steered by Post Office. The supplier must manage the project in accordance
with the Post Office project framework which includes a requirements phase, technology
design, addressing security needs, and handover into service.

Req ID Requirement Description

Page 108 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-PCM-01 I The Supplier shall, adhere to the Customer's Change Excellence
Framework (CEF).

EUC-PCM-02 I The Supplier shall, work within the Customer's Change Framework and
where different from internal Supplier delivery methods, policies and
processes the Customer’s Change Framework will take precedence.

EUC-PCM-03 I The Supplier shall, comply with the Customer’s Quality Standards.

EUC-PCM-04 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer establish a Project
Portfolio Office to support the delivery and management of projects.

EUC-PCM-05 I The Supplier shall, where requested by the Customer, update project,
portfolio information and data via the Customer's project and portfolio tooling
solution.

EUC-PCM-06 I The Supplier shall, provide inputs to support the Customer in undertaking
Project Portfolio Management activities to identify, select, prioritise and
evaluate projects.

EUC-PCM-07 I The Supplier shall, provide input and support to project requirements that
apply across the IT Services and require cooperation and joint work
between the Customer, other Supply Chain Members and Third-Party
Vendors to come to a common solution.

EUC-PCM-08 I The Supplier shall, ensure that all project requirements demonstrate
economic viability, best practice and benefits for the Customer.

EUC-PCM-09 I The Supplier shall, assist the Customer to initiate the Project Portfolio
Management process for the Services in scope of the Agreement. This
includes, but is not limited to:

(a) collecting and consolidating project data as specified by the Customer
(i.e. business drivers, business functions, benefits, costs, risks, status,
project plans etc.);

(b) identifying stakeholders, business drivers and priorities;

(c) identifying the initial Project repository;

(d) categorising, aligning and prioritising Projects; and

(e) creating a Project Portfolio of all Customer Projects.

EUC-PCM-10 I The Supplier shall, as part of each annual planning cycle (demand
planning), provide information and data to assist the Customer with:

(a) identifying upcoming Projects for the Services in scope;

(b) identifying strategies, approaches, and Projects for future delivery of the
Services;

(c) identifying specific short-term steps and schedules for Projects or
Changes expected to occur within the next twelve (12) months;

(d) providing required data to update the Project inventory; and

(e) constraints e.g. change freezes or business continuity activities.

EUC-PCM-11 I The Supplier shall, deliver data and information to assist the Customer to
prioritise projects and interdependencies between Projects.

EUC-PCM-12 I The Supplier shall, provide all necessary data to assist the Customer to
finalise and maintain the Project Portfolio contents, interrelationships and
implementation priorities.

EUC-PCM-13 I The Supplier shall, participate in the quarterly review of the Project Portfolio
which includes but not limited to:

(a) the presentation on, and discussion of, recommendations regarding
Changes to the Project Portfolio;

(b) identifying adjustments required based on the Suppliers participation in
the monthly Project Portfolio reviews, focusing on Project Portfolio
dashboard summary information and exception reporting items.

Page 109 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-PCM-14 I The Supplier shall, participate in the monthly Project Portfolio reviews and
provide input as required, including but not limited to:

(a) project information e.g. milestone, RAID, financials and progress update;
(b) supporting the review of deliverables to understand the status and
implications; and

(c) preparing recommendations for the next quarterly Project Portfolio
review meeting on any adjustments that should be made.

EUC-PCM-15 I The Supplier shall, participate in ad-hoc Project Portfolio reviews, as
requested by the Customer, which are typically invoked either by:

(a) project performance findings during the monthly Project Portfolio review
meetings that cannot wait for the next scheduled quarterly Project Portfolio
review meeting; or

(b) by the need to evaluate a new Project for addition to the existing Project
Portfolio.

EUC-PCM-16 I The Supplier shall, update its Project schedules and planning with the
outcome of the Project Portfolio Management reviews.

EUC-PCM-17 I The Supplier shall, deliver a Project Management Service employing a
recognised Project Management methodology in accordance with Good
Industry Practice.

EUC-PCM-18 I The Supplier shall, ensure that the Project Management processes integrate
with the Customer's other processes, e.g. Service Transition, Release and
Deployment Management and Operational Change Management
processes.

EUC-PCM-19 I The Supplier shall, on receipt of a Project or Service Request, provide
suitably skilled staff to support the Customer in the provision of Project
Services.

EUC-PCM-20 I The Supplier shall, for each Customer Project Deliverable, ensure they
deliver the requirements and key success factors within agreed time, cost
and quality parameters.

EUC-PCM-21 I The Supplier shall, provide representation to input and update project board
meetings or forums as agreed with the Customer.

EUC-PCM-22 I The Supplier shall, utilise and share with the Customer its "best practice" in
providing various Project Management services (depending on the project
desired methodology e.g. Waterfall/Agile) with the intention of ensuring and
improving the efficient operation and management.

EUC-PCM-23 I The Supplier shall, where requested by the Customer perform a Post
Implementation Review (PIR) and provide the Customer with a request to
close report which outlines any lessons learned.

EUC-PCM-24 I The Supplier shall, where requested by the Customer provide a project
closure performance survey to enable project closure and stakeholders to
feedback on the overall project delivery.

EUC-PCM-25 I The Supplier shall, establish and maintain the Project, Programme and
Portfolio Risk, Assumptions, Issues and Dependencies (RAID) and track
and manage with the Customer to mitigate and resolve.

EUC-PCM-26 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, provide a finance
forecast tracker for projects, programmes and portfolios which is reviewed in
line with the finance timeline.

EUC-PCM-27 I The Supplier shall, at the end of the project, participate in Post Project
Reviews when requested by the Customer.

6.10.2 Operational Business Change (OBC)

Page 110 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

The Post Office Operational Business Change Service (OBC) is the process used to support
the delivery of both business and IT driven changes within the Post Office Branch network, for
example the opening, closing, refurbishment, resizing or re-location of a Branch. IT is just one
element of the Post Office OBC project activity.

The Post Office have a specific team that acts as the single point of contact for the coordination
and management of the IT elements delivered by Post Office IT Suppliers and provides
support and change activity across the Branch Infrastructure.

The purpose of the OBC process is to ensure that all Stakeholders roles, responsibilities and
activities are defined and documented for each of the main OBC types.

The EUC provider is responsible for Counter Point of Sale devices and peripherals for
branch opening installation, moves and closures/decommissioning which includes but is not
limited to:

e Dynamic works risk assessment.

« Visual check on counters.

e Arranging delivery and install of Counter PoS components (including
configuration health checks, Pin pads, Chain of Custody).

« Connecting cabling (including performing cabling diagnostic tests, basic data
cabling and clipping to existing fabric /cable trays).

« Power-up and installation checks of PoS system and peripherals.
« Book the courier delivery of equipment /collection of packaging.
« Maintenance visits (including ad-hoc visits)

e Branch closure decommissioning and return of counter PoS devices and
peripherals.

Appendix A: Ref Doc- 009 Post Office OBC Process Document

PCI Compliance - Chain of Custody

The Post Office use the Chain of Custody (CoC) for managing the deployment of Post Office
Branch PIN Pad payment devices. The term “chain of custody” (CoC) refers to the order in
which items of evidence have been electronically logged and/or documented during the
handling and management of PIN Pads. Proving that a PIN Pad has been properly handled
through an unbroken chain of custody is required for it to be considered as conforming to the
Point to Point Encryption standard (P2PE). The chain of custody will show where the device
was manufactured, key injected, shipped, stored, deployed, and finally disposed of, so that
there is no question of its authenticity and that it will perform as promised, also ensuring that
there has been no tampering or contamination.

All PIN Pads will need to have an established CoC before they can be linked to the Ingenico
P2PE service. The Ingenico Terminal Management System (TMS) and asset tracking
solution for inventory and CoC controls will be utilised by Post Office and as such would be
the main point of control. The EUC Supplier is expected to maintain the evidence
electronically within TMS as part of the services provided. Any doubt regarding the
authenticity of information entered in TMS would necessitate the originating information from
the service provider to be checked e.g. shipping details, inventory counts, etc. and
corrections made.

Note: Interchangeable terms for PIN Pad = PIN Entry Device (PED) = Point of Interaction
(POI)

Page 111 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-OBC-01 The Supplier shall, establish a dedicated Operational Business Change
(OBC) Project Management Office to support the Customer’s OBC delivery
team.

EUC-OBC-02 The Supplier shall, adhere to the Customer's tooling, standards, processes
and ways of working.

EUC-OBC-03 I The Supplier shall adhere to the Customer's timelines in delivery of the
OBC Requests:

(a) Branch Opening 10 working days;

(b) Branch Closure (emergency) 24 hrs;

(c) Branch Closure (normal) 5 working days;

(d) Branch Relocations 10 working days; and

(e) Next day delivery to Branch.

EUC-OBC-04 I The Supplier shall, provide OBC Field Engineer Support to cover the full
geographical spread of the Customer Branch estate including Northern
Ireland, highland and island and other remote locations.

EUC-OBC-05 I The Supplier shall, provide an agreed rate card for delivery of all the
defined OBC request types.

EUC-OBC-06 The Supplier shall, provide a cost estimate to perform all the tasks associated
with the OBC request that are identified outside of the rate card agreement
and gain approval from the Customer, as applicable, prior to starting work.
EUC-OBC-07 The Supplier shall, forecast and coordinate resource allocation with the
Customer for approved OBC Requests.

EUC-OBC-08 The Supplier shall, record, track, and manage all OBC Requests in
coordination the Customer.

EUC-OBC-09 I The Supplier shall, provide OBC Request status reports as appropriate and
participate / attend the Customer’s OBC planning meetings.

EUC-OBC-10 The Supplier shall, provide billing information requested by the Customer
for rate card and non-rate card charges including expenses related to OBC
Requests.

EUC-OBC-11 The Supplier shall, provide and perform post-implementation reviews of
OBC Requests as request by the Customer.

EUC-OBC-12 The Supplier shall, integrate and support the Customer's escalation
process.

EUC-OBC-13 The Supplier shall, provide the Customer with an estimated time of arrival
for all Engineer Visits and inform of any changes to ETA's at a minimum
one day in advance.

EUC-OBC-14 The Supplier shall, be accountable at all time without exception for the
management and delivery of applicable PCI compliance activities
associated with the OBC process.

EUC-OBC-15 I The Supplier shall, ensure that all relevant documentation, including job
sheets, is signed-off by the respective Branch representative.

EUC-OBC-16 I The Supplier shall, be responsible for all data cabling activities, except
where there is a Branch fit out and its more efficient for this to be
undertaken by another Third-Party, and agreed with the Customer.

6.10.3 Service Design and Transition

Service Transition process ensures the orderly transition of a new or modified service into
production, together with the necessary adaptations to the service management processes.
This must incorporate the service design and operational requirements within the transition
planning.

Page 112 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Req ID Requirement Description
EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, at all times adhere to the Customer’s Service Design and
01 Transition Management Policies and Processes in the delivery of their

Services.
EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, provide dedicated Service Design and Transition resources
02 who are accountable for the delivery of change.
EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, track and deliver all Service Design and Transition activities
03 utilising the Customer's tooling solution.
EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, follow the lifecycle stages for the Service Design and
04 Transition as set out by the Customer and the move from one stage to the next

will be subject to formal checks & acceptance.

EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, produce a Service Design
05 Package defining but not limited to the Support model, Operating Times,
Service Levels, Transition activities, testing and early life support approach.
EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, deliver the full end to end transition activities including the
06 Customer's deliverable to ensure that the agreed Service Design Package is
developed, built and operational in alignment with the Customer's standards.
EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, work with the Customer to define the Service Design and
07 Transition responsibilities and deliverables, objects, products, training and
acceptance criteria.

EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, in collaboration with the Customer and where appropriate
08 the Third-Party Suppliers, develop Service Design and Transition plans that
describe the tasks and activities to roll out a change in development, test and
production environments.

EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, develop and deliver an
09 operational acceptance test prior to acceptance into service.

EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, ensure an Acceptance
10 into Service Certificate and formal meeting is conducted across all supporting
parties prior to a change moving to production.

EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, deliver Early Life Support
1 (ELS) in a project delivery phase.

EUC-SDT- I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, meet all ELS criteria as a
12 condition of project closure.

6.10.4 Request to Quote (RTQ)

The RTQ process (often known in the IT industry as RFS or Work Order process) is used to
capture changes which are carried out by Suppliers which are non-standard, chargeable and
which need to be quoted for. RTQ tends to be a large in scope of work than that of a BAU
Change and smaller than that of a project.

The RTQ process corresponds to the Post Office Project Management ServiceNow module.

Post Office have an RTQ team which manage the RTQ workflow which is initiated by users
submitting the initiating requested into an online portal. The team progress RTQ work item
approvals which consist of an initial CTO and Data Protection approval, followed by review
board, and an internal approval process which includes CTO, security, finance, and
commercial approvals followed by the supplier submission.

Service Levels: RTQ requests responses shall be bound by the corresponding Service
Levels defined in the Service Levels Section 7. There are no predefined SLAs for RTQ
fulfilment time, and in this respect the fulfilment time agreed during the initiation phase shall

Page 113 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

be binding, meaning that the supplier is responsible for the labour cost of overruns, meaning
RTQ delivery that runs past the agreed date of delivery.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-RTQ-01 I The Supplier shall, establish a Project Management function to support the
Customer's requests for project, operational statements of work and
governance of the service.

EUC-RTQ-02 I The Supplier shall, adhere to the Customer’s Request to Quote (RTQ)
process.

EUC-RTQ-03 I The Supplier shall, be responsible for the labour cost of overruns for any
RTQ delivery that runs past the agreed date of delivery.

EUC-RTQ-04 I The Supplier shall, archive all RTQs for up to 12 months.

EUC-RTQ-05 I The Supplier shall, provide a representative to attend RTQ review meetings
to assess and accept RTQ into the supplier process.

EUC-RTQ-06 I The Supplier shall, develop and submit to the Customer a written RTQ
response, including a timeline, milestones, resource utilisation and costs to
complete the Request in accordance with the Customer's process.
EUC-RTQ-07 I The Supplier shall, produce a completed RTQ within 10 working days of
receiving the approved request, unless agreed prior to submission of the
request with the Customer.

EUC-RTQ-08 I The Supplier shall, ensure the RTQ response addresses all requirements of
the RTQ with traceability of the RTQ owner's requirements to the proposed
solution & costs.

EUC-RTQ-09 I The Supplier shall, deliver the RTQ service using the Customer's IT
Business Management (ITBM) tool.

EUC-RTQ-10 I The Supplier shall, identify economies of scale and synergies across
multiple RTQ’s, where possible, and indicate these possible savings to the
Customer.

EUC-RTQ-11 I The Supplier shall, respond to challenges and questions to the Supplier's
RTQ Response.

EUC-RTQ-12 I The Supplier shall, cooperate with other Customer suppliers, where
required, to respond to RTQs.

EUC-RTQ-13 I The Supplier shall, deliver a function in support of the Customer's ideation
needs for project opportunities for the delivery of Rough Order of Magnitude
(ROM) reports.

EUC-RTQ-14 I The Supplier shall, develop and submit to the Customer a written Ideation
response, including ROM timeline, costs and outline solutions options.
EUC-RTQ-15 I The Supplier shall, produce a completed Ideation response within 10
working days of receiving the approved request, unless agreed prior to
submission of the request with the Customer.

EUC-RTQ-16 I The Supplier shall, make available the appropriate skilled resources to work
with the Customer in the delivery of Ideation requests.

6.11. Monitoring and Reporting

Regular check and monitor the uptime of infrastructure components such as servers and
apps and notifying the support services of problems before they impact the business.

6.11.1 Availability Management

This service ensures all services provided to Post Office are available in line with the agreed
availability service levels. The availability service levels defined in the Service Levels

Page 114 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

section need to be proactively measured for the levels of availability using agreed
mechanisms, measures and metrics.

To ensure that the business needs of service are meet all infrastructure is measured using
availability polling, for example through monitoring systems, in order to directly arrive at an

availability figure.

Availability management should be seen as proactive process by managing failure risks and
single points of failure in the infrastructure and utilising service dashboards and reporting
(where agreed and applicable).

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-AVM-01 The Supplier shall, work with the Customer in defining the delivery of the
Availability Management process and agree ways of working.

EUC-AVM-02 The Supplier shall, have the appropriate monitoring and measurement in
place to support the Customer's service levels.

EUC-AVM-03 The Supplier shall, establish and develop a maintenance strategy in
agreement with the Customer to ensure availability levels.

EUC-AVM-04 The Supplier shall, as agreed with the Customer, produce and manage a
non-compliance report against the Customer’s Availability Management
processes, ways of working and Service Levels.

EUC-AVM-05 The Supplier shall, make recommendations to improve the resilience and
Availability of in-scope IT Services and Business Services to the Customer.

EUC-AVM-06 The Supplier shall, assist the Customer in working with Third Party
Suppliers and internal support groups as appropriate to ensure Availability
targets can be met for new and existing Services.

EUC-AVM-07 I The Supplier shall, proactively monitor Availability levels and trends to
identify potential threats to Availability at the earliest opportunity.

EUC-AVM-08 The Supplier shall, utilise automatic reporting agents, where applicable and
in agreement with the Customer, to measure availability trends and targets.

EUC-AVM-09 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, be accountable for
defining and setting of automated alerts to trigger when Availability
thresholds are breached.

EUC-AVM-10 The Supplier shall, organise and facilitate a monthly management meeting
to report on but not limited to current resource utilisation, trends, forecasts,
and exceptions in an agreed format.

6.11.2 Capacity Management

With the delivery of cloud services and their respective applications there is a need to ensure
that the service meet the agreed capacity requirements through understanding both
seasonal and long-range changes in the demand of the Post Office business.

The service will use the capacity thresholds, the metrics and mechanics of measuring
capacity utilising tooling in order to assist with measurement and management of capacity,
for example monitoring systems which detect disk, Central Processor Unit (CPU) and
memory capacity utilisation levels in computers.

Where capacity issues are identified the supplier shall work in a timely way and via the
appropriate forums, for example Problem tickets or SIP items to mitigate.

Page 115 of 193

POL00337657
POL00337657

Capacity reporting will be carried out in conjunction with capacity plans which provide the
current capacity levels, forecasts in demand and details of future initiatives to alter capacity
of supply.

The supplier will work with the business in order to understand expected change in the future
levels of business demand from the Post Office branch business, forecasting demand using
tending techniques, remediating capacity issues prior to operational impact.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-CM-01 The Supplier shall, work with the Customer in defining the delivery of the
Capacity Management process and agree ways of working.

EUC-CM-02 The Supplier shall, undertake forward capacity management planning which
includes identification of exceptions, review of reports and trends in relation
to the Services.

EUC-CM-03 The Supplier shall, deploy proactive Capacity Management monitoring and
reporting in relation to the Services, which includes but not limited to:-

(a) prevent Incidents and Problems related to resource utilisation from
occurring;

(b) trend current system, resource and estimate future utilisation;

(c) model seasonal patterns of business activity and BAU growth; and

(d) reviewing under and over utilisation and pro-actively undertake
remediation actions.

EUC-CM-04 The Supplier shall, develop, monitor, track and complete remediation action
plans to address any capacity deficiency or surplus in respect of their
Services.

EUC-CM-05 The Supplier shall, align the capacity management process to the
Customer's business and IT plans. This includes performing an analysis in
support of business planning, capacity and utilisation studies for its
Services.

EUC-CM-06 The Supplier shall, analyse the demand forecast and submit
recommendations for capacity changes for its Services.

EUC-CM-07 The Supplier shall, update the Customer knowledge base of capacity
constraints and impact of future demand.

EUC-CM-08 The Supplier shall, where possible, estimate and report the resource and
utilisation effects of cross functional changes that impact their Services.
EUC-CM-09 The Supplier shall, organise and facilitate a monthly management meeting

to report on, but not limited to, current resource utilisation, trends, forecasts,
and exceptions in an agreed format.

EUC-CM-10 The Supplier shall, produce and maintain Capacity Plans for the EUC
Services which include, but is not limited to:

(a) fluctuations in business as usual capacity demand;

(b) planned business change;

(c) patterns of Business Activity;

(d) revised or new Service Levels;

(e) revised or new EUC Services;

(f) ITSCM;

(g) transition requirements; and

(h) the impact of emerging technologies within the Service pipeline.

EUC-CM-11 The Supplier shall, optimise resource utilisation in a cost-effective manner.

Page 116 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

6.11.3 Event Management

This service manages System /Solution Events throughout their Lifecycle. Supplier Event
Management is delivered in conjunction with Post Office Operational Management to ensure
the risk and integrity of IT systems.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-EM-01 The Supplier shall, work with the Customer in defining the delivery of the
Event Management process and agree ways of working.

EUC-EM-02 The Supplier shall, where requested integrate events and alerts with the
Customer's ITSM product and other platforms (e.g. AWS Data Platform) for
the purpose of event correlation and aggregation when requested by the
Customer.

EUC-EM-03 The Supplier shall, relate EUC events to IT Systems, Infrastructure and
Application services so that a Priority assessment can be made by all
parties.

EUC-EM-04 The Supplier shall, implement and maintain event monitoring mechanisms
and Business Rules, including the activities necessary to set up and
maintain the mechanisms for generating meaningful events and effective
rules for their filtering and correlating.

EUC-EM-05 The Supplier shall, establish and maintain a proactive and automated event
management process to ensure all Services are monitored and that agreed
events are identified, promptly actioned, recorded and reported.

EUC-EM-06 The Supplier shall, set and report on thresholds agreed with and approved
by the Customer, which may be subject to change during the Term.

EUC-EM-07 The Supplier shall, participate in joint coordination meetings organised by
the Customer to determine response selection for cross-functional Events.
EUC-EM-08 The Supplier shall, be responsible for the end-to-end event response and
communication between all in-scope parties; that is, being responsible from
the time the event was originally logged to the point at which it is deemed to
be resolved.

EUC-EM-09 The Supplier shall, be responsible for coordinating triage activities and
invoking event escalations, as required.

EUC-EM-10 The Supplier shall, provide and manage tools and processes to correlate
and action events based upon the various alerts and their criticality.

EUC-EM-11 The Supplier shall, provide proactive and reactive monitoring (including
trending analysis) and management in order to enhance the stability and
function of Customer Business Services and IT Services.

EUC-EM-12 The Supplier shall, correlate events to facilitate Problem Management and
Root Cause Analysis (RCA) and make event-related trend analysis
available.

6.11.4 IT Operations Centre

The EUC Supplier function responsible for Monitoring and Control of the Post Office IT
Services and IT Infrastructure delivered by the supplier.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-ITOC-01 I The Supplier shall, adhere to, the Customer’s Service Management
Policies and Processes as applicable to the scope of the Services.

Page 117 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-ITOC-02 I The Supplier shall, provide monitoring, reporting, maintenance & control
for the delivery of the services. This shall also include:

(a) ensuring SLA & KPI targets are met;

(b) identification of potential risk and interruptions to service;

(c) minimising service interruptions;

(d) the restoration of service; and

(e) identifying opportunities to improve services, reduce cost, support
satisfaction for end users.

EUC-ITOC-03 I The Supplier shall, establish and manage controls to ensure that the
service is auditable and meets the Regulatory and Policy requirements of
the Customer.

EUC-ITOC-04 I The Supplier shall, establish, maintain and enhance IT Operations Centre
Processes, Governance and Tools that support the Supplier's end to end
responsibility and enable it to provide consistent management,
coordination and communication of the delivery of the IT Operations
Centre services across the supply chain.

EUC-ITOC-05 I The Supplier shall, maintain comprehensive documents and records in
connection with the provision of the IT Operations Centre services and
shall provide to the Customer such supporting documentation as the
Customer may reasonably require in order to verify the Supplier's
compliance with all applicable policies, processes and service obligations.
EUC-ITOC-06 I The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, promote process
efficiency and data quality consistency to ensure that the IT Operations
Centre is designed to capture data once, minimising the need for manual
data capture and input. All data will, wherever possible, be validated by the
ITSM Toolset on input.

EUC-ITOC-07 I The Supplier shall, assist the Customer in the identification of automation
opportunities, development of tools/scripts and process enhancements
(including assisting with integrations to other third-party toolsets where
required), to proactively perform and automate the service management
processes.

EUC-ITOC-08 I The Supplier shall, work collaboratively with the Customer IT Service Desk
and Branch Support centre.

EUC-ITOC-09 I The Supplier shall, provide a Single Point of Contact for the Customer's
Service Desks to engage/escalate issues.

6.11.5 Monitoring and Reporting

The Suppliers observance of a Configuration Item, IT Service or Process to detect Events
(or lack of) and to ensure that the current status is known and made available to the Post
Office.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-MR-01 The Supplier shall, provide monitoring and reporting to effectively identify
potential Incidents, Problems and performance improvements to ensure
optimisation of the Service.

EUC-MR-02_ I The Supplier shall, analyse monitoring results to identify areas of the overall
configuration that could be tuned or optimised, to better utilise the Service,
system and component resources or improve the performance of that
particular Service.

EUC-MR-03 The Supplier shall, capture operations data for the Services in accordance
with the data specifications in agreement with the Customer.

Page 118 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC-MR-04 The Supplier shall, in agreement with the Customer, provide no more than
monthly, a report detailing the performance of the Services against Service
Levels, KPIs, making recommendations when identified.

EUC-MR-05 The Supplier shall, work collaboratively with the Customer to agree how
Monitoring & Reporting is implemented for new Cl's or Services.
EUC-MR-06 The Supplier shall, where requested by the Customer, integrate monitoring
agents into all in scope technologies including:

(a) End User devices;

(b) Servers; and

(c) Network components.

6.11.6 Demand Management

The Support of the Post Office to understand, anticipate, and influence our user/business
demand for services. This means that demand for services can grow or shrink with the
business cycle and the allocation of resource to meet these changes.

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-DM-01 The Supplier shall, nominate a dedicated on-site resource who shall act as
the primary technical interface for Architecture and Demand Management
for the Supplier.

EUC-DM-02 The Supplier shall, provide Demand Management for the EUC Services,
including but not limited to:

(a) developing EUC Service demand models and demand forecasts based
on Patterns of Business Activity provided by the Customer;

(b) make recommendations to reduce demands on EUC Services;

(c) make recommendations on how Capacity Plans shall be affected by
demand projections including the steps needed to meet demand
projections;

(d) make recommendations to the Customer for improvements of the
mechanisms to control and meet current and forecast demand for EUC
Services.

EUC-DM-03 The Supplier shall, provide on a monthly basis, the predicted consumption
of the Services based on a framework that is jointly developed by the
Customer, the Supplier and Third-Party suppliers.

EUC-DM-04 The Supplier shall, report to the Customer, in a timely manner, the inability
to satisfy demand and provide service improvement plans to rectify the
situation.

EUC-DM-05 The Supplier shall, translate and report on patterns of Business Demand
from EUC Services.

EUC-DM-06 The Supplier shall, with approval from the Customer, implement a
continuous improvement process for demand forecasting, through the
acquisition of knowledge and data, to provide greater accuracy on predicted
vs actual.

Page 119 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

7. SERVICE LEVELS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

This section provides the Post Office business driven expectations of service levels.
Service Levels Agreements (SLA) and Key Performance Indicators (KPI) are broken down
and aligned to specific applications, services or the process of service delivery as opposed
to using catch all Service Levels for the entire scope of supplier service. The SLAs & KPIs
have been defined to meet the following drivers:

a. Alignment to specific business units (Branch vs Colleague),
b. Alignment to services used for specific functional reasons and
c. Alignment to the required criticality level of each service.

The Supplier will be responsible for performance against SLAs & KPIs in respect of the
scope of responsibility that sits with its own operations and its subcontractor operations. The
Supplier will not be responsible for performance during the time when a work item is
assigned to Post Office operations or parties with which Post Office directly contracts.

Where possible the service metrics will be recorded within the Post Office ServiceNow
platform. This will enable real time tracking for both parties and utilising the advanced
performance analytics within ServiceNow management of demand constraints and trends.

The Supplier Service Management team will be the accountable team for ensuring that the
delivery of the services is meeting or exceeding the contracted targets. Where a target is at
risk or has been missed the supplier Service representative will liaise with the appropriate
Customer representative to resolve, plan and deliver a remediation plan.

The Supplier is required to deliver Service Level Management services pursuant to RM3804-
Call-Off-tc-v6, Call off Schedule 3: Service Levels, Service Credits and Performance
Monitoring.

Page 120 of 193
71

Service Level Agreements

This section sets out the Service Levels which the Supplier is required to achieve when providing the Services.

Name

Description

Service
Credit

Ser
Level
Threshold

Formula
Service
Period

Servic
Hours

POL00337657

POL00337657

Reporting
Period

‘A failure or outage that

(i) affects the Customer

IT infrastructure

resulting in a loss of C= (A/B)*100

ability to trade, and/or A. The number of EUC-IN-

deal with customers, INC-01 Incidents resolved

and/or settle or report to I within the specified timeframe

regulators, and/or for the Reporting Period.
Euc- P4 Malor satisfy any regulatory
IN- I Incident ineident obligation, and/or (ii) B. The total number of EUC- Pat Monthly
INC- Management resolution results in potential IN-INC-01 Incidents-resolved
01 financial loss to within the Reporting Period.

Customer and/or

damage to the C. The percentage of EUC-IN-

reputation of Customer, I INC-01 Incidents Resolved

and/or (iii) a significant within the specified Reporting

impact to business Period.

operation (iv) a security

breach/potential breach

or data loss

An Incident that is not a 7 ™

Major Incident, but one = R00 er of EUC-IN-

which is: ‘

(ija degradation, failure Me aie snesotved
EUC- P2 or outage which has @ I tor the Reporting Period.
IN- I Incident Significant _ I Serious intemal impact ora cw
INC- I Management I incident that Is kel to lead to I B. The total number of EUC- a (eontEy
02 resolution I Trrctant merical I IN:INC-02 Incidents-resolved

por within the Reporting Period.
working processes for a
group and/or C. The percentage of EUC-IN-
(ii) a failure or outage Se Pi 9
affecting multiple Users INC-02 Incidents Resolved

Page 121 of 193
with no effective
workaround.

within the specified Reporting
Period.

An Incident that is not a
Major Incident or a
Significant Incident

C= (A/B)*100

A. The number of EUC-IN-
INC-03 Incidents resolved
within the specified timeframe
for the Reporting Period.

EUC- Priority 3 which requires a
IN- Incident Standard standard response and He Nee in Le Wiesaballarnie
INC- I Management I Incident recovery and is not within during the Reportin
03 resolution covered by the Branch Period. ‘9 porting
resolution 1 to 3 or “
Colleague Resolution 1 I ©. the percentage of EUC-IN-
INC-03 Incidents Resolved
within the specified Reporting
Period.
C= (AIB)"100
A. The number of SEUC-IN-
INC-04 Incidents resolved
within the specified timeframe
for the Reporting Period.
We I inci Priority4 I Any Incident thatis not I 5 the total number of EUC-
I- Incident a Major Incident, a
INC- I Management re Critical Incident, or a ANS ae monente Teccved
04 resolution Standard Incident any cunnd the Reporting

Period.

C. The percentage of EUC-IN-
INC-04 Incidents Resolved
within the specified timeframe
during the Reporting Period.

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 122 of 193
A failure or outage that
results in a complete

C= (AIB)*100
A. The number of EUC-BR-
ENG-01 Incidents resolved
within the specified timeframe
for the Reporting Period.

POL00337657
POL00337657

Extende

Support
Hours.
08:00 -
20:00
Monday
- Friday
08:00 -
16:00
Saturda

y
Sunday

Monthly

Euc- Branch 3 I failure of an individual I B. The total number of EUC-
BR- Engineering - incident Branch to trade and/or BR-ENG-01 Incidents
ENG- I Branch Resolution deal with Customers, or I resolved within the Reporting
01 level 4 multiple counter branch I Period.
with 75% reduction in
availability C. The percentage of EUC-
BR-ENG-01 Incidents
Resolved within the specified
timeframe during the
Reporting Period.
C= (AVB)"100
‘A. The number of EUC-BR-
ENG-02 Incidents resolved
Branch IT fault with within the specified timeframe
teduced counter for the Reporting Period.
Branch P3 functionality and/or
BR. Engineering - I Standard Feil vbieioried BRENGOD ramet cidonts
ENG- Bech M9 I incident through workarounds for I roscived within during the
02 Resolution single counter branch. Reporting Period. ‘9
level 2 Branches with up to porting °
75% reduction in
steal C. The percentage of EUC-
avallabiliy. BR-ENG-02 Incidents
Resolved within the specified
timeframe during the
Reporting Period.
‘C= (A/B)*100
A. The number of EUC-BR-
ENG-03 Incidents resolved
Branch P3 within the specified timeframe
EUC- standard Branch Requests or for the Reporting Period.
BR- Engineering - incident non-urgent call, spares
ENG- I Branch Resolution management, postal B. The total number of EUC-
03 level 3 service BR-ENG-03 Incidents

resolved within during the
Reporting Period.

C. The percentage of EUC-

Monthly

Monthly

Page 123 of 193
BR-ENG-03 Incidents
Resolved within the specified

timeframe during
Reporting Period.

the

EUC-
BR-
ENG-
05

Engineering -
Branch

Fixed First
Time Branch
Engineering

Incident signed-off by
end customer at first visit

C= (A/B)"100

A. The number of incidents
allocated to the supplier for a

field engineer visit which
customer —_ approves
completion of the work on

the
the
the

first visit within the reporting

period

B. The total number of
Incidents requiring a field

engineer visit allocated to

the

supplier within the Reporting

Period.

C. The percentage

of

Incidents resolved by field

engineer at first visit.

EUC-
co-
ENG-
o1

Engineering -
Colleague

Colleague
P3 standard
incident
Resolution
level 4

A failure or outage of an
end user device,
software, application or
EUC end user services
that is linked to a VIP.

C= (A/B)*100

A. The number of EUC-CO-
ENG-01 Incidents resolved
within the specified timeframe

for the Reporting Period.

B. The total number of EUC-
CO-ENG-01 Incidents
resolved within the Reporting

Period.

C. The percentage of EUC-
CO-ENG-01 Incidents
Resolved within the specified

timeframe during
Reporting Period.

the

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 124 of 193
A failure or outage of an

C= (AIB)*100
A. The number of EUC-CO-
ENG-02 Incidents resolved
within the specified timeframe
for the Reporting Period.

POL00337657
POL00337657

Extende

Support
Hours.
08:00 -
20:00
Monday
- Friday
08:00 -
16:00
Saturda

y
Sunday

Monthly

Monthly

EUc- Soleaaue I end user device, B._ The total number of EUC-
co- Engineering - incident software, application or I CO-ENG-02 Incidents
ENG- I Colleague Resolution EUC end user services I resolved within the Reporting
02 level 2 that is linked toa Period.
business critical user.
C. The percentage of EUC-
CO-ENG-02 Incidents
Resolved within the specified
timeframe during the
Reporting Period.
C= (AIB)"100
A. The number of EUC-CO-
ENG-03 Incidents resolved
within the specified timeframe
for the Reporting Period.
Colleague
ERC I ngineering. I P3standard I An Incident which a mumnbe e
= ngineering - CO-ENG-03 Incidents
ENG- I Colleague I jreldent requires a standard resolved within during the
03 Reso! lution I response and recovery. I Reporting Period.
vel 3
C. The percentage of EUC-
CO-ENG-03 Incidents
Resolved within the specified
timeframe during the
Reporting Period.
EUc- Shared The individual resilient The individual resilient Wintel
INF- Infrastructure I Service Wintel server Availability I server availability will operate
Ss- Technol (Production & DR at a level of Availability for
02 °9Y I Environments) 99.9% on a 24 x 7 basis
EUC-
Shared abil Individual production
QE I infrastructure I Service Hodeelon databases, I databases willbe available for
03 Technology ” 99.9% on a 24 x7 basis

24x7

Monthly

24x7

Monthly

Page 125 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC- 7" . .
Shared —_ Individual Directory Services
QE I infrastructure I Service Fre avaliailty of will be available for 99.9% on 24x7 I Monthly
04 Technology y a 24 x 7 basis
C= (AIB)"100
A. The number of End User Extende
Emergency security devices with a successful
patches deployed to patched within 2 working days ‘Support
End User devices and 5 working days Hours.
EUC- within 2 Working Days 08:00 -
SEC- Emargeni of notification to B. The total number of End 20:00
PAC- Security Patt by ey Supplier of such by User devices that require the Monday I Monthly
ot 9 Customer’ information security patch - Friday
security team where 08:00 -
patching is possible C. The percentage of End 16:00
using an automated User devices successfully Saturda
toolset patched within the specified -
timeframe during the Service Sunday
Period.
C= (AIB)*100
A. The number of End User Extende
devices with a successful d
patched within 20 working Support
Security patches days Hours
EUC- deployed to Customers 08:00 -
SEC- Managed End User B. The total number of End 20:00
PAC- Security Patching Devices within 20 User devices that require the Monday I Monthly
02 Working Days of security patch - Friday
security updates being 08:00 -
released C. The percentage of End 16:00
User devices successfully Saturda
patched within the specified -
timeframe during the Service Sunday
Period.
C= (AVB)"100
Emergency security A. The number of Wintel
EUC- Infrastructure patches deployed to servers with a successful
SEC- ‘ Wintel servers within 2 patched within 2 working days
PAC- Security Emergency Working Days of 24x7 Monthly
03 atening security updates being B. The total number of
released Wintel servers that require the

security patch

Page 126 of 193
C. The percentage of Wintel
servers successfully patched
within the specified timeframe
during the Service Period.

POL00337657
POL00337657

C= (A/B)*100
A. The number of Wintel
servers with a successful

patched within 20 working
Security update days
EUc- deployed to Wintel
SEC- Security Infrastructure I servers within 20 B. The total number of
PAC- Patching Working Days of Wintel servers that require
04 security patches being _I the security patch
released
C. The percentage of Wintel
servers successfully patched
within the specified timeframe
during the Service Period.
C= (A/B)*100
A. The number of service
catalogue requests for which
the Supplier is responsible
which are receipted by the
end user successfully and
within the stated timeframe for
that specific request as
i defined in the Service
Percentage of Service b
Catalogue requests fee for the Service
EUc- r which are fulfilled on "
OPs- , Setvice receipt of the customer ,
REQ- Operations Request within the required B. The total number of raised
ot Fulfilment timescale in accordance I Se'vice catalogue requests

with the Service
Catalogue.

that the Supplier is
responsible for implementing
during that Service Period.

The percentage of service
requests for which the
Supplier is responsible, which
are implemented successfully
and within the stated time
frame for that specific request
as defined within the relevant

24x7

Monthly

Monthly

Page 127 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Service Catalogue during the
Service Period.

ible 16: EUC Service Level Agreements

Page 128 of 193
7.2 Key Performance Indicators

This section sets out the Key Performance Indicators which the Supplier is required to measure and report against for the Services.

KPI Key
Name Service Performance Description

Indicator

Formula

C= (A/B)"100
A The total number of
Incidents approved by the
Colleague End User as
Resolved on the first contact to
action the work request.
EUc- 7"
co- Engineering - Fixed First Incident signed-off by end B. The total number of
ENG- I Colleague I Time customer atfirst contactof I requests for Colleague End
04 Colleague supplier support services Users allocated to the supplier
for resolution within a specified
timeframe within the Service
Period.
C. The percentage of
Colleague End User Incidents
Resolved on first contact.
Colleague End users
response rating when The Net Promoter Score is the
EUC- Colleague surveyed after closure of a % of responses during the
Co- Engineering - Customer incident or request ticket that I reporting period that when
ENG- Colleague '3- I Satisfaction I rated their experience achieved a score between 10-8
05 net promoter I between: (promoter) subtracted by the
score 10-8 Excellent to very good percentage that achieve a
7-5 Good to satisfactory score between 4-1 (detractors)
4-1 disappointing to poor

Service

Credit for

Service

Period not Hours

(appliable
for KP!)

Extended
‘Support
Hours
08:00 -
20:00
Monday -
Friday
08:00 -
16:00
Saturday
— Sunday

Reporting
Period

Monthly

Monthly

Monthly

Page 129 of 193

POL00337657
POL00337657

C= (AB)*100

A. The number of requests
allocated to the supplier for a
field engineer arriving at site
and which are put in progress

no earlier that 15 minutes of the
The punctuality of a Field I ETA and no later than the
EUC- Engineer arriving at their I defined timeslot.
ENG- Punctuality allocated destination within
PUN- Engineering I of field 15min of the allocated time I B. The total number of
ot engineering I slot in the schedule I requests for a field engineer
workorder and no later than I allocated to the supplier within
the allocated time slot the Service Period.
C. The percentage of field
engineer visits arriving and
placing the workorder in
progress within 15 min to the
end time of the allotted slot to
the
C= (A/B)*100
Percentage of Change
Requests to the Supplier by I A. The number of Change
the Customer that have a Requests for a change by size
quote completed and category that are completed to
returned to the Customer their respective category Call
that are capable of being Off Contract KPI.
EUC- accepted by the Customer,
PRO- Request to within the allotted key B. The total number of Change
RTQ- Project uote performance indicator for the I Requests by size category that
01 q size/category of change. were requested of the Supplier
by their respective size
Minor: 5 Working category.
Days
Significant: 10 Working C. The percentage of Change
Days Requests by size category that
Major: 20 Working are completed to their
Days respective size category Call

Off Contract KPI.

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 130 of 193
The Supplier shall adhere to
the Customer's lead times in
delivery of the OBC
Requests

12 working days to the
commissioning date:
Counter Commissioning
Counter Commissioning (no
on-site support)

C= (AVB)*100
A. The number of OBC
requests for which the Supplier
is responsible which are

10 working days to the i
Decommissioning date: ___I Implemented successfully and
Counter Decommissionin: within the stated timeframe for
eeicning I the Service Period.
Counter Decommissioning
EUc- (no on-site support) B. The total number of service
. Operational i " requests that the Supplier is
o Project Business So working days: onin responsible for implementing
Ot Change ‘9 that are raised for the Service
5 working days to closure a
date:
Fectoni C. The percentage of OBC
Branch Decommissioning requests for which the Supplier
is responsible, which are
22 working Gays tothe implemented successfully and
Branch Relocation within the stated time frame for
that specific request for the
12 working days to the Service Period.
closure date
Branch Referb
8 working days to the
closure date
Branch Referb (no on-site
support
Branch End users response fi
EUC- closure of a incident or respons 3
on Customer . . I reporting period that when
BR- Engineering - Satisfacti request ticket that rated their hieved bel 10-8
ENG- I Branch isfaction experience between: achieved a score between
06 net promoter 10-9 Excellent to ver (promoter) subtracted by the
score 8-7 Good to satistactory percentage that achieve a

6-1 disappointing to poor

‘score between 4-1 (detractors)

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 131 of 193
EUC- Any individual Branch that Incidents raised against the
BR- Engineerin Repeat experienced 3 incidents same Branch Cl within 30 days
ENG. I —P9Inee"ing I Faijures raised for the same Cl within I from the first incident being
07 a 30 days rolling period raised
C= (A/B)*100
A. The number of next day
. and 48hr postal requests
ENG. _— requests dispatched by dispatched on time
Engineering service type:
DRP- Replacement Postal Service Next dat B. The total number of next
01 Service y day and 48hr postal request
Postal Service 48hr Service _I @llocated to the supplier
C. The percentage of next day
and 48hr postal request
dispatched from the supplier
Report upload into the
customer repository
C= (A/B)*100
A. The number of Governance
and Service Reports delivered
complete within the specified
EUC- Governance and Service tmeecale Fomine serves
SM- Service Reporting reports delivered complete .
REP- I Management within 5 Working Days of the
01 end of the month: B. The total number required

Governance and Service
Reports delivered complete
within the specified timescale
for the Service Period.

C. The percentage of required
Governance and = Service
Reports delivered complete

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 132 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

within the specified timescale
for the Service Period
EUC- Accuracy of Asset inventory
Service Asset 1
SM- Asset inventory accuracy reports based on random 2%
‘as.o1 I Management I management sample
EUC- Update Asset register within 2
Service Asset
SM- Asset database updates Working Days of a Asset
‘AS-02 I Management I management inataltation
Euc- Repeat failures of any Cl I ~_,
SM- Service Stock hardware that has failed faye 2 aoe Hides anon
STK- I Management I Management I more than 3 times ina rolling I; : r :
04 30 day period incident/failure being raised

Page 133 of 193
C= (AB)*100

A. The number Root Cause
Analysis Reports completed
for all P1 and P2 Incidents
within the specified timescale

EUC- prabe ee cn 7“ borne for the Service Period.
7 alysis report is
See) ens I er ent I completed for all P1 & P2 IB. The number of P1 and P2
01 per ig incidents within 3 working I Incidents for the Service
days of the incident Period.
C. The percentage of required
Root Cause Analysis Reports
completed within the specified
timescale for the Service
Period
C= (A/B)*100
A. The number Root Cause
Analysis initial completed for
all P1 and P2 Incidents within
the specified timescale for the
EUC- Production “1 RGA) cause Service Period.
7 alysis initial
ae eo etons Fobiom at assessment is completed for I B. The number of P1 and P2
02 per 9 all P1 & P2 incidents within I Incidents for the Service

24hr of the incident

Period.

C. The percentage of required
Root Cause Analysis Reports
completed within the specified
timescale for the Service
Period

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 134 of 193
Percentage of Knowledge
Articles updated within 2
working days, where an
inaccuracy has been identified
by any party and reported to

the Supplier
C= (A/B)*100
A. The number Knowledge
Articles updated within the
Percentage of Knowledge specified timescale, where an
workin pe 8 inaccuracy has been identified
EUC- 1g days by any party and reported to
so- Service Knowledge the Supplier, for the Service
4 Note - on completion of the ‘
ot Operations Management Shared Services separation Period.
this KPI will be split to
B. The number Knowled:
represent colleague and Articles inaccuracies reponed
branch services separately by any party to the Supplier,
for the Service Period.
C. The percentage of
Knowledge Articles updated
within the specified timescale,
where an inaccuracy has been
identified by any party and
reported to the Supplier, for
the Service Period.
C = (AIB)"100
Percentage of Emergency A. The number of
Change Requests Emergency Change Requests
categorised as emergency, implemented in the Service
in the last Service Period in I Period.
ee Production
ou Operations Management B. The total number of
01 Pe 9 Note - on completion of the Change Requests

Shared Services separation
this KPI will be split to
represent colleague and
branch services separately

implemented in the Service
Period.

The percentage of Emergency
Change Requests to overall
Change Requests.

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 135 of 193
C = (AlB)*100
A. The number of Change
Percentage of Failed
Change Requests in the last Hetearted Lee mplemented
in the Service Period.
EUC- Service Period
so- Service Change B. The total number of
céM- I Operations I Management I Note- on completion of the I Change Requests
02 Shared Services separation I implemented in the Service
this KPI will be split to ee
represent colleague and .
branch services separately The percentage of failed
Change Requests to overall
Change Requests.
C = (A/B)*100
A. The number of open
problems that are over 4
Hirai, Cotte ‘are over weeks old and not dependent
‘4 weeks old that have been I 2" another Supplier or the
EUC- assigned to the customer Customer:
so- Service Problem
PM- Operations Management I Note - on completion of the O blee thet dood of open
01 Shared Services separation Ps

this KPI will be split to
represent colleague and
branch services separately

dependent on another Supplier
or the Customer.

The percentage of open
problems over 4 weeks old
and not dependent on another
Supplier or the Customer.

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 136 of 193
Percentage of open
problems that are over 3
months old that are

C= (AB)"100

A. The number of open
problems that are over 3
months old and not dependent
on another Supplier or the
Customer.

EuUc- assigned to the supplier
so- Service Problem
PM- Operations Management I Note - on completion of the Probleme number of open
02 Paice peers al dependent on another Supplier
represent colleague and lorthe Customer,
branch services separately The percentage of open
problems over 6 months old
and not dependent on another
Supplier or the Customer.
Incident Update time for P1
and P2 Incidents in
accordance with the target C =(A/B)*100
times set out below
A. The number of incident
Every fifteen (15) minutes for I tickets that were not updated
EUC- Severity 1 unless otherwise _I in line with target times.
IN- I Service Incident eon tity eat ea efor _IIB.The number of Incident
very thit minutes for I B. The number of inciden
ne Operations Management Severity 2 unless otherwise I tickets that were updated in
agreed with Post Office line with target times.

Note - on completion of the
Shared Services separation
this KPI will be split to
represent colleague and
branch services separately

The percentage of incident
ticket updated in line with
update target times

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 137 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

C= (AiB)"100

A. The number of active

Aged tickets as a total Incident tasks which are exons d
percentage of tasks allocated to the supplier which H pons
allocated to the supplier for have missed their SLA and are 08:00 -
EUc- all tickets older than 7 days . 20:00
so- Service Aged tickets Renuka II Menths
AGE- I Operations I Colleague —_I Note - on completion of the I B. The total number of active Frid. y y
01 Shared Services separation I Incident tasks allocated to the aoe .
this KPI will be split to ‘supplier which missed SLA 16:00
represent colleague and anirda
branch services separately C. The percentage of aged meiind u
active Incident tasks allocated y
to the Supplier which are older
than 7 days
C = (AIB)"100
Update and closure of a A. The number of RFC closed ee
RFC within 24hr of the within 24hr of the ees
completion, withdrawal or implementation time stated 08:00 -
EUC- Change failure of the implementation I within the RFC 20:00
SO- I Service Management Monday - I Monthi
CM- I Operations I RFC Note - on completion of the I B. The total number of RFC a y y
01 closures Shared Services separation I assigned to the Supplier aaa .
this KPI will be split to 16:00
represent colleague and C. The percentage of RFC exis
branch services separately closed within 24hr of the =Sund u
implementation time stated y
within the RFC.
C = (A/B)*100
Percentage of Install, Move,
Add and Change Dispose A. The number of IMACD Sale
(IMACD) requests requests completed by the H ae
completed and closed within I Supplier and closed 08:00 -
EUC- specified timescales that are I successfully within the 20:00
So- Service IMACD non- I not recorded as urgent specified timescale for the M lon day - I Monthh
IMAC- I Operations urgent Service Period. Frid; y y
01 Note - on completion of the Ga.
Shared Services separation I B. The total number of IMACD 16:00
this KPI will be split to requests that are allocated to Ss Sine 5
represent colleague and the supplier for the Service =Sund u
branch services separately Period. y

Page 138 of 193
C. The percentage of non-
urgent IMACD requests which
are successfully completed
and closed within 2 working
days.

EUC-
SO-
IMAC-
02

Service
Operations

IMACD
urgent

Percentage of Install, Move,
Add and Change Dispose
(IMACD) request completed
and closed within specified
timescales that are not
recorded as urgent

Note - on completion of the
Shared Services separation
this KPI will be split to
represent colleague and
branch services separately

C= (AB)*100

A. The number of IMACD
requests completed by the
Supplier and closed
successfully within the
‘specified timescale for the
Service Period.

B. The total number of IMACD
requests that are allocated to
the supplier for the Service
Period.

C. The percentage of non-
urgent IMACD requests which
are successfully completed
and closed within the specified
timescale.

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 139 of 193
The percentage of all Priority
1 & Priority 2 Incidents that
are allocated to the supplier
and acknowledged within
the specified timeframe (10
minutes) or identified by the
supplier either by a event,
alerting platform or other
method that informs of a

C= (A/B)*100

A. The sum of all Priority 1 &
Priority 2 Incidents allocated to
the correct Resolver Group
(either supplier or customer)
within the specified timeframe

POL00337657
POL00337657

EUC- Priority Level I degradation or outage of during the Service Period.

IN- Service 1&2 service that corresponds to

INC- Operations Incident a Priority 1 or Priority 2 B. The total number of

06 per Response incident definition, the Priority 1 & Priority 2 Incidents

Time incident must be raised and I in the Service Period.
the customer informed within
the specified timeframe (10 C. The percentage of Priority 1
minutes) & Priority 2 Incidents correctly
allocated to the correct

Note - on completion of the Resolver Group (either
Shared Services separation I supplier or customer) within
this KPI will be split to the specified timeframe.
represent colleague and
branch services separately
The percentage of all Priority
3 Incidents that are allocated I C= (A/B)*100
to the supplier and
acknowledged with in the A. The sum ofall Priority 3
specified timeframe (30 Incidents allocated to the
minutes) or identified from correct Resolver Group (either
the supplier either by a ‘supplier or customer) within
event, alerting platform or the specified timeframe during

EUC- Priority Level I other method informs of a the Service Period.

IN- Service 3 Incident degradation or outage of

INC- Operations Response service that corresponds to B. The total number of

07 Time a Priority 3 incident Priority 3 Incidents in the

definition, the incident must
be raised and the customer
informed within the specified
timeframe (30 minutes)

Note - on completion of the
Shared Services separation
this KPI will be split to

Service Period.

C. The percentage of Priority 3
Incidents correctly allocated to
the correct Resolver Group
(either supplier or customer)
within the specified timeframe.

24x7

Monthly

Extended
Support
Hours
08:00 -
20:00
Monday -
Friday
08:00 -
16:00
Saturday
— Sunday

Monthly

Page 140 of 193
represent colleague and
branch services separately

EUC- Time taken to fulfil a complete
INF- Infrastructure Disaster dine a teccircenae. or partial system restore from
DR- Recovery wocaien ry backup in line with the defined
o1 RPO
im Disaster The restoration of services Time taken to restore a system
DR- Infrastructure Recover during a disaster recovery to a disaster recovery status in
02 "y invocation line with the defined RTO
C= (AlB)*100
\ A. The number of expected
Fee cope ices that I Backups completed within 24
oe Infrastructure Back up require a scheduled Backup hhours:ol, schedule)
Services scheduled backup are
BS-01 completed to specified B. The total number of
agreements expected backups
C. Percentage of all expected
backups have been scheduled.
EUc- Number of Azure backup The number of expected
INF- Infrastructure Back up Services that either fail to backups specified in the
BS-03 Services backup or fail post checks requirements that during a
and test requirements reporting period that fail
Ineiivt ai The individual resilient Wintel
Euc- Shared The individual resilient
INF- Infrastructure I Service Wintel server pre-production oro bvel on aveLabity nase
SS-01 Technology I Availability ona 24 x7 basis
EUC- . The DR test plan upload into
Provide test plans 10
Infrastructure I DR testplans I Working Days before a ” Gaye pir to the, oaorelee
03 scheduled DR exercise start date

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 141 of 193
EUc- I The DR test report upload into
INF- Infrastructure I DR report Wore ‘Daye of ‘he BF the customer repository atleast
DR- " 5 days post the exercise start
exercise
04 date
EUC- The updated DR test plan
7 load into the customer
INF- Update quarterly Disaster up!
7 Infrastructure I DR test plans repository on every quarter
oe recovery plans and process from the service
commencement date

fable 17: EUC Key Performance Indicators

POL00337657
POL00337657

Page 142 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

8. TOOLING

This section provides information about the Post Office Colleague and Branch Tooling which
is used to support the End User Computing service and are in scope of the supplier
requirements of this agreement.

8.1 List of Tools

Tool Description

ServiceNow ITSM Toolset Post Office ServiceNow is to be used as the joint toolset
between Post Office, the supplier and other managed
service providers used by Post Office.

Branch Hub Portal A ServiceNow driven IT Self-service interfaces for
branches.

Web3 Purchase-to-Pay Purchase-to-Pay e-sourcing solution used by Post Office.

CMDB Feed Asystems integration between the supplier CMDB to Post
Office CMDB.

Monitoring feed(s) A feed of monitoring events to the Post Office Splunk
monitoring collector.

Security log shipping A SIEM feed of security logs and events to the Post Office
SIEM collector.

Table 18: List of Tools
8.1.1 ServiceNow

The Post Office Service Management team perform the role of Service Integrator and
orchestrate services between themselves and third-party suppliers, with their IT Service
Management tool of choice, ServiceNow.

For EUC services the primary Service Management processes that are used in the
ServiceNow toolset include, but are not limited to:

e Incident Management - for the assignment and escalation of support tickets for
user issues and break fix.

« Change Management - to ensure that changes with the Post Office IT ecosystem
are managed and controlled.

« Problem Management — to investigate the root cause of user's issues and provide
fixes and work arounds.

« Request Management - the fulfilment of user's requests for services that have been
raised via the Self-Service portal.

e Configuration Management — hardware and software asset management and
appropriate status accounting.

It should be worth noting that there are other modules within ServiceNow that are used by
Post Office that are outside of the scope of EUC services such as Customer Service
Management (CSM) which is used for Post Offices own case management for Branch.

ServiceNow also provides a Self-Service portal showing the status of services as well as the
ability for a user to:

e Report an Issue

e Initiate ‘chat’ with a member of the Post Office Service Desk

« Access the Service Catalogue to request services

e Find Answers, by browsing the knowledge base

Page 143 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The new EUC supplier will use the Post Office ServiceNow toolset directly as well as using
the new Field Service module in the delivery of their services, which will:

e Remove the need for complex integrations between toolsets

« Ensures that Post Offices processes are adhered too

e Simplifies reporting

e Provides clarity and visibility to all parties

e Standardises data formats and naming conventions

The EUC Suppliers should refer to the following onboarding guide:
Appendix A: Ref Doc- 010 EUC ServiceNow Supplier Onboarding Guide

8.1.2 Branch Hub Portal

The Post Office originally relied on traditional channels for the interactions between its
Branch network and Back Office functions. Branch Hub was initiated to deliver a new digital
self-service channel on the ServiceNow platform accessed by Branches through a web
browser.

The aim of Branch Hub is to provide a central point of information and services which help
Postmasters to manage and run their businesses more efficiently and conveniently. Through
Branch Hub we simplify, speed up and bring consistency to some of our day-to-

day processes.

It is intended to make it more convenient and easier for Postmasters and their teams to
complete tasks, process orders, and receive updates from the business. We've listened and
responded to feedback from Post Offices and are invested in this new technology

to help make it easier for Postmasters. As customer's’ needs are changing all the time, we
need to make sure we continue to exceed expectations by introducing additional new
convenient ways to speed up and streamline processes for Postmasters, freeing up their
time to run their business more efficiently and delivering great customer-service.

Branch Hub was launched in April 2020 to support Post Office’s response to the COVID 19
pandemic, including functionality to change of branch hours, agent remuneration and PPE
ordering. This drove adoption to surpass 9,400 End Users by July 2020. The delivery of
further features Planned orders, Stock and Coin ordering, has been rolled out since the
summer and is being adopted by branches on an ongoing basis. Today there are 9,325
branches and 12,493 End Users using the system. These features, once adopted by
branches on the Branch Hub platform, are then decommissioned on the Horizon Point of
Sale system.

Currently the business is revisiting the vision and future roadmap of product deliverables.
Therefore, any Collateral relating to End User Branch devices e.g., Knowledge Articles,
incidents, requests, FAQs etc. related to Branch Kit will need to be actioned and maintained
by the Supplier.

8.1.3 Web3 Purchase-to-Pay

Web3 is the Post Office e-sourcing solution, used for all purchase-to-pay capabilities with all
Suppliers of the Post Office. Web3 allows the Post Office to:

« Run tenders

e Manage contracts

Page 144 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

e Raise Requisitions / Purchase Orders
e Process and manage invoices
e¢ Track spend against contracts

8.1.4 CMDB Feed

The purpose of a CMDB is to provide accurate and reliable information about Post Office
digital services and the infrastructure that supports them. The CMDB is used by Post Office
teams to identify out what's wrong and get our services back up and running quickly,
correctly allocate incidents, and to track and control operational change.

The CMDB is delivered via the ServiceNow platform and is configured to show infrastructure
relationships, service topologies, change histories, software versions and more. Cl classes
are arranged in a class hierarchy, with each subclass extending the attributes of its parent
class. Within the Post Office we typically use three tiers with a business service supports a
business capability, such as our point of sale capability, and is consumed by business users.
Business services are typically underpinned by one or more application services like the
point of sale application. Lastly a technical service is a technical capability that underpins
one or more application services, for instance the hardware used to on the counter to deliver
the services.

Understanding the relationship between service Cls and supporting infrastructure Cls is
critically important. For instance, it helps Post Office support teams to diagnose the root
cause of service issues. A service map in the CMDB captures these relationships, showing
which Cls support the service and how they are related to other Cls to quickly resolve fault
paths and assess impact.

The Post Office CMDB is populated via integrations with our key suppliers to create a holistic
view of our end to end services, distribution of assets, relationship and attributes. The EUC
Supplier will (as per the requirements) integrate into the Post Office CMDB ensuring the
integrity of Business Services and business context. The EUC Supplier Configuration
Management service will support the Post Office on its service-oriented approach to IT
management.

8.1.5 Security

Summary for Security Operations Integrations to 3 parties:

Collecting logs or notable events is in the scope across all scenarios. Our preferred method
is to allow digest and correlation of all security logs in the native environment, such as Azure
Security Centre. Notable events are then collected via an API in to our SIEM platform. On
scenarios where API is not possible, we would require integration through Universal
Forwarders.

Incident response:
Post Office SOC will be integrated to any and all cyber incidents with 3° parties from a

second line of defence perspective. Access Management, PAM, MIM Incidents shall be fully
integrated with Post Office SOC with the ability for SOC to respond efficiently.

Event collection for enterprise analysis:
All devices, (PC’s, Servers, network devices, AV’s, etc) report security-critical events to audit
and monitor services in line with Post Office IT Security operations coverage requirements.
e Service providers shall maintain logs of all key events (including but not limited to
audit logs, security logs and other security events), coverage in line with industry
standards and frameworks such as MITRE ATT&CK framework.

Page 145 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Effective and efficient integration of all security logs must be digestible at source by
native security capabilities, such as Azure Security Centre, AWS Sec Hub. These
logs then must be available to be transferred to a single pane of glass SIEM platform.

SOC usable space, sandbox and permissions:

Post Office SOC must have correct level of permissions to conduct their duties
effectively in line with Access Management business policies and need to know
privileges

Necessary workspace on cloud systems is necessary to conduct tests, labs or
sandbox analysis.

Correct level access must be provided to all SOC tool integrations with necessary
components of the platform to enable automation, through Threat Intel ingest,
ServiceNow SecOps incident response workflow, SOAR functions.

Flexibility must exist to accommodate and assist with other SOC requirements, so to
satisfy risk averse appetite for Post Office, in particular where new techniques evolve
to improve security.

Page 146 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

9. IMPLEMENTATION
9.1 Implementation Overview

Implementation is the period of time when the EUC Supplier will build, test and implement its
solution and perform all the activities necessary to replace the existing services.

The Implementation period starts on the date of contract commencement and ends when the
final Implementation milestone has been achieved and signed off by Post Office. At this
stage the Run services will be delivered by the EUC.

9.2 Implementation Objectives

During the Implementation period the Supplier should always ensure that:

e They endeavour to minimise disruption or degradation of any existing production
services.

e Ensure that services are tested, validated & approved as per to the project test
strategy, prior to being moved into live service.

e Adhere to Post Offices service transition management process so that services can
be cut over at agreed points of time that align to the Implementation plan and
Milestone dates.

e Minimise Implementation costs to Post Office where appropriate to do so.

e Engage in building a collaborate relationship with Post Office and other suppliers for
the duration of the Implementation and continue to do so after Implementation.

9.3 Implementation Principles

The EUC Supplier shall perform all agreed activities to be in a position to be able to deliver
Services. Successful Implementation is dependent upon co-operation with all parties,
including Post Office and other suppliers, and that the EUC Supplier shall comply with this
approach.

Individuals with appropriate skills and experience shall be provided by the EUC Supplier for
the project management and delivery of the Implementation.

Implementation plans, designs and documentation shall be created and maintained by the
EUC Supplier throughout the life cycle of the Implementation and be made available to any
party where required.

9.4 Implementation Services

The Implementation lifecycle shall comprise of four distinct phases and the EUC Supplier
should base their plans accordingly:

« Phase 1 - Initiation

e Phase 2 - Design

e Phase 3 - Build, test & deliver

e Phase 4 - Acceptance

The Implementation shall be delivered by the EUC Supplier by a series of projects or
workstreams. Each project shall have a supplier project manager, unless agreed otherwise
with Post Office. During the Implementation, the EUC Supplier shall:
e Implement its solution in such a way that it meets Milestone dates and acceptance
criteria.
e Deliver services post service commencement date which meets the agreed service
levels and KPIs
¢ Co-operate with all third parties whose services are relevant to the implementation.

Page 147 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

e During the implementation be compliant to all Post Office security policies and
standards.
« Communicate to Post Office as quickly as possible should:
co The supplier believe that they will miss an agreed Milestone date or
deliverable.
o Adependency cannot be achieved by a supplier or itself.
o Any other risk be identified that will prevent the delivery of a Milestone to the
agreed timelines.
e An Implementation table that lists all Milestones & Milestone payments can be found
in the order form.
« The EUC Supplier Implementation plan shall incorporate all Milestones that are listed
in the Implementation table.

9.5 Implementation Delivery Approach

Progress of the EUC Supplier during Implementation shall be measured against the
Milestones incorporated in the Implementation Plan.

9.6 Implementation & Integration

The EUC Supplier shall accept that detailed planning is essential for the successful
Implementation of services. Within the Implementation Plans, the EUC Supplier shall
incorporate Milestones and their dates and their proposed implementation dates for the
following:

¢ The Milestones that are listed in the Milestone Table.
Testing period and expected completion of testing.
Any end user training and deployment activities.
Listing of the detailed activities that will need to occur to achieve each Milestone.
ARACI for all parties involved in the Implementation.
Any dependencies that have been identified.
The output of an impact assessment of any other projects or changes that are
occurring in the Post Office landscape during the Implementation time frame.

9.7 Service Operation

Prior to Service Commencement, the EUC Supplier will need to ensure that an organization
is in place to deliver the new Services and as a minimum should include:

e Role descriptions and RACI.

«The appropriate recruitment and staffing of resource to deliver Service.

« Process, procedures and tooling, including their validation and assurance.

During the Implementation period the EUC Supplier will need to stand up the process and
capabilities in order for them to deliver Services. This should include as a minimum:
e The processes for billing and invoicing as well as any other financial management
process that are required.
e Plans for staff, including any rosters and rotas to cover extended days or weekend
shifts.
e Reporting, for service levels, assets, etc.
« Confirming access to Post Offices physical locations and sites
e Time sheeting capability so that effort on a time and material basis can be recorded
correctly.
e Securing the various technical accounts and delegation of authority roles that are
required to access Post Office IT systems.

Page 148 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

9.8 Change

During the Implementation period, the Supplier shall observe the services that are being
delivered other suppliers and confirm to Post Office as soon as possible if any changes to
these services by any supplier during the Implementation period will have an impact on the
EUC Supplier to meet any of their Milestone commitments. Should this occur, then the EUC
Supplier shall provide Post Office with an impact assessment.

9.9 Process & Procedures

The EUC Supplier will collaborate with Post Office, other suppliers and any third parties in
the agreement and creation of the processes and procedures that will be used to deliver
Services. These will then be implemented and operated in alignment with Post Office s
policies and standards.

Delivery, management and reporting of services by the EUC Supplier shall be facilitated via
the agreed processes and procedures and this shall include as a minimum:
e End to end operating models that identify who is responsible for each element of the
service including support and management as well as the technical aspects.
« The demarcation points and end to end process between the EUC Supplier and other
third parties.
« Reporting mechanisms, to measure performance against agreed Service Levels.

Post Office will expect to review the processes and procedures and to approve them. The
EUC Supplier shall also work with any third party on their processes and procedures that will
become impacted or require amendment as a result of the Implementation of the Services.
Within the Implementation Plan, the EUC Supplier shall ensure enough time has been
allocated for the creation, review and approval cycle for all of these processes and
procedures.

9.10 Security

A Security Management Plan shall be developed by the EUC Supplier and provided to Post
Office for review and approval 20 working days following contract signature. Should the EUC.
Supplier identify any risks that a service could be impacted as a result of Implementation,
then the EUC Supplier shall provide a plan to manage these risks and update the Security
Management Plan as appropriate. Detailed requirements for the Security Management Plan
can be found in RM3804-Alternative-and-additional-tc-v4, Schedule E Security
Requirements.

9.11. Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery

Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery Plans shall be developed by the EUC Supplier and
provided to Post Office for review and approval 20 working days following contract signature.
Post Office is in the process of migrating EUC infrastructure to the Post Office Azure
environment and is reviewing the recovery targets for the services included. These Recovery
Point Objectives (RPO) and Recovery Time Objectives (RTO) will be provided to the EUC
Supplier at contract signature.

Detailed requirements for the Business Continuity & Recovery Plans can be found in
RM3804-Alternative-and-additional-tc-v4, Schedule B1 Business Continuity And
Disaster Recovery.

9.12 Transition of Staff (Relevant Transfers)

Within the Implementation Plan, where required the Supplier shall include all activities
related to any staff transfer (Relevant Transfers) including staff consultations,

Page 149 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

communications etc, and shall conduct the transfer pursuant to the requirements of
RM3804-Alternative-and-additional-tc-v4, Part B of Call Off Schedule A3 (Staff
Transfer).

Further details of the scope of staff at risk can be found in the Appendix A document Ref
Doc-011-Tupe List v1. The document is password protected and will be provided to
suppliers responding to the tender.

9.13 Business Communications

During the Implementation the EUC Suppler will collaborate with Post Office in the creation
of a strategy and plan to communicate to the business user community. Any
communication materials that are required shall be created by the EUC Supplier in
conjunction with Post Office and must approved by Post Office prior to any publication.

9.14 Implementation Governance
To ensure there is governance and transparency between all parties during the

Implementation the following governance meetings and boards shall be scheduled with the
expectation that all invitees will be present and attend.

Meeting Frequency Purpose Attendees
To review: e Post Office EUC
e Progress of Supplier
Implementation via a
EUC 7 status report.
Implementation Weekly C 3 ‘
Status urrent risks and issues.
«Any blockers or items that
need to be escalated to
the program board.
Allows all parties to provide e Post Office EUC
the status of the Supplier
EUC Supplier implementation via in status Ie Other suppliers
Implementation Fortnightly I Port in a co’aborative as required

manner, to review progress
of the implementation and
any current dependencies
between suppliers.

Board

Table 19: Governance meetings

In addition to these tabled governance meetings there may be additional requirements for
other ad-hoc meetings based on demand such as daily stand ups.

9.15 Reporting

The EUC Supplier during Implementation shall provide Post Office updates on its progress
or lack of progress at regular frequencies and outlined in the Implementation Plan. The
report shall show progress made each Milestone as well as showing the progress towards
the completion of Implementation.

9.16 Supplier Implementation Team

Suitability qualified and experienced personnel shall be appointed by the supplier to manage
and deliver the Implementation, most likely to include:
e Implementation Director, overall responsibility for the delivery of the Implementation
by the Supplier.

Page 150 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

e Implementation Manager(s), responsible for the day to day management of the
Implementation.
« Workstream Managers, responsible for the detailed planning and execution of

activities for their workstream.
9.17 Document Deliverables

The following document deliverables are required as a minimum for Service Implementation.

DELIVERABLE DESCRIPTION DELIVERY
A i} Contract
7 The artefacts that are required to kick off and
High Level Plan initiate the Implementation project that is aligned Commencement
PID & RAID +20 working
to industry standard project methodology. days
Contract
Solution The overview of the Supplier's solution and what I Commencement
Overview it will deliver. +20 working
days
Securit Outlining how the supplier will aim to ensure that I Contract
Mana © ent all aspects of the service that they are delivering, I Commencement
Plan 9 and associated processes comply with Post +20 working
Office Security Policies. days
ae A . sits Contract
Describing the practise of testing within the
vest implementation consistent with the Post Office ommencement
‘gy Test Policy & any relevant supplier Test Policies. days g
P Contract
an ments To ensure that the requirements specific to the Commencement
fr tadalares Implementation are formally captured. +20 working
Specification days
Describing how the supplier will restore services Contract
BCDR Plan in the event of a disaster and the activities Commencement
required to support business process in providing I +20 working
business continuity. days
iE saith Contract
' Describing the activities, standards, tools and
Guality processes necessary to achieve the quality in the Commencement
delivery of the implementation. d g
jays
" Contract
aril A matrix for managing deliverables and their Commencement
phases throughout the delivery of the project. +20 working
Document days
Contract
Level 4 Detailed plan that shows resources assigned and I Commencement
Detailed Plan detailed work activity. +20 working
days
Contract
poe rioeraielameni . . . Commencement
Validation Factual baselines for capacity planning +60 ki
Assessment working
days
As per the
Test Report A summary of all testing activities and final test agreed date in
(Colleague) results for Colleague EUC services. the Level 4
Detailed Plan

Page 151 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

As per the
Test Report A summary of all testing activities and final test agreed date in
(Branch) results for Branch EUC services. the Level 4

Detailed Plan
Detailed Cut Containing the appropriate run books, scheduling As per the in
Over Plan and resourcing for cutting over EUC services for to Level 4
(Colleague) Colleague. Detailed Plan
Detailed Cut Containing the appropriate run books, scheduling As per the in
Over Plan and resourcing for cutting over EUC services for 9

the Level 4
(Branch) Branch. Detailed Plan

As per the
Project Closure I Report to confirm that all objectives and agreed date in
Report deliverables have been met and handed over. the Level 4

Detailed Plan

Table 20: List of Document deliverables

Product Description: Document Deliverable Matrix

Product Description

Title of Deliverable Documentary Deliverable Matrix (DDM)

Purpose of Deliverable The EUC Supplier shall develop a complete list of document

deliverables for the Implementation, mapped onto the project

lifecycle/plan and as required to support project delivery. There are four

primary uses of the document:

= To ensure that all deliverables required to support the delivery of the
Implementation, as defined in the PID, are identified and agreed
with all stakeholders

= To act as a base document against which the project can assess
progress of agreed deliverables as they are mapped to the delivery
lifecycle

«To determine the ownership of and level of assurance required to
each product identified in the DDM

«To validate at project closure that deliverables have been delivered

Scope of Deliverable The identified delivery Project

Format & Presentation of I MS Excel

Deliverable
Composition of The EUC Supplier shall provide a DDM that identifies all deliverables
Deliverable required to support the delivery of the Implementation. This will be

produced in the same format as the master DDM template retained by
the Post Office.

The master DDM lists all products that could be required at each stage
of the delivery lifecycle. The EUC Supplier shall work with Post Office
to determine which of the products listed are required for the
Implementation, who will produce them and agree with Post Office the
points at which documentation will be required and assurance levels i.e.
is the document approved by Post Office.

The DDM shall include the following information:

= Owner

= Document Category

= Document Name

= Identify Management or Specialist Product

Page 152 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

= Required Y/N

= Delivery Status (RAG)

= Document treatment and Lifecycle Status mapped across Post
Office Lifecycle

Derivation of Deliverable I The Implementation specific DDM will be derived from:

= Post Office - Master DDM

= Post Office specified control requirements

.

Additional information gathered during Project Initiation Stage
Project management standards

= Post Office s specified control requirements

Allocated to Owned by the EUC Supplier and Post Office EUC Implementation

Project Manager

Created by the EUC Supplier

Quality Criteria for The DDM must ensure that it:

Deliverable = Identifies all document deliverables required throughout the

Lifecycle of the Implementation

Captures all Specialist products identified to complete the Project

Includes Management products

Reflects the deliverables identified in the schedules

Complies with the Product Description.

Represents an accurate and complete record of the project baseline

Quality checked by the Post Office Programme as appropriate

e Approved by the relevant project board identified in the
Governance structure prior to submission to the Phase 1 —
Initiation gate review

e Approved by the Post Office PMO as part of the pre-Phase 1 —
Initiation pre gate health check review

Quality Method

People or skills required I Reviewers

= Post Office EUC Implementation Project Manager

= Post Office Service Design Lead

= Post Office Architecture Lead

= Post Office EUC Re-procurement Programme Manager

= Other suppliers (as required)

Approval

= Post Office Programme representatives, dependent on the
stakeholders identified in the PID

For info to

= Stakeholders

= Team Members

First Draft Delivery Date I Within 20 working days of project notification.
for Deliverable

Planned Successful I As per The Implementation
Approval Date for
Deliverable

Table 21: Documentary Deliverable Matrix (DDM) Produce Description

Product Description: Level 4 Project Plan

Product Description

Title of Deliverable _I Level 4 Project Plan

Page 153 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657
Purpose of The EUC Supplier shall develop a complete set of Level 4 project plans for
Deliverable the Implementation which will contain the full set of activities required by a

function within the project team structure e.g. architecture.

The Level 4 plan is produced during the initiation phase of the project and
should, collectively, form the end to end timeframe and activities required to
deliver the project as defined in the PID.

There are three main objectives of the Level 4 plan:

= To ensure that all elements of the Implementation as defined in the PID
and associated deliverables as agreed in the DDM have been planned,
resourced and can be delivered within the agreed project timeframes

= To act as a baseline document against which the project team can assess
progress of the Implementation

= To ensure that any dependencies, whether they are external to the
Implementation or internal between function groups, have been captured
in the baseline plans agreed at the Phase 1 — Initiation gate

Scope of Deliverable I Implementation

Format & MS Project 2010

Presentation of

Deliverable

Composition of The EUC Supplier shall provide a Level 4 plan that specifies all activities,
Deliverable dependencies, resource, effort and outputs required from the EUC Supplier,

others suppliers and Post Office in order to achieve project milestones.

The Level 4 plan will be produced in the same format as the template retained
by Post Office to ensure that the Level 4 plan can be integrated by Post Office
and the EUC Supplier into an end to end Implementation plan.

e Timeframes, activities, resource, effort and dependencies identified in
the Level 4 plan will be baselined at the Phase 1 — Initiation Gate
review. Once the Implementation is in the execution phase, the
baseline will be retained, and the Level 4 plan should show the
forecast dates at all times.

Changes required to the Level 4 plan following agreed baseline will be
implemented in line with the governance structure as described in the change
control process in the schedules.

Derivation of The Implementation specific Level 4 plan will be derived from:
Deliverable = Post Office Framework Requirements
= _EUC Supplier responses
= Other suppliers
= Post Office specified control requirements
= Additional information gathered during Project Initiation Stage
.

Project management standards
= Post Office s specified control requirements

Allocated to Owned by the EUC Supplier and Post Office EUC Service Implementation
Project Manager
Created by the EUC Supplier

Quality Criteria for I The Level 4 plan must ensure that it:

Deliverable = Identifies all document deliverables required throughout the Lifecycle of
the Implementation

= Identifies all resource, effort, duration required throughout the lifecycle of
the Implementation

= Captures all Implementation specific products

= Includes all delivery dependencies

Page 154 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Reflects the deliverables identified in the schedules
Complies with the Product Description.
Represents an accurate and complete record of the project baseline

Quality Method

Quality checked by the Post Office Programme as appropriate

Approved by the relevant project board identified in the Governance
structure prior to submission to the Phase 1 — Initiation Gate review

= Approved by the Post Office PMO as part of the pre-Phase 1 — Initiation
= Gate health check review

People or skills
required

Reviewers

= Post Office EUC Implementation Project Manager

= Post Office Service Design Lead

= Post Office Architecture Lead

= Post Office EUC Re-procurement Programme Manager

= Other suppliers (as required)

Approval

= Post Office Programme representatives, dependent on the stakeholders
identified in the PID

For info to

= Stakeholders

= Team Members

First Draft Delivery
Date for Deliverable

Within 20 working days of project notification.

Planned Successful
Approval Date for
Deliverable

As per the Implementation

Table 22: Level 4 Project Plan Product Description

Asset & Volume Validation Assessment

Product Description

Title of Deliverable

Asset & Volume Validation Assessment

Purpose of
Deliverable

The purpose of the Asset & Volume Validation Assessment is to present to
Post Office for Approval, actual, historical and or assumed volumetric data to
form the volume baselines as relevant to each service.

These Asset & Volume data shall form the Asset & Volume baselines as
relevant to each Service assumed at the Service Commencement Date.
The Asset & Volume baseline data shall be used to update the base data for
the EUC Supplier’s capacity plan

Scope of Deliverable

Implementation

Format &
Presentation of

The Volume Baselines are to be:
« Presented in an electronic format to be agreed with the Post Office

Deliverable « Version Controlled.
Composition of The Asset & Volume baseline data shall include, but not be limited to:
Deliverable e¢ Numbers of users.

e types of users.

e Number of devices, including, but not limited to, PCs, laptops, tablets,
printers, monitors and other peripherals.

¢ Instances of software installed.

¢ Number of software licences.

e Infrastructure components,
appliances

e Application components, including servers, storage

including servers, storage, network

Page 155 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Derivation of

The Asset & Volume Baselines shall be derived from (where required to

Deliverable provide comprehensive information):
= Current Asset Inventories.
* Site Audits.
= Investigative Tools.
= Asset Registers;
Allocated to Owned by the EUC Supplier and Post Office EUC Service Implementation

Project Manager
Created by the EUC Supplier

Quality Criteria for
Deliverable

= Must conform, but not be limited, to the following:
o Post Office EUC Programme Quality Standards

= Must support (as a minimum) Industry standard methodology; i.e:
o ITIL; and
o PRINCE2 Project Management Methodology.

Quality Method

= Quality checked by the Post Office Programme as appropriate

= Delivered to the format specified

= Complies with the Product Description

= Content reflects the proposed approach described in the Suppliers’
Implementation Solution Descriptions and is in accordance with the
Implementation Requirements.

People or skills
required

Reviewers

= Post Office EUC Implementation Project Manager
= Post Office Service Design Lead

= Post Office Architecture Lead

= Post Office EUC Re-procurement Programme Manager
Approval

= Post Office Programme representatives

= Post Office Architecture Lead

For info to

= Stakeholders

= Team Members

First Draft Delivery
Date for Deliverable

Within 60 working days of project notification.

Planned Successful
Approval Date for
Deliverable

As per the Implementation

Table 23: Asset and Volume Validation Assessment Product Description

Product Description: PID

Product Description

Title of Deliverable

Project Initiation Document

Purpose of
Deliverable

The Project Initiation Document (PID) defines all major aspects of the
Implementation and forms the basis for its management and the assessment
of overall success. It forms the ‘contract’ between the Implementation Team
and corporate or programme management.

The PID is produced during the initiation stage of the Implementation and
should be read in conjunction with the Solution Overview, produced at the
same time, which describes the overall solution to be delivered.

There are three primary uses of the document:

Page 156 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

= To ensure that the Implementation has a complete and sound basis for
proceeding before there is any major resource commitment to the
Implementation

= To act as a base document against which the Project can assess
progress, change management issues, and ongoing viability questions.

= Provide a single source of reference about the Implementation so that
people joining the ‘temporary organisation’ can quickly and easily find out
what the Implementation is about, and how it is being managed.

Scope of Deliverable I Implementation

Format & It is expected that all PIDs will be produced in OpenDocument format, PDF,
Presentation of or, as an exception, DOCX where particular features are unsupported
Deliverable

Composition of The EUC Supplier shall provide a PID that defines the Implementation within
Deliverable the Post Office EUC Re-procurement Programme.

The PID includes all of the planning components that address scope, budget,
schedule, quality, configuration management, risks, issues and performance
monitoring.

The PID shall include the following Sections:
DOCUMENTATION CONTROL

= Version Control

= Reviewers

= Approvals
= Referenced Documents
INTRODUCTION

= Purpose of This Document

= Background

PROJECT DEFINITION

Project Overview

Project Objectives

Project Scope

Project Deliverables / Outcomes
Project Exclusions/Constraints/Interfaces
PROJECT APPROACH

= Delivery Overview

= Solution Overview

* Critical Success Factors
PROJECT RISKS

PROJECT TIMEFRAMES,

PROJECT ORGANISATION

= Overview

= Project Organisation Structure

= Project Roles and Responsibilities
PROJECT COMMUNICATIONS PLAN
= Overview

= Project Stakeholder Contact List

= Project Communication Matrix
PROJECT QUALITY PLAN

= Overview

= Purpose

= Acceptance Criteria

PROJECT PLAN

= Overview

= Plan Prerequisites

Page 157 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

= Project Dependencies

= Planning Assumptions

PROJECT MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES.
= Governance

= Project Controls

= Project Reporting

= Project Assurance

= Project Tolerances

ANNEXES

= Glossary
Derivation of Derivation of Deliverable. The PID will be derived from:
Deliverable = Post Office — Contract for the Provision of EUC services

= EUC Supplier Tender response

= Post Office specified control requirements

= Additional information gathered during Project Initiation Stage

= Project management standards

.

Post Offices specified control requirements
= Solution Overview

Allocated to Owned by the Supplier and Post Office EUC Implementation Project Manager
Created by the EUC Supplier

Quality Criteria for The PID must ensure that it:

Deliverable = Supports (as a minimum) Industry standard methodology; i.e., Prince 2,
MSP.

= Reflects the proposed approach described in the Solution Overview and

is in accordance with the Post Office requirements for the Project

Complies with the Product Description.

Represents an accurate and complete record of the Project baseline

Quality Method Quality checked by the Post Office Programme as appropriate

Approved by the relevant project board identified in the Governance
structure prior to submission to the Phase 1 — Initiation Gate review

= Approved by the Post Office PMO as part of the pre-Gate Phase 1 —

Initiation health check review

People or skills Reviewers
required = Post Office EUC Implementation Project Manager
= Post Office Service Design Lead
= Post Office Architecture Lead
= Post Office EUC Re-procurement Programme Manager
= Other suppliers (as required)
Approval

= Post Office Programme representatives, dependent on the stakeholders
identified in the PID

For info to:

= Stakeholders

= Team Members
= Other Suppliers

First Draft Delivery I Within 20 working days of project notification.
Date for Deliverable

Page 158 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Planned Successful
Approval Date for
Deliverable

As per the Implementation

Table 24: PID Product Descripti

Product Description: Project Requirements Specification

ion

Product Description

Title of Deliverable

Project Requirements Specification (PRS)

Purpose of
Deliverable

The Project Requirements Specification is produced during Feasibility or
Initiation stages of the Post Office ICT delivery lifecycle and is baselined
within the Initiation stage. Its purpose is to ensure that the requirements
specific to the Implementation project are formally captured; and are in a fit
state to take forward a business change initiative, a process re-engineering
activity or develop the technical design specification for an IT solution. The
Project Requirements Specification should be read in conjunction with the
Solution Overview.

Scope of Deliverable

This document should:

= State (via reference not repetition) the Call Off Schedule Service Levels,
Service Credits and Performance Monitoring Part A Service
Requirements that will be met by the Project

= Capture any constraints to the scope of applicability of the 2 Part A
Requirements (e.g. if the Project is a particular iteration aimed at only one
business area).

= Reference any Policies, Processes Procedures; architecture principles
and known issues that the Project is intended to satisfy / remediate.

= Capture any detailed business and service requirements that are needed
to supplement the Call Off Schedule Service Levels, Service Credits and
Performance Monitoring Part A Service Requirements.

= Capture any derived service requirements (e.g. non-functional
requirements, security requirements).

= The Project Requirements Specification will be a key artefact in
evidencing acceptance into service.

Format & Itis expected that all Project Requirements Specifications will be produced in
Presentation of OpenDocument format, PDF, or, as an exception, DOCX where particular
Deliverable features are unsupported.
Composition of = Introduction
Deliverable = Background

= Objective

= Scope

= Approach

= Constraints

« Business Process

Functional requirements — grouped by type/category as appropriate
Non-functional requirements — containing, as a minimum, the following
categories. Further categories will be dependent on the type of solution being
designed:

= Performance

Accessibility

Availability

Back up

Interoperability

Scalability

Capacity

Page 159 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

= Security
= Appendices (if applicable)
= Requirements Traceability Matrix

Derivation of

= Supplier Solution

Deliverable = Call Off Schedule Service Levels, Service Credits and Performance
Monitoring Part A (Service Requirements)
= Call Off Schedule Service Levels, Service Credits and Performance
Monitoring Part B (Service Performance Management)
Allocated to Owned by the EUC Supplier and Post Office EUC Implementation Project

Manager
Created by the EUC Supplier

Quality Criteria for
Deliverable

= Delivered to the format specified
= Alignment to the PID and Solution Overview
= Traceability to contracted (Schedule) requirements

People or skills
required

Reviewers

= Post Office EUC Implementation Project Manager

= Post Office Service Design Lead

= Post Office Architecture Lead

= Post Office EUC Re-procurement Programme Manager

Approval

= Post Office Programme representatives, dependent on the stakeholders
identified in the PID

For info to
= Post Office Programme

First Draft Delivery
Date for Deliverable

Within 20 working days of project notification.

Planned Successful
Approval Date for
Deliverable

As per the Implementation

Table 25: Project Requirements Specification (PRS) Product Description

Product Description: Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery Plan

Product Description

Title of Deliverable

Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery (BCDR)

Purpose of
Deliverable

The BCDR Plan shall detail the processes and activities which the EUC
Supplier shall follow to ensure continuity of the business operations and
process following any disruption or failure of any element of the EUC Services
and the recovery of EUC Services in the event of an actual disaster.

Scope of Deliverable

1

Format &
Presentation of
Deliverable

Itis expected that all Project Requirements Specifications will be produced in
OpenDocument format, PDF, or, as an exception, DOCX where particular
features are unsupported.

Composition of
Deliverable

= — Introduction
Background
Objective
Scope
Approach

Plan Invocation

Page 160 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657
= Communication
= Roles & Responsibilities
= Testing
= Critical Success Factors & Key Performance Indicators
= Regulatory Compliance
= Business Impact Assessment
= Process Objective & Scope
= High Level Process Descriptions
= _ITSCM Sub-process work instructions
= Detailed list of primary systems including RTP & RPO
Derivation of = EUC Service Description (Service Requirements)
Deliverable = Post Office Technical Reference Documentation
= RM3804-Alternative-and-additional-tc-v4, _ Schedule B1 Business
Continuity And Disaster Recovery
= Post Office BCDR/ITSC Plans & Policies (Note: With the migration of
EUC infrastructure to the Post Office Azure environment Post Office is
reviewing the BCDR/ITSC Plans and Policies, including Recovery Point
Objectives (RPO) and Recovery Time Objectives (RTO) for the EUC
Services. These documents will be provided to the EUC Supplier at
contract signature to input in to the required EUC Supplier Disaster
Recovery Plan).
Allocated to Owned by the EUC Supplier and Post Office EUC Implementation Project

Manager
Created by the EUC Supplier

Quality Criteria for
Deliverable

= Delivered to the format specified
= Alignment to the PID and Solution Overview
= Traceability to contracted (Schedule) requirements

People or skills
required

Reviewers

= Post Office EUC Implementation Project Manager

= Post Office Service Design Lead

= Post Office Architecture Lead

= Post Office EUC Re-procurement Programme Manager

Approval

= Post Office Programme representatives, dependent on the stakeholders
identified in the PID

First Draft Delivery
Date for Deliverable

Within 20 working days of project notification.

Planned Successful
Approval Date for
Deliverable

As per the Implementation

Table 26: Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plan Product Description

Product Description: Solution Overview

Product Description

Title of Deliverable

Solution Overview (SO)

Purpose of
Deliverable

The Solution Overview is produced during Feasibility or Initiation stages of
the Post Office ICT delivery lifecycle and is baselined within the Initiation
stage. Its purpose is to present a common understanding of the solution to
be delivered prior to entering the Design phase of the Project. It should be
read in conjunction with the PID, produced at the same time, which
describes the approach that will be taken to deliver the solution.

Page 161 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Scope of Deliverable I The Solution Overview will describe the solution at a conceptual and
logical level, addressing service design, architecture and information
assurance dimensions.

The scope will be constrained to provide an overview of the services
explicitly delivered by the delivery Project.

Format & It is expected that all Solution Overviews will be produced in

Presentation of OpenDocument format, PDF, or, as an exception, DOCX where particular
Deliverable features are unsupported.

Composition of All solution documentation should be properly titled, and version controlled.
Deliverable Composition of Deliverable. The Solution Overview shall include the

following Sections:

Introduction

. Purpose

. Scope

o Specific Inclusions

o Specific Exclusions

. Background

. Summary

Requirements

Business Requirements

Service Functional Requirements
Service Level Requirements
Service Operational and Management Requirements
Service Applicability

Service Contacts

Assumptions, Risks, Dependencies and Constraints
= Assumptions

= Risks

= Dependencies

= Constraints

Service Design and Topology

= Service Architecture

= Technology Architecture

= Security Architecture

Organisational Readiness

Service Lifecycle Plan

= Planning Requirements

= Implementation Considerations

= Refresh Requirements

= Service Decommissioning Requirements
Summary of Impact

Derivation of The Solution Overview is derived from the following:

Deliverable = _EUC Service Description (Service Requirements)
= Post Office Technical Reference Documentation

Allocated to Supplier

Quality Criteria for = Delivered to the format specified

Deliverable = Alignment to the PID

= Traceability to high level solution requirements

Quality Method

People or skills Reviewers
required = Post Office EUC Implementation Project Manager
= Post Office Service Design Lead
= Post Office Architecture Lead
= Post Office EUC Re-procurement Programme Manager
.

Other suppliers (as required)

Page 162 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Approval
= Post Office Programme representatives, dependent on the stakeholders
identified in the PID

For info to

"Stakeholders

= Team Members

First Draft Delivery Within 20 working days of Project Notification
Date for Deliverable
Planned Successful As per the Implementation
Approval Date for

Deliverable
Table 27: Solution Overview (SO) Product Description

9.18 Implementation Milestones

The table below outlines the milestones that shall be required to be achieved to complete the
implementation of EUC Services.

Payment Implementation Description
Milestone Milestone
1 1.1 Start Up & Due Diligence
1.2 Implementation Plan & PID Created & Approved By Post Office
2.1 Staff Transition TUPE to new Supplier- Branch (if required)
2.2 Knowledge Transfer, Documented & Completed — Branch
2 2.3 Service Management Work Instructions Created — Branch
2.4 Operational Acceptance Certification — Branch
2.5 EUC Service Implementation, Cutover & Go live — Branch
3.1 Staff Transition TUPE to new Supplier — Colleague (if required)
3 3.2 Knowledge Transfer, Documented & Completed- Colleague
3.3 Service Management Work Instructions Created — Colleague
3.4 EUC Service Implementation, Cutover & Go live — Colleague
4 41 Close — End of Early Life Support & Project Closure

Table 28: Implementation Milestones
9.19 Implementation Schedule

The table below outlines a typical implementation schedule showing activities in a predicated
sequence that will enable the end to end implementation of the Suppliers EUC Service.

2021
August September October November

Start Up & Due Diligence
High Level Plan, PID & RAID
Solution Overview

Security Management Plan

Test Strategy

Project Requirements Specification
BCDR Plan

Quality Plan

Deliverables Matrix Document
Level 4 Detailed Plan

Page 163 of 193
Staff Transition TUPE

POL00337657
POL00337657

Knowledge Transfer

Service Management Work
Instructions Created

Test Report

Detailed Cut Over Plan

Go live

Early Life Support

Operational Acceptance Certification

Project Closure Report

Implementation Complete

9.20 Acceptance Criteria

Each Milestone & deliverable shall have an Acceptance Criteria aligned to the Document
Deliverables. Acceptance Criteria shall outline the method and steps taken to achieve or
exceed the criteria. The types of Acceptance Criteria that shall be used include:

9.21

Document Deliverables have been reviewed and approved based on meeting their
quality criteria.

Confirmation and compliance of delivered services meeting the Project
Requirements.

Evidence of testing being successful based on meeting or exceeding agreed test
criteria.

Operational processes, procedures and tooling in place that will support and manage
the service.

Agreement that early life support is in place and is suitably skilled and resource.
Service operating procedures tested and in place.

All hardware and assets are in place to deliver the service and are fully operational.
All licenses and contracts with any third parties are in place.

Any work in progress has been identified and a plan and owner has been agreed to
complete to closure.

Testing

Project Test Strategy which forms part of the Documentable Deliverables shall be created by
the EUC Supplier within 20 working days of project notification. The EUC Supplier shall
agree to perform all testing to the standards set out in the Project Test Strategy. Within five
working days of the completion of Testing, the Supplier shall provide Post Office with the
completed Test Report which shall include:

Asynopsis of the Tests that were performed.

Confirmation as to which successful test criteria was met.

Confirmation as to which test criteria did not successful pass and an explanation from
the EUC Supplier on the cause of the test not meeting the test criteria.

Any tests that were not completed and an explanation from the EUC Supplier as to
why they were not achieved.

Should any Deliverables not meet its test criteria then the Supplier shall resolve the
root cause of the issue and retest the Deliverable.

Schedule RM3804-A1 further outlines details of testing requirements and standards.

Page 164 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

9.22 Change Freeze

The run up to Christmas is the busiest time of the year for Post Office. During this peak
period, IT systems are key to delivering a good customer experience and to support this,
Post Office implement a change freeze.

The change freeze is in place to protect Post Office during the peak period and to protect
against the additional risks associated with change at this time of the year:

Critical Business Period

Public holidays in close succession

Staff leave

Reduced availability of public transport

Increased use of applications, particularly those processing financial transactions
The end of one year and the start of a new one

To support business goals and protect the most important & critical services the change
freeze is typically phased, with an extended change freeze period for Branch related
technologies and a shorter change freeze for Back Office and Colleague related services
where there is no impact on Branch services.

For Branch Services, this change freeze is normally the last week prior to the end of
November through to the first week of January.

For Back Office / Colleague this change freeze is normally mid-December through to the first
week of January.

An example Change Freeze announcement for the Peak Christmas period 2020 is provided
in Appendix A - Doc-010-Change Freeze Example.

Therefore, it would not be expected that the EUC Supplier would look to Implement Services
during this period.

Page 165 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

10. TRANSFORMATION
10.1 Transformation Overview

Transformation refers to in-scope projects which the EUC Supplier will deliver during agreed
timescales within the EUC contractual milestones. Below are details of the in-scope project
requirements.

An indication of potential future projects are provided in Section 11 Post Office Future
Roadmap / Projects. Future projects beyond the in-scope requirements described in this
section will be specified through Project Services — “Request for Quotation” process as
defined in Section 6. If required, a change to the call of contract will be invoked through the
RM3804 — Call Off TC v6 — Schedule 5: Variation Form.

10.2 Phases of Transformation Project

Each project will be structured against the following key phases of the project lifecycle and
the EUC Supplier should base their plans accordingly:

« Phase 1 — Initiation

e Phase 2 — Design

e Phase 3 — Build, test & deliver
« Phase 4 — Acceptance

10.3 Project Governance

All projects in this Transformation section must comply with the appropriate requirement
defined for Project Services as defined in Section 6 (e.g. governance and reporting
requirements etc.)

10.4 Change Freeze

With reference to the previous section, 9.22 Change Freeze, related to Implementation,
suppliers should note the normal Peak Period change freeze periods and plan
implementation of projects around these restrictions.

An example Change Freeze announcement for the Peak Period 2020 is provided in
Appendix A - Doc-010-Change Freeze Example.

10.5 Colleague Windows 10 Upgrade Project
10.5.1 Windows 10 Upgrade Overview

With reference to sections 3.3 Colleague Userbase Overview and 4.5 Colleague
Technologies described above, the majority of the deployed devices in the Colleague
estate utilise Windows 8.1 as an operating system with the remainder operating on a pilot
Windows 10 build. These devices are predominantly out of warranty and end of service life.

The EUC Supplier will be required to adopt the Post Office Windows 10 build which has
been created in the Win 10 Pilot and will have been further developers in the Post Office’s
Windows 10 Build Pilot and Delivery Project (see below). The EUC Supplier will then finalise
this build to have full business application coverage.

Page 166 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The Windows 10 Build will need to support both of:
1. The existing legacy hardware within the estate.
2. New hardware which will be provisioned in stages throughout the contract (further
details below).

The EUC Supplier will use the completed Windows 10 build to deploy to existing Colleague
Devices (with the exception of a portion of device refreshes where a new device will also be
deployed as detailed below).

The EUC Supplier will then fully support and manage the corporate Windows 10 build,
utilising modern management technologies.

10.5.2 Post Office Windows 10 Build Pilot and Delivery Project

The Post Office has commenced an Autopilot Modern Management Windows 10 build pilot
for the migration of all devices & apps from Windows 8.1 to Windows 10 in the Colleague
estate. Currently there are 200 Windows 10 Surface Pro devices that are Azure AD joined
and are enrolled within Microsoft Endpoint Manager to enable the functionality for Post
Office to control the devices configuration and apply restrictions (See section 4.5.7 Windows
10 Design above for further details).

Following this pilot, the Post Office is due to commence a Windows 10 Build Pilot & Delivery
Project which will develop the Windows 10 build so that it contains/ can provision
approximately 80% of the required business applications.

This Windows 10 build will be used to provide 120 Disaster Recovery devices and further will
be used in a break-fix roll out / new starter rollout of the Windows 10 build to approximately
300 replacement Colleague devices.

By the point of Service Commencement of the EUC Services contract, the supplier should
assume the following status of Windows 10 rollout to the Post Office Colleague estate:

Device Models Numbers Operating System

Tablet (Pilot) Surface Pro 7 Pilot 200 Windows 10

Main Laptop New Standard 300 Windows 10
Laptop

Disaster Recovery I New Standard 120 Windows 10

Devices Laptop

Table 29: Assumed status of Windows 10 Roll Out at Service Commencement.

The EUC Supplier should therefore assume the following devices will be in scope of the
Windows 10 Upgrade Project (exact numbers to be confirmed during Windows 10 Upgrade
Project Discovery stage, with plans / costs amended as required:

Device Models Numbers Operating System
Main Desktops M79 SFF 591 Windows 8.1
Additional Desktops_I M79, M910, P510 8 Windows 8.1
Main Laptops Thinkpad T440s 1359 (1659-300) Windows 8.1
Additional Laptops T440, T450, T450s, I 200 Windows 8.1

T460s, T540p, T560,

T570

Total I 2158

Table 30: Colleague Windows 10 Upgrade Scope

10.5.3 Device Hardware Upgrade Provision

Page 167 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Due to financial profiling, a rolling upgrade of the Colleague legacy hardware will be
completed over the term of the contract. This will be based on the following assumed
volumes of devices made available for hardware upgrades:

Financial Year: April 2021 to March 2022 (FY21/22) 650
Financial Year: April 2022 to March 2023 (FY22/23) 650
Financial Year: April 2023 to March 2024 (FY23/24) 650
Financial Year: April 2024 to March 2025 (FY24/25) 650
Financial Year: April 2025 to March 2026 (FY25/26) 650
Total I 3,250

Table 31: Device Hardware Refresh Allocation

The EUC supplier should note Hardware device purchase is out of scope of the Win 10
Upgrade Project and the EUC Services Contract. These devices will be purchased by Post
Office via the CCS RM6060 Technology Products and Associated Services (TePAS)
framework (or other Post Office approved route /framework). The EUC Supplier may be
required to facilitate the transaction to purchase the required hardware via the TePAS/other
route acting as the Post Office Agent for this purchasing route.

The Supplier should further note that Post Office do not require options for ‘Device as a
Service’ solutions. The scope of the EUC Contract services requires the EUC Supplier to
deliver the device management /managed device services only.

10.5.4 Windows 10 Build Software Licenses and Costs

Bidders should note that Windows 10 operating system and Post Office Windows 10 build
software licenses and license costs are owned and purchased by Post Office and as such
bidders do not need to include these costs in their Windows 10 Upgrade Project bid
response.

Page 168 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

10.5.5 Colleague Role Personas

Consumers of Colleague IT Services can be broadly separated into seven Personas;

Branch Work« 7 = Third Parties Knowledge Workers

Figure 18: Consumer types - Colleague IT services

In terms of total numbers of each Persona, there are approximately:
« 990 Branch Workers

920 Knowledge Workers

880 Task Workers

380 Mobile Knowledge Workers

110 Roaming Workers

45 Digital Creators

10.5.6 Relationship with Shared Services Separation Project

The upgrade of the Colleague Win8.1 clients to Windows 10 is a key enabler of the
approach for the Shared Services Separation Project (defined below). Moving to Windows
10 allows the Colleague clients to be managed via the Modern Management technologies,
such as Win10 Autopilot, Microsoft Endpoint Manager (InTune), Azure AD etc.

To complete the full Shared Services Separation, the Colleague Windows 10 devices will
operate in a Cloud management solution, where no dependencies on the legacy Shared
Services components remain. For example, there may currently be application
authentications which require a connection to the legacy Active Directory, or
services/applications which require the Cisco VPN connectivity to operate. The Shared
Services Separation project is tasked with removing these legacy dependencies.

To allow the Colleague estate to be upgraded to Windows 10 at the earliest opportunity, it is
therefore acceptable for the Windows 10 Upgrade project design to rely on a ‘hybrid’ state
where for example the Windows 10 devices use Hybrid Azure AD join, and some
applications may require the Cisco VPN to operate.

As such suppliers may consider the Windows 10 Upgrade project to be a stepping-stone/
first stage towards Shared Services Separation.

10.5.7 Anticipated activities

Page 169 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

The following activities are key anticipated activities for the Colleague Win 10 upgrade, these
are provided to assist with defining the expected scope, plan and costs of the Colleague
Windows 10 Upgrade project. Suppliers should include these tasks and in addition use their
expertise to adjust these activities as required in forming the Win 10 Upgrade plan and
activities as required in their response to the EUC Services tender.

Project Activity Description
Lifecycle Stage

Start-up The EUC Supplier will complete the
required start-up activities to launch the
Win10 Upgrade project, engaging with the
requisite stakeholders within Post Office.
Discovery The EUC Supplier will complete a
discovery phase to ensure that the
assumptions and base information they
have built the plan and costs on are
validated, and to gather any additional
further details required.

Win 10 Plan & PID The EUC Supplier will create a Win10
Upgrade project plan with a full set of
activities required by function (e.g.
Architecture, Test etc) to allow the project
to be comprehensively managed and
monitored.

Initiation

The EUC Supplier will also create a Win10
Upgrade project PID (Project Initiation
Document). The PID will include all of the
planning components that address scope,
budget, schedule, quality, configuration
management, risks, issues and
performance/qualify monitoring.

Solution Overview (HLD) The EUC Supplier will create a Solution
Overview to present a common
understanding of the solution to be
delivered prior to entering the detailed
Design phase of the Project.

Page 170 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Design

Application Inventory &
Compatibility Assessment

The EUC Supplier will perform a Windows
10 compatibility assessment against in
scope set of applications. This assessment
will need to review the application
dependencies on legacy technologies
included in shared services and provide an
option for migrating the identified legacy
applications to Cloud equivalents, or
delivering the Win10 upgrade using a
hybrid model prior to the full separation
from the Shared Services infrastructure
components (e.g. Active Directory Hybrid
Join, use of VPN to connect to legacy
services etc).

As part of this, the design for the existing
Windows 10 Autopilot build should be
reviewed and updated to meet the
application integration requirements.

Application Rationalisation

The EUC Supplier will work with Post
Office IT and Post Office business
representatives to rationalise the list of
current applications to those required on
the new Windows 10 build.

Solution Design (LLD)

Update the build design with the IT,
InfoSec and Business requirements.

The updated design shall introduce a
Windows service model that is focused on
continually providing new capabilities and
updates while maintaining a high level of
hardware and software compatibility.

Test Strategy & Plan

The EUC Supplier will create a Test
Strategy and Plan for the Win10 Upgrade
project, Pursuant to the requirements of
RM3804-Alternative-and-additional-tc-v4,
Call Off Schedule A1 Testing.

Build test &
deliver

Application Migration

Migrate in-scope Windows 8.1 applications
and services to Windows 10 Modern
Management and use cloud native
applications where possible.

Build preparation

Integrate additional hardware devices into
Autopilot deployment e.g. legacy devices
such as T440 and newer laptop & desktop
models.

Testing and Operational
Acceptance

The EUC Supplier will perform the agreed
test strategy and plan for the Win10
Upgrade project, Pursuant to the
requirements of RM3804-Alternative-and-
additional-tc-v4, Call Off Schedule A1
Testing, including the provision of the
requisite test certification for approval by
Post Office.

Deployment

The EUC Supplier will deliver the
deployment of the Windows 10 build

Page 171 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

across all Colleague legacy devices as well
as the portion of device upgrades available
with the financial year restrictions
described above. The supplier will
coordinate the provision of new devices via
the agreed Post Office hardware
procurement route (e.g. CCS TePas
framework).

Acceptance

Project Closure Report On successful deployment of the Win10

upgrade project, the EUC Supplier will
produce a Project Closure Report for

review and approval by Post Office.

10.5.8 Milestones

Table 32: Windows 10 Project Anticipated Activities

Payment I Win 10 rade ony}
Milestone I" Milestone” I Description
5 5.1 Start Up
5.2 Win 10 Plan & PID
6 6.1 Discovery
6.2 Solution Overview
7 7.1 Application Remediation
7.2 Colleague Win 10 build Operational Acceptance
8 8.1 25 % Estate Migrated to Windows 10
9 9.1 50 % Estate Migrated to Windows 10
10 10.1 75 % Estate Migrated to Windows 10
11 11.1 100 % Estate Migrated to Windows 10
12 12.1 Project Closure Report

Table 33: Windows 10 Upgrade Project Milestones

10.5.9 Timescales for the Windows10 Upgrade Project

The EUC Supplier will provide the detailed plan and timescales for the Windows 10 Upgrade
project; however, the EUC Supplier should note the Post Office desire to achieve a
successful early rollout of Windows 10 across the Colleague devices.

Deadline requirement: The supplier will ensure the Windows 10 Upgrade migration is

complete no later than 12 months following completion of Implementation.

Page 172 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

10.6 Shared Services Separation Project
10.6.1 Shared Services Project Overview

With reference to section 4.2 Shared Services, Shared Services refers to back-end
infrastructure-based technologies and services that support both the Branch and Colleague
estates. Shared Services infrastructure includes Microsoft Endpoint Manager (Intune), Active
Directory and its associated technologies such as DNS and DHCP, SCCM and certificate
services.

Currently, Shared Services are managed as a single unit of infrastructure that serves both
the Branch and Colleague towers. This has previously caused several issues including the
fact that changes to one tower can impact the other. To minimise this, the EUC Supplier will
be required to work with Post Office to migrate the Colleague-related Shared Services toa
new and modern management technology solution, where all devices and applications are
managed and delivered through native cloud technologies, leaving the existing Shared
Services for the management of Branch counters and devices.

10.6.2 Shared Services Separation Approach (Phases)

This migration of Shared Services is broken into 3 key phases described in the diagram
below. Phase 1 is underway and will be complete prior to commencement of the EUC
Services contract. Phase 2 is the required phase described in this in-scope project. Phase 3
is a potential future phase focused on the Branch-related Shared Services.

Phase 1
Cloud IT Project
migrates
Legacy data
centre to Post
Office cloud
(underway)

POST OFFICE AZURE CLOUD

Phase 2 EUC

Supplier separates
Colleague from
Branch by
migrating (eee

Colleague to
modem
management

technologies
ot Phase 3 Potential Future

POL Programmes to

implement new branch

platform replacing the
legacy solution

Figure 19: Shared Services Approach Phases

Key principles of this phased approach are as follows:

1. The current /legacy Shared Services will be fully hosted in the Post Office Azure
Cloud prior to the commencement of the EUC Services contract.

2. The current EUC supplier will manage and support the Shared Services within the
Post Office Azure cloud through to contract commencement of the new EUC
Contract and completion of Implementation.

3. The EUC Supplier will then deliver the Shared Services Separation Project to migrate
the Colleague-related Shared Services to Modern Management Technologies.

Page 173 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

4. The migration of Colleague will be achieved through the upgrade of all Colleague
devices to Windows 10 (See Windows 10 Upgrade Project) and the removal of any
remaining dependencies on the legacy Shared Services infrastructure (e.g. any
application dependencies on legacy Active Directory for authentication, where this
will be moved to cloud-based / Azure AD authentication).

5. The approach of migrating Colleague away from the legacy Shared Services is
required rather than an approach where current legacy Shared Services are
‘duplicated’ to affect the separation of Colleague and Branch as this is anticipated to
represent significant and unnecessary ‘sunk’ costs.

6. The Branch services will remain on the legacy Shared Services infrastructure with
minimal change.

7. Changes to the Branch environment, especially client configuration changes or
updates must be minimised for the following reasons:

a. Any risk of accidental outage to Branch services must be minimised and
mitigated.

b. Change expenditure on the Branch services / Shared Services infrastructure
should be minimised since Phase 3 may result in a full deviation from the
current technologies used (i.e. this would represent wasted expenditure).

8. Key ‘house-keeping’ activities to clean-up residual Colleague configurations,
accounts, software packages etc from the remaining Legacy Shared Services used
to support Branch will be completed to ensure a well-managed, secure and efficient
environment.

10.6.3 Shared Services Components (current and target states)

The current shared services technologies are shown in the below figure.

Branch I Legacy shared Services Colleague

[BB Modern Management Technologies

Patch and S/W release

(= =»
Es Ea
ee See
(earch teem)
tent
means
etme
cts
wenn
cy

Es
as
I rege cuareg genet I
es
[ett tenc a cermeet I

Androld Tablet MOM
deny Tabet

—

Figure 20: Current State Shared Services Technology Components

It should be noted there is currently a deployment of circa 800 Identity Tablets in the Branch
estate which are dependent on the common Microsoft Endpoint Management (InTune)
solution which is also used for the Pilot Win10 devices. For a full technical separation of the

Page 174 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

two business areas, the EUC Supplier will be required to design the best (least impact)
solution to provide an independent Branch solution for these Identity Tablets.

Through the phased approach described above, the Shared Services Separation project
(and delivery of the Win10 Upgrade Project) will deliver the following high-level target
management state:

Branch Colleague

\ a Tr. I
eee

r

Vand Securtty tools
DB Services

Federation Services
(ADEs)

‘azure AD

‘Azure AD Connect

[NDES (cert)

‘ S X y

I Legacy shared Servces
IH Modem Management Technologies

Figure 21: Target State Branch Legacy Shared Services, and Colleague Modern Management Technology Components

10.6.4 Relationship with Win10 Upgrade Project

As described in the Windows 10 Upgrade project, there is an anticipated relationship
between the Windows 10 upgrade and the Shared Services Separation project. The upgrade
of Colleague devices to Windows 10 allows the Colleague clients to be managed via the
Modern Management technologies, such as Win10 Autopilot, Microsoft Endpoint Manager
(InTune), Azure AD etc. This removes some dependencies on the legacy Shared Services,
for example the use of SCCM for build and software/patch deployment is no longer required.

As described in the Windows 10 Upgrade Project section above, in order to complete the full
Shared Services Separation, the Colleague Windows 10 devices will operate in a Cloud
management solution, where no dependencies on the legacy Shared Services components
remain. For example, there may currently be application authentications which require a
connection to the legacy Active Directory, or services/applications which require the Cisco
VPN connectivity to operate. The Shared Services Separation project is tasked with
removing these legacy dependencies.

Suppliers should consider where there may be opportunities to combine the Windows 10
Upgrade project and Shared Services Separation projects activities and timelines, however
the preference is that this does not materially impact the timely delivery of a Windows 10
upgrade to the Colleague devices at the earliest opportunity.

Page 175 of 193
10.6.5 Anticipated activities

POL00337657

POL00337657

The following activities are key anticipated activities for the Shared Services Separation
Project, these are provided to assist with defining the expected scope, plan and costs of the
project. Suppliers should include these tasks and in addition use their expertise to adjust
these activities as required in forming the Shared Services Separation plan and activities as
required in their response to the EUC Services tender.

Project
Lifecycle Stage

Activity

Description

Initiation

Start-up

The EUC Supplier will complete the
required start-up activities to launch the
Shared Service Separation project,
engaging with the requisite stakeholders
within Post Office.

Discovery

The EUC Supplier will complete a
discovery phase to ensure that the
assumptions and base information they
have built the plan and costs on are
validated, and to gather any additional
further details required.

Shared Services
Separation Plan & PID

The EUC Supplier will create a Shared
Services Separation project plan with a
full set of activities required by function
(e.g. Architecture, Test etc) to allow the
project to be comprehensively managed
and monitored.

The EUC Supplier will also create a
Shared Services Separation project PID
(Project Initiation Document). The PID will
include all of the planning components
that address scope, budget, schedule,
quality, configuration management, risks,
issues and performance/qualify
monitoring.

Solution Overview (HLD)

The EUC Supplier will create a Solution
Overview to present a common
understanding of the solution to be
delivered prior to entering the detailed
Design phase of the Project.

Design

Infrastructure Assessment

The EUC Supplier will complete a detailed
infrastructure assessment to ascertain
dependencies and integrations of the
Colleague Windows 10 applications and
the legacy Shared Services solution (note
relationship with Win10 Upgrade project
‘Application Inventory & Compatibility
Assessment’ activity).

Solution Design (LLD)

Update the build design with the detailed
IT, InfoSec and Business requirements.

Test Strategy & Plan

The EUC Supplier will create a Test
Strategy and Plan for the Shared Services
Separation project, Pursuant to the

Page 176 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

requirements of RM3804-Alternative-and-
additional-tc-v4, Call Off Schedule A1
Testing. The Test Strategy and Plan will
pay particular attention to measures to
minimise any risk of service outage in the
Branch estate as a result of Shared
Service separation activities.

Build test &
deliver

Application integration
migration

The EUC Supplier will deliver application
changes and cloud-migrations as
necessary to remove Colleague
integration/dependencies on the legacy
Shared Service infrastructure.

Testing and Operational
Acceptance

The EUC Supplier will perform the agreed
test strategy and plan for the Shared
Services Separation project, Pursuant to
the requirements of RM3804-Alternative-
and-additional-tc-v4, Call Off Schedule A1
Testing, including the provision of the
requisite test certification for approval by
Post Office.

Legacy Shared Services
housekeeping

The EUC Supplier will complete required
housekeeping activities to remove legacy
Colleague configurations, accounts,
software packages etc from the Legacy
Shared Services infrastructure, leaving
only the Branch aspects for ongoing
management and maintenance.

Acceptance

Project Closure Report

On successful deployment of the Shared
Services Separation project, the EUC
Supplier will produce a Project Closure
Report for review and approval by Post
Office.

10.6.6 Milestones

Table 34: Shared Services Separation Project Anticipated Activities

Milgstone I Milestone I Description
13 13.1 Start Up
14 14.1 Discovery
14.2 Shared Services Plan & PID
15 15.1 High Level Design (HLD)
15.2 Low Level Design (LLD)
16 16.1 Colleague Infrastructure Services Cutover
17 17.1 Project Closure Report

Table 35: Shared Services Separation Project Milestones

10.6.7 Timescales for the Shared Services Separation Project

The EUC Supplier will provide the detailed plan and timescales for the Shared Services
Separation project; however, the supplier should note the Post Office desire to achieve a
successful early separation of the Colleague management services (utilising modern
management tools).

Page 177 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Deadline requirement: The supplier will ensure the Shared Services Separation is
complete no later than 18 months following completion of Implementation.

10.7 Analytics Project (Exercisable Option)
Post Office Limited would like suppliers to propose a project which will provide an Analytics

solution providing real-time Analytics for all in-scope End User Devices to gather and
monitor endpoint activity, network connectivity, and end-user experience.

This is project is an Exercisable Option which will be initiated at Post Office Limited’s
sole discretion during the EUC Services contract.

If this project is jated, the requirements detailed below in section 10.8.2 will be
incorporated into the Service Specification under Monitoring and Reporting (section 6
- Service Specification)

10.7.1 Analytics Project Overview

The Post Office Limited would like to gain visibility across the digital EUC environments and
explore strategies that will eliminate digital friction and power productivity for the remote,
hybrid, or on-site workforce.

The scope of this project is the Colleague estate only.

Via this Analytics Project, Post Office Limited would like the EUC Supplier to implement a
digital experience management solution, suitable for the Colleague environment, that
provides data-driven analytics and insight for continuous improvement and aids easy
identification of which resources are causing poor service quality.

The solution should help improve end-user experience and productivity through expanded IT
visibility, end-user experience scoring, self-help engagement, persona-based segmenting,
and other insights.

The solution should also take a more proactive approach to IT support by harnessing
artificial intelligence capabilities for quicker remediation, ITSM optimisation, automation, and
enabling the Post Office Service Desk — first line support.

The EUC Supplier will be required to implement an Analytics solution which can achieve the
following requirements:

Page 178 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-AN-01 The Supplier shall, enable the Customer with a real-time analytics solution
suitable for all in scope End User Devices to gather and monitor endpoint
activity, network connectivity, and end-user experience as the basis for
automating the remediation of service issues. The solution should have the
following capabilities (but not limited to):-

(a) capture Real-time User/digital Experience Telemetry (scoring etc.);

(b) capture Remote access and remote working experience;

(c) provide visibility of Network speed/latency and other network QOS
related issues;

(d) monitor and capture Application usage and metering;

(f) monitor and capture application and system errors and faults;

(g) provide customised dashboards based on the Customer’s requirements;
(h) monitor and capture device performance;

(i) provide event level visibility (Real-time); and

(j) integrate into Customer's ITSM solution and provide automated
remediation where applicable.

EUC-AN-02 The Supplier shall, use the analytics solution to provide Customer with
regular reports on End User experience and devices.

EUC-AN-03 The Supplier shall, use the analytics solution to provide proactive support to
the Customer to continuously identify and implement technical solutions to
common IT business challenges.

EUC-AN-04 The Supplier shall, use the analytics solution to deliver evidence-based
decision making to help with continuous improvement and problem/incident
management activities, which may include other solutions delivered by
other Suppliers.

EUC-AN-05 The Supplier shall, provide the Customer with read access to the analytics
solution and the ability to generate reports.

EUC-AN-06 The Supplier shall, work with the Customer to create dashboards/reports
and MI data as required, including project, Security and Business as Usual
work.

Table 36: Analytics Project Service Requirements

10.7.2 Anticipated activities

The following activities are key anticipated activities for the Analytics project, these are
provided to assist with defining the expected scope, plan and costs of the project. The
supplier should include these tasks and in addition use their expertise to adjust these
activities as required in forming plan and activities as required in their response to the EUC
Services tender.

Project Activity Description
Lifecycle Stage

Start-up The EUC Supplier will complete the
required start-up activities to launch the
Analytics project, engaging with the
requisite stakeholders within Post Office.
Discovery The EUC Supplier will complete a
discovery phase to ensure that the
assumptions and base information they
have built the plan and costs on are

Initiation

Page 179 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

validated, and to gather any additional
further details required.

Analytics Project Plan &
PID

The EUC Supplier will create an Analytics
Project plan with a full set of activities
required by function (e.g. Architecture,
Test etc) to allow the project to be
comprehensively managed and monitored.

The EUC Supplier will also create an
Analytics Project Upgrade project PID
(Project Initiation Document). The PID will
include all of the planning components that
address scope, budget, schedule, quality,
configuration management, risks, issues
and performance/qualify monitoring.

Solution Overview (HLD)

The EUC Supplier will create a Solution
Overview to present a common
understanding of the solution to be
delivered prior to entering the detailed
Design phase of the Project.

Design

Solution Design (LLD)

Update the build design with the IT,
InfoSec and Business requirements.

The LLD will provide all required technical
and support design details to allow
approval to move to the build and delivery
phase.

Test Strategy & Plan

The EUC Supplier will create a Test
Strategy and Plan for the Analytics Project,
Pursuant to the requirements of RM3804-
Alternative-and-additional-tc-v4, Call Off
Schedule A1 Testing.

Build test &
deliver

Build and Pilot

The designed solution will be built and
deployed to a pilot user/system base
where testing and confirmation of the
solution can be completed.

Deployment

The EUC Supplier will deliver the
deployment of the Analytics Project
solution, in-line with the agreed plan and
schedule.

Page 180 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

Testing and Operational
Acceptance

The EUC Supplier will perform the agreed
test strategy and plan for the Analytics
Project, Pursuant to the requirements of
RM3804-Alternative-and-additional-tc-v4,
Call Off Schedule A1 Testing, including the
provision of the requisite test certification
for approval by Post Office.

Acceptance Project Closure Report

On successful deployment of the Analytics
Project, the EUC Supplier will produce a
Project Closure Report for review and
approval by Post Office.

Table 37: Analytics Project Anticipated Activities

10.7.3 Analytics Project Software / License Costs

Where additional software / licenses are required, Bidders should include any costs
associated with software / licenses for the proposed solution as an uplift to the service
charges in the relevant section of the further Competition Attachment 3 EUC Financial
Evaluation Model. For clarity, this solution should be delivered as a managed service by the

EUC Supplier.

10.7.4 Milestones

Milgstone I Milestone I Description
Opt 1.1 Analytics Project Plan & PID
Opt 1 Opt 1.2 Solution Overview (HLD)
Opt 2 Opt 2.1 Solution Design (LLD)
Opt 2.2 Test Strategy & Plan
Opt 3 Opt 3.1 Build & Pilot
Opt 3.2 Deployment & Operational Acceptance
Opt 4 Opt 4.1 Project Closure Report

Table 38: Analytics Exercisable Option Project Milestones

10.8 Remote Device Management (Exercisable Option)

Post Office Limited would like suppliers to propose a project which will provide a Remote
Device Management solution providing the process(es) and system(s) to enable support
functions to access end point systems (Colleague Laptops/Desktops and Branch Point of
Sale devices) and perform resolution and maintenance activities.

This project is an Exercisable Option which will be ii

itiated at Post Office Limited’s

sole discretion during the EUC Services contract.

If this project is initiated, the requirements detailed below in section 10.8.2 will be
incorporated into the Service Specification under Service Operations (section 6 -
Service Specification)

Page 181 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

10.8.1 Remote Device Management Project Overview

Colleague Estate:

The Post Office Limited currently uses Microsoft SCCM in the Colleague environment to
provide IT support teams and administrators the capabilities to remotely control end-user
devices for troubleshooting. Owing to the SCCM'’s requirements for corporate network
connectivity, the support teams are currently unable to resolve issues relating to connectivity
and remote access.

To address the above, the EUC Supplier will be required to implement a Remote Device
Management solution for the Colleague environment, providing the process(es) and
system(s) to enable support functions to connect to and control End User devices from a
remote location via an internal network or the internet to resolve technical issues and
automate routine tasks.

Branch Estate:

Post Office currently does not have any remote desktop control capabilities in the Branch
environment and as a result, the support teams are unable to perform fixes which require
this type of solution remotely.

Within this project, the EUC supplier will be required to implement an audited process and
use Microsoft Windows’ native remote file and registry access capabilities for applying
manual fixes on Post Office Windows 10 LTSB Branch counters. It is important to mention
that full remote view and desktop takeover on Branch counters is not permitted and therefore
only file and registry access should be considered as part of the Branch Remote Device
Management solution.

The audited process mandates that the solution shall provide prominent notice and obtain
consent from the Branch user before a remote session begins. Also, the process should
record the name of the support engineer, the work that has been completed and the duration
of the remote connection.

10.8.2 Remote Device Management Requirements

The solution should deliver the following requirements:

Req ID Requirement Description

EUC-RSM- The Supplier shall, ensure that Supplier support agents have the ability to

01 remotely access an End Users Device, including Branch counters, and
resolve incidents whilst adhering to the Customer's Information Security
Standards.

EUC-RSM- The Supplier shall, ensure IT Security have the ability to remote access

02 EUC devices using appropriate controls for the investigation of High

Severity Security Threats to:

(a) extract critical analytic logs;

(b) isolate devices from the network, which includes automation tool device
takeover and isolation, during business hours and out of hours.

EUC-RSM- The Supplier shall, provide remote support capabilities as a default to

03 analyse, diagnose or fix Incidents to the maximum possible extent prior to or
instead ofa site visit.

EUC-RSM- The Supplier shall, where applicable and practical, facilitate video calls with
04 End Users to diagnose issues & avoid site visits.

Page 182 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

EUC-RSM- The Supplier shall, where possible, integrate all remote systems

05 management tools with the ITSM systems to allow first line fix and
remediation.

EUC-RSM- The Supplier shall, implement, use and provide access to the Customer,

06 tools that allow for automated and remote systems management and

monitoring of the equipment (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes
Infrastructure) and software.

EUC-RSM- The Supplier shall, ensure that any remote monitoring and takeover

07 activities are reported in real time of PAM via SIEM or ITSM integration,
tracked and audited, as agreed with the Customer and in line with Security
policies and processes.

EUC-RSM- The Supplier shall, log any changes which may have been made to
08 applications or data on branch counter, as agreed with the Customer.

Table 39: Remote Device Management Project Service Requirements

10.8.3 Anticipated activities

The following activities are key anticipated activities for the Remote Device Management

project, these are provided to assist with defining the expected scope, plan and costs of the
project. The supplier should include these tasks and in addition use their expertise to adjust
these activities as required in forming plan and activities as required in their response to the
EUC Services tender.

Project
Lifecycle Stage

Activity

Description

Initiation

Start-up

The EUC Supplier will complete the
required start-up activities to launch the
Remote Device Management Project,
engaging with the requisite stakeholders
within Post Office.

Discovery

The EUC Supplier will complete a
discovery phase to ensure that the
assumptions and base information they
have built the plan and costs on are
validated, and to gather any additional
further details required.

Remote Desktop
Management Project Plan
& PID

The EUC Supplier will create a Remote
Device Management Project plan with a
full set of activities required by function

(e.g. Architecture, Test etc) to allow the
project to be comprehensively managed
and monitored.

The EUC Supplier will also create a
Remote Device Management Project
Upgrade project PID (Project Initiation
Document). The PID will include all of the
planning components that address scope,
budget, schedule, quality, configuration
management, risks, issues and
performance/qualify monitoring.

Solution Overview (HLD)

The EUC Supplier will create a Solution
Overview to present a common.

Page 183 of 193
POL00337657

POL00337657

understanding of the solution to be
delivered prior to entering the detailed
Design phase of the Project.

Design

Solution Design (LLD)

Update the build design with the IT,
InfoSec and Business requirements.

The LLD will provide all required technical
and support design details to allow
approval to move to the build and delivery
phase.

Test Strategy & Plan

The EUC Supplier will create a Test
Strategy and Plan for the Remote Device
Management Project, Pursuant to the
requirements of RM3804-Alternative-and-
additional-tc-v4, Call Off Schedule A1
Testing.

Build test &
deliver

Build and Pilot

The designed solution will be built and
deployed to a pilot user/system base
where testing and confirmation of the
solution can be completed.

Deployment

The EUC Supplier will deliver the
deployment of the Remote Device
Management Project solution, in-line with
the agreed plan and schedule.

Testing and Operational
Acceptance

The EUC Supplier will perform the agreed
test strategy and plan for the Remote
Device Management Project, Pursuant to
the requirements of RM3804-Alternative-
and-additional-tc-v4, Call Off Schedule A1
Testing, including the provision of the
requisite test certification for approval by
Post Office.

Acceptance

Project Closure Report

On successful deployment of the Remote
Device Management Project, the EUC
Supplier will produce a Project Closure
Report for review and approval by Post
Office.

Table 40; Remote Device Management Project Anticipated Activities

10.8.4 Remote Device Management Software / License Costs

Where additional software / licenses are required, Bidders should include any costs
associated with software / licenses for the proposed solution as an uplift to the service
charges in the relevant section of the further Competition Attachment 3 EUC Financial
Evaluation Model. For clarity, this solution should be delivered as a managed service by the

EUC Supplier.

10.8.5 Milestones

Payment RSM Project pee
Milestone Milestone WeceN sien
Opt 5 Opt 5.1 Remote Device Management Project Plan & PID
P Opt 5.2 Solution Overview (HLD)

Page 184 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Opt 6 Opt 6.1 Solution Design (LLD)

Opt 6.2 Test Strategy & Plan
Opt 7 Opt 7.1 Build & Pilot

Opt 7.2 Deployment & Operational Acceptance
Opt 8 Opt 8.1 Project Closure Report

Table 41: Remote Device Management Exercisable Option Project Milestones

Page 185 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

11. POST OFFICE FUTURE ROADMAP / PROJECTS
11.1 Post Office Future Roadmap / Projects Overview

This section describes the potential future strategic projects where Post Office may require
the EUC Supplier's support. These projects do not form part of the scope of the EUC
contract at this stage but are provided for information to the EUC supplier. Any engagement
for involvement in these projects will be via the EUC Project Services Request for
Quotation/Small Projects process or may be subject to further procurement competition as
appropriate.

11.2 Strategic Platform Modernisation

Strategic Platform Modernisation (SPM) is a major Branch change initiative which aims to
simplify Branch devices and peripherals. SPM is to provide an entire re-platforming of
Branches within the next two or three years, alongside development of a new approach to
the Branch application.

SPM is considering a move to non-Microsoft platforms such as Linux or Android based
platforms. Additionally, the SPM programme aims to address:
e Areduction in the till physical size.
Network bandwidth optimisation with regards to patching.
Address build complexity.
Improve monitoring and security scanning of branch equipment.
Increased use of branch Wi-Fi.
A standardisation of peripherals and ports.
Branch enablement in terms of the ability for branches to self-serve.
Increase the efficiency with regards to maintaining spare parts.
Potentially provide new shared services back-end infrastructure cloud hosting
arrangements to suit a Linux/ Android platform, potentially with AWS.

The implication of SPM to the EUC supplier is that there may be a requirement to support a
different set of Branch technologies in the future, including devices and platforms.

The supplier will need to be able to work with Post Office and facilitate this transformation,
while providing BAU operations, and providing products and services that are agnostic to the
change where possible in order minimise the change impact.

There is therefore a need for the supplier to have the flexibility to adapt to this change which
includes the ability to provide the required changes to component support teams.

11.3 Microsoft 365 E5

Post Office anticipates upgrading Microsoft E3 to E5 licenses and replacing legacy
technologies with the E5 equivalents.

For the avoidance of doubt, Post Office does NOT require Suppliers to cost and plan
implementation of these services at this time, but Suppliers should anticipate needing to
move to these technologies for the delivery of the Services during the Period of the
Agreement.

Microsoft 365 E5 combines best-in-class productivity apps with advanced security,
compliance, voice and analytical capabilities. Post Office is likely to undertake the following
implementations in-line with E5 technology:

Page 186 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Replacing Mimecast and Ironscales with Office 365 ATP.

Implementing Office 365 Advanced Compliance

Implementing Azure ATP

Implementing Identity Protection and Privileged Identity Management (PIM)
Replacing SEP with Microsoft Defender ATP

o0000

11.4 CviT (Cash & Valuables in transit) Drivers PDA Replacement

Due to the nature of the CviT use cases and health and safety considerations, Post Office
intends to further investigate the options for completing the pilot (mentioned earlier) of the
new Android devices and rolling out a full production solution.

The new Android devices will need to be enterprise ready and managed by the existing
Windows 10 Modern Management Platform e.g. Microsoft Endpoint Manager. These devices
will be fully managed for CviT drivers where all device access will be heavily customised,
and policies applied to restrict non approved changes e.g. application installation and device
setting changes. Additionally, internet access will be heavily restricted based on security
groups.

Page 187 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

12. GOVERNANCE

The Supplier shall participate in a governance process which involves a hierarchy of governance meetings, between the Supplier and Post
Office, and feed upwards in the meeting hierarchy. The following provides a summary of the required governance forums.

Supplier — Governance & Escalation View

CIO Engagement
Meetings

iw]
ion Supplier Relationship Governance Ros oinparreagunaniers-rlarrramniar4
a Meeting Review of the overall effectiveness of
o the Contractor's IT services provided
7 S to Post Office and forecast future
o 2 demand
ca] CS ee
£ a
=I
oc ca Solution and niles
2 Service Obligations Commercial oourtty
Architecture i 7 Management ,
= , Review Review Ferunn Management & Operational forums:
Group‘(SSAG) (ISMF) The forum for each IT area ensure that
] service issues are raised and also provide
guidance inline with their operating
Eupait standards
‘i Risk Review
Review

UN

Figure 22: Overview of Post Office Governance Forum

Page 188 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

12.1 Summary of Service Specification Governance / Meeting Requirements

The following provides a summary for convenience of the meeting requirements defined in
Section 6 Service Specification:

Service Area__I Reference Meeting Frequency
Cloud Platform I EUC-CPM-18 Management meeting to report on in- Monthly
Management scope cloud hosted resources
Field Engineer I EUC-FES-04 Monthly service review management Monthly
Services report/dashboard and meeting review
Configuration EUC-CONM-07 I CMDB review and performance meeting I Monthly
Management
Financial and EUC-FCM-13 Financial review meeting Monthly
Contractual
Management EUC-FCM-14 Contractual review meeting Monthly
Risk and EUC-RC-08 Risks review meeting Monthly
Compliance
Service EUC-SM-01 Daily stand up service reviews Daily
Management
Weekly service line operational Weekly
meetings
Monthly service review to cover all Monthly
aspects of contracted services
Ad-hoc operational meetings e.g. Major I Ad-hoc
Incident Review
Quarterly Service Strategy review Quarterly
meeting
Incident EUC-IM-09 Cross Functional/Supplier meetings to Ah-Hoc /
Management diagnose escalated Incidents (including I as required
Major Incidents)
Service EUC-SOCM-04 I Customer's Change Advisory Board Twice
Operations (CAB) meetings in respect of Significant I Weekly
Change and Major Change types.
Management
IT Service EUC-ITSCM-11 I Post-disaster meeting with the As
Continuity Customer (as soon as reasonably required
Management possible)
Project Change I EUC-PCM-14 Project Portfolio reviews Monthly
Management
EUC-PCM-15 Ad-hoc Project Portfolio reviews, Ad-hoc
invoked by monthly portfolio reviews.
EUC-PCM-21 Project Board Meetings As
required
Operational EUC-OBC-09 OBC planning meetings Monthly
Business
Change (OBC)
Request to EUC-RTQ-05 RTQ review meetings to assess and Twice
Quote (RTQ) accept RTQ into the supplier process. Weekly
Availability EUC-AVM-10 Availability Management meeting Monthly
Management

Page 189 of 193
POL00337657
POL00337657

Capacity EUC-CM-09 Capacity Management Meeting Monthly
Management

Event EUC-EM-07 Event Management - to determine As
Management response selection for cross-functional required

Events.

Table 42: Summary of Service Specification Meeting Requirements

Page 190 of 193
13. APPENDIX A - LIST OF DOCUMENTS

POL00337657
POL00337657

The following documents are referenced throughout the Service Specification Document and

are provided as attachments.

Ref No. Referenced Document Name Process and Policy Document Name
PP-001 Cyber Security Policy and PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
Processes zip
PP-001a Asset Management Standards PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-001b Access Control Standards PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-001c Acceptable Usage Standards PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-001d Cyber and Information Security PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
Policy zip
PP-001e Cyber and Information Security PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
Standard zip
PP-001f Document Retention & Disposal PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
Policy zip
PP-001g Encryption Standards PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-001h Information Classification PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
Standards zip
PP-001i Network Security Guidelines PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-001j Network Security Standard PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-001k PED Tamper Monitoring & PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
Skimming Prevention Guideline zip
PP-0011 Platform Security Guidelines PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-001m Platform Security Standards PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-001n SDLT Guidelines PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-0010 SDLT Standards PP-001-Cyber Security Policy and Standards
zip
PP-002 Architecture Governance PP-002-Architecture Governance V3.0
Framework
PP-003 IT Service Continuity Policies and I PP-003- IT DR Policy V1.4 (2019 Policy
Processes Template v1.2) docx
PP-004 IT Change Management Policies PP-004- IT Change Management Policy v1.0
docx
PP-005 IT Change management Process I PP-005- CM-PRO-IT Change Management
Process V2.2 docx
PP-006 IT Major Incident Management PP-006- IT Major Incident Management
Process v5 pdf Process v5 pdf
PP-007 POL Vetting Policy Postmasters PP-007-POL Vetting Policy Postmasters
Assistants pdf Assistants pdf

Page 191 of 193

POL00337657
POL00337657

PP-008 Vetting Policy Employees PP-008-Vetting Policy
Employees_v.2.4 February 2021pdf
PP-009 POL Incident Management PP-009-
Operations Manual POL_Incident_Management_Operations__Ma
nual v0.2 doc
PP-010 Quality Standards and Change PP-010- CEF ExtractCEF Extract zip
Excellence Framework
PP-010a CEF Mandated Artefacts CEF Mandated Artefacts Relationships
Relationships
PP-010b SPO advice on completing CEF SPO advice on completing CEF templates
templates
PP-010c 7 critical success factors 7 critical success factors
PP-010d Agile Value Stack Agile Value Stack
PP-010e Benefits Management Workbook BENEFITS MGMNT WRKBK PRJname
PRJcode
PP-010f Benefits Handover Certificate BENEFITS TRF CERT PRJName PRJcode
No X
PP-010g Business Readiness Assurance BRA Process ICONS
Process
PP-010h Business Readiness Assurance BRA TEMPLATE PRJname PRJcode
Template
PP-010i Agile Business Case Template BUSINESS CASE AGILE PRJname PRJcode
PP-010j Waterfall Business Case BUSINESS CASE WATERFALL PRJname
Template PRJcode
PP-010k Business Case Model Template BUSINESS CASE MODEL PRJname
PRJcode
PP-0101 Business Requirements Template I BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS PRJname
PRJcode
PP-010m Business Solution Design BUSINESS SOLUTION DESIGN PRJname
Template PRRJcode
PP-010n Change Excellence Framework CE Framework ICONS.
Process Flow
PP-0100 Communication Brief Template COMMS BRIEF PRJname PRJcode version x
PP-010p Document Deliverables Tracker Document Deliverables Tracker
PP-010q Gating Forum Template GATING FORUM SUMMARY PRJname
PRJcode
PP-010r WBS request form MD-WBS 1 - Masterdata WBS request
PP-010s Programme Increment Funding PI FUNDING DRAWDOWN REQ PRJname
Drawdown template PRJcode
PP-010t Project Initiation Document PID PRJname PRJcode
template
PP-010u Project Change Request PROJECT CHANGE REQUEST PRJname
Template PRJcode Number X version y
PP-010v Prove Plan template PROVE PLAN
PP-010w Request to Close Checklist REQUEST TO CLOSE CHECKLIST
PRJname PRJcode version x
PP-010x Request to Close Report REQUEST TO CLOSE REPORT PRJname
PRJcode
PP-010y Template Library overview Template Library overview

Page 192 of 193

POL00337657
POL00337657

PP-011 Release Management Policies PP-011-POL Release Management Strategy
and Processes docx.
PP-012 Service Transition Management PP-012-Service Design and Transition Policy
Policies and Processes v2 5 docx
Ref No. Referenced Document Name Document Name
Ref Doc-001 Service Request and Incident Ref Doc-001-Service Requests & Incident
Metrics Document Metrics Document docx
i Ref Doc-002- Services Schedule 7.1
Ref Doc-002 I Services Schedule 7.1 Annex Annex.xlsx
Ref Doc-003 CC Service Management Guide Ref Doc-003-CC Service Management Guide
for POL Redacted for POL Redacted. Pdf
Ref Doc-004 I POL Device Software Ref Doc-004-POL Device Software xlsx
Ref Doc- 005 I Software Document Ref Doc- 005-Software Document.docx
Ref Doc-006 I Service Catalogue v2 Ref Doc-006-Service Catalogue v2.xlsx
; Ref Doc- 007-Branch and Colleague
Ref Doc- 007 I Colleague and Branch Locations Locations xlsx
Ref Doc-008 Post Office OBC Process Doc Ref Doc-008-OBC process doc_v0
5 UpdatedJan 2020 (7) (003) docx
Ref Doc-009 EUC ServiceNow Supplier Ref Doc-009- EUC Service ServiceNow
Onboarding Guide Supplier Onboarding Guide - v0.03 (003) docx
Ref Doc-010 I Change Freeze Example Ref Doc-010 — Change Freeze Example.docx
Ref Doc-011 I Tupe List v1 (password protected) I Ref Doc-011-Tupe List v1.xlsx
EUC Service Level Agreement Ref Doc-012-EUC Service Level Agreement
Ref Doc-012 I MaSTER MASTER v1.0

Table 43: List of Reference Documents

Page 193 of 193

