POL00448227
POL00448227

STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL oa

aa 100 Wood Street
Post Office® XXXXXXAXXK Branch London

Xxx EC2V 7ER

Xxx Classification:
Private

XXX. XXX

Post Office® XXXXXXXXXX Branch

On/Off Site Local/Main Post Office® Agreement between Post Office Ltd and

(Agreement)

Invitation to attend a meeting

As you are aware fromm my lttrla] dated [Datele6 letter cenfiming suspension anor
Holding letter(s)] I have been carrying out a review following the date of [your / the
Operator's] suspension.

As explained in our conversation(s) it is important that the matter is fully reviewed to
establish the facts and to give you the opportunity to identify and answer any issues of

concern raised. Appendix 1 to this letter sets out the position to date.

As part of this I want to share with you details of the review that have been considered to
date (providing these details are not subject to restriction on disclosure, for example through
legal privilege, data protection law or material relating to a criminal investigation). Appendix

2 sets this out and will hopefully give us a basis to discuss the matter further.

v2su300523
Page 1 of 8

Post Office Limited i registered in England and Wales, Registered No, 2154540.

Registered Office 100 Wood Street, London. EC2V 7ER

Post Offce ancl the Post Office logo ae registered rade mars of Pst Office Line postoffice.co.uk
POL00448227
POL00448227

[As discussed during our conversation on [date’], I would like to discuss these matters with

you at a meeting on:

Meeting Purpose

The purpose of the meeting is to establish facts and to give you an opportunity to identify
and answer any issues that have been identified. Post Office will use the content of this
meeting, along with other areas of review, in determining next steps and this may include a
decision to terminate your Agreement. With this in mind this is also an opportunity for you
to raise any material issues that you need me to be aware of as well as the impact any
decision by Post Office may have on you. I will then take the contents of the discussion into

account in making a decision as to what will happen next.

Meeting Attendees

I willbe attending this meeting (with Name and rele fmore than one POL attendee)

If you wish to bring someone with you to the meeting, please let me know in advance their
name(s) and role as this may affect who will need to attend for the meeting on behalf of Post
Office Ltd. If not already done so, you may, if you wish, contact your NFSP representative to
support you through the process and attend the meeting with you. During this meeting the

! GRO I Alternatively, you may wish to arrange legal representation or other support who

again may talk on your behalf.
If you choose to attend the meeting, it will be recorded in order that an accurate record of

the discussion can be made. A copy of this recording will be provided to you after the
meeting.

Page 2 of 8

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
POL00448227

POL00448227

Alternatively, you may wish to submit a written response providing input on the matters
outlined in this letter. Again, I will take the content of this submission into account when
making a decision as to what will happen next. This may include a decision to terminate your
Agreement

Please can you confirm whether you will attend the meeting or submit a written response by

signing the enclosed duplicate of this letter, and return it to me, at the address on this letter,

For the avoidance of doubt, [you are / the Operator is], still suspended from operating Post
Office® [Branch Name] branch. This suspension is in accordance with [Part 2, clause 15.1.1
/15.1.2/15.1.3)2 of the Agreement.

The opportunity to attend a meeting or to provide a written response does not affect Post
Office Ltd.'s rights and remedies under the Agreement or otherwise, and all such rights are
reserved. As noted in the letter of Suspension I am mindful the impact that this process may
have so I remind you that Post Office offers wellbeing support helpline, either by phone

or at http://postmaster.workplacewellbeing.com. In addition to this support
is also available through the NFSP.

In the meantime, if you have any queries, please do not hesitate to contact me on the phone
number below.

Yours sincerely,

Contracts Advisor,
Post Office Limited.

Page 3 of 8

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
POL00448227

POL00448227

Complaints or Concerns

If you have a complaint in the way this matter is being handled you can telephone the

Branch Support Centre on i GRO _jfor your concerns to be escalated to

the Complaint Handling team.

Alternatively, should you wish to report any concerns in confidence you can do so via the

Speak Up service by calling,
http://speakup.postoffice.co.uk/

via a secure on-line web portal:

Page 4 of 8

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
POL00448227
POL00448227

Page 5 of 8

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
POL00448227

POL00448227

This table sets out the information reviewed and I have enclosed any relevant documents

with this letter, If there is anything you feel that has not been supplied please contact me.

Onboarding Application

Review — relevant details

A review of the application

Details of Onboarding training
e-learning
classroom
onsite (including first balance)

A review of training and support provided

Details of early days support

A review of training and support provided

Details of formal training

intervention

A review of training and support provided

Details of any branch visits

A review of any branch visits

Call logs

A twelve-month review of inbound and outbound
branch support call logs for anything relevant to the
matter has been undertaken with the following findings

Relevant supporting branch
transaction data

A review of cash declarations and trading statement
details

Branch Performance History

Any record of communications or logs with the branch

concerning operational compliance.

Information provided at the

Branch Assurance Visit

A summary of what was discussed at the Branch

Assurance Visit and reason for suspension:

3 Note - this table is provided as an example however information shared is dependent on the matter being reviewed (and may

include additional information not covered here)

Classification: Private

Page 6 of 8

postoffice.co.uk
POL00448227
POL00448227

Network Support & Resolution
Team discrepancy review
report

A summary of the report and any subsequent calls held

to review the report:

Any other relevant information

Please detail.

Classification: Private

Page 7 of 8

postoffice.co.uk
POL00448227

POL00448227

Contract Advisor
Post Office Limited

From [Operator's Name}

Post Office® to branch

Please complete and delete as appropriate:

*I acknowledge receipt of the invitation to attend a meeting to discuss [my / the Operator's

suspension] and confirm that I will attend on [enter date, time and location] and will be

Please indicate if you have any specific circumstances or special requirements which need to

be considered for the meeting. If so please enclose details:

*I will be submitting a written response by [enter date of meeting]

*I acknowledge receipt of the invitation to attend a meeting to discuss [my / the Operator's
suspension] or submit a written response but do not wish to take the opportunity to do
either.

Signed..

Operator Post Office® [Branch Name] branch

Date:

Page 8 of 8

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
