POL00025752
POL00025752

Message

From: Rodric Williams [¢__ _

Sent: 07/11/2017 12

To: Paul Loraine Victoria Brooks [{~"
Subject: CCRC - content for update on Chairman's Review

Attachments: CCRC-#2045848-v1-Letter_from_POL_Chair_to_BIS_04_03_16.pdf; Post Office Review-7Feb16.docx; Report of Brian
Altman QC - subject to litigation privilege [BD-4A.FID26859284]; Message for John Grimmer re: Instructions for Brian
Altman QC; RE: Message for John Grimmer re: Instructions for Brian Altman QC; Post Office Limited - Update and
Request for Further Advice; FW: Post Office Limited - Update and Request for Further Advice; Re: Post Office Limited
- Update and Request for Further Advice

Victoria — is was nice speaking with you earlier today on the various matters you are helping us with.
Paul — copying you now you are back (welcome!).

In terms of responding to the CCRC’s enquiries about the Chairman’s Review, I attach the letter disclosed by UKGI to the
CCRC which triggered the CCRC’s enquiry.

In responding to the CCRC, the key message to get across is that the Review was commenced before the Group Litigation
began, and work on its recommendations effectively stopped once that litigation started (see further below). That will
explain why the Review and its results were not circulated more widely as was envisaged in Tim Parker’s 04.03.16 letter
to Baroness Neville-Rolfe (the letter did at least flag the possibility of civil litigation).

Work was commissioned on all 8 of the Review’s recommendations. Some of that work was completed (e.g. Bond
Dickinson’s report addressing Recommendation 7 - which I can’t find at the moment but you will have), while others
were stopped for the purposes of the Swift recommendations and continued under the auspices of the Group Litigation
(Deloitte’s work on the audit store suspense accounts in particular). I attach the email exchange I had with Jonathan
Swift explaining this.

I have attached the Review report prepared by Jonathan Swift QC and Christopher Knight, dated 8 February 2016, which
can be provided to the CCRC. Can you then please then note for them that very substantial work was undertaken on the
back of the Review’s recommendations, some of which is still being undertaken for the Group Litigation and is not yet
complete due to the complexity of the subject matter.

Can you please then prepare a dossier collating all the final material we have which responded to the Review's
recommendations, putting in square brackets any work which is still in draft (e.g. Deloitte) and identifying any

gaps. Some of the material is included in the various attachments to this email.

I suspect we should provide this to the CCRC, but I’d like to know how far its jurisdiction extends beyond material related
to a specific prosecution.

With all of this material, we must stress that we are claiming privilege and confidentiality over all material connected to
the Review, and that we require a specific s.17 Notice to be sent to us to cover the materials provided.

Happy to discuss further when you get a chance, Rod

Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand
20 Finsbury Street

2017 Winner of the Global Postal Award for Customer
Experience

POL-0022231
POL00025752
POL00025752

2A A HC 1 28 2 fA 2 2 1 0 RR a 0 2 a 0 a 0 Ro a

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Pe

POL-0022231
