POL00337627
POL00337627

Contract Approval Process

The Contract Approval Process ensures that contracts entered into by Post Office
Limited, Post Office Insurance or Payzone Bill Payments Limited have been
through the necessary due diligence and the risks to the business have been
considered. It also ensures that only colleagues with the appropriate level of
authority delegated to them by the respective Board are agreeing to enter into
contracts that will ultimately bind the business.

The process must be completed prior to signing an agreement with an internal or
external company (save for certain limited exceptions: see below). Once
completed, a contract may be signed in line with the Contract Execution Policy.

The Contract Approval Process is completed by completing a Contract Approval
Form (CAF), approved by the necessary approvers. For Post Office Limited and
Post Office Insurance, the form is via the CAF Submission App and for Payzone Bill
Payments Limited, a paper form must be completed.

The below offers an overview of the Contract Approval Process.

Obtain required Complete the Contract Submit Contract Approval
information about your Approval Form Form to Approvers
contract, liaise with For Post Office Limited and Post For Bost Office Limited and Bost

relevant stakeholders ond ugg, Office Insurance complete vis mmmy fice Insurance, approvals vl be

sought automatically via the

the CAF Submission App.
For Payzone, complete the Word
Document form,

create Web3 Contract

‘record and complete the header
Tevel details,

Contract Execution by Submit Web3 Contract Contract Approval Form
CoSec Record for Approval approved by CoSec

Once Cotec bes approved te For Post Office Limited and Past

Sake inget pene = Office Insurance, your CAF wil be

automaticaly sent to CoSec once

fully sppravad. For Dayzone, once:

‘your CAF is fully approved submit
to Coser.

‘and reject the CAF.
POL00337627
POL00337627

Time Savers

Plan ahead & engage your approvers

Certain agreements need a higher level of review, particularly those requiring Board or
Shareholder approval. This can cause delays in the approval and execution process and so
building this into your project plan is vital.

Prior to completing your CAF, make sure you know who your approvers are and contact
them to ensure they are on board. The CAF approval request should not be the first time
they have heard about the proposed contract. There is a risk that an approver will reject the
CAF if they are unaware of it.

Consider using the P-Suite of Post Office contracts & consider whether there is
a Framework Agreement applicable to the work you are proposing.

P-Suite Contracts are the business’ standard terms and conditions that can be used when
contracting with an external company. You still need to complete the Contract Approval
Process, but you do not need to seek legal review. These contracts may be found on Legal's
Intranet pages.

As a business we have a number of framework agreements in place with various external
companies. It may be that we already have an agreement with the company you are seeking
to work with. If this is the case, you are still required to complete the Contract Approval
Process but you do not need sign off from the Legal department. Contact the Procurement
Team if you think this might be applicable to your proposed work.

Take early advice from CoSec

The advice on these pages and guidance on the CAF Submission app should be consulted in
the first instance. If you are still unsure, the Company Secretariat are available at drop in
sessions twice a week or by email on caf to answer any questions you
have about the process.

Exceptions to the Contract Approval Process

The following do not require approval via the Contract Approval process:

Non-disclosure agreements No approval is required,

where the Post Office provided the standard
standard template is used terms are not amended
and any amendments made __I outside the house position.
are within the house These should preferably
position executed via e-signature via

DocuSign on Web3. If wet
signature is required, a scan
must be added to Web3
and the hard copy should
be provided to CoSec for
filing.

Amendments or variations
to existing contracts which
do not change the cost to
Post Office, Post Office's
liabilities, the parties’
obligations or the contract
term (i.e. purely operational
changes).

No formal approval is
required, however Contract
Managers are expected to
ensure relevant
stakeholders, including the
Contract Owner, are aware
of changes affecting

them. These should
preferably executed via e-
signature via DocuSign on
Web3. If wet signature is
required, a scan must be
added to Web3 and the
hard copy should be
provided to CoSec for filing.

Post Office Limited
Employment & Network
Contracts

These are governed by
HR/People and Network
governance processes and
must be signed in line with
the authorised signatory list
approved by the Board.

Post Office Limited Property
Contracts

These are governed by
Legal governance processes
and are signed in line with
the authorised signatory
and Company Seal
Authentication list
approved by the Board.

The CoSec have also agreed exceptions applicable to Post Office Limited IT

contracts only (see quick links).

Contact: caf¢”

CAF Drop In Sessions are currently suspended.

POL00337627
POL00337627

To help us manage our enquiries, please consult the guidance on this page and

within the CAF Submission App, prior to contacting us separately with

POL00337627
POL00337627

queries. Please contact the email address above for advice if this page does not

answer your question.

&

5)

Contract Management Framework Page
Link to Legal's Contract Management
Framework page.

Payzone Contract Approval Process...
Specific guidance for Payzone on
completing the Contract Approval...

Group Contract Execution Policy

In-depth policy on accepted methods of
contract execution.

Contract Approval Process FAQs

Use this document to check answers to
FAQs on the Contract Approval Process.

CAF App Approver User Guide
Guidance on how to use the CAF
Approval App.

CAF Submission App Liabilities Guidance
Guidance on how to complete the
liabilities screen on the CAF Submissio...

Post Office Limited OPEX Contracts...

Use this guidance when you have a
contract (OPEX spend) over £5m...

CAF Submission App

Use this app to submit a contract
approval form and monitor progress o...

iE} Post Office Group Spend Approval...

A list of colleagues with authority from
the Board to approve certain levels of...

Group Contract Execution Policy Quick...
One page guide to contract execution.

CAF App Submitter User Guide

Guidance on how to use the CAF
Submission App.

Legal & Procurement Approver Checklist

Exceptions for IT Contracts Only.
Guidance on which Post Office Limited
IT Contracts require a CAF.

Contract Approval Process Training...

Training presentation delivered in April
2021 on the Contract Approval Process...
POL00337627
POL00337627

> Contract Approval Process Training...

Link to a recording of the April 2021
Contract Approval Process Training.
