POL00104819
POL00104819

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

P&S Doc 5.2, V2

OFFICIAL NOTEBOOKS Dec 08

1. PURPOSE

The aim of this document is to provide Investigators within the Royal Mail Group
Ltd (RMG Ltd) with clear understanding in relation to the correct procedures
when using Official Notebooks to record evidence or events.

2. CONTENTS

Section 3 Introduction.
4

Section 4 Obtaining Notebooks & Retention Following Completion.

Section 5 General Rules.

Section 6 Use of Notebooks.

Section 7 Agreeing Notebook Entries With Others.
Section 8. Supervisory Checks.

Section 9 Copies of Noted Book Entries in Case

3. INTRODUCTION

3.1 Notebooks are an essential element in an Investigators ‘toolkit”. They
are the recognised and preferred way of recording evidence that is not
recorded elsewhere in a more formal document. They are numbered
individually and are issued to all Investigators performing investigation
duties.

3.2 Because of the nature of the information recorded in a notebook it can be
produced, required by the Investigator, in a Court of Law. It is
essential that all notebooks be completed with a degree of uniform
professionalism.

3.3. These Procedures & Standards detail how to make entries in notebooks and
the rules relating to Investigators consulting each other when making
notes.

Back to contents

4. OBTAINING NOTEBOOKS & RETENTION FOLLOWING COMPLETION

4.1 To obtain an official notebook either for the first time or a replacement
for a completed one, an e-mail must be submitted to The Prosecution
Support Office (PSO) in Leeds (SD_Prosecution_Office) detailing the
Investigator’s name, address and Royal Mail Group Security Identity Card
number.

4.2 An official notebook will be forwarded to the Investigator accompanied by
form GS106. “Issue of icial Notebook”. Part B should be completed and
Parts B & C returned to the PSO.

4.3 When a notebook is full the Investigator should retain it until the Courts
have dealt with all the cases to which it pertains.

4.4 Completed notebooks, which are no longer required by an Investigator, must
be forwarded to the PSO by Special Delivery. The PSO will acknowledge

Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104819
POL00104819

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

receipt of the notebook by completing Part C of the original

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104819
POL00104819

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

GS106, Issue of Notebook form, and returning it to the Investigator. The

Investigator should keep the Special Delivery receipt until they have

received Part C from the PSO. The PSO will retain notebooks for 6 years.
Back to contents

5. GENERAL RULES

5.1 1. Make all entries in chronological order.

2. All entries must be made in ink (black preferably) .

3. Any errors must be crossed out with a single line, so that the original
entry can be seen and then initialled.

4, Do not remove any pages, they are all numbered sequentially.

5. Do not make additional entries between the ruled lines. If it is of
paramount importance that if you make an additional entry, make it at
the end of your existing entry explaining why it is not in
chronological order.

6. A single line should be scored through any blank spaces or lines.

7. All entries should be signed, timed and dated.

8. All notes made on informal pieces of paper such as newspapers, should
be transferred to the notebook as soon as practicable. The entry
should include why it was not practical to enter the note dizectly into
the notebook. The Investigator must retain the original note.

Back to contents

6. USE OF NOTEBOOKS

6.1 A notebook can be used to record any fact or evidence. In theory an entire
investigation can be carried out without the use of anything more than a
notebook, providing the guidelines for making the notes are followed and
all matters are covered in appropriate detail. It is worth noting that
Case Law on this subject states that notebook entries “must be written at
the time or shortly afterwards while still fresh in the memozy”. Under
these circumstances entries in notebooks can be referred to in Court to
assist the Investigator with their recollection. However permission of
the Court must always be sought before this is done.

6.2 Below are some circumstances in which a notebooks can be used and the sort
of detail that should be recorded.

6.3 Planned Operation - Risk Assessment

is only in ‘extraordinary circumstances’ when it is operationally
impossible, that an exception to using the Procedures & Standards
described in the Planned Operation - Risk Assessment may not be used and a
notebook entry must be made in its place.

The Procedures and Standards, which Investigators must be familiar with,
can be found on the Group Security Database under Criminal Investigations-
Investigation Procedures and Standards-Health and Safety and Operational
Planning.

Should exceptional circumstances exist then below are the details that
must be recorded in the notebook;
1. Full details of suspect.
2. What risks have been identified and what efforts have been
made to manage the risks.
3. The fact that everyone has been briefed on the risks.
4. The fact that everyone has been briefed on their roles.
Document Title: Official Notebook:
P Doc. Ref 5.1 Version 2
tu Dec 2008
owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104819
POL00104819

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

6.4 Handover of Tests items
The place date and time of handover.

2. Details whom handed to.

3. Details the test items.

4, The fact that the items are sealed.

5. The fact that they will be controlled until they are introduced.
6. Details of the instructions that the appropriate manager is to

follow.

6.5 Details of Observations
There are many ways to record evidence gained on observation and
surveillance operations, notebooks being only one of them. There are
Procedures and Standards, which Investigators must be familiar with,
dealing with the matter. The Procedures and Standards are on the Group
Security Database under Criminal Investigations-Investigation Procedures
and Standards-Conducting Enquiries and Exhibit Management, Recording
Evidence - Observation and Surveillance Operations

Generally only short and straightforward observations should be recorded
in a notebook. The details you should record include;

1. The date, time and location of the Investigator at the start of the
observation.

2. The identity of all Investigators and any other person who may be
present at the observation listed in alphabetical order

3. The identity or description of the person(s) or place being watched.

4, The field of vision of the observing Investigator and any
obstructions in the way.

5. The distance between the observing investigator and the person/place
being watched

6. The lighting/weather conditions.

7. Who came into and left the field of vision at material times and, in
particular at any sorting frame, till or address relevant to the
suspected offence.

8. The times at which significant events took place.

9. How the observations were performed e.g. by binoculars, CCTV, the
naked eye etc.

10. The time and location of the debrief

6.6 Details of Suspect Approaches (PACE COP Code C 10.2 & 10.13)
1. Place date and time of the approach.
2. The fact that the Investigators were introduced and the nature of
the enquiry explained.
3. Any conversations/admissions/denials.
4, The fact that the suspect was cautioned, told that they were not
under arrest and free to leave and the response by the suspect.

6.7 Details of Arrest (PACE COP Code G 4.1)
The full Procedures and Standard on Arrest Procedures (England and Wales),
which Investigators must be f iar with, can be found on the Group
Security Database under Criminal Investigations-Investigation Procedures
and Standards- Suspect Approach and Arrest.

Below are the details that should be recorded in the notebook;
1. Place date and time of arrest
2. The nature and circumstances of the offence leading to the arrest.
3. The reason or reasons why an arrest was necessary and why it was not
reasonably practicable for a constable to make the arrest instead.
4, The giving of a caution.
5. Anything said by the person at the time of arrest.

Document T
Doc. Rk

Official Notebooks
5.1 Version 2

Dee 2008

Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104819
POL00104819

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104819
POL00104819

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

6.8 Details of any comments made by a suspect (PACE COP Code C 11.13)

1. Any comments made by a suspect, including unsolicited comments,
which are outside the context of an interview but might be relevant
to the offence, should be recorded.

6.9 Details of Tape Recorded Interviews under Caution (PACE COP Code E 5.1)

1 The fact that the interview has taken place.

2. That it was audibly recorded.

3. The time, duration and date of the interview.

4, The tape master seal identification numbers.

6.10 As a receipt for handing over property

1 The date

2 Details property

3 Details person receiving the property

6.11 This is not by any means a complete list. All significant events during
an investigation should be recorded in order that accurate evidence can be
given at court. If the events are not recorded elsewhere then a notebook
entry should be made.

6.13 Note. The references to PACE apply to England, Wales and Northern Ix

(albeit that the numbers quoted may well be different in Northern
Ireland), however the recording of the details stated is in these
procedures are to be treated as best practice in Scotland.

Back to contents

7. AGREEING NOTEBOOK ENTRIES WITH OTHERS

7.1 If more that one Investigator are present at the same event for the whole

duration then there is only a requirement for one Investigator to make an

entry in their notebook.
the notes and if they agree them they
accurate and sign,

If the other Investigator(s) consider
witness a specific aspect recorded in
in addition to the notes, they should
entry must be signed, timed and dated

It is acceptable for Investigators to
side of the notebook about icm wide.
record the time of an event.
they agree with the timed entry,

Consultation. When two or more Investigators are present,
vation,
Investigators to consult each other when preparing their

the same incident/interview/obs:

time and date them.

The other Investigator(s) present should read

should certify them as true and

the entry inaccurate, or did not
the notebook, or they saw something
make a note to that effect. The new
by the author.

put a vertical line down the left

The left margin can then be used to
This then enables other Investigator(s),
to initial under the time.

if

or take part in
it is acceptable for those
notes. In order

for this to be the case the Investigators must have been in the same

location at the same time. When such

a consultation takes place a note to

this effect must be added to the notebook entry.

Witnesses. ‘The same principles apply

to witnesses such as Appropriate

Managers who are introducing Test items. They must be asked to read the

notes and cert
7.2 above.

them as applicable in accordance in paragraphs 71 and

Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00104819
POL00104819

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

7.6 If the notebook is correctly certified then other Investigators and
witnesses can refer to the certified notes if they are required to provide
a witness statement at a later date or give evidence in Court.

7.7 Suspects. Any notebook entry, which deals with a comment made by a
suspect or deals with their treatment should be shown to the suspect.
Again they must be asked to read the notes and certify them as applicable
in accordance in paragraphs 71 and 7.2 above. If the suspect refuses to
sign a note then a record of this must be made and the notes signed timed
and dated by all the witnesses.

Back to contents

8. SUPERVISORY CHECKS

8.1 Line managers should make supervisory checks of notebooks on a minimum of
two occasions a year. The line manager should then make an entry in the

notebook to the effect that a supervisory check has been made.
Back to contents

9. COPIES OF NOTEBOOK ENTRIES IN CASE FILES

9.1 Copies of all notebook entries by all Investigators relating to a
particular investigation should be submitted with that case file if the
matter is submitted with a view to prosecution.

Back to contents

Document T

Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
