POL00447854
POL00447854

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
BOARD REPORT

silos 3-year People Plan and A . th
Title: People Structure Meeting Date: I 27" February 2024
Tim Perkins, Programme Karen McEwan, Group Chief
Author: . Sponsors: .
Director People Officer

Input Sought: Noting and discussion

The Board is requested to:
i. Note the progress on the People Team restructure currently underway.
ii. Note and discuss the Strategic People Plan.

Executive Summary
Significant progress has been made on resetting the People function of Post Office.

Firstly, following a comprehensive review of the People team structure, several proposed
changes were identified and, as a result, a consultation process is now underway. The proposed
structure will reset the support that the People team provide to the business enabling the
business to meet its vision and purpose.

Secondly, a Strategic People Plan has been developed, focusing on three strategic priorities -
colleague experience, capability and inclusion - to ‘create a great place to work for all’. The
high-level plan is shared with Board in this paper for noting and discussion.

Report

People Team Restructure

1. A full review of the People team structure started in November 2023. This has been led
by Angela Woolfenden, an external People and Organisation Design consultant.
2. The review created a proposed new structure for the People team that is now being
consulted on.
3. Some key changes in the structure are:
a. the levels of partnering that will be put in place to support the business; and
b. new roles that have been introduced to support the areas of strategic importance
identified in the Strategic People Planincluding Wellbeing, EDI (Equity, Diversity and
Inclusivity), and Leadership and Talent.
4. The proposed structure also removes single points of failure and provides many career
progression routes, removing the need for people colleagues to leave Post Office to grow
their careers.

Confidential
POL00447854
POL00447854

@

5. The aim is for the new People team structure to be in place by 31%t March, however it
should be noted that there are dependencies on external recruitment in some areas and
this could result in delay.

Strategic People Plan

6. The main tenets of the Strategic People Plan are found in Appendix A.

7. The Plan sets out both the approach and the activities required to enable the People team
to transform Post Office into ‘a great place to work’ over a 3-year period, to April 2027.

8. The plan is focused on developing three priority areas:

a. Colleague experience;
b. Capability; and
c. Inclusion

9. These three broad priority areas have been identified as critical areas of focus to enable
Post Office to become ‘a great place to work for all’ and are also grounded in people and
culture change best practice.

10. The three priorities are aligned to the Gartner workforce culture alignment model which
identifies behaviours (colleague experience), knowledge (capability) and mindset
(inclusion) as being key levers in delivering any culture change.

11. The three priority areas contain different elements of the People Operating Model:

a. Colleague experience includes:
i. Engagement;
ii. Wellbeing;
iii. Reward;
iv. Core People Processes;
v. People Policies;
vi. People Systems; and
vii. People Data and Analytics.
b. Capability includes:
i. Leadership;
ii. Talent Development;
iii. Talent Attraction;
iv. Performance Management; and
v. Organisation Design.
c. Inclusion stands on its own as a core priority that needs to be embedded across the
entire People Operating Model.

12. The outcomes that the plan is aiming to achieve in each of the priority areas are:

a. For colleague experience, that Post Office transforms what its people feel, see and
experience throughout their time at Post Office;

b. For capability, that Post Office reimagines its approach to talent and people
capabilities to unlock the full potential of the business; and

c. For inclusion, that Post Office deepens its commitment and focus on ED&I to become
a truly inclusive and safe place for all.

13. The plan has three phases - foundations, growth and sustainability. The phases are not
consecutive and do not equate to years - so, not all foundational activity will be completed
in year one, and equally not all sustainable activity will take three years to achieve. The

2
Confidential
POL00447854
POL00447854

@

phases are used to describe the level of maturity that the detailed deliverables within each
phase will achieve for the business.

14. To allow for effective planning and budgeting, a detailed set of deliverables have been
developed for the first year of the plan (FY2024/25) and these can be found on the second

slide

of Appendix A.

15. The next phase of development for the Strategic People Plan, post the appointment of the
new People Leadership Team, will include the following:

a.

b.
c.
d

Confidential

Assigning ownership for each of the deliverables;

Creating a detailed milestone plan for the 24/25 deliverables;
Developing measures of success for each of the deliverables; and
Aligning team and individual objectives to the deliverables.
POL00447854

POL00447854

@

Appendix A

Post Office Limited (Doclment Cassificanon! INTERNAL’ I

GG Creating a great place to work for all... or] 5

Kaicbacyee ed:

Scanning the horizon che teortouingI to listen,
learnand deliver best in class A consistent, reliable
offering across the whole colleague lifecycle. '

Growth

Steadily building on the foundations to embed and improve. Building
con nee and trust in the People offering. Expanding our focusseyond the

basics and aiming for best in class.

3 Stages

Foundations

are and wherewe want to be- people, proc

Startingwhere weare, Using ¥ what we have, doing what we can to
will un ra r the future. Narro

Confidential

POL00447854
POL00447854

I Colleague Experience
Transform what our people feel, see and experience throughout their time with us

I Capability

Reimagine our approach to talent and people capabilities to unlock the full potential of the
business

Deepen our commitment and focus on ED&l to become a truly inclusive and safe place for all

1)
2
Fz)
=
o
c
o
2
dD
®
y
£
y
0
iy)

Delivered by a People Team set up to enable Post Office to meet its vision and purpose and transform its culture

Confidential
Confidential

Colleague Experience

Transform what our people feel, see
and experience throughout their
time with us

Brilliant basics in place for all
colleagues
Colleague support through the Inquiry
Colleague Wellbeing strategy developed

Total reward statements introduced

Continuity built into STIP measures
Define and embed pay governance principles
Recruitment and selection process improvements.
Applicant Tracking System enhancements
Standardise pay negotiation processes and governance
Map People Shared Services processes

5-year colleague engagement platform

3-year People Systems roadmap

Capability

Reimagine our approach to talent and
people capabilities to unlock the full
potential of the business

Raise the bar on leadership,
management and people capabil

Embed the new People Operating Model
New leadership model and behaviours embedded

Training needs analysis for all managers and individual plans
produced

Potential model introduced
High potential talent processes in place
Robust succession plans in place for all functions
Selection framework in place
Annual performance and development cycles locked down
Performance reviews for non management grades
Performance management process improvements

Define organisation design principles, job design principles
and job families

Contractor strategy and cost reduction

POL00447854
POL00447854

Inclusion

Deepen our commitment and focus on
ED&l to become a truly inclusive and
safe place for all

Move the dial from a diversity focus
towards an inclusivity focus
Define 3 -year EDI deliverables

Define roles and responsibilities for EDI across business
Embed EDI policies across colleague lifecycle

Network focus on intersectionality
Improve diversity sharing rates
Senior diversity recruitment process introduced
Targeted development programmes for diverse talent

Inclusivity and unconscious bias training for all leaders
