POL00037819

POL00037819
Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

Horizon Multiple Login: Options Paper

1) Background

The original Smart ID technical build only allowed a user to be logged in at one
terminal at time. This was driven by the compliance requirements to minimise
the risk of users who were not vetted or trained being able to trade on the
Horizon system. Completely unfettered multiple login access to the counter
would have allowed multiple Horizon logins to be created (linked to the same
Smart ID), passed out to other user who have not been vetted and trained, and
all of those users would be able to transact on the counter at the same time,
limited only by the number of counters in branch.

Prior to the rollout of the Smart ID pilot branches in June/July 2017 it was
recognised that this model was too restrictive for multi-counter branches,
particularly when related to back office work and Drop & Go transactions. The
Restricted Use ID (RUID) was introduced as a temporary stop gap solution to
provide flexibility whilst Fujitsu worked on a permanent multiple login solution.

The RUID was a branch level Smart ID issued to all multi-counter branches
between which rolled out between July 2017 and August 2018, and was
designed to be used for back office reports and Drop and Go transactions.
Operational guidance was issued to the Postmaster/Branch Manager to make it
clear what was permissible and what was not.

Fujitsu delivered the new Multiple Login functionality into the network during
August 2018, which allowed a user to be logged in at multiple Horizon terminals,
but with only one active (unlocked) session at a time. The RUID’s were then
phased out (deactivated) between September and October of 2018.

2) RUID Usage

During the period January to August 2018 before RUIDs were phased out the
following summarises the usage in branches.

e In total 3771 RUIDs were issued to multi-counter branches

e Of these 2422 were not used at all (65%). This may seem like a large
number, but it needs to be remembered old Horizon IDs were not
deactivated until the branch had migrated sufficiently to Smart ID usage,
so RUID use would be somewhat suppressed initially.

e For the remaining branches, which did use the RUID, the table below
shows that over a quarter of branches (25.86%) used the RUID less than
10% of the days across the monitoring period. Only 21.42% of branches
used their RUID over 50% of the days (i.e. every other day), and a tiny
1.22% used the RUID every day. This suggests that demand for the RUID
is actually low, though as per point above it should be noted that old
Horizon logins were also in use across this period also.

Page 1 of 13
POL00037819

POL00037819

Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner
RUID Usage (% % of

of days in use) branches

Less than 10% 25.86%

10 - 19% 14.54%

20 - 29% 13.93%

30 - 39% 13.54%

40 - 49% 10.71%

50 - 59% 7.96%

60 - 69% 6.50%

70 - 79% 3.29%

80 - 89% 2.45%

Above 90% 1.22%

In addition, it should also be noted that as of the November 2019 version of the
Configuration Database that 38% of branches have only 1 counter position
and therefore do not require a multiple login solution at all.

3) Audit Findings: Sharing of logins

One of the risks of the constraints which Multiple Login functionality places on
counter staff is that it may lead to increased sharing of logins as a way to
circumvent the system. Indeed, this is one of the central contentions put forward
by the NFSP in discussions about Multiple Login.

Prior to the implementation of Smart ID, one of the compliance checks on an
audit was to check the whether there was any sharing of logins. When Smart ID
was introduced this check was removed from audits until January 2020 when it
was reinstated. Looking at performance before Smart ID (using audit data from
2014/15) and comparing it to the checks between January and March breaks
down as follows:

e Pre- Smart ID (c.500 audit results from 2014/15) - 11% of branch audits
found evidence of sharing of login credentials

e Post Smart ID (219 audits where a check was done between Jan - Mar
2020) - 12% of branches were found to be sharing login credentials

4) Multiple Login Issues

This section documents the current issues which have been flagged with the
Multiple Login functionality. All of the issues that have been raised relate to the
operational impediments which result from having Multiple Login control on the
counter. Compliance teams are broadly happy with the current solution, whilst
accepting that it does not necessarily fix the issue of sharing Smart IDs, it does
minimise its application.

Page 2 of 13
POL00037819

POL00037819
Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

4. 1 Inconvenience of Locking/Unlocking

Multiple login functionality slows down quick switching between counters (e.g.
Drop and Go and standard counter transactions) by forcing, when a user wishes
to switch counter positions, them to lock their current counter and unlock the
one they wish to work on by entering their password. This slows the user down
impacting the ease with which they can serve customers. It should be noted that
security guidelines state that terminals that are not in use should be locked.

4.2 Back Office Administration Impeded

One of the limitations of the Fujitsu solution is that a terminal cannot be locked
when displaying a ‘transient message’, the most common examples of which are
when the terminal is printing a report or when it is awaiting customer input on
the pinpad. The printing of reports and the fact that the user has to wait for the
transient message to clear before they can lock the terminal has been raised as
an issue, due to the fact that the user has to wait for the ‘transient’ printing
message to clear from the screen so they can lock the terminal. This is cited at
a particular issue with busy end of day printing of reports for cut off whilst trying
to serve customers on another counter.

4.3 Receipts & Payments Misbalances — FIXED Sept 2019

Multiple login functionality allowed a user with the same Horizon ID (e.g.
ABCD01) to be logged in at more than one terminal providing only one of the
sessions was active (unlocked). Fujitsu identified in cases where a SU or Office
Balance was initiated in those circumstances then it could cause receipts and
payments misbalances in the branch which had to be corrected by a Transaction
Corrections.

These issues were fixed by the Horizon release in September/October 2019,
which put in place further controls on multiple logins related to Stock Unit and
Branch Balancing and changing Stock Units.

4.4 Session Terminations

Multiple logins increases the chance of Horizon sessions being inadvertently

terminated. In most cases this will be due to a use logging in (or unlocking a
session) without locking their other session(s). Screen messages do give the
option to abort the login (or unlocking) or continue and terminate any other
active sessions.

The above scenario does place constraints on the user (one active session at a
time), but does represent the system operating as per the requirements given to
Fujitsu. There are two more obtuse cases which can cause session terminations:

Page 3 of 13
POL00037819

POL00037819
Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

e The user has moved branches and their Smart ID is still being used (in
breach of contract) in their old branch. Due to the fact multiple login
controls operate across the Network, not within just one branch, a user
with an active session will be logged out when someone logs in at the
same time using their Smart ID in another branch. These cases are few
and far between (5 per year) and the solution is to give the user a
temporary ID and deactivate their ID whilst the issue is resolved with the
offending branch.

e Users logging in and kicking out an existing locked session. This is a
scenario flagged recently by the NFSP and occurs where User 1 is logged
in on 2 terminals, one locked session (Terminal 1) and one active session
(Terminal 2). If User 2 comes to Terminal 1 and seeing it locked decides
to log in themselves anyway, this not only kicks User 1 off Terminal 1, but
because Horizon has to effectively unlock that session in the background,
it terminates User 1's active session as well. The issue is compounded by
the fact that User 1 will not be aware their active session has been
terminated until the counter tries to contact the data centre, which is
normally on the settling of a basket (a real pain if you have been doing
Drop and Go). Provisional Fujitsu analysis suggests between 45-50
occurrences of this type of scenario per week, although not all of these
were where transactions were in the basket on the active session.

It should be noted when there are session terminations, whatever the cause of
them, any transactions in the basket are subject to standards Horizon recovery
processes when the next user logs in to that terminal. Furthermore, such
recovery processes predate the introduction of multiple login functionality and
cover scenarios

4.6 Additional Issues Put Forward By NFSP

Bulk transactions like Drop & Go and bulk car tax issuing for garages are
highlighted as examples of where the constraints of the system become
restrictive or more prone to error. These are often done by one individual
switching between the bulk transactions and customers coming to the counter.
The necessitates locking and unlocking on a frequent basis and if mishandled can
lead to inadvertently triggering a forced logout on one of the terminals (e.g. if
the user forgets to lock one terminal, or if another user logs them out as per
Section 4.4)

Outreach terminals are similar to the scenario highlighted above, where in
cases that the outreach business is concluded the Horizon terminal is brought
back to the core to perform back office functions (dispatch, balancing) a user will
need to be potentially switching between the outreach terminal and serving
customers on the core branch counter.

Page 4 of 13
POL00037819

POL00037819
Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

4.6 Impact of Multiple Login Issues

Now that the issue of receipts and payments misbalances (see Section 3.2) has
been fixed, there should be no financial impacts in branch related to multiple
logins. The principle impact is therefore as follows:

« Operational inconvenience — the unlocking/locking time and issue with
back office ‘transient’ messages can be seen to stymie full efficient
operation at the counter.

e Mistrust of the system - Session terminations, especially from the second
issue (user 2 logging in over a locked session of user 1), can create a
mistrust of the Horizon system no more so than when the session
terminates with transactions in the basket. Although any such
transactions would be subject to standard recovery processes and would
not be lost, the context of the GLO means terminated sessions could be
exploited as a way of explaining branch losses.

e Sharing/Recycling of Smart IDs - The main claim from the NFSP is that
the controls around multiple logins are too rigid and will force branches to
look for ways around the controls, namely the sharing and recycling of
Smart IDs. The opportunity for the recycling of Smart IDs is certainly
large given the churn in the network, with the Dormant Smart ID process
deactivating around 800-100 accounts per month which have not been
used for 90+ days.

5) Multiple Login Options

This section lays out, at a high level, the various options on multiple logins
considering some of the issues highlighted above. All costs and delivery
timescales are indicative based on previous work of a similar nature. Note: All
the costs below are development and ongoing staff costs,

5.1 Fundamental Technical Change (Fujitsu Solution)
Cost: £300k Delivery: 9 - 12 months dependent on release slot

Delivering a comprehensive solution which addresses all the issues above will
require Fujitsu development of the Horizon solution and therefore considerable
development, testing and deployment costs.

The ideal solution would have the following requirements:

e Asingle additional login which can be enabled on a branch by branch
basis via reference data.

e The login can be associated with one Smart ID at a time via a revised
User Management Horizon screen.

e The additional login would apply the training controls based on the Smart
ID it is linked to.

Page 5 of 13
Internal
Date: August 2020

POL00037819

POL00037819

Version: 2
Author: Shaun Turner

e The additional login will not be subject to Multiple Login controls so it can
be logged in with and active whilst the user has one active session on

their Smart ID.

e The additional login should have access to all back office functions and
Drop and Go, with the facility to add additional capability via reference

data if required.

Pros

Cons

Addresses issues concerned by having
a login which is not constrained by
multiple login controls

Can be restricted by branch so it is
only deployed in branches with a
proven need

Provides traceability of transactions by
mapping the additional login to a
Smart ID

Fine grained control over what
transactions are possible

Maintains integrity of training controls
No Accenture development required

Expensive and will be difficult to get
business case signed off

Allows an unvetted user to access the
system, albeit constrained to doing
the permissible transaction types
Complex solution for an issue which is
not universal to all branches

Limited shelf life if existing Horizon is
replaced in the next 2-3 years.

Would require the addition of new
reference data structures if the facility
to control by branch and control the
transactions is in the requirements

KKK

No additional resource required to
manage new administration and
monitoring processes

5.2 Reinstate Restricted Use ID (RUID)

Cost: £15k per annum staff costs Delivery: 1 month

This solution would reinstate the use of the RUID in a more tightly controlled
way than previously. The RUID usage statistics in Section 2 of the document
suggest that not all multi-counter branches would require a RUID, so they
should only be issued based on a criteria assessment.

There are two potential variants of this approach that could be considered:

1. Back office administration functions only - This accepts that the current
multiple login functionality is acceptable for multi-counter transactional
work (e.g. Drop & Go), but provides an additional login to be used for
back office facilitating easier end of day cut off processes, preparing
remittances, completing cash declarations etc.

2. Back office administration and Drop & Go — This is the same as the
original RUID on which it would be permissible to do Drop & Go and back
office administration.

The issues with this approach remain the same, in that the RUID cannot be
locked down to certain transactions (this could be achieved to some extent by
Accenture development —- see Section 4.3 below) and therefore would require a
monitoring and intervention regime. The costs listed above are the ongoing staff

Page 6 of 13
Internal
Date: August 2020

POL00037819

POL00037819

Version: 2
Author: Shaun Turner

costs needed both from a data analysis and intervention/administration

perspective.

A monitoring regime would need to be set up to include the following controls on

RUID usage:

1. Warnings where the RUID is used for ‘unauthorised’ transactions and
ultimately deactivation. Depending on how strict the regime, it could be
something like a 3 strikes process where the RUID is deactivated on the
3° offence. This would allow a couple of mistakes where the branch

inadvertently serves on the RUID.

2. Temporary deactivation of the RUID in cases where not everyone in the
branch has passed the core trainings (AML, Info Security, and, if the RUID
can be used for Drop & Go, Mails and Prohibited & Restricted). This would
reduce (but not remove) the risk of having a user who has not passed the

training using the RUID

Pros

Cons

Y Minimal cost and time to set up as
utilises existing technical solution

v_ Familiar solution for those branches
that used RUID previously

v_ RUID can be activated only in
branches with a proven need and
based on business criteria (Area
Manager sign off could be a
requirement)

Loosens compliance, as even with the
controls in place, an unvetted user
could access the counter using the
RUID

Regulated financial services and
insurance products could be
transacted on the RUID where the FS
and Insurance tests are passed
(mitigated by option 4.3 below).
Sanctions for misuse can only be
applied after the fact.

Ongoing costs in Branch Standards in
monitoring and administering RUID
misuse

RUIDs can be used by anyone and
therefore transactional traceability
would be broken

5.3 Minor Technical Change (Accenture Solution)

Cost: Option A: £30-40k & 10k per annum staff costs

months
Option B: £60-70k
Option A - Basic

Delivery: 3 - 6

Delivery: 3 - 6 months

Page 7 of 13
POL00037819

POL00037819
Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

This option is supplementary to option 4.2, so presupposes that RUIDs have
been reissued, but it does provide some additional control around Financial
Services. As noted above, one of the issues with RUIDs is that if someone
passes the Financial Services and Insurance test on the RUID, it can then be
used to transact regulated financial products. Given the RUID cannot be tied to
an individual, any regulated products transacted on it would be a cause of
concern, but especially financial services.

This solution would mean Accenture changing the Smart ID solution so that Post
Office could select which training updates they wish to have applied to the RUID
training record. If the RUID was only used for back office administration
functions, the only training that would be permitted on the RUID training record
would be AML and Information Security, whereas if the RUID was used for back
office and Drop & Go, then updates for Mails and Prohibited & Restricted would
also flow through to the RUID.

This solution would need to be used in conjunction with 4.2 above and therefore
these pros and cons are additional.

Pros Cons
v_ Provides a better contro! around x Does not remove the need entirely for
regulated products than just the monitoring given some banking
vanilla RUID solution (Section 4.2 transactions are not considered
above). The products which count as ‘regulated’ products

‘regulated’ can be controlled through
reference data providing some future
flexibility

v Technical changes are contained
within the Accenture environment
reducing development costs compared
to option 4.1

v_ Slight reduction in monitoring costs
due to ability to block certain
regulated products entirely

Option B - Enhanced

This option would need to supplementary to option 4.2 and would build on top
of the functionality in option A above. The benefit it has over Option A is that,
whereas Option A allows lock down of selected regulated products it can only do
so for those products linked to an existing curricula. This option would allow
lockdown of a wider list of products.

It would achieve this by introducing a new curricula and Product Group. The
Product Group would be linked to the products that the business wants to deem
out of scope for the RUID but not covered by existing curricula. For Smart IDs
marked as a RUID, the curricula would be set by default to be incomplete or will
not be sent to Horizon, meaning the user will never have access to those linked
products.

Page 8 of 13
POL00037819
POL00037819

Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

All other non-RUID Smart IDs will get the curricula by default and each time an
update to training is sent, the new curricula will be sent to Horizon with a fixed
expiry date (e.g. 31/12/9999). This means for them the products would be
always be available by default.

This solution would need to be used in conjunction with 4.2 above and therefore
these pros and cons are additional.

Pros

Cons

v_ Allows control of more products than

This is the principle advantage over
Option A

v Removes the need for monitoring of
RUID usage

just those linked to existing curricula.

Adds a further level of complexity into
the reference data.

Complicated implementation to ensure
that users do not get locked out

Lack technical coherence as it is
essentially ‘fudging’ the existing

system

x Has technical risks in that if this new
curricula was ever invalidated in the
data it could lock out

5.4 Accept Existing Solution

Cost: N/A Delivery: N/A

The existing solution has issues but it arguably still represents the best
compromise position between compliance on one hand the branch operations on
the other. All the solutions proposed inevitably loosen controls and give greater
opportunities for unvetted users to operate on the counter than now and from a
risk perspective, compliance teams within the Post Office may not be prepared
to sign off on the proposals.

Branch voices, like the NFSP, would argue that the restrictions of the current
system just means that people find hidden ways to circumvent the system
anyway by sharing and recycling Smart IDs. It is very difficult to evaluate these
arguments statistically, as the very nature of the method means it is invisible in
any Horizon management information that can be extracted.

It is also not possible to fully evaluate to what extent the implementation of a
RUID type solution would reduce one problem (sharing of IDs) to increase
another (unvetted users being put on the counter). The best that can be done is
to look at some data sources which may be indicative of ID sharing.

Prior to Smart ID and up to part way through the Smart ID rollout (August
2018), Field Advisors checked on audits whether any of the staff in the branch
were not vetted. For the period from 2013 to 2018, 7.5% of audits found there
were 1 or more unvetted users working on the counter, in the first 8 months of
2018 (after which Field Advisors no longer checked), this has dropped to 1%.
Smart ID was rolling out over that period and the data capture exercise was
ensuring everyone was vetted. (Note: I have requested this check be added
back into audits and will be monitoring from January 2020 onwards).

Page 9 of 13
POL00037819

POL00037819
Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

A second way of trying to judge ID sharing/unvetted users is to compare the
name input in Horizon when a user takes a compliance test and that which is
held on record for them in the Smart ID system. This of course does not take
account any user who might falsify the name to match that against the Smart ID
and, on the flip side, those users who misspell their name, transpose their
forename and surname or use a diminutive version of their name.

Those constraints aside, all things being equal you would expect the mismatches
to be more prominent in multi-counter branches Smart ID constraints are
causing issues, but this is not the case, with single counter positions showing a
7.7% level of mismatch and multi-counter branches showing 7.3%.

This means, albeit based on an imperfect data set, that there is no strong
evidence that ID sharing/unvetted significantly correlates with multi counter
operation. When audit data starts to come in from January 2020, it will then be
possible to analyse with a more robust data set.

Finally on the existing solution, for the issue described in Section 3.4 of a second
user logging on to a first users locked session thereby terminating the first users
active session, this can be mitigated to an extent by improved screen messaging
through the BAU Atos reference data change process.

Pros Cons
v No additional cost x Does not fix any of the issues noted in
v Approved by compliance and security Section 3 and therefore may result in
teams with Post Office. branches finding workaround (i.e.
v Avoids additional complexity in an sharing IDs)

already complex solution

v_ Avoids building on technology which
may ultimately be replaced (Horizon
replacement)

y Improved screen messaging mitigates
the issue of a second user logging in
described in Section 3.4

6) Next Steps
The following should be the next steps:

e Update existing Horizon screen messages to try and mitigate the issue of
a user logging in to a locked session of another user. This can be done
through existing BAU processes.

e Further analysis of data from January 2020 of audit returns to ascertain
the real level of shared IDs/unvetted users and compare between single
counter multi-counter branches.

e Socialise the options with colleagues in compliance and security to
ascertain the appetite for making a change and establishing potential
risks.

Page 10 of 13
POL00037819

POL00037819
Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

e Options which require technical changes will need a business case to be
raised and be subject to standard project governance.

Page 11 of 13
Internal

Date: August 2020

Summary of Options

Version: 2

Author: Shaun Turner

POL00037819

POL00037819

Ref

Description

Est. Cost
(£k)

Est. Delivery
Timescale

Summary

4.1

Fundamental Technical Change (Fujitsu
Solution)

Fujitsu introduction of branch level ID which
can be linked to a single existing user and
with access to products and functions
configurable

300

9 - 12 months

Complicated and expensive but gives a solution
which could be configured to meet branch and
compliance requirements. Current business
climate makes it unlikely a business case would
be signed off

4.2

Reinstate Restricted Use ID

Controlled reintroduction of RUID in branches
with proven need and monitoring regime to
prevent misuse

15 per annum

1 month

4.3a

Minor Technical Change (Accenture
Solution)

This is a more compliant version of 4.2 but
has to be paired with that option (i.e. cannot
be delivered in isolation). The additional
benefit of this option is it would enable to
blocking of certain regulated products entirely

10 per annum
+30-40 one
off

3 - 6 months

4.3b

Minor Technical Change (Enhanced
Accenture Solution)

10 per annum
+60-70 one
off

3 - 6 months

4.4

Accept Existing Solution

Accept existing solution with its known
limitations. Improve on screen messaging to
mitigate the issue of a second user logging
out the first (section 3.4)

0

N/A

Page 12 of 13
POL00037819
POL00037819

Internal Version: 2
Date: August 2020 Author: Shaun Turner

Page 13 of 13
