POL00104213
POL00104213

Message

From: Jane MacLeod

on behalf of — Jane MacLeod:

Sent: 22/10/2015

To: Jonathan. Swift:

cc: Rodric Williams {

Subject: Post Office - meeting with Tim Parker
Jonathan

Many thanks for your time on Tuesday. I have set out below my summary of the outputs and actions from the
meeting. Please let me know if I have missed anything (or indeed have missed the point). I have asked Patrick and Rod
to pull together a pian to deliver these actions (including setting up a meeting with Chris Knight and yourself to discuss
how best to provide access to materials), as well as to collate the documents requested and get them over to you.

I hope therefore that we can share that plan with you early next week and have a ‘kick-off’ meeting as soon as possible
thereafter.

Please let me know if you have any comments.
Kind regards,

Jane

Summary of meeting between Tim Parker and Jonathan Swift QC on 20/10/2015

Both are concerned that in order to address the issues that have been publicly raised, we need to get whatever
assurance is possible in relation to the challenge as to whether Horizon faults are behind the underlying
claims. In addition, they believe that we should do ‘deeper dives' on the 3] cases that regularly receive the
media attention (Jo Hamilton, Seema Misra, etc) .

To summarise the other matters discussed:
Focus of the investigation:

criminal cases - did we have sufficient evidence to support the charges brought?

IT system - what can we do to establish that the system was not the underlying cause of the claims (eg remote
access; changes can't be made without leaving an audit trail etc)

Helpdesk - was the general approach appropriate? (Concern is around the allegation that postmasters were
advised to take actions which resulted in them committing false accounting)

other cases - were they investigated properly; was anything not covered which should reasonably have been
addressed; is there anything obviously not done; if so, could it be done now?

Ways of working:

we to find a room at FD or BD's offices where we can store files

we to set up meeting with Chris Knight (Junior Counsel ) to discuss how best to give access to required
documents . Jonathan will attend if possible

we to set up meeting between Chris & one of the investigators to take Chris through the investigation
process. My suggestion - can we take him through one of the high profile cases? Jonathan may attend.
we to set up regular review meetings (weekly/fortnightly) to review progress

POL-0103796
POL00104213
POL00104213

Documents/information to be provided to Jonathan now:

copies of CCRC requests

examples of prosecution reports summarising the recommended prosecution and supporting evidence. My
suggestion: if possible we use the 'reports' (if available) for the 3 cases referred to in Panorama. If not
available, then find others.

what documentation do we have that describes the investigation processes that we went through under the
scheme?

Meetings to arrange

Arbuthnot
Second Sight
Alan Bates from JFSA

Aim for Tuesday morning meetings for these as this is Tim's PO day. We will need to prepare briefing
documents for each such interview. Sir Anthony Hooper should be interviewed later in the process —
December?

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Petree eree ter et terete ret tet treere ttre tre erret trac eer etre ter rer ttt

POL-0103796
