POL00163214
POL00163214

From: Nick Wallis...
Sent: Fri 27/10/2017 06 PM (UTC)
To: Pressoffice,,

Ce: Mark R Davies{
Subject: Re: Bates v Post Office
Hi there

Further to my request below for a copy of the defence of claim to Bates vs Post Office. Since sending my initial
email to Mr Davies earlier today, I have received an embargoed press release from the PR company retained by
Freeths, the solicitors for the claimants.

I suspect I will be using some of the contents of the press release in a blog post after the embargo expires (30
Oct). They are largely statements of fact, however it would be useful to get a Post Office perspective on the
hearings of 19 and 25 October and/or a response to some of the statements in the press release.

In the embargoed press release, the following is stated:

"Background to the case

The Claimants allege that the evidence shows a pattern of bullying and intimidation by Post Office Ltd over many
years from 1999 to present — allegations that are denied by Post Office.

Hundreds of subpostmasters applied to join the Group Litigation Action in which it’s alleged that the problems
with Post Office Ltd.’s point of sale computer system, Horizon, erroneously showed financial shortfalls in post
offices all around the UK.

Information emerging from a sample of postmasters reveals:

* 83% believe they have suffered ill health as a result of Post Office Ltd.’s behaviour

+ 60% of people feel that they have suffered stigma or reputational damage

* 41% of people were advised, encouraged or felt pressured to resign by Post Office

* 85% of people did not feel that the training adequately prepared them for all aspects of their role and 95%
found the helpline unhelpful

+ Only a third believe that they were provided with a contract”

also:

"Extra time has been allowed to enable more subpostmasters to be added to the action

There are currently 522 claimants in the group, but there has been a steady flow now amounting to around 70
more subpostmasters who are seeking to join the action. This group of would-be claimants includes individuals
that chose not to join the action prior to the cut off for fear of reprisal from Post Office, plus others who have
come forward since that time. Any subpostmasters (including assistants, managers, crown office employees and
temporary subpostmasters) wishing to join the action must contact Freeths, the legal advisers to the JFSA, by
close of play on 10 November 2017 in order to be considered for inclusion.”

If you have any specific comments in respect of the above, I would be pleased to receive them.

Many thanks

Nick

On 27 Oct 2017, at 18:14, Nick Wallis <i

Goodness me. I was actually the grandly-titled “Controller” of Shout FM - the student radio station which
POL00163214
POL00163214

operated out of LSU for a few short years in partnership with Shout magazine in the mid-nineties. Small world.
I look forward to hearing from your colleagues shortly, and will email the press office address with any future
requests.

Many thanks

Nick

Dear Nick

Thanks for your email and hope all is also well with you. Funny but I think we are both ex editors of Shout
magazine? Or at least Liverpool Poly/JMU media of some kind?

Anyway, I've copied this to our press office email. That's the best one to use but do of course never hesitate to
contact me too and I will do best to help.

Best wishes

Mark

Mark Davies
Group Communications, Brand and Corporate Affairs Director
P ffice Ltd

Winner of the 2017 Global Postal Award for Customer Experience

On 27 Oct 2017, at 17:58, Nick Wallis <j

Hi Mark
T hope all is well.

I have attended the first two open hearings of Bates and others v Post Office and note the trial
date is provisionally set for 5 Nov 2018.

Iam keen to see all aspects of the statement of case, including the defence (and any counter-
claim, which I suspect is not relevant in this case).

In the most recent hearing I approached the solicitors acting for the Post Office and was asked to
refer all queries to the Post Office press office.

I am therefore asking if you would be so kind as to let me have a copy (preferably via email) of
the Post Office’s defence to the claim(s) raised by Bates and others.

I suspect I will have a number of queries over the next few months. As and when they arise,
should I contact you directly, use the generic press office email address, or is there someone
within the press office specifically tasked with dealing with press enquiries relating to this court
case?

Many thanks

Nick

Nick Wallis
POL00163214
POL00163214

2 ke 2 2 2 2 2 ee 2c 2 2 2 2 a kk a ee 2 2k oe 2 9 a kk ee ie 2c 2k 2k 2 2 a ee ae 2c 2c 2k a a ae ee ee oe 2c 2c 2 a ae ake 2c 2c 2 2 ok 2 2k oie

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

22 29 FR 2 FRR A 0 FARR NR FR CGR RR CR ACC a a

Nick Wallis

Nick Wallis

www.nickwi
