Message

POLO0099050
POL00099050

From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To:

ce:

Subject:

Paula Vennells

Alwen Lyons
H _j Susan Crichton

t

Re: Proposed way forward

Hmm, the boundaries between these groups are getting quite blurred and confusing (at least in my mind!).

I thought the focus of the working group involving the JFSA would be primarily thematic (i.e. the 8 or so themes which
emerged from the SS process) - rather than focussing on resolving specific cases, which we would pick up through the
seperate 1:1 briefings with MPs. The description below appears to shift it more towards the latter. Perhaps this is an
academic distinction which we can't sustain in practice, but it certainly feels like safer territory to have the JFSA
focussing on themes to do with training and support (which would then morph into the branch user forum) rather than
individual cases...

Or have I misunderstood?

We also need to think about how the review of past cases by our external lawyers plays into the messaging (if at all).
Certainly not something we would put in our proactive media statement I would have thought, but would we refer to
this in meetings as an avenue if pushed by MPs or the JFSA?

Martin

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive
Post Office

On 6 Jul 2013, at 18:18, “Mark R Davies"

I think that is the working group (number 2 below).

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 17:53, "Alwen Lyons"!

i think the only thing that is missing from James' agenda maybe not Alan's is what we do
about past cases to scorch the suggestion os unfair convictions

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary

Sent from Blackberry

POL-0098633
POLO0099050
POL00099050

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Saturday, July 06, 2013 04:46 PM

To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Martin Edwards; Mark R Davies; Lesley J Sewell; Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons;
Theresa Iles

Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Hi Paula

I think this points to the need for our package of measures to include two and possibly
three new initiatives:

1. A Branch User Forum - for existing users to share views, discuss issues, examine
processes etc.. Chaired by Exco and reporting to Exco. But this doesn't cover historic
issues (ie the JFSA and MP cases) so we could also have (2)

2. Aworking party, to use Alan's phrase, to complete the MP and JFSA cases. This could
"take over" the Second Sight review (perhaps involving them but perhaps not as they
have effectively "cleared" Horizon, the remit of their inquiry).This would involve the
JFSA and us working collaboratively on the remaining cases. We might wish to include
an external party in this too (a PWC?). This is the area of greatest risk - looking back at
historic cases which have gone through the courts. But it is also completing the job we
asked SS to do.

3. A review by a Mike o Connor or Patrick Burns figure to consider potential
independent levers which could be developed to give SPMRs a means of independent
adjudication or (non statutory) ombudsman.

This package, it feels to me, covers all bases. It looks ahead to fix internal issues and
create independent balancing view, but it also completes the review and has the

potential for doing so with SS playing a different, or no, role.

It is also a compelling package for media, which handled carefully, could contain the
story.

Grateful for views.

Mark

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 10:35, "Paula Vennells" ¢

—> wrote:

FYI and for any thoughts pls
Paula
Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells

POL-0098633
To: Alan Bates
Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Alan, thank you for the note. Yes, I thought the meeting
with James was positive too. My main concern is still
how we manage the publicity, to avoid - as you said - it
‘going ballistic’.

We had a useful conversation re a statement from
James with quotes from you and me, or possible joint
statement. And agreed we would pick up again on
Monday.

Ours is now bring re-worked in the light of that and as
we liaise with SS over the weekend on some changes to
the report where it is factually inaccurate. I am hopeful
these will be addressed.

Once I have a final draft, I would be happy to send
across to you.

It would be good to meet on Monday. And as I haven't
met Kay, then I would be happy to extend the meeting
to include her and I would bring Alwen Lyons, who is
our Company Secretary - Alwen has been the key lead
on the liaison with James' office.

In the meantime, I hope you enjoy the glorious weather
- at last!

Paula

Ps. You were on my list to call today but I imagine this
email exchange is sufficient now? However, if you
would like to speak at any time, don't hesitate to text
me.

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 09:51, "Alan Bates"

Hello Paula

I understand the meeting with James
Arbuthnot went well on Friday and I
believe he will be discussing his views
with me on Monday morning.

lam sure you will agree that it is
important that we have even an outline
document of the proposed way forward
we have discussed, before the MPs'

POLO0099050
POL00099050

POL-0098633
meeting. As soon as it is available, I
would appreciate seeing your version of
what is proposed, hopefully amended
to address the comment below.

Looking through my notes from our last
conversation, there is an early item of
concern, that being the name of the
panel which you referred to as the 'user
group’. Whilst I can appreciate you
want such a group to continue on into
the future, at which time such a name
may be suitable. Initially, and whilst it
is also looking at the issues surrounding
the report and the cases, possibly ‘task
group' or 'working party' might be more
accurate, as technically, the bulk of JFSA
are ex users, and others will no doubt
pick up on the name. I could offer
‘review board', but I could see that
might not be acceptable.

Regarding Monday 8"*, do you still want
to meet? If we do meet, and others are
to attend, I would like Kay Linnell, who
has been working with us for the last
year, to accompany me. With travel
arrangement to finalise, I would
appreciate a response to that point as
soon as you are able to let me know.

Regards

Alan

POLO0099050
POL00099050

POL-0098633
