POL00039672
POL00039672

Ormerod, Janet

From: Rich, Paul

To: Ormerod, Janet

Subject: FW: Stage 2 review meeting 24/4
Date: 30 April 1997 12:15

a
(Need t h PDA joard papers. P. f

From: Rego, Mena

To: Burdett, Min

Ce: Craik, Douglas; Baines, Keith; Kerr, Bill; O'Leary, Tim; Smith, David; Corrigan, Kevin; Rich, Paul
Subject: RE: Stage 2 review meeting 24/4

Date: 26 April 1997 11:55

Min

As discusse I await a formal note from Peter Jones and Mark Reader re their concerns so that I have
some basis for challenging any attempt to collapse testing timescales etc. As you know I believe PDA
are preparing to reject Pathways proposals for Congo4 and this will then have an impact on whatever
the latter intend to propse for Congo5S.

1 have already advised Bruce McNiven of the concerns you have verbally relayed to me. You will be
attending the meeting Peter Crahan has invited me to next Thurdsay to discuss this issue. It would be
useful if you could provide an impact assessment(however crude)of Pathways proposals for Congo 4 on
our other projecr resources. I presume Janice Hatchell in her role as Business implementation Manager
will be assessing impact on Training, production of peocedures etc? Also Regional resource hanging
around doing nothing? I am copying this note to Douglas Craik to ensure that that particular aspect is
not overlooked..

I look forward to Thursdays meeting. I feel another re-planning exercise coming along. Should this drag
along I think you will need to represent me, but I would strongly recommend you seek advice and input
from the following: . .

Douglas Craik/Andy Jones on impact of implementation of system into outlets

Keith Baines on contractual an d commercial issues

Kevin Corrigan on BA contractual implications

You will no doubt be co-ordinating the response from the other dependent projects and Ruth Holleran
to ensure that we don't compromise our accounting integrity. No doubt this will come to a head at the
PDA Board on 7/8 May. Paul will need full briefing .

If you have problems with my proposed arrangements please scream soon so that I can involve Kevin
Corrigan and arrange to baton pass to him. I know he has a lot on his plate at the moment and would
prefer to input rather than take the whole task on, I am copying this note to him as advance warning to
gird his loins (or something!)

If you can hold the fort till you go on leave and there is still an issue in this area then please call on
Kevin assuming he is not on leave tool
1 am copying this note to Bill too so he knows where to re-direct material and enquiries.
ghee up I It may all get sorted out next week whilst I am still here. Pigs will flyl!

lena——
From: Burdett, Min
To: O'Leary, Tim; Rego, Mena; Smith, David
Subject: Stage 2 review meeting 24/4
Date: 24 April 1997 15:35

Herewith a brief report on today's meeting. The meeting was chaired for the first time by Gael Stewart
and spent most of the time on the implications of the slippage to Congo 4 and Pathway's proposal for
recovering the time. Main points were:

PMT are holding an emergency meeting on Monday 28th to discuss Pathway's replan proposal and the
knock on effect on Congo 4 and Congo 5 plans

Congo 2. Gael reported the decision made at yesterday's meeting that Congo 2 would not go live on
28th April because of the "unable to contact HQ fault" Work in the last 24 hours gives some optimism
that there will be a fix and regression test with the target go-live of Friday 2nd May (thus enabling all
parties to say “Horizon went live during the week beginning 28th April).

the Congo 4 Pathway-based plan was presented on a whiteboard. There is a considerable amount of
overlapping of test phases. Model office rehearsal and Model office testing were both reduced in time
from 3 to 2 weeks each and implementation preparation period reduced from 3 to 1 week

very little discussion took place on the Congo 5 replan. Pathway have not made a proposal on this.

Page 17

POL00039672

Post

Office

date.

ourrel

” Marketing Been
Post Office Counters Ltd

Drury House

1/16 Blackfriars Road
LONDON

SE1 SUA

POL00039672
wg
PostOtfee Counters id
Regsteredin England Number 2154540
Rogstered Otfce Drury House

‘ING Btachiiars Road LONDON SEt SUA

POL00039672
POL00039672

PDA believe that the earliest that Direct Interface Testing will occur (between Pathway and Interim TIP,
HAPS and Ref Data) is 5th May (was 1st April) and the earliest that pre-proving MO will occur is 9th
June (was 19th May)

subsequent enquiry from Peter Jones about the readiness of Pathway for Direct Interface Testing
indicates that these dates are very optimistic.

I believe that PDA should be rejecting Pathway's plan. If nothing else, the reduction in MOR/MOT time
is far too risky (not to mention the overlapping activities, knock-on effect of OBCS slippages on
resources, loss of contingency). In OBCS phase it was MOR/MOT tests which highlighted a number of
serious errors which weren't picked up in earlier phases of testing - if anything we should be
increasing the time for these tests. The grapevine informs me that PDA is going to reject the Pathway
plan. Mena, do we need POCL to put forward a view formally as well?

Min

Page 2

POL00039672

yourret
ourrot

“Post
Office

Marketing
Post Office Counters Ltd

Drury House

1/16 Blackfriars Road
LONDON

SE19UA

POL00039672

Post Otice Counters Lid

Rogistoredin England Number 2154540
Registered Otfce Drury House
{16 BiacKiriars Road LONDON SE! SUA. I

