POL00212048
POL00212048

From: Parsons, Andre

Sent:
To:
Ce:
Williams,”
Subject: Remote access [BD-4A I FID20472253]
Attachment: _DOC_28614498(2)_Horizon data.DOCX
All

Please find attached the updated note on remote access following the call with FJ. I've also had some more
information from Deloitte that I have included in the note.

Andy H — would you mind reviewing this as I think you had spotted some technical errors in the language used.

Belinda / Patrick — this can then be sent to FJ. As mentioned previously, please can the covering email include a
statement along the following lines:

"This draft document, and any communications or other documents associated with it, are confidential, privileged and
prepared in contemplation of litigation. They must be kept confidential and not disclosed to any other person."

Or I can send this to FJ if that helps?

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

Cond Diclingow.

Direct: I
Mobile: I
Fax: I

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin)

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

nly is authorised to access
possible and delete any copies.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confid
this e-mail and any attachments, If you are not patrick bourk
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copy

ly privileged and protected I
arsonst

snication or attachments is prohibited and 1

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transi

on, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
ny attachment.

which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before open

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3D:
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

ited liability partnershir
where a list of member

stered in England and Wales under number 0C31766 1. Our registered

names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
