POL00092640
POL00092640

From: Martin Smith

Sent: 21 August 2015 10:05

To: Harry Bowyer

Ce: Simon Clarke

Subject: FW: Bi Weekly Call Notes - Horizon Call 26th August
vents: _DOC_31266534(1)_ Post Office Limited 12 Aug_ Horizon notes.DOCX

Harry,

Please find attached the Notes from the last Horizon call - The next one will take place on
26'h August when I am on the CPC course.

As you will see numerous issues were raised on the last call which are of concern. Andy
Winn is still receiving requests to authorise FJ to correct problems.

There appear to be two strands to this; firstly when ‘kit’ is removed from branches to be re-
sited, this can cause issues; secondly there is the “discontinued sessions” issue :-

POL has two new products - a travel money card and lottery. The sessions involving these
disconnect and the recovery script is failing. This means that if a customer makes a
withdrawal from their account and conducts a lottery transaction at the same time, the
session will disconnect after the money has been removed from the customers account and
a loss will be shown in the branch. This is apparently standard business as usual and FJ
seek authorisation to correct it. It is unclear at the present time whether or not there is
process assurance and documentation. I do not know whether POL have full visibility of
the actions of Fujitsu and the ways in which they correct the branch data.

Andy Winn also raised the issue of a computer problem with Camelot for which a fix had
been issued but pointed out that branches would encounter unexplained losses that
Wednesday when they conducted their BTS procedure.

He went on to explain that he had received an e-mail from Fujitsu about an incident which
had occurred in June. It was termed a “major incident report” and related to a branch
which had an incorrect discrepancy at the time of conducting a Branch Trading Statement.
The e-mail suggested that information had been sent to POL. Andy Winn had not
previously known about this issue and so asked to whom the information had been sent .
He had no response.

Andy went onto say that he did not fully understand the issue and that a maximum of 247
branches would have been affected. 118 of those would have generated reports based on
corrupted data. There was only one account in connection with which POL could have
held someone responsible for the shortfall.

Rodric Williams asked that Andy find out who or which department within POL that
Fujitsu have been dealing.

1526
POL00092640

POL00092640

I have since received a number of e-mails from Andy Winn and will forward them.

M

Offices Nationwide
www.cartwrightking.co.uk

From: Anne Allaker
Sent: 20 August 2015°09:377~
To: Dave Post ic Willi
‘Martin.smith”
Joel Watson

Cc: kayleigh-lee.harding:
Subject: Bi Weekly Call Notes

ick Beal; Andrew Wi
‘Alva.leigh-doyld

Hi All,

Call notes attached for our next call on Wednesday 26.08.15.

Thanks
Anne
‘i Anne Allaker
Support Services Transformation
Programme

SBR NIORTAI

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this

1527
POL00092640
POL00092640

communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender,
unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Je RIO IO OB IO ISO IOI IUD IOIO IODIDE SISOS OA IAI I ISOS ASIII

1528
