POL00423414

POL00423414
POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 11
AUDIT, RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Author: Jonathan Hill Sponsor: Jane Macleod Meeting date: 30 October 2018

Executive Summary

Context

This paper provides an update on the regulatory and compliance matters in respect of
Post Office’s financial services and telecoms businesses, financial crime and information
protection and assurance.

We have included for the first time (in the Appendix) a consolidated compliance
dashboard, which will continue to evolve and is intended to give the Committee with a
snapshot overview of the compliance health of the business.

Questions this paper addresses

e What are the key compliance issues and what is the business doing to address these?
e What is the forward-looking regulatory agenda?

e What is the progress with the vulnerable customer action plan?

e What are the key policy updates in the period?

Conclusion

The key compliance risk areas are;

e Compliance with the Money Laundering Regulations and the remediation of Bureau
de Change project requirements. We have already been fined by the HMRC for
incorrect branch registrations and this area is being closely managed

e In Telco, breach identification and reporting is a concern, with fines (£1,000 per late
report) being received for late reporting. The team has been to the HGS contact
centre in Preston to investigate and are working with Fujitsu to implement changes
to rectify the problem.

e Meeting the future regulatory agenda: there are a large number of items featured
in the regulatory appendix and the regulatory discussion continues to evolve. Of
particular focus this year have been the new General Condition requirements for
Ofcom and the Insurance Distribution Directive which both come into effect in
October and have required substantial work together with other parties and
Principals to ensure compliance.

e Cyber Security and Cyber Crime: IT, Risk and Compliance have established a Cyber
Defence Risk Assessment Forum to coordinate Post Offices approach to cyber issues.

e Vulnerable customers: We have set up a Vulnerable Customer Action Group (VCAG)
to help track the work we are undertaking on vulnerable customers and to ensure
that all parts of Post Office are joined up.

e Policy updates are included at the end of this report.

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

Input Sought

The Committee is requested to note this paper and approve the updates to the
Vulnerable Customer and Anti Money Laundering & Counter Terrorist Financing
policies.

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

Report

Contents

SECTION 1 I What are the key compliance issues and what is the business doing to address these?

1 Financial Services & Telecoms (including Banking Framework)
2-4 Bol/Post Office Customer & Conduct Risk Committee
5-9 POI/Post Office Customer & Conduct Risk Committee
10 Banking Framework Security Compliance & Governance Committee
11-15 Telecoms Compliance Committee

16-18 Customer Hub

Information Protection

19 - 20 Incidents

ai Data Protection

22 - 23 PCI-DSS
24 - 26 ISO 27001

Financial Crime

27-31 Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations

32 - 33 Travel Money & HMRC

34 -35 Anti-Bribery & Corruption Updates

36 Whistleblowing Updates
37 Regulatory Updates
38 External Threats

39-41 Cyber Risk and Cyber Crime

SECTION 2 I What is the forward-looking regulatory agenda?

42 - 43 Citizens Advice “Loyalty Penalty” super-complaint

SECTION 3 I Vulnerable Customer Action Plan

44-47

SECTION 4 I Key Policy Updates

48 - 49 Vulnerable Customer Policy

50 The Anti-Money laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing Policy

APPENDICES I A - Cyber Defences
B - Regulatory Calendars
C - Citizens Advice Loyalty Penalty Super Complaint

Confidential
POL00423414

POL00423414

What are the key compliance issues and what is the business

doing to address these?

Financial Services and Telecoms (including Banking Framework):

1.

The key compliance issues are reviewed by Post Office Compliance and its
partners at the Bol Customer & Conduct Risk Committee, POMS Joint Compliance
Committee, the Banking Framework Security, Compliance and Governance
Committee Compliance and the Telecoms Compliance Committee. The key items
for each are reported below:

Bol/Post Office Customer and Conduct Risk Committee (CCRC)

2.

The customer and conduct risks were reviewed at the September CCRC. The
Committee reviewed the conduct risk metrics contained in the Post Office
Distribution Conduct Risk Dashboards and agreed they were within appetite.

We continue to report one red metric (out of 12) for out of date literature, which
includes provision of the Savings Summary Box leaflet to customers. We will
continue focus on this whilst the products teams in Bol and Post Office develop
more effective, paper-free solutions for providing customers with the necessary
product information and application forms. This work is underway with a pilot
savings application process being trialled on the CRM tablets. A Loans pilot is
expected to follow shortly.

We have met with the BoI Vulnerable Customer Project Manager and have
initiated quarterly meetings at a working level to communicate and where
appropriate coordinate our efforts.

POMS/Post Office Joint Customer and Conduct Risk Committee (JCC)

5.

The JCC meets monthly and reviews the conduct risk metrics contained in the
Post Office Distribution Conduct Risk Dashboards to ensure they are within
appetite.

As at 31%* August, we continue to show two red metrics (out of 15). These relate
CRM Easy Life Insurance mystery shopping results, which highlight a lack of
conformance with the sales process. To address this, additional training has been
and will continue to be provided to the CRMs and their supervisors. Changes
were be made to the key health questions on the CRM tablets.

Calls to the Travel Insurance Contact Centre are being monitored to check for
compliance to the new sales process which went live on 25" September with the
implementation of IDD. Results for the first 3 weeks are showing 10,428 branch
Travel Insurance sales, with 28 sales (0.27%) where the revised sales process
was not followed. Horizon has been updated with the new process. Further MI
including Branch codes has been requested to help support remedial activity.

Post Office travel insurance applications in branch have moved to an electronic
version removing many of the risks we had with paper forms. Branches have been
supplied with Customer Pads, which enable customers to write down their details
if they do not want to give them to colleagues verbally. The information is given
back to the customer at the end of the sale.

Mystery shopping results show colleagues across a number of branches are not
actively talking to customers about products following a customer enquiry.

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

Network teams are working with branches to build product knowledge and
confidence in conversations.

Banking Framework Security Compliance and Governance Committee (SCGC)

10. There were no material issues to raise with the banks and therefore it was agreed
to cancel the meeting this month.

Telecoms Compliance Committee (TCC)

11. This new Committee held its second meeting at the beginning of September. The
main focus of this meeting was on data breach reporting and identification. An
action plan was agreed to address our concerns around identifying breaches,
reporting breaches on time and supplying the necessary information.

12. The General Conditions changes were implemented in time for the 1%* October
start date. This has involved training the call centre on dealing with vulnerable
customers, writing a new Customer Complaints Policy and updating the website
to reflect the changes. Ofcom has confirmed it will not be checking that the
changes have been implemented.

13. The focus will now move to the implementation of the S137 request from Ofcom,
which requires significant system changes to be able to provide Ofcom with
information next year for its quality of service report due in 2020.

14. The implementation of Expression of Dissatisfaction (“EoD”) was deferred due to
the General Conditions impact on the training pipeline. EoD is needed to improve
our signposting score to the Alternative Dispute Resolution scheme. We are
currently around 30-50%. Ofcom has set the industry an informal target of 90%
by December 2018 (industry level is around 60%).

15. Work on the removal of Wholesale Line Rental (“WLR”) to be replaced by fibre
products and the regulatory implications is ongoing. This will form part of the
telecoms’ business strategy design over the next few months.

Customer Hub

16. The customer hub went fully live on 20 June with travel money and travel
insurance. Since go live the monthly Enterprise Customer and Compliance
Meeting (“ECC”) has met regularly and reported in September that we have
closed two risk exception notices relating to legal contractual risk exposure and
the performance of the Travel App.

17. The ECC will seek to ensure that we obtain appropriate governance and control
over tracking control issues whilst ensuring that we still remain part of an agile
and digital working environment.

18. Going forward we are working with the hub team on compliant new propositions
(e.g., mails) subject to business case approval.

Information Protection

Incidents

19. In the last month Post Office has seen a rise in the number of incidents that are
being identified and reported, this is expected given the intensive training and
awareness campaigns that we have run. The majority of these are within the
Telecoms business because of the more stringent reporting requirements that
exist for ISPs.

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

20. Additionally we have had four breaches from other areas of the business:

-— Following on from a breach in Sodexo - our employee benefits portal provider
- several members of staff have received targeted phishing mails. IT is
working to block these and protect colleagues.

— An employee failed to follow the correct process and sent a daily banking
transaction file to RBS meant for Lloyds Bank in an unencrypted state. An
investigation is underway. No customer data has been lost as RBS acted
quickly to inform us and understand the seriousness of protecting such data

— We reported a Post Office Insurance incident to the ICO & FCA, which involved
the disclosure of limited personal data to another Post Office customer. The
Data Protection team finalising its investigation. Actions are already being
taken by POI and its contact centre provider (WebHelp).

— We identified a technical breach of our data controls, which occurred through
an internal IT help desk operation run out of South Africa by Computacenter.
The risk of actual data loss has been determined to be very low. We have also
determined that there is no risk to people’s rights and freedoms and thus have
not notified the ICO.

e¢ We have notified some of our upstream contracts (e.g., Banking Services,
Bill Payments and Government agreements) where they restrict personal
data processing to within the EU/UK. We have had a number of follow
correspondence and have had, to date, no negative responses.

Data Protection

21. Since the Committee met in July 2018 the number of Individual Rights requests
has levelled out and we are now seeing similar numbers to those pre-May 2018.
However, the requests that we are seeing are more complex and touching more
parts of the business. We are monitoring this from a resourcing perspective.

PCI DSS

22. The Customer Hub Travel App has received its Attestation of Compliance from our
QSA. This was required by FRES as there are direct links from the App into the
FRES environment.

23. Please refer to the separate agenda item on PCI-DSS for details on the status for
the rest of the estate.

ISO 27001

24. ISO 27001 is an industry standard that demonstrates an organisations maturity
in managing information security.

25. The majority of our clients and partners expect us to be compliant to ISO 27001
and some of our contracts require certification for specific areas of the business
and IT systems related to the services we provide on their behalf (for example
UKVI and DVLA services through the AEI machines).

26. A successful Surveillance Visit 3 external audit was conducted between 24" and
26" July by Lloyds Register for the IS027001 certification.

— We successfully closed the three findings that were raised during the last visit
in January 2018.

— There was one Minor Non-Conformity raised, which both IT and Physical
Security teams are addressing.
Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

— The four branches selected by the auditor all demonstrated they were well
organised and run, and only one incident observed where a branch assistant
did not lock their Horizon terminal when away from the counter. This is a
marked improvement from past audits.

Financial Crime
Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations

27. Annual AML/CTF training completion for back office staff as at mid-September
was 98%.

28. Asat 25‘" September, 59 branches remain outstanding. Details of these branches
have been provided to Retail, and bureau de change services will be withdrawn
from any branches that have not completed their training on 30 September.
Two of these branches have been non-compliant since 2017 (their bureau de
change service was switched off in October 2017) and these have been escalated
to Contracts Managers as failure to complete their AML training also impacts
contractual requirements for other products and services (e.g. MoneyGram and
Banking Framework Services).

29. The new bureau de change data capability is identifying an increased volume of
cases for review. Although monitoring reports have not yet been optimised or
fully adopted, the number of issues identified is rising by c.40% per month, with
59 identified in Period 5.

- A newly identified issue is agents/agent assistants processing transactions
using their own personal details. Branches identified to date have been issued
with a contractual remedy letter, and a branch communication was issued
beginning of September.

30. Asa result of the new data capability, we are seeing gradual increase in the
identification of linked customer transactions over 90 days. There were 141
incidents identified from Period 4 to 25" September. This will be monitored over
the coming months for regulatory and operational impacts as the new data
capability beds in.

31. The volume of suspicious activity reports (SARs) in July, August and September
2018, was relatively stable (267, 242 and 200). With the new transaction
monitoring and the ability to identify more unusual activity, reports relating to
bureau de change are increasing and are at their highest levels ever (25-30% of
all SARs).

— We continue to identify suspicious high volume business banking deposits and
liaise regularly with Santander as part of these investigations. As a result,
Santander is looking to exit some client banking relationships.

Travel Money & HMRC

32. HMRC has formally responded to our letter relating to Customer Due Diligence
and Fit & Proper, advising that it concurs with our interpretation of the CDD
regulations. However we must provide changes to branch Fit & Proper data on a
monthly basis. We continue to develop the data delivery and reporting capability
to ensure we meet the regulations. There remain a large number of gaps in our
agents’ personal data. We are writing to all agents to remind them of the
importance of providing this missing information and to receive agent's self-
certification, which must be completed by 25‘ June 2019.

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

33. HMRC has started an audit of 50 branches (DMBs and agents) to check
compliance with the Fit & Proper requirements. We have written to all branches
in the post code areas that HMRC has selected. We will accompany HMRC on all
visits. The first three visits were undertaken on 20 September. No significant
issues were identified during these visits.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) update

34. Annual ABC training completion is at 95% following the 21** August completion
date. Non completion is being chased via HR.

35. The updated policy has now been approved by Post Office and POI ARCs and has
been published on the Intranet. A One Communication is being arranged as a
reminder of some of the key gifts and hospitality reporting messages.

Whistleblowing update

36. There are no material issues to report. The updated policy has now been
approved by Post Office and POI ARCs and has been published on the Intranet.
A One Communication is being drafted with the assistance of the People & Culture
Director to remind all employees of the reporting channels available to them and
to promote Post Office’s open approach to supporting colleagues. A review of the
Code of Business Standards has also been initiated.

Regulatory updates

37. Further to the launch announcement in 2017, the National Economic Crime Centre
(“NECC”) is being established this autumn and will take over responsibility for the
National Crime Agency and the Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce
(“JMLIT”). As part of the establishment of the NECC the Government has
committed more resource for JMLIT, which will result in increased information
requests and typology analysis for member institutions (of which Post Office is an
active member).

External threats

38. We continue to see external attack in relation to iTune and Giftcard scams against
vulnerable customers and branch communications have been issued as a
reminder of the red flags to look out for.

Cyber Risk and Cyber Crime

39. As part of Post Office’s on-going readiness approach to protecting our customers,
clients and business, the IT, Risk and Compliance teams are working together to
provide a coordinated approach to cyber risk and crime.

40. We have 12 security tools in place (please see appendix A) and receive a number
of external fraud and cyber-related reports from partners etc.

41. We have now established a Cyber Risk Assessment Forum, reporting to the
Information Security Committee, to coordinate these reports, on-going activities
and propose future actions to keep the business safe.

— As part of this work, we are reviewing the FCA’s report on the recent Tesco
Bank current accounts cyber-attack will be assessing our position against the
FCA’s findings.

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

What is the forward-looking regulatory agenda?
Please see the regulatory calendar in Appendix B.

Citizens Advice Super Complaint

42. On 29% September, Citizens Advice submitted a super-complaint about the
‘loyalty penalty’ to the CMA and FCA.

-— Citizens Advice raised concerns about long term customers paying more for
goods and services, which it refers to as ‘the loyalty penalty’. It has identified
five key markets where it has concerns about the loyalty penalty, covering
telecoms and financial services. These are:

¢ mobile

¢ broadband

¢ savings accounts

¢ mortgages and

¢ household insurance

— More details on the complaint and the related Ofcom and FCA activities are
set out in Appendix C

43. Next Steps

— Post Office was invited to respond to the CMA’s investigation as a telecoms
provider. We submitted our response to the CMA, focusing on our telecoms
business but offering to talk to the CMA about our other businesses if it would
find this useful. The CMA has 90 days (late December) to respond to the
super complaint.

Vulnerable Customer Action Plan

Listening and working with our stakeholders

44. We continue to engage with our stakeholders to ensure that we understand the
challenges raised by their members and consider what improvements they would
like to see. Most recently we met with the NFSP to understand and agree co-
ordination on vulnerable customer initiatives, particularly ‘dementia friends’.

45. We also recently met with Action on Hearing Loss (AHL) to understand their
members’ challenges and concerns. AHL reported that up to 80% of hearing loops
tested across the industry were faulty. It was important to ensure that hearing
loops once installed continue to be maintained to ensure tuning and functionality.

Key issues on the Work Plan

46. This includes what we have to do for regulatory or key stakeholder management
(the must dos) this does not include work that we are already undertaking as part
of our strategy such as POca or Identity.

— Branch Accessibility Guidance - Martin Hopcroft

We had branch accessibility guidance in place (2014) but this needed
updating. Following consultation with external accessibility consultants the
2014 guidance updates are being completed and a communication will be
shared with the Network.

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

- Banking Framework 5 point plan-completed

Point 4 of the five point plan (point 4) was to promote the Banking Framework
including enhanced support for vulnerable customers following Citizen’s
Advice Guidance, which has now been completed.

- Ofcom - new vulnerable customer requirements October 2018: completed

Ofcom required a number of vulnerable customer improvements to be put in
place as part of the new General Condition requirements. We have
implemented the changes as required and will be assessing the impact on a
monthly basis.

— Alternative Format Literature - January 2019, Penny Smith FS&T

For branch customers requesting alternative format literature for FS&T
products (e.g., large print, braille, audio) the risk assessment identified that
this process was broken.

An action place is in place with FS&T requiring a third party supplier to provide
alternative format literature and for call centres to be enabled with phone
options to pass customers on to the third party provider. Call centre staff will
also need to be trained on the new requirements.

- Telecoms Text Relay service - October 2018, Meredith Sharples

A text relay service is used by customers on landlines with communication
difficulties. We are currently making changes to these call charges.

— Training our staff - new Success Factors Vulnerable Customer Module -
November 2018, Tracy Lloyd/Paul Beaumont

We are currently reviewing the first draft of the new module. After undertaking
user testing we expect to deliver this by the end of November.

= Communication on the Post Office Website - Phase 1 completed

We updated and improved much of the content that was required on our social
responsibility pages. This covers money advice for personal issues, money
management/advice and advice on electronic safety and how to avoid scams.
This includes signposting external sources of support.

Proposed Next Steps and the way forward

47. The next steps are to take forward the action plan across the Post Office and
continue our work on vulnerability working with our stakeholders where required.
As well as continuing to learn about best practice and keeping ahead of proposed
regulatory changes.

Key Policy Updates

48. The Committee is asked to note the updates to the Vulnerable Customer and Anti-
Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing policies and give its approval
to the revisions as part of the annual review process. The marked-up policies are
attached in the appendices.

Vulnerable Customer Policy

49. The key changes to the policy are:

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

— New Policy Owners
— Adefinition of a vulnerable customer
— Update to some of the external references made in the policy

= Making it a requirement to consider consumer vulnerability when designing
new customer propositions

The Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing Policy

50. There are no material changes but amendments include:

— Error correction of prison term for tipping off offence (amended from two to
five years)

— Reference to the new HMRC Fit & Proper Policy

-— Clarification of minor points and updating external Whistleblowing contact
details

Jonathan Hill
Compliance Director
224 October 2018

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

APPENDIX A
Post Office Cyber Defences

Active How it protects us

Security
Deployments

Symantec Endpoint security for laptops and datacentres (Antivirus)

Splunk Detecting incidents and potential cyber breaches covering
Verizon, Fujitsu, CC and Accenture

MS Intune Protects corporate sensitive data on mobile devices

Ironscales I Protects employees from phishing attacks

Skybox Protects our network perimeter from vulnerabilities and firewall
misconfiguration

Digital External dark-web scanning for Post Office information and
Shadows artefacts

Mimecast Email protection against malware

ZScaler Protecting access to malicious or inappropriate websites that
amplify malware attacks

Entrust Certificate management to ensure we have increased visibility
in security loopholes that can be exploited by hackers

AWS Shield I Protects against DDoS attacks via .co.uk interfaces

WAF Protects our web applications (e.g., Travel Money) from
malicious attacks
cISCO Protects our Wi-fi estate from unauthorised access
Meraki
24x7 Brings all of the reports together and provides 24x7 active

Security monitoring for cyber threats such as DDoS, Malware, Phishing,
Operations I Ransomware etc.
Centre

Confidential
APPENDIX B - REGULATORY CALENDAR

POL00423414
POL00423414

The diagrams below set out the key activities of the Financial Services and Telecoms regulators. As we develop this we will look
to include calendars for Financial Crime and Information Security regulation.

Post Office Financial Services Regulatory Calendar

Post Office Financial Services Regulatory Calendar

Sep18

July 2018 pee guns
mr a FCA Guidance Ort18ECAPolic FSCSvoluntary 2019
BEIS Green paper — FCA publish : PSD2 EU ¥ F dastif
July2018 Modernising uly 2018 (to Consultation on Statement industry HMT-dash for
jy 2018 I ising Mona) cutTent Accounts pease technical roving agreement fofashless review
ronsumer Markets i
FCAaddres: cee draftrules service Pe arene standards for (iments, the displayof
change and quality metrics ° security Comp: 2019
sucutileane ie nconsumer incurrent the FSCS FCA
Assessment 7 contracts accounts protected badge vulnerable
Bill ee o Dec 19 Q12019
Discrimination 1" Oct 18 FCA ier ananks pets
kicENSS IDD comes into andboo! consul
arm = ae eftece SM&CR for POI minimum
ears standards
inner tJ
credit To assess
scoring . proposed
particularly Basic Savings cantare remediesimpact Custom
rent Rate proposal SHEET) onPOL FS asa paste
Bol /Industr key PO! yey) =
Pan y ; challenger ‘materials fenaray
in my project
pty (0 respon vases ;
spon with
Start relevantto 7 wit
to change Principals
literature consultation =i TRO Need to consider POISM&CR
change FS& Needto challenger evaluate Banking team
(ems IB Chk implications I for CHUB- programmego I jjaising via Link
omplete I Telecoms eEsAtta SE implications for live
can Bol Ree ANSP & PISP as

Inconfieence

Confidential

Post Office Telecoms Regulatory Calendar

Post Office Telecoms Regulatory Calendar

coneaation ——— Comparing WIR Syear
Ofcom to show service quality to orb
onend of dal be df Aug is withdrawal
contract Dubliche SQ systems to

notificath improvementand — Earlya9 other CPs be in place to

Confidential

POL00423414
POL00423414
POL00423414
POL00423414

APPENDIX C
Citizens Advice Loyalty Penalty Super Complaint

Citizens Advice Super Complaint

On 29% September, Citizens Advice submitted a super-complaint about the ‘loyalty
penalty’ to the CMA and FCA.

- Citizens Advice raised concerns about long term customers paying more for goods
and services, which it refers to as ‘the loyalty penalty’. It has identified five key
markets where it has concerns about the loyalty penalty, covering telecoms and
financial services. These are:

« mobile

¢ broadband

* savings accounts

* mortgages and

« household insurance

— The majority of the complaint outlines the research Citizens Advice has undertaken
evidencing how long standing customers are discriminated against in favour of new
customers. It acknowledges that regulators have made changes to the regulatory
regime, but in Citizens Advice’s view these have not been enough to mitigate
consumer risk particularly those that have difficulty engaging in switching such as
the vulnerable and older customers.

— It has asked the CMA to undertake a thorough, cross-sectoral market study into the
penalty paid by loyal and disengaged consumers.

« What more can be done to encourage consumers to engage in markets where
the loyalty penalty exists?

« What direct interventions into these markets are necessary to protect consumers
from exploitation?

« What specific protections for low-income and vulnerable consumers who pay the
loyalty penalty are necessary?

- Citizens Advice argues that some form of price regulation is necessary, which
appears to be an increasing trend in regulation (e.g., energy, telecoms, consumer
credit, minimum savings rates)

Regulator activity - Ofcom:

= Given the focus by both government and Citizens Advice on the “loyalty penalty’
(i.e. the difference between front book and back book pricing), Ofcom released a
call for inputs document last year. It is concerned about the lack of “engagement”
in the industry and that consumers are not shopping around for the best deal and
has put forward various suggestions to rectify this.

— Following on from Ofcom's consultation and research it decided to focus on the
introduction of end of contract notifications in broadband and also want all customers
who are out of contract to receive a one off reminder that they could get a better
deal. It is currently consulting on the format that this will take and we are engaged
with Ofcom on this.

Confidential
POL00423414
POL00423414

— This is an opportunity for Post Office, as it should create churn in the market
although clearly there is a risk as we are effectively “waking up” the entire base. This
is just the start and Ofcom have indicated to us that it may go down the route of
caps, like Ofgem have done in energy, however it hopes it will not need to.

Regulator activity - FCA:

-— Cash savings markets - FCA has issued a Discussion Paper outlining a proposal for
a minimum savings rate for customers of over a year (Consolation Paper in 2019).
This could have significant consequences for Post Office’s savings pricing if
implemented as proposed.

— Mortgages - The FCA is already undertaking work in this area and published an
interim report in June 2018. It will publish more information later this year. This is
aimed at facilitating switching, particularly customers that can be trapped in
mortgages on SVR and are unable to re-mortgage, rather than price regulation.

— Insurance - A new rule was introduced under ICOBs two years ago requiring firms
to disclose last year’s premium at renewal (to facilitate shopping around) and to
convey messages on switching.

— In the FCA’s 2018/2019 Business Plan it announced that it would be looking at the
pricing practices of general insurance firms. FCA have stated following today’s
announcement that it will launch a market study looking at how general insurance
firms charge their customers for home and motor insurance. The terms of reference
for this market study will be published in a few weeks’ time.

Confidential
