POL00041768
POL00041768

Cownteri Swyddfa’r Post Cyf
Post Office Counters Ltd

BO March 1998
Our Ref: NEWAPP1

Dear Mr Bates

lam delighted to inform you that your application for the Subpostmastership of
Craig y Don Post Office, in the premises situated at 21 Queens Road Craig y Don
Llandudno, has been successful.

The transfer of the office will take place on a mutually convenient date, normally on
the half day closure, when a member of Post Office Counters Limited staff will
attend to transfer the cash and stock to you.

The present Subpostmaster has been notified of your appointment and I would be
grateful if you would write to the Agency Recruitment Manager at the address
overleaf when the legal affairs connected with the transfer of the business/ property
have been completed.

Please find enclosed with this letter two copies of a list of the main conditions
attached to your appointment. Would you kindly confirm your acceptance of these
conditions by signing one copy and returning it, in the envelope provided, to the
Agency Recruitment Manager. Please do not hesitate to ring if you need further
information about your appointment.

May I take this opportunity of welcoming you to the ranks of our local
subpostmasters and of wishing you every success in this venture. Post Office
Counters Ltd will endeavour to support you through every stage of your
appointment. The Helpline number below is your first point of contact and the staff
in our Regional Office will be only too pleased to help and advise you on any
matter.

Good luck!

Cownteri Swyddfa’r Post Cyt
Post Office Counters Led

Gogledd Cymru: a Gogledd Ortlewin Lloegr
North Wales and North West

Capstan House, Chandier’s Point

35 Broadway, Salford Quays

Salford MS 2Y¥
FfecsimibiFocseite I

KEWGARECRUIT NEWAPPLDOC
INVESTOR IN PEOPLE 1

POL-0038250
YOUR COPY

Post Office Counters limited
North Wales and North West Region
Capstan House
Chandlers Point
35 Broadway

Salford Quays
SALFORD M5 2YY

yn

2)

3)

The remuneration at the office is determined partly by an Assigned
Office Payment (A.O.P) paid in twelve equal instalments and partly
by a variable volume related Payment (called a Product Payment)
which reflects the work transacted at an office in an accounting
period. The Product Payment is also paid monthly and is calculated
two months in arrears.

By way of example, based on last year’s traffic, the Product Payment
i annum which together with the Assigned
r annum equates to a total of

However, in order to reflect the uncertainty and risk to Post Office
Counters Ltd in making an appointment to fill this vacancy, the
remuneration paid for the first 12 month period will be 75% of the
payment as above. The remuneration covers any attendance during
normal scheduled hours.

You will be required to attend 2 days training prior to your taking up the
appointment. The training will also be offered to your spouse or partner.
The Training Manager will contact you to discuss the arrangements.

The office opening hours, as agreed at interview, will be:

Monday to Friday —_09.00 to 5.30
Saturday 09.00 to 12.30

eW:GA\ RECRUIT NEWAPPLDOC 2

POL00041768
POL00041768

POL-0038250
4) The following conditions will also be attached to your appointment:

41 Posters and Advertising

Notices and publicity must not be fixed to the counter screen without the agreement
of the retail network manager. Permission will not be given for non Post Office
advertisements in the Post Office area.

42 Quality of Service

In order to monitor the quality of service given at your office, samples of waiting
times will need to be undertaken on a daily basis. The timings for these samples
will be provided to you.

43 Signage

A signage pack depicting Post Office Counters latest corporate image, incorporating
a lozenge, fascia board and window decals is to be installed at your cost within 6
months of taking up appointment. The signage to be manufactured and installed by
acompany nominated by POCL.

44 Trading Hours

Immediately upon taking up appointment, the trading hours are to be 09.00 to 5.30
Monday to Friday, and 09.00 to 12.30 on Saturday, with the private business
operating until 7.00pm on Wednesday and Saturday to accommodate national
lottery requirements.

4.5 National Lottery

A National Lottery playstation must be installed in a prominent position within the
shop trading area.

46 Weekly accounting

The outlet currently utilises a computerised system to handle its accounting aspects.
This arrangement which contributes significantly towards safeguarding the
standards and quality of the work which is undertaken on behalf of our client
customers and is a system which should continue to be used until the office is
automated as part of the national programme currently being rolled out.

4.7 Introductory and ongoing procedural training.

We will provide all training necessary for yourself.

It is critically important that both yourself and your staff should keep abreast of
revised procedures, and become fully familiar with new elements of work that are
introduced. You will therefore be expected to conduct refresher training sessions
with you staff from time to time outside normal Post Office opening hours using
material and training briefs that will be supplied to you.

Additionally, meeting and training sessions are organised periodically for

subpostmasters by the Retail Network Manager, and under the terms of your
contract you wilt be expected to attend these events.

W.GRECRUTT) NEWAPPL_DOC 3

POL00041768
POL00041768

POL-0038250
POL00041768
POL00041768

48 Welsh Language Act

The Welsh Language plan, which the Post Office has prepared in response to the
requirements of the 1993 Welsh Language Act, stipulates that third parties
delivering services on behalf of the Post Office must comply with the contents of
that plan. The main thrust of the Act is to normalise and promote the use of the
Welsh language alongside English. I will provide you with a copy of the Post Office
scheme under separate cover.

49 Post Office Point of Sale displays

Sufficient wall space must be afforded to accommodate two Post Office point of
Sale displays. Merchandising officers, whom we will contact on your behalf, will
advise you on the layout should you need to alter the existing display
arrangements.

4.10 Mystery Shopper Scheme

Post Office Counters Ltd operate a “Mystery Shopper” scheme to check upon the
standard of service given to our customers . Itis run by a wholly independent
outside market research organisation . The reports received, both good and bad, are
being fed back to offices and, where shortfalls from your contractual commitments
are revealed, we will be asking you to take any necessary corrective action.

411 Queuing Area

An adequate space must be provided for customers waiting for service. When
consideration is being given at the six month stage as to what layout and product
changes should be made, there should be discussions with the retail network
manager regarding installing a formal queuing system.

412 Counters Club

Also at the six month stage, if product lines are being reviewed, consideration
should be given at that time to joining the Counters Club, if the products are viewed
to be compatible with the retail offer at Craig y Don.

5) As an incoming Subpostmaster there is an obligation for you to implement
any Security recommendations made by our Regional security section. Any
works should be completed no later than three months after your
appointment, and may I remind you that no alteration to the Post Office
accommodation should be made without first consulting myself.

6) You will be bound by the terms of the standard Subpostmasters Contract for
services at scale payment offices, a copy of which is enclosed.

To: The Agency Recruitment Manager
AN

Office: CRAIG Y DON POST OFFICE

W2G\ RECRUTT\NEWAPPI_DOC. 4

POL-0038250
POL00041768
POL00041768

CRAIG Y DON - CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT

1 Posters and Advertising

Notices and publicity must not be fixed to the counter screen without the agreement of
the Retail Network Manager. Permission will not be given for non Post Office

advertisements in the Post Office area.

2 Quality of Service

In order to monitor the Quality of Service given at your office, samples of waiting times
will need to be undertaken on a daily basis. The timings for these samples will be

provided to you.

3. Signage

A signage pack depicting Post office Counters latest corporate image incorporating a
losenge, fascia board and window decals is to be installed at your cost within 6 months
of taking up appointment. The signage to be manufactured and installed by a company
nominated by POCL

4. Trading Hours i
i

Immediately upon taking up appointment, the trading hours are to be
9.00am - 5.30pm Monday to Friday and 9.00am - 12.30pm on Saturday with the private
business operating until 7.00pm on Wednesday and Saturday to accommodate National

Lottery requirements.

5. National Lottery

A National Lottery playstation must be installed in a prominent position within the
shop trading area.

6. Weekly Accounting

The outlet currently utilises a computerised system to handle its accounting aspects.
This arrangement which contributes significantly towards safeguarding the standards
and quality of the work which is undertaken on behalf of our client customers and is a
system which should continue to be used until the office is automated as part of the
national programme currently being rolled-out.

7. Introductory and ongoing procedural training.

We will provide all training necessary for yourself.

It is critically important that both yourself and your staff should keep abreast of revised
procedures and becomes fully familiar with new elements of work that are introduced
from time to time. You will therefore be expected to conduct refresher/training

POL-0038250
10.

11.

12.

13.

POL00041768
POL00041768

sessions with your staff from time to time outside the normal Post Office opening hours
using material and training briefs that will be supplied to you.

Additionally, meeting and training sessions are organised periodically for
subpostmasters by the Retail Network Manager, and under the terms of your contract
you will be expected to attend these events.

Welsh Language Act

The Welsh language plan which the Post Office has prepared in response to the
requirements of the 1993 Welsh Language Act stipulates that third parties delivering
services on behalf of the Post Office must comply with the contents of that plan. The
main thrust of the Act is to normalise and promote the use of the Welsh language
alongside English. I will provide you with a copy of the PO scheme under separate
cover.

Post Office Point of Sale Displays

Sufficient wall space must be afforded to accommodate two Post Office Point of Sale
displays. Merchandising officers, whom we will contact on your behalf, will advise you
on the layout should you need to alter the existing display arrangements.

Mystery Shopper Scheme

Post Office Counters Ltd operate a “Mystery Shopper” scheme to check upon the
standard of service given to our customers. It is run by a wholly independent outside
market research organisation. The reports received, both good and bad, are being fed
back to offices and, where shortfalls from your contractual commitments are revealed
we will be asking you to take any necessary corrective action.

Queuing Area

An adequate space must be provided for customers waiting for service. When
consideration is being given at the six month stage as to what layout and product
changes should be made, there should be discussions with the Retail Network Manager
regarding installing a formal queuing system.

Counters Club

Also at the six month stage, if product lines are being reviewed, consideration should be
given at that time to joining the ‘Counters Club’ if the products are viewed to be
compatable with the retail offer at Craig y Don.

Personal Service

It is expected that you will render personal service at the Post Office in order to ensure a
high professional and accurate standard of POCL work and to focus on initiatives to
grow volume

POL-0038250
