POL00255961
POL00255961

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce:

Subject: RE: Project Zebra - Privileged document query [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Rodric
Shall Andy and I call you at 1pm? Mark, do you want to join this call as well?

Many thanks
Amy

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

e: amy.prime}

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com

vy 0

Sent: 27 July 2018 11:34

To: Amy Prime

Cc: Mark Underwood1; Jonathan Gribben; Andrew Parsons

Subject: RE: Project Zebra - Privileged document query [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Sensitivity: Private

Thanks Amy.

When do you want to speak?

From: Amy Prime
Sent: 26 July 2018
To: Rodric Williams
Cc: Mark Underwi eerarunsneanmineanees
Andrew Parson GRO }

Subject: Project Zebra - Privileged document query [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Sensitivity: Private

“} Jonathan Gribben

Rodric

As part of Stage 3 Disclosure we have come across a number of documents which relate to Project Zebra (Deloitte's
report). Whilst most of these documents are covered by privilege and therefore do not need to be disclosed, we have
come across one document relating to Project Zebra which does not seem to be covered by privileged. I have
attached the email chain but the document of interest is the Zebra Action Summary attached to the email. This is a
document produced in response to the Zebra Report which sets out the recommendations from the Report and the
remediation which should be implemented to Horizon.
POL00255961
POL00255961

Counse''s initial view is that privilege cannot be claimed over the whole of the Zebra Action Summary but the parts
which repeat or summarise the contents of the Deloitte report can be redacted. To finalise this conclusion it would be
helpful to obtain some further information on the background to the Deloitte Report and the Action Summary. I have
set out Counsel's questions below but would you be available for a call tomorrow to discuss these? Stage 3
Disclosure is due on 31 August so there is some urgency to work out how to deal with this document, apologies.

Counsel's queries:

1. For what dominant purpose was the Deloitte report commissioned — e.g. obtaining legal advice or obtaining
information in connection with the conduct of anticipated litigation? Counsel would also like to understand
whether the Deloitte report was also obtained for the general purpose of making Horizon more robust.

2. What are the roles within Post Office of James Rees and Emma McGinn who produced the Action Summary
(Julie George was Head of Information Security); who was the Action Summary produced for; what were the
roles of the individuals cc'ed to the document; and for what purpose was it produced.

If the role information is not known then WBD can find out from POL HR if these people still work for POL and
their roles.

3. Was the Action Summary disseminated and any actions taken as a result of it (ie. were the recommendations
implemented)?

Kind regards
Amy

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON in)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

1 only is authorised to

com
soon ai possible and delete any copies.

be unlawful. Information about how we use

access this e-
Unauthorised use.
personal data is in our Privacy Poliey on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, wh

or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

employee

list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, o

POL00255961

POL00255961
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing,
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate I ity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law, Please see

yaww.womblebonddickinson.convlegal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

2 AR Ra 2 a RR AS AG AR RR a aR SR AG AG oe oo aR RS AS Ag ok oo aR 2 a RR og Ago oo ag a RR Ro oo ok og og aR Ro oo

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FSO SI SISI CII SI SIOI SIO I IGICICICI SI GICIGIOICI I ICI ICICI A ICICI ICR I C1 1k a8 CCI oR aR ICA RR ACCA oR aR ACCS RoR AR CAC a
