AUD_CONTACT-v2.doc
Version 2 (September 06)

Outlet Support -

Audit Contact Points

The purpose of this document is to provide the Audit Team with the
relevant contact point for their key activities once the new
organisational structure is implemented from the 25" September

2006.

1. Branch Suspensions
The contact points for a decision on whether to suspend at a
branch should be directed to the relevant Contracts Advisor
(formally the C & SM) as per the table below. If they cannot be

reached their buddy should be contacted, and the final contact point

in the sequence should be the relevant National Contracts

Manager.
Branch Type/Head Contracts I Buddy Contracts National
of BD Advisor Advisor (24 Contracts Mngr
(18 Contact) Contact)

Any Franchise Lynne Steer David Southall North — John
Branch (IFPO or I 4 ' Breeden
CFPO contract) . South — Lin

Norbury

David Mellows-Facer

Brian Trotter

John Breeden

Andy Bayfield

Lesley Joyce

John Breeden

Mark Wright

Andy Carpenter

John Breeden

Phil Turner

Andy Michael Haworth

Carpenter _

John Breeden

Greg Hutchinson

Paul Williams

John Breeden

Peter Mylchreest

Glenn Chester

John Breeden

Steve Gibbs Alan Lusher Sue Muddeman Lin Norbury
Peter Pycock Alan Lusher Lin Norbury
Drew McBride Carol Ballan Lin Norbury

Andrew Thompson Elaine Ridge Lin Norbury
Judith Aubrey Nigel Allen Lin Norbury

Shaun Turner Page 1 of 2 04/01/2007

Service Relationships Team Service Line

POL00084002
POL00084002
AUD_CONTACT-v2.doc
Version 2 (September 06)

Paul Garnham Nigel Allen Colin Burston Lin Norbury

i... GRO

All the telephone numbers are listed in the first column for the
Contracts Advisors. The National Contracts Manager contact
details are: -

= John Breeden - {~
= Lin Norbury

Once a decision is made to go ahead with a suspension a Contract
Issues Manager will take up the task of finding an interim.
Therefore should an auditor need to make enquiries following the
suspension to check on progress for an interim, the contact points
will be as the table below:

Head of BD Patch Contracts Issues Manager
North Davlyn Cumberland
David Mellows-Facer (Commercial) i
Andy Bayfield (Community) davlyn.cumberland:

North England
Mark Wright (Commercial)
Phil Turner (Community)

Central England
Greg Hutchinson (Commercial)
Peter Mylchreest (Community)

East England
Steve Gibbs (Commercial)
Peter Pycock (Community) steve.utting®

South East England
Drew McBride (Commercial)
Andrew Thompson (Community)

Wales & South West
Judith Aubrey (Commercial)

Paul Garnham (Community)

2. Post Robbery/Burglary Response

Auditors do on occasion have to liaise with the Service teams to
take a decision on attendance following a robbery or burglary at a
branch where the amount taken is less than £1000. The contact
points for this will be as per the process above for branch
suspensions.

3. Branch Audit/ Compliance Audit Reports

Shaun Turner Page 2 of 2 04/01/2007
Service Relationships Team Service Line

POL00084002
POL00084002
POL00084002
POL00084002

AUD_CONTACT-v2.doc

Version 2 (September 06) &
For a Directly Managed branch reports should be sent through to
the Branch Manager and copied to the Business Development
Manager. This reflects the current process where the Branch
Manager is sent the report and it is copied to their SAM. The BDM

information by branch will be available on the Configuration
Database from the 25" September (found on the intranet)

For National Multiples branches both types of audit report should be
sent (as they are now) to the relevant National Multiple partner
contact point and into the Multiples e-mail box

Audit reports of both types (Branch & Compliance) should be sent
to the Outlet Intervention Team e-mail box from the 25"
September. Low-level breaches will be handled by that team by
telephone intervention, whilst more significant breaches will be
filtered out to the Business Development Manager (BDM) to take
up the branch.

Shaun Turner
Service Support Manager
‘ {o)

September 2006

Shaun Turner Page 3 of 2 04/01/2007
Service Relationships Team Service Line
