POL00028593
POL00028593

CAS

IN CONFIDENCE
To: Stuart Sweetman Copy: DavidSmith }
[Dick Wheelhouse_7 Dave Waltho —_} circulate
David Morphy = --- - -- Wendy Powney } copy
Roger Tabor Tim Brown }
Jonathan Evans Mena Rego (personal basis)
Rob Durrant Bruce McNiven (personal basis)
Scott Duncan
From: Paul Rich Date: 24 July 1997

SUBJECT: HORIZON: LESSONS LEARNT REVIEW FOR JOHN ROBERTS
AND SUBSEQUENT ACTIONS

1. Iattach a report we put together at John Robert's request for arecent
Counter’s Automation Steering Group.

2. In reviewing it, John made it very clear that he expected us to use the
additional time we have to ensure that the actions that flow from the
lessons are tackled prior to the roll-out.

3. Ihave a feeling that an update on these may emerge later! We
explained how accountability for taking these forward is now being
spread across the team. We will be co-ordinating the progress in, say, 6
months.

4, Bearing this mind, I’ve annotated my best stab at those accountabilities,
. at CEC level, for taking the issues forward (and assuming the new
implementation team is transferred back).

5. This is not to abdicate, or dilute, my own overall Horizon sponsorship
accountability for making it happen, and'maintaining ICL and BA
relationships during it. But I do want us to try to be clear, as a lead
team , where the impetus for each component of the way forward lies.

6. . Could you please let me know if you disagree with my allocation -
‘ possibly at one of the next Stuart Team Meetings?

Development Director
- 3rd Floor

King Edward Building”

Tel:

Fax:

*52-48/AC

POL00028593

POL00028593
—y
ete . . INCONFIDENCE ° ~
To: John Roberts Copy: Stuart Sweetman
‘ Mena Rego
Scott Childes
From: Paul Rich Date: 15 July 1997

SUBJECT: HORIZON - FOLLOW UP FROM PO BOARD PRESENTATION

1. You asked Stuart (16 June) for a report so that you could get underneath
the ‘lessons learned’ and ‘key issues’ we presented to the PO Board in
June, and how we are planning to take them forward up to, and during,
Horizon’s roll out.

2. We have put together a report (attached) which builds around each of the
relevant bullet points Stuart presented then, and covers:
* the “positives” so far
* the “improvement areas” identified so far, and steps taken
and * the outstanding strategic issues.

3. The report is deliberately fairly detailed, and is written in bullet point
BER-type format, to allow easier reading, hopefully!

4. Weill agenda time at the next CASG on 23 July to discuss this as
requested. I suggest we focus then on any points of clarification from the
lessons Jearnt, and discuss the key issues outstanding. We can also then
agree if further.communication, outside POCL, is worthwhile.

5. Could Scott please include this report then as part of his issuing CASG
papers to Post Office Members?

Thank you

“ ; ; PAUL RICH
‘ : Development,Director

sat

POL00028593

POL00028593
cy
HORIZON - PO BOARD FOLLOW UP : . r
. 2219
: . Lead
Key Lessons - Positive Key Actions Taken/In Hand/Planned Siue
* Original 10 post offices in Stroud area work well ¢ Service management structures in ICL work well and will need € Rov
* Three new ICL releases tested and accepted to be scaled up for roll out fet)
*  Bar-coding of order books now available in over 150 post * Theconcept of “release/stage management” inthe PDA works Par
offices, and running at c50k transactions/,week, with c800 staff well, and will need to be migrated into POCL Crete)
trained . ¢ The staff training package worked well overall, and will be Tonatto,
carried forward

© There is an obvious real will to take the system in post offices AU\(es
Customers attitude sees the system as neutral to positive so far Pows
Thorough testing of releases must not be compromised for the Pat
sake of speed

¢ ICL Partnership document signed in March 1997 The partnership approach works and needs to be kept separate Po.
* Client take-on plan has progressed from Service delivery in the short-term .
The take-on plan will need extra effort soon to reassure clients Por
es slippage impacts on their market positions (and perhaps a C+ Ditd
more flexible attitude to pricing from ICL) ale
We need to improve our business requirements planning as Pow
this is migrated back from the PDA during roll out CATSG)

5238 “1

POL00028593

POL00028593
HORIZON - PO BOARD FOLLOW UP
Key Improvement Lessons : Key Actions Taken/In Hand/Planned 23/
‘ Lead
a) “there are issues around our network from ICL surveys” . Reser I
* ahigher % of our post office estate then expected has * specific work to identify the problems earlier has been taken as Jiynotue
problerns in accepting the size of the kit ergonomically part of a new installation process to be used for roll out
¢ some of our offices’ electricity standards are much worse ¢ ICLhas stapped up its contacts with electricity companies Torsition
‘then we thought (with some health and safety issues) throughout the UK in anticipation of a need for closer working Cr?>*)
* some of the ergonomic issues revolve around the size/type * POCL is reviewing its policies around the deployment of we
of our security screens security screens and counter lay out as part of putting a Tian
there are commercial issues that arise from this between dedicated resource for operational procedures in the Network
ICL/POCL,; and potentially between NFSP/POCL Department. Health and safety contractual liabilities are being a. I
* this has complicated the installation process and also reviewed :
. decelerated the progress rate of post offices equipped (see * _ principles between ICL and POCL have been agreed as to cost Pou
b below) liability if there are ergonomic issues ;
* itis clear that, in many cases, Horizon has triggered the * -areview of the functionality needed for small offices will take Por
first close look for some time at parts of our network place in POCL to see if this should influence kit size
generally * senior NFSP people have been involved deliberately in visiting Toth
trial sites so they can “own” some of the problems and
solutions
«the number of post offices to be installed so far has now caught Pow “44
up through extra efforts by ICL, and-PDA and POCL ray>
* weneed to review how we will manage outlets in the line Dure
differently, in an automated world, as part of POCL’s planned “wv+a
organisational review
i
5238 2

ae ee estate tae a)

POL00028593

POL00028593
“YN
HORIZON - PO BOARD FOLLOW UP. e@
‘ oslt
Key Improvement Lessons . Key Actions Taken/In Hand/Planned ; wes
Nome
b) “there is a need for a better installation process” —
«the installation process - from making staff aware to the © alotof work has resulted in anew agreed, and longer (26 Toratra
office being surveyed, people trained, kit installed, weeks from original 12 weeks) process with a clearer definition (,.e>a }
ancillary services in place, and service running - proved too of responsibilities, and allowing for more offices modifications;
short this will be used for roll out
* there was poor co-ordination of ICL’s sub-contractors ¢ ICLhas taken action to put in place a local co-ordinator of its Part
locally, leading to confusion and deceleration sub-contractors, and a person to check “user satisfaction” for (>*)
there was a need for better communication locally between POCL locally
ICL, its sub-contractors, POCL regions and the PDA * communication is improving but still needs to be stepped up; TW...
there was confusion about how far POCL’s “network "investigations are in hand IS to see if we can share operational ¢, a4 >
transformation” issues should be integrated with Horizon databases with ICL to ensure a consistent set of data about + Qu
installation . . offices .
+ as release dates slip, individual offices could find © CEC has decided that Horizon installation will take priority Tajute
themselves “de-selected” because they had been chosen on over network transformation, but it should be done in sucha
the basis of different functionality assumptions way to enable these principles later; a set of Horizon guidelines

around what needs to be allowed for physically and
electronically has been prepared for issue to subpostmasters
milsis easoand . thinking about investing in offices prior to receiving Horizon
* we have agreed with BA that we will transfer back the internal —
communication around roll out planning into POCL to allow Tonalin,
greater information to our offices as plans change

52.38 . +3

ec nea te eth Sp RGR AS DO  NRREHN EELAIIS a isis

POL00028593

c) “there is a need for more informed operational planning”

5238

inadequate attention had been paid to understanding the
impact on regional resource - especially the RNM - needed
to install and support Horizon :

there was a lack of skills locally to plan for the deployment
and integration of change initiatives in Regional Plans with
business-as-usual .

centrally-driven projects across the businesses did not
understand capacity impact on regions, either individually
or in aggregate

- the result was an over-burden on some key regional source

with no clear direction or point of authority for prioritising
activities

POL00028593
HORIZON - PO BOARD FOLLOW UP.
. . 2s (9
- Key Improvement Lessons - Key Actions Taken/In Hand/Planned heh CSE,

* acomplete data gathering exercise has been undertaken to Dew M
understand the strain on RNM’s time ‘

* CEC decided some key guiding principles to put in extra and _ Tense}
dedicated regional resource, separate from the RNM line, Cea &
during Horizon roll out and preparation » enna

* Heads of Management Process in each region have been DNowre
trained and brought into Horizon integration planning

* areview of central projects, with some being stopped, has been <4

_undertaken by CEC to free more resource locally
¢ abetter focus on regional resource impact has been introduced QwreM
into the next planning round process

* anew Horizon national implementation team will be set up in Tonaty
the Network Department to co-ordinate installation activity, ¢ Pe
transferred from the PDA prior to roll out .

* extra regional support and funds has been MaPEC-approved QO.
for the Horizon business case Cried

POL00028593

POL00028593
ease ' ay I
HORIZON - PO BOARD FOLLOW UP , t
Key Improvement Lessons . Key Actions Taken/In Hand/Planned Jal a
. rary
d) “we needed a better idea of connections to our other new Mamtes ?
systems” ¢ a transformation change management team is now in place,
© there was no adequate programme management in place in with skills transferred to it from the private sector, and with Pont
POCL to understand the integration and migration issues supporting POCL project manager/ process owner sub-groups
of PO’s other automation projects with Horizon now in operation
* there was a risk because end-to-end operational procedure * a programme migration path, with dependencies identified, Pout
mapping had not been undertaken to test whether has been agreed by all CEC project sponsors CATSG)
Horizon’s new processes were replacing them adequately end-to-end proceduie maps have been drawn up, and shared = Pow
» end-to-end programme technical assurance and impact with ICL and the PDA
analysis/change control processes within POCL werenot = * change control and technical integration processes have been = Panu
in place systematically initiated and will need to be scaled up as roll out begins
* aprocess for accepting releases and that within POCL is * end-to-end testing procedures will need to be transferred from 9, a
not systematically in place the PDA, and supplemented as release planning migrates back

to POCL after the system is accepted
*  aprocess for live trial acceptance is being devised to ensure Poss
collective ownership across POCL functions

52.38 5

POL00028593

POL00028593
HORIZON - PO BOARD FOLLOW UP
Key Improvement Lessons Key Actions Taken/In Hand/Planned Lesch
. Cec
e) “there is a need to review enabling organisations” Cees
* the PDA’s scope in delivering all elements of the + © areview of the PDA’s scope by separate consultancies forBA = Paw
programme, and managing ICL Pathway’s service, and POCL (but brought together in their findings) has resulted (usd.
delivery proved too wide to ensure the right in an agreement to change the PDA’s future/focus, to be Vestax
accountabilities migrated in phases, from a delivery role to an assurance one
* . BAand POCL’s own field implementation was under- * a transition plan to take back functions (eg release planning) Pour
prepared I . from the PDA into POCL is being finalised ha)
+ there was no clear point of authority within POCL for .* both BA and POCL have agreed to take back field «Tana
deciding operational business change implementation into sponsor organisations, and structures are onan
* ICL Pathway’s own organisation appeared stretched now being finalised :
managerially and technically * CEC decided to create an authority for operational change in Tinarthe-}
* the end-to-end overall programme processes and outputs “the Network Department
sometimes lacked clarity in responsibility and prioritisation * ICL undertook its own internal review of Pathway and has Pouk
* the PDA Board structure is facing change and a continuity added new senior resource for programme and technical
gap as its Chairman (Alec Wylie) is retiring soon from SSA planning 7
* too much delivery, across functions, was expected of * work is in hand to define the end-to-end programme processes ¢ feo
POCL’s Horizon sponsorship team rather than as part of the PDA review’s transition planning Gord)
commissioning and ensuring activity * anend-to-end independent programme assurance review, open cree
* POCL’s service management capability is not yet fully to all three parties, is planned to take place shortly Ce oN
scoped * amuch greater collective responsibility, and division of tasks, is Chae
apparent across POCL functions backed up by aligned Horizon
objectives
«benchmarking to other PFI-supplied organisations to Posh &
understand service management is underway as part of (mse
POCL’s organisation review boas)
52:38 6 1)
2 ee

POL00028593

POL00028593
wo.
HORIZON - PO BOARD FOLLOW UP ; @
KEY ISSUES OUTSTANDING ds 2 3
Issues : . Actions/Implications Noawee ?
@ Robustness of ICL Pathway programme . ¢  Planhas slipped further since PO Board update Pah
. . : ¢ End-to-end programme review urgently needed, and is Site
planned Clow)
¢  ICLhas made some structural changes which should help Pomk
¢. Extra PO technical help brought in to assure plans Pond

* — Collective nerve needed to ensure no compromised on quality ay I
for sake of speed and to retain programme focus © .

: Sate
@® POCL-strategic planning * I; POCL’s CEC strategy workshop confirmed with business (aul)
. units, that Horizon remains central to our business strategy
* II A strategic review of how we could do Horizon Pour

quicker/cheaper, without disturbing Contract A with Cun Bare
BA/SSA, is planned

@ POCL-managing change . ¢ POCL is organising itself, in phases, to be ready to operate in

, anew automated world
@ ICL-relationship management : . © Weare sticking to our partnership approach, and being tough Po

on service delivery in parallel

*  Wemay need to continue this at ICL/Fujitsu levelsand look Pau
again at how we approach the marketplace together, inthe Cw. I
light of the delay, to restore our competitive position Die?

52.38 7

POL00028593

POL00028593
HORIZON - PO BOARD FOLLOW UP . ; . ,
. i 23lt
Issues . Actions/Implications be oe
® DSS-politicalissues ~ , . ¢  Wecontinue to agree to prioritise BA products onto the Posed,
system first, despite the impact on our competitive position
with our other clients
© 1, We understand other policy options (eg termination) may be Shit
being considered in DSS as contingency options. We need to Cu.
confront this early politically Ade?)
® Post Office - political issues : * Weneed to get closer to the new social policy agenda arising Cleele
: from Labour's advisors/ ministers to ensure the PO has the as ASC
right positioning to defeat any new ACT-type threats that ¢ Tangy ©
may run. 1
* ~ Commercial freedom exploitation critically depends on Dick
; , automation for POCL

POL00028593

POL00028593
— °
10/07 "97 15:00 FAX 071 250 2960 CHIEF EXEC PO - @oo1
~
x _ F 2
"“@- Erie Cnod- elf 3,
t , .

“ee

MEMORANDUM
TO: Stuart Sweetman
FROM: John Roberts DATE: (© June 1997

Following your presentation to the Board on the current status of Horizon, I
would like to further my understanding of the lessons learmed during the live
trials.

Could you please prepare a report covering how these trials will be reviewed
and how we intend to assimilate and communicate the learning points prior to
roll out. This could then form the basis of a discussion at the Counters
Automation Steering Group.

10/07 '97 15:04 TX/RX NO.2068 P.001

