POLO0111283

POL00111283
Message
From: Diane Blanchard [}
on behalf of Diane Blanchard ¢
Sent: 01/11/2018 14
To: Avene Regan
Subject: RE: Private & Confidential - Subject to Litigation Privilege - Tomorrow's GLO Update and Planning Call is cancelled

Thank you @

From: Avene Regan

Sent: 01 November 2018 14:09
To: Diane Blanchard <_
Subject: FW: Private & Confidential - Subject to Litigation Privilege - Tomorrow's GLO Update and Planning Call is
cancelled

Importance: High

Hi — to see, tomorrow’s call has been cancelled.

Avene

‘ Avene Regan
& Executive Assistant
to the Group Chief Executive,
Paula Vennelis

Post Office Customer Support Centre
Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street

London, EC2Y $8Q

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy, information about how we do
this can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 01 November 2!
To: Paula Vennells

; Alisdair Cameron ¢

; Julie Thomas ¢ “GRO

Mark R

Rodric Williams

Mark Underwood1
Subject: Private & Confidential - Subject to Litigation Privilege - Tomorrow's
Importance: High

is cancelled

Dear all,
GLO Update & Planning Call tomorrow

Given there have been no material updates since the Board on Tuesday, the call tomorrow is cancelled. Please contact
Mark Underwood in the first instance with any queries or requests for further information.

POL-0111474
POLO0111283
POL00111283

Common Issues Trial (CIT)

Since the GLO Update & Planning call last Friday and the Board on Tuesday this week, there have been no material
updates or changes. POL has now completed its preparations for the Common Issues Trial (CIT), which begins on
Monday (5* Nov) and it is now really over to the legal team and, principally, David Cavender QC (DCQC) to ensure that
he is fully prepared ahead of opening submissions on Wednesday 7 November 2018.

Aside for a telephone con with DCQC tomorrow at 9am, our attentions will focus on making sure POL’s 14 witnesses are
fully supported and have everything they need ahead of giving evidence, which for them, will begin on Thursday 15
November 2018.

Horizon Issues Trial (HIT)

The only material update since the call between Paula and DCCQ on Monday (which took place ahead of the Board on
Tuesday) is that Fujitsu’s employee Steve Parker has now agreed to be witness and provide evidence. Paula is already
aware but this is welcome news.

Otherwise, we are continuing to pull together responses to the witness statements received from Freeths, ahead of the
current 13 November 2018 deadline and Robert, our Expert, is working on his response to Jason Coyne’s report. This is
due on 30 November 2018.

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Business Improvement Director

1" Floor,Ty Brwydran,
Atlantic Close,Liansamiet
Swansea SA7 9FJ

00

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

POL-0111474
