POL00113770
POL00113770

103 - Post Office Press Release: . €

Identity & Licences I Shop @

I Your Finances I insurance I Travel I Broadband & Phone I Mail I Driving

Press Release News Releases 2013

News Releases 2012

Post Office statement on findings of interim report
into Horizon computer system

Transforming the Post Office

Social Responsibility
Monday 8 July 2013

‘The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to the publication of an interim
report into alleged problems with the Horizon computer system, which is used to record
transactions in its branch network.

Can we help?

The report is being published by an external firm, Second Sight, who were commissioned by the

Post Office last year. It confirms that no system wide problems have been found in relation to the For journalists with a media enquiry,
Horizon software, but suggests that the Post Office should examine its support and training
processes for sub-postmasters.

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

"We commissioned this independent review to address concerns that have been raised about the For customers with a general enquiry,
Horizon system and we welcome the broad thrust of the interim findings.

“The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do so. The interim GRO

review makes clear that the Horizon computer system and its supporting processes function —

effectively across our network. As the review notes, it is used by around 68,000 people in more 8.30am-6pm, Mon-Fri

than 11,500 branches, successfully processing more than six million transactions every day. The 8.30am-2pm, Sat

review underlines our cause for confidence in the overall system. Closed Sun and bank holidays

“it does however raise questions about the training and support we have offered to some sub-
postmasters and we are determined to address these issues.

"The people who work in the post office network in communities across the country are the lifeblood
of our business and we take our responsibilities to them very seriously.

"We therefore regret very much if any sub-postmaster feels that our standarg¢€ apport or
training have not met their needs, and we are grateful to James ArbuthnolyApgmne Justice for

Sub-postmasters Alliance (JFSA) for raising these issues with us.

“in many of these cases I am confident that steps have already been taken which have improved
support and training but we are always open to feedback and insights from sub-postmasters. So we
will make further improvements in this area and take better account of individual requirements and
circumstances going forward."

The Post Office is proposing to respond fo the Second Sight report with three new initiatives aimed
at addressing the issues raised, improving future processes and examining potential structural
changes to support sub-postmasters:

4. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the review of cases started by
Second Sight last year. This would examine the themes identified by Second Sight and consider all
cases brought forward by the JFSA and MPs, together with any new themes which emerge from
these cases. The JFSA have been invited to join this working party.

2. Areview chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety net might be
introduced to adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. Again the JFSA and other stakeholders will
be invited to take part in this process.

3, Anew Branch User Forum to provide a way for sub-postmasters and others to raise issues and
insights around business processes, training and support, directly feeding into the organisation's
thinking at the highest level. A key task for this forum will be to review support processes and
training to ensure they meet the standards expected of the Post Office.

www.postoffice.co.ul/post-office-statement-horizon 12

POL00113770

POL00113770

10/9/13 at ‘ Post Office Press Retease: ott £
Ms Vennells added: "We have an obligation to protect public money, including investigating
suspected wrongdoing. However, we hope the action we are already taking and these additional
proposals to work collaboratively with the JFSA and sub-postmasters demonstrate our commitment
to improving the way we support all those who work in our unrivalled branch network."
View Horizon Interim report
For more information, please contact:
Ruth XBarker ;
Post Office Press Office

Advice to Customers

Ifyou are a customer please note our press releases are intended for use by journalists only and

customers should not use them to make financial decisions. Please remember information in past

press releases may no longer be current.

Please note the Press Office team can only deal with enquires from the media. Unfortunately they do

not have access to customer information so can not help with customer enquiries.

wiry regarding any Post Office product or senice please vsit postoffice.co.uk or call
Useful Info Our Policies About the Post Office
ContactUs Careers Terms of Use Privacy ‘Atthe Post Ofice our aim is to provide you withthe things that
Post Office News Sitemap Cookies Our Publication Scheme __@@ importantto you—fram your mail to your broadband
i package, your carinsurance to your savings account.
Our Network Cymraeg Accessibility Social Responsibility ‘Whether you pop into a branch or shop online, you can be
Business Opportunities Getting connected sure all your needs will be handled with care. That's the Post
Post Office Leadership Annual Report Government Services Office promise,
Blog from the
Communications Director Senicen we provide
Quick links Can we help? f —
Travel Money Credit Card Help & Support
Buy Stamps oi Passport Track & Trace Find us on
Rod Fishing Licence Redirection Senices Find a Branch
Mortgages Website Feedback
Copyright 2013 The Post Ofice i
‘waw.postoffice.co.uXpost-office-statement-horizon : 22

POL00113770
POL00113770

swt0I913 Post Office Press Release: Post Office announces independent mediation scheme for subpostmasters

I Your Finances I Insurance I Travel I Broadband & Phone I Mail I Driving I Identity & Licences I Shop 5

Press Release News Releases 2013

News Releases 2012

Post Office announces independent mediation
scheme for subpostmasters Transforming the Post Office

27 August 2013 : spate
Social Responsibility

Introduction of scheme part of Post Office’s commitments following findings of interim report into
Horizon system

Post Office committed to addressing concerns raised by subpostmasters by reviewing their
cases

Can we help?

‘The Post Office has today announced the introduction of an independent mediation scheme to
address the concerns raised by some subpostmasters regarding cases which they feel require
further resolution.

For journalists with a media enquiry,

This follows the publication of the interim report into the Horizon system produced by Second Sight
in July. The report stated that so far no evidence of system wide (systemic) problems with the
Horizon software had been found. However, it noted that improvements could be made in the
training and support processes provided to subpostmasters. In response to the report the Post
Office has made a number of commitments, one of which is to create this independent mediation
scheme for subpostmasters and the Post Office to investigate and try to resolve a subpostmaster’s alll:

concems. "SRO

The Post Office, JFSA (Jistice for Subpostmasters Allance), and Second Sight, the independent by gg ae
investigators, have formed a working group to collaboratively develop and monitor this scheme s0am-opm, Morr
which is available to current and former subpostmasters from 27 August 2013. 8.30am-2pm, Sat

Closed Sun and bank holidays

Commenting on the launch of the Scheme, Angela van den Bogerd Post Office Head of
Partnerships said: “The Post Office is committed to addressing any outstanding concerns among
subpostmasters swiftly and transparently.

“As part of this commitment we set up an independent review which recently published an interim
report which found that so far there was no evidence of any systemic issues with Horizon but did
identify some further improvements we could make to our training and support
which we are taking forward,

“In addition, the independent mediation scheme we are announcing todg ait
way to assess and address any outstanding cases where subpostmasters feel they have been
unfairly treated.

“Subpostmasters are the lifeblood of our business and we take their concerns extremely seriously.
‘We hope the package of measures we are announcing will demonstrate our commitment to working
closely with them to further improve our network.”

Commenting on the announcement, James Arbuthnot MP, who is spearheading interest in the
matter at Parliament, said: “lam very pleased indeed with the working group's proposed process.
To my mind, it represents the very best chance all parties - individual subpostmasters and
mistresses, and the Post Office have of ensuring the best outcome for everyone. It is fair,
thorough, and independent.”

‘Subpostmasters wishing to submit an application should visit jfsa.org.uk 5! for further
information.

Issued by:

Notes to editors:

The Post Office is responding to the Second Sight report with three new initiatives aimed at
addressing concerns raised, improving future processes, and examining potential structural

‘www.postoffice.co.ul/post-office-announces-independent-mediation-scheme-for-subpostmasters 2

POL00113770
POL00113770

4093 Post Office Press Release: Post Office announces independent mediation scheme for subpostmasters
changes to support sub-postmasters:

In addition to establishing the independent mediation scheme, a working group has been created
to build on the work started by Second Sight last year and to develop it into this mediation scheme.

Anew Branch User Forums also being established to provide a way for sub-postmasters and
others to raise concerns and insights around business processes, training and support, directly
feeding into the organisation's thinking at the highest level. A key task for this forum will be to
review support processes and training to ensure they meet the standards expected of the Post
Office.

‘The Horizon system has around 68,000 users and processes more than six milion transactions
every day. The total number of cases put forward by users to Second Sight as part for its external
review was 47, less than 0.1 per cent of the total number of users of the Horizon system.

‘The mediation process will be open both to subpostmasters who raised concerns through the
Second Sight review, and also any who feel they have a dispute with the Horizon system (or an
associated issue) which requires resolution. The scheme will involve cases being independently
investigated by Second Sight followed, where appropriate, by a face-to-face discussion between
the Post Office and the subpostmaster chaired by a neutral mediator.

‘The scheme is being supervised by a working group comprising representatives from Post Office,
JFSA, and Second Sight. Any subpostmaster wishing to take part in the scheme must submit an
application through Second Sight which will review each case for eligibility.

Advice to Customers

Ifyou are a customer please note our press releases are intended for use by joumalists only and
‘customers should not use them to make financial decisions. Please remember information in past
press releases may no longer be current.

Please note the Press Office team can only deal with enquiries from the media. Unfortunately they do
ot have access to customer information so can not help with customer enquiries.

Ifyou have an enquiry regarding any Post Office product or senice please visit postoffice.co.uk or call

Useful Info Our Policies About the Post Office

ContactUs Careers Terms of Use Privacy Atthe Post Office our aim is to provide you with the things that
are important o you~ from your mail to your broadband

Post Office News Sitemap Cookies: Our Publication Scheme
— package, your car insurance to your savings account
‘Our Network Cymraeg Accessibilty Social Responsibility Whether you pop into a branch or shop online, you can be
Business Opportunities Getting connected ‘sure all your needs will be handled with care. That's the Post
PostOfice Leadership Annual Report Government Services Office promise,
Blog from the ‘i ‘
‘Communications Director Senices we provide
Quick links Can we help?
‘Travel Money Credit Card Help & Support
BuyStamps GF Passport Track & Trace Find us on
Rod Fishing Licence Redirection Services: Find a Branch
Mortgages Website Feedback Gl

Copyright 2013 The Post Office

wwwx postoffice.co.uk/post-office-announces-independent-mediation-scheme-for-subpostmasters

POL00113770
POL00113770

1212413 PostOffice - News Releases - Post Office statement on findings of interim report into Horizon computer system

Media Centre Login Register Postoffice.co.uk Search Media Centre

Home NewsReleases Facts andFigures MediaLibrary Executive Biographies Blogs Contacts

You are here Home News Releases Post Office statement on findings of interim report into Horizon computer system

Feat] im]

Post Office Statement On Findings Of Interim Keywords
Report Into Horizon Computer System Aetarcd cones

ue Search

Search

duly 08 2013 Downloads
Corporate National

Media Centre Contacts
Post Office Press Office

Follow Us

Latest Social Media

. @FocusTV_Darren @HaltonP_O That is
- The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to sensational!

the publication of an interim report into alleged problems with the
. ar A aa RT @Vernon_CoakerMP: Fantastic to
Horizon computer system, which is used to record transactions in its launch the new-look Worrall Avenue Post

branch network. Office with longer opening hours!

- I Congrats to manager Alison! ht...
The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to the publication of an interim

report into alleged problems with the Horizon computer system, which is used to record transactions

RT
in its branch network. @margarethodg

in Ripple Road Barking!
@PostOfficeNews
hitp:/It.co/pAkJ5nGKQ4

.. and post office

The report is being published by an external firm, Second Sight, who were commissioned by the
Post Office last year. It confirms that no system wide problems have been found in relation to the
Horizon software, but suggests that the Post Office should examine its support and training

processes for sub-postmasters. Thanks @DavidMundellMP for opening

newlook Biggar #PostOffice which
doubled opening time to 110 hours 7
days a week http:/t.coCPERNFdDvG

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

"We commissioned this independent review to address concerns that hg
Horizon system and we welcome the broad thrust of the interim findings.

"The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do so. The interim
review makes clear that the Horizon computer system and its supporting processes function
effectively across our network. As the review notes, its used by around 68,000 people in more than Media Library
11,500 branches, successfully processing more than six milion transactions every day. The review

underlines our cause for confidence in the overall system,

“it does however raise questions about the training and support we have offered to some sub-
postmasters and we are determined to address these issues.

"The people who work in the post office network in communities across the country are the lifeblood
of our business and we take our responsibilities to them very seriously.

www.postofficemediacentre.co.uWNews-Releases/Post-Office-statement-on-findings-of-interim-report-into-Horizon-computer-system-a0.aspx 42

POL00113770
POL00113770

12/2113, PostOffice - News Releases ~- Post Office statement on findings of interim report into Horizon computer system

“We therefore regret very much if any sub-postmaster feels that our standards of support or training

have not met their needs, and we are grateful to James Arbuthnot MP and the Justice for Sub- ee ee ™~ ;
Ppostmasters Alliance (JFSA) for raising these issues with us. wad oo

“in many of these cases 1am confident that steps have already been taken which have improved
support and training but we are always open to feedback and insights from sub-postmasters. So we
vill make further improvements in this area and take better account of individual requirements and
circumstances going forward.”

The Post Office is proposing to respond to the Second Sight report with three new initiatives aimed
at addressing the issues raised, improving future processes and examining potential structural
changes to support sub-postmasters:

1. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the review of cases started by
Second Sight last year. This would examine the themes identified by Second Sight and consider all
cases brought forward by the JFSA and MPs, together with any new themes which emerge from
these cases, The JFSA have been invited to join this working party.

2. Areview chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety net might be
introduced to adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. Again the JFSA and other stakeholders will
be invited to take part in this process.

3. Anew Branch User Forum to provide a way for sub-postmasters and others to raise issues and
insights around business processes, training and support, directly feeding into the organisation's
thinking at the highest level. A key task for this forum will be to review support processes and
training to ensure they meet the standards expected of the Post Office.

Ms Vennells added: "We have an obligation to protect public money, including investigating
suspected wrongdoing. However, we hope the action we are already taking and these additional
proposals to work collaboratively with the JFSA and sub-postmasters demonstrate our commitment
to improving the way we support all those who work in our unrivalled branch network."

View Horizon Interim report

Contact information

Ri

GRO I :

Downloads

Download all assets in a .zip file
A ©

Post Office Logo

View + Download

Quick links Our policies

News Releases Blogs Terms of Use
Facts and Figures Contacts Cookies
Media Library Post Office website Privacy
Executive Biographies Post Office corporate

Copyright 2013 The Post Office

www.postofficemediacentre.co.uWNews-Releases/Post-Office-statement-on-findings-of-interim-report-into-Horizon-computer-system-a0.aspx

