POLO0099684
POL00099684

Application Form
For Second Sight use only
Case ref:

Your Details

Surname: Jones

Forenames: Keith

Ye ddress:~
‘our address: G RO

Postcode:

Telephone number 1

Telephone number 2:

Email address: rhigos-store

My current Member of Parliament is: Ann Clwyd

Your Branch

Please insert the details of the branch where you worked. If you worked at more than one branch,

please provide details on an extra sheet of paper.

Name of branch: Rhigos

FAD Code of branch: 4846117

Address of branch:

Postcode:

Your role at the branch (ie. Subpostmaster, Subpostmistress, clerk, etc.): Subpostmaster

When did you begin in this role? April 2008

Are you still in this role?

@ YES

O NO

If no, when did you leave this role:

POLO0099684
POL00099684

Initial Case Overview

To the best of your knowledge, is your case (or any part of it) currently subject to any on-going criminal
investigations or proceedings (including the issue of a summons, sentencing hearings or a confiscation
order)?

O YES - you may still submit your case, but Second Sight may not be able investigate it whilst criminal
investigations or proceedings are on-going.

M No

The purpose of the ‘Initial Case Overview’ is to summarise the main issues you wish Second Sight to
consider. If your case is accepted for mediation, you will then have an opportunity to supply much more
detail together with supporting evidence.

The following Key Questions may help you with this Initial Case Overview but please feel free to supply
any information that you consider may help explain your complaint.

What is the main issue or issues you wish us to consider that relate to Horizon or its associated
processes?

Effect on HOL of power failures during transactions and low power indicated by shop lights dimming,
poor and loss of communication during transactions, outdated and unserviced sub post office equipment
causing freezing, slow and no response with keyboard, Touch screen icons recording wrong stock items
during sale, screens going blank , pin pad's cancelling transactions after completed, non-responsive
when card inserted, pin pad transactions having to be repeated a number of times due to connection
failures

When did the incidents relating to the main issue or issues occur?
At random times over the last 4 years

What prior contact have you had with the Post Office in regard to the incidents/issues that you are now
reporting?

All equipment malfunctions were reported at the time of the incident

How was the issue or issues resolved at the time they occurred?

In the case of the base unit problems of freezing, slow, keyboard not working I was told every time to
reboot the system, regarding pin pad’s I was told to run service utility checks every time and eventually I
had 3 pin pads replaced over a period of time and 3 touch screens replaced and 2 printers replaced, all
were replaced with dirty and unserviced used equipment, I was informed at the time the replacement
equipment was taken from post offices that had closed some considerable time ago. 2 replacement
screens did not work and the last one I had to thoroughly clean and remove dozens of sticky labels
before I could use it when I complained to the engineer he said you are lucky it is a working one I would
hang on to it.

POLO0099684
POL00099684

What is the monetary value of the issue or issues you are now reporting?

£24,214.54

Were you the subject of either civil recovery action or criminal prosecution regarding the main issue or
issues you are now reporting?

Not at this time

How were these actions against you (if any) resolved?

Ongoing

What is your explanation for the events forming the main issue or issues you are now reporting?

Rhigos post office is in a poor broadband area 1.4meg on a good day with frequent loss of
communications at random times for vary periods sometimes seconds, minutes or longer, we have also
suffered very frequent power dips (indicated by the lights dimming) and power cuts for the 5 years I have
been here and many years before that according to customers (no UPS on the base unit) although
reduced considerably during the last year, I would estimate the in-house equipment is at least 12 years
old and has never been serviced, only replaced when faulty and then with used unserviced equipment, I
had a number of unexplained shortages before the Horizon on line was installed which the previous
postmistress had told me she had also experienced, but then after Horizon on line was installed I had a
large shortage and after researching the forums online as to the possible causes and finding the post
office had put people in prison and lost their homes and businesses with no investigation as to the
causes by the post office I was too afraid to complain to the post office, the unexplained losses continued
and I could not find the cause as I did not know where to look. I had 1/2 days training on Horizon on line
and spent the next 3 months muddling my way through it to a workable level.

I had experienced problems with mobile top-ups not going through but then minutes later the customers
phone received a message top up successful and I had not taken any money for the top-up, I was lucky
this customer was still in the shop but this had happened many times before with customers leaving the
shop without a top-up as far as I knew.

I had one customer withdraw their pension at the end of the day I had to do it a couple of times as I lost
communication and the transaction was cancelled and then I experienced an unexplained shortage of a
similar amount to the pension withdrawal when balancing minutes later, fortunately the customer was still
shopping I asked him to check his balance no money had been withdrawn from his pension account but
the system had said yes and I paid out. The present new contactless pin pad often cancels transactions
after completing a transaction by stating the customer has cancelled by removing his card, but the card
was still in the pin pad.

Did you request assistance from the Post Office regarding the issue or issues you are now reporting?

Regarding the equipment problems yes, as to the unexplained losses no, the Post office had already
demonstrated they would never investigate the cause of the unexplained losses; they were only
interested in prosecuting the subpostmaster and obtaining the false accounting balance generated by the
Horizon on line system from the subpostmaster by any means possible.

What assistance if any was provided?
Reset advice on the equipment a number of times , then eventual replacement with more used
equipment

Please attach additional sheets of paper if you require more space.

POLO0099684

POL00099684

Declaration
I acknowledge that:
° As part of the Scheme, I must promptly provide information about my case to Second Sight. If I

do not provide full information in a timely manner, I accept that it may not be possible to

investigate or mediate my case.
° Information I provide about my case or the findings of Second Sight's investigation may help

reach a resolution with Post Office but that it may also reveal further claims against me.
° 1am only entitled to financial support from Post Office if I have signed a Funding Agreement.

I confirm that:
. My case relates to the Horizon system or an associated issue.

. Post Office may communicate details of my case to Second Sight, JFSA, my Member of
Parliament and/or its professional advisors.

° The facts and matters set out in this Application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

I confirm that I am:

Y Currently serving as a Subpostmaster and have already raised my case with Post Office and have
completed all Post Office's internal complaint processes.

Not currently serving as a Subpostmaster.
(Please tick one box)

If you are unable to give all the above acknowledgements and confirmations, your case may not be
eligible for the Scheme. In that circumstance, please contact the JFSA for assistance.

This Application Form and your involvement in the Scheme do not create any legally binding contract or
obligations between Post Office and you.

The Working Group, its members and their advisors owe no obligations or duties, and accept no liability,
to you in connection with the Scheme.

Signed

Keith Jones
Name

09/09/2013
Date ose

