POL00448913
POL00448913

NUL
Wy, HERBERT
S Pees
IS

Strictly private and confidential

(INSERT] Primrose Street

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP
Exchange House

London EC2A

Fu spn
E HSFPosiGiiceo 3
www.herbertsmithfreehills.com

‘Ourret

2076/31043483

Your ref
[Insert — if known]

Date

By email: [INSERT] [ DATE \@ "dd MMMM yyyy” J]

Dear [Claimant representative]
Your client: [INSERT]

Our client: Post Office Lit

ited ("Post Office")

Interim Payment Invitation and Redress Process

1.
1.1

1.2

1.3

INTRODUCTION

We understand that you act for [claimant] and refer to our [previous correspondence/ letter/
email dated XXX].

Post Office is committed to providing fair and timely redress to those whose convictions
have been overturned. The purpose of this letter is to explain the framework which has
been put in place to enable it to achieve that objective.

We should make clear at the outset that Post Office's proposals in respect of redress aim
to provide redress on the assumption that a claim for malicious prosecution will be made
out (although there are some alternative options, available at a Claimant's election). As
such, and although no formal concessions are being made, it is not necessary for your
client to spend time proving or compiling evidence on issues of liability in order to access
the redress available. Post Office instead intends to focus on quantum, which it hopes will
allow redress to be paid more quickly.

SUMMARY

The framework for the provision of redress which has been put in place has several stages.
This allows payments to be released in tranches, so that Claimants do not have to wait
until their full redress package is agreed before being placed in funds. In summary, those
stages are:

2.1.1 Interim payments:

(A) Claimants are first invited to apply for an immediate, initial interim
payment of up to £163,000 on account of non-pecuniary damages.

(B) Claimants with an immediate need for medical treatment can also ask
Post Office to fund the reasonable costs of that treatment in advance, so

GBRO1/85492238_3
Herbert Smith Freehils LLP and its subsidiaries and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are separate member firms of the international legal practice
known as Herbert Smith Freehils.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP is a
Solicitors’ Regulation Authority
Exchange House, Primrose Stre

liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C310989. It is authorised and regulated by the
land and Wales. A list of the members and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at the registered office,
ndon EC2A 2EG. We use the word partner of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP to refer to a member of Herbert Smith Freehils LLP,

(or an employee or consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications.
2.14

(Cc)

POL00448913

POL00448913

Date

HERBERT 05 September 2024
SMITH Letero
FREEHILLS [Claimant representative]

that Claimants can access the medical support they need without waiting
for their full claims to be resolved.

Post Office will consider further interim payments on account of pecuniary
redress on a case-by-case basis, in light of the information and evidence
which has been provided.

In relation to final redress, Claimants have a choice:

(A)

(B)

They can either make a claim to recover redress for their actual losses,
under the redress processes outlined below (the "Redress Processes");
or, alternatively

They can accept the standing offer of the Department for Business and
Trade ("DBT") to settle their claims for a fixed, up-front sum of £600,000
(the "DBT Fixed Sum Settlement"), which is available regardless of the
value of their claim.

The merits of the two options will vary depending on the individual Claimant's
circumstances and Claimants are encouraged to consider with their legal
representatives which option is best for them.

For Claimants who wish to accept the DBT Fixed Sum Settlement, no claim
needs to be made and the Claimant will simply be asked to sign a full and final
settlement.

For Claimants who wish to follow the Redress Processes:

(A)

(B)

Aclaim should first be made for full non-pecuniary redress (including
damages for mental distress, loss of reputation, loss of congenial
employment, loss of liberty, non-pecuniary personal injury, aggravated
damages and exemplary damages). Lord Dyson has given helpful
guidance on the value attributable to such claims in the context of an
early neutral evaluation, as explained in more detail below. If fair redress
cannot be agreed in light of Lord Dyson's guidance, it is open to the
parties to agree to refer their dispute to a further early neutral evaluation.

Acclaim should then be made for pecuniary redress. Post Office has, in
consultation with Claimant solicitors, developed a Pecuniary redress
Process. Under this process, any claims which cannot be resolved
consensually may be referred to a Panel chaired by former Court of
Appeal Judge Sir Gary Hickinbottom which is empowered to make
recommendations as to how much redress should be paid on disputed
issues.

Upon submission of a full pecuniary claim (i.e. a schedule of loss and
supporting evidence), Post Office will pay a further interim payment which
would bring the payments and/or advances already received (including
non-pecuniary redress) up to a total value of £450,000.

As part of the pecuniary redress process, Post Office will endeavour to
make proactive offers of redress for straightforward heads of loss, such
as sums paid in respect of orders for compensation orders, confiscation
orders and/or prosecution costs, where it has the information to do so.

2.2 Further details of each element of this framework are set out below.

2.3 It should be emphasised that no element of this framework is compulsory. Claimants are
not obliged to participate and are free to pursue any alternative remedies which are

GBRO1/85492238_3
POL00448913
POL00448913

Date

HERBERT 05 September 2024
SMITH Letero
FREEHILLS [Claimant representative]

available to them as a matter of law. However, it is Post Office's hope that this framework
will give Claimants a clearer, more cost effective and swifter route to the recovery of fair
redress than traditional litigation.

bd

INTERIM PAYMENTS

3.1 As noted above, Post Office and a number of Claimants took part in an Early Neutral
Evaluation Process ("ENE") with Lord Dyson with a view to obtaining Lord Dyson's opinion
on the appropriate level of non-pecuniary damages payable in a successful claim for
malicious prosecution against Post Office.

3.2 In light of Lord Dyson's Evaluation, Post Office offers interim payments of up to £163,000
on account of non-pecuniary damages to any Claimant who was (a) convicted and (b)
whose conviction has been overturned.

Interim Payment Application

3.3 If your client wishes to apply, they should complete the application form enclosed at Annex
1 of this letter and return it via email to HSFPostOfficeOC,_

3.4 It is important to ensure that offers of interim payments are made to the person holding
legal title to the claim. In that regard, we would be grateful for your co-operation in ensuring
that, where the claim may not vest in the convicted individual (for example because they
are bankrupt or deceased), an appropriate form of authority is attached to the application.
Please see Annex 2 for additional information required in respect of estates subject to
bankruptcy or insolvency, and Annex 3 for representatives of deceased or incapacitated
applicants.

3.5 While the quantum of any interim payment will primarily be based on the anticipated claim
for non-pecuniary damages, it would nevertheless be helpful if the other information
requested in the application form could also be provided where available as this will help
Post Office take forward initial work in connection with the wider claim.

3.6 We cannot guarantee that all applicants will be made an offer of an interim payment as
each case is considered on its merits. However, Post Office aims to communicate the
outcome of the application within 28 days of receipt of the application form (or sooner if
practical), provided that the necessary information has been provided. Typically, there are
only delays where information as to legal title has not been provided, so we would be
grateful for your co-operation in that regard.

3.7 The interim payment offer will need to be countersigned by or on behalf of the applicant.
Payments are offered on a non-recourse basis, without admission of liability and as an
advance on any sum for which Post Office may be liable in due course. Interim payments
will therefore be deducted from the final sum paid in respect of non-pecuniary losses in due
course.

3.8 In offering interim payments, Post Office aims to provide applicants who, on the face of it,
have viable claims with swift, meaningful, interim payments in order to address the
hardship they have faced and to start the process for recompense in a timely way. As such,
Post Office does not propose entering into negotiations around the value of these initial
interim payments in individual cases.

Top Up Interim Payment

3.9 You will see that on 26 February 2024, Post Office circulated the enclosed communication
to Claimant representatives (the "February 2024 Announcement") which outlined
changes to the provision of interim redress for claimants who wish to have their claims
assessed via the Overturned Convictions Compensation Process. A copy of the February
2024 Announcement is attached at Annex 4.

GBRO1/85492238_3 3
3.12

3.13

3.14

4.2

43

44

45

WE
Zw

POL00448913
POL00448913

Z HERBERT 05 September 2024

Letter to

zy, S SME Ls [Claimant representative]
Zi

A Top-Up Interim Payment to a total value of £450,000 is now available upon the
presentation of a Claimant's full or materially complete, and sufficiently evidenced
pecuniary claim.

All payments and interim payments made prior to the Top-Up payment will be deducted
from the £450,000 to calculate the value of the Top-Up to be paid. Full details of the claim
and supporting information, documents and evidence are to be submitted via a schedule of
loss.

Data Protection

In order to deal with your client's claims on your behalf, Post Office will need to process
personal data. Please can you therefore review Post Office's Privacy Notice, which
explains how personal data will be processed. The Privacy Notice is available on Post
Office's website at https://www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy.

Medical Treatment

Claimants with an immediate need for medical treatment can ask Post Office to fund the
reasonable costs of that treatment in advance, so that Claimants can access the medical
support they need without waiting for their full claims to be resolved. The information
necessary to do so is set out in the Pecuniary Principles, discussed further below.

Further, as communicated via the February 2024 Announcement, Post Office will make an
interim payment of £12,000 (plus VAT) plus medical disbursements available to Claimants
upon submission of a substantive and sufficiently particularised pecuniary claim.

THE DEPARTMENT FOR BUSINESS AND TRADE'S OFFER

On 18 September 2023, DBT announced’ that Claimants with overturned convictions
would have the option of settling their claims for redress for the DBT Fixed Sum Settlement
(the "September 2023 Announcement").

This is a fixed sum payment of £600,000 which can be accepted in full and final settlement
of all the Claimant's claims against Post Office, without the need to make a claim and
regardless of the value of the Claimant's actual loss.

The DBT Fixed Sum Settlement is optional. Claimants who do not wish to accept it are not
obliged to do so and can instead advance claims for the actual value of their pecuniary and
non-pecuniary losses under the Redress Processes (see 6 and 7 below) or indeed any
other available mechanism if they prefer.

Claimants are encouraged to take legal advice as to whether accepting the offer of the
DBT Fixed Sum Settlement is best for them.

The DBT Fixed Sum Settlement offer is subject to contract and its precise terms are
subject to ongoing review and consultation. However, in summary:

4.5.1 The offer is inclusive of interest.

452 Any redress payments made to date (for example interim payments) will be
deducted from the £600,000 before payment is made. Redress payments
received as a result of the settlement of the Group Litigation brought by Alan
Bates in December 2019 will not, however, be deducted.

453 DBT will make a sum of up to £20,000 available to Claimants to take legal advice
so that they may consider whether this option is suitable for them. The £20,000

Press Release: "Government announces £600,000 of new compensation for every wrongfully convicted
Postmaster" 18 September 2023, available at https://www.gov.uk/government/news/government-
announces-600000-of-new-compensation-for-every-wrongfully-convicted-postmaster [accessed 12
February 2024]

GBRO1/85492238_3 4
POL00448913
POL00448913

Date

HERBERT 05 September 2024
SMITH Letero
FREEHILLS [Claimant representative]

cap is inclusive of counsel's fees and disbursements, but exclusive of VAT and
expert costs. Costs will be reimbursed provided that they are reasonably incurred
and will be assessed if not agreed. A quote or estimate for any anticipated expert
costs should be supplied so that these may be agreed in advance.

46 As regards the time period that Claimants will have to accept the DBT Fixed Sum
Settlement offer, Post Office understands from DBT the position to be as follows:

4.6.1 The DBT Fixed Sum Settlement offer is intended to be an alternative to full
assessment.

4.6.2 Accordingly, once a claimant asks for his or her claim to be assessed it will no
longer be open to the claimant to accept the £600,000 DBT Fixed Sum
Settlement.

46.3 Aclaimant will be treated as having elected to go down the full assessment route
by taking the step of presenting a non-pecuniary or a pecuniary claim. As such
claimants should only submit non-pecuniary or pecuniary claims for assessment if
they do not wish to accept the DBT Fixed Sum Settlement offer.

4.6.4 Claimants will not be precluded from accepting the DBT Fixed Sum Settlement
offer by either (a) applying for and accepting the initial £163,000 Interim
Payments which are offered when convictions are overturned; or (b) accepting
any proactive offers made by Post Office, including in respect of HMCTS costs or
confiscation/compensation/shortfalls, will not preclude claimants from accepting
the Up Front Offer.

47 If you have any questions about the DBT Fixed Sum Settlement, we suggest that you raise
these directly with DBT, as they are best placed to provide any clarification that may be
required. If at any point your client wishes to take steps as part of the overturned
convictions process and remains unsure as to whether doing so will preclude them from
accepting the DBT Fixed Sum Settlement, we suggest contacting us first so that we can
obtain clarity as needed.

5. THE REDRESS PROCESSES

5.1 Claimants who do not wish to accept the DBT Fixed Sum Settlement offer will need to
make claims for their actual non-pecuniary and pecuniary losses.

5.2 Post Office encourages Claimants to focus on their claims for non-pecuniary damages first
as these can usually be dealt with more quickly.

6. NON-PECUNIARY DAMAGES

6.1 Non-pecuniary losses are losses which are not financial in nature and include mental
distress, damage to reputation, loss of liberty, loss of congenial employment, personal
injury, aggravated damages and exemplary damages.

62 As the circumstances of these claims are so unique, guidance on the appropriate levels of
non-pecuniary damages was obtained through the ENE with Lord Dyson acting as
Evaluator.

6.3 Because the ENE involved the evaluation of a number of test claims, details of which are
private to the Claimants concerned, it was set up to be confidential and was conducted as
a without prejudice process. However, the parties to the ENE did agree that a copy of Lord
Dyson's Evaluation can be made available to future Claimants and their solicitors (in a
suitably redacted form) on the proviso that it is kept confidential. We think it would be of
significant benefit to you and your client to have sight of Lord Dyson's Evaluation to assist
you in formulating your client's non-pecuniary claim. To enable us to provide this to you,

GBRO1/85492238_3 5
‘

Y

WW

S

>

6.6

67

74

7.2

73

POL00448913

POL00448913

WZ ow
@. HERBERT 05 September 2024
<= SMITH oe

Zs FREEHILLS [Claimant representative]

please could we ask your client to sign and return the undertaking at Annex 5 and you to
sign and return the undertaking at Annex 6.

For its part, Post Office has adopted Lord Dyson's recommendations in full and applies
these in making offers for non-pecuniary redress to Claimants.

We will discuss with you further on a without prejudice basis how you can most quickly
present your client's claim for non-pecuniary damages and explain the reduced levels of
information and evidence which Post Office will need in order to make an offer.

It is hoped that, in light of the guidance offered in Lord Dyson's Evaluation, it will be a
straightforward matter to reach agreement on the appropriate amount of non-pecuniary
redress payable. However, Post Office is always willing to discuss your client's claim
further with you and, if agreement cannot be reached (which we hope will not be the case),
it is always open to the parties to agree a further Early Neutral Evaluation in respect of any
specific issues which arise.

Once agreement has been reached on non-pecuniary redress, Post Office will ask your
client to sign a settlement agreement which typically provides for payment of the agreed
sum within 28 days. Post Office will also offer an interim payment on account of legal costs
and expert fees.

PECUNIARY DAMAGES
Proactive Offers

Where it has sufficient information to do so, Post Office does endeavour to make proactive
offers of redress for certain straightforward heads of loss such as (a) compensation,
confiscation and prosecution costs orders paid at the time of the prosecution; and (b)
payments which would otherwise have been made out of Royal Mail's Colleague Share
Plan had the Claimant remained in post. We will write to you separately in respect of any
such offers which Post Office considers can be made proactively in your client's case, but
that obviously does not preclude your client from making their own claims in respect of
such heads of loss should they wish to do so. Please provide us with details of any claims
your client has in this regard.

The Pecuniary Process

Post Office has established an Overturned Convictions Pecuniary Compensation
Assessment Process (the "Pecuniary Process") to offer Claimants a mechanism which it
is hoped will provide a swift and straightforward route for the recovery of pecuniary redress.

The Pecuniary Process was established following a without-prejudice consultation process
with solicitors who have represented Claimants to date. It is set out in the attached
document entitled: The Overturned Convictions Pecuniary Compensation Assessment
Process (Annex 7). However, in summary:

7.3.1 Claimant representatives are first asked to present their client's claims and
supporting evidence. To aid in that process, as part of its without prejudice
consultation with Claimant firms, a set of proposals for a negotiated framework for
redress have been developed with input from Claimant representatives, which
Post Office intends to apply in making initial offers of redress going forward.
Although these are neither fixed nor in agreed form, Post Office hopes that
sharing its current thinking as regards redress in advance will assist new
Claimants to formulate their claims, for example by signposting the concessions
which Post Office is willing to make up front, explaining the approach which it
proposes taking to typical heads of loss having taken into account comments.
from Claimant representatives and by identifying areas where particular evidence
may be required.

GBRO1/85492238_3 6
My

S

7

74

75

8.2

GBRO1/85492238_3

POL00448913

POL00448913

Ww oat
£7. WERBERT 05 September 2024
Coon
== = SMITH Letterto
Zs FREEHILLS [Claimant representative]
\
7.3.2 If claims cannot be resolved by agreement, Post Office has put in place an

independent Panel chaired by Sir Gary Hickinbottom (nominated by the Claimant
firms who participated in the consultation) to assist in the resolution of disputes.
The other current panel members are Mr Mike Harper, an accountancy expert
and Mr Stephen Bassett, a retail expert, who have also been agreed with
Claimant representatives. A copy of the Panel Terms of Reference is attached
at Annex 8. It is envisaged that the Panel will operate as an accessible and
independent body who can help steer the swift resolution of disputes which arise
in relation to pecuniary redress. A standard application form (the "Panel
Application Form") (Annex 9) has been developed to facilitate the referral of
disputes to the Panel and assist in the administration of the Panel.

Please note that the Pecuniary Process is not intended to replace Claimants’ rights to have
their claims determined in Court if that is what they wish to do.

We will write to you separately on a without prejudice basis to share more details of the
consultation process with Claimant firms and the engagements which Post Office and
existing Claimant firms have had with the Panel Chair to date. However, if you have any
questions or consider that a discussion would be useful, please do let us know.

LEGAL AND OTHER COSTS

Post Office confirms that it will pay your client's reasonable legal and professional costs
incurred in bringing their claims for redress. As part of the consultation, processes have
been established for:

8.1.1 The payment of such fees, including interim payments on account of costs.
8.1.2 The pre-approval of expert fees.
8.1.3 The resolution of any disputes in respect of costs.

Post Office has set up a process for the submission of bills or costs which includes a
dispute resolution mechanism and will write to you separately in that regard.

OTHER MATTERS

There are various matters which Post Office considers it would be helpful to confirm to you
at this stage as follows:

9.1.1 Limitation periods. To address any concerns regarding limitation periods or
otherwise, Post Office is content to agree a general standstill (as it has done with
other Claimants). Please let us know if your client would like to do this and we will
provide a draft agreement for your consideration.

9.1.2 Post Office's records. Post Office wishes to proactively provide Claimants with
certain information it considers might assist with quantifying pecuniary claims.
However, before Post Office can lawfully disclose personal data relating to your
client it first must satisfy its data protection obligations which means Post Office
needs consent from your client for the disclosure of their data to you. To facilitate
the provision of future information, we would be grateful if you could provide your
client with a copy of the data protection consent declaration enclosed with this
letter and then kindly arrange for it to be signed and returned to us preferably by
email (or alternatively by post) (Annex 10).

9.1.3 HMRC records access.
POL00448913

POL00448913
Date
HERBERT 05 September 2024
SMITH Letterto
FREEHILLS [Claimant representative]
(A) It is likely that your client's tax records will be key in respect to any

assessment of loss of earnings/stigma damages as well as any loss of
business-related claims.

(B) To that end, a process has been established by HMRC to enable former
convicted postmasters to access their personal tax records in an expedited
manner (within 28 days of HMRC receiving requests).

(C) HMRC has confirmed the process as follows:

(1) The Claimant or you on their behalf will need to send the form at
Annex 11 directly to info: iF d

(2) The form will need to include:

(a) The Claimant's signature (electronic signature is
acceptable). If the Claimant cannot physically sign, the
form can be signed under a power of attorney.

(b) As much detail as possible to enable HMRC to provide the
required records. You will note that the form automatically
requests details from the Claimant's NIC records and any
Self-Assessment tax returns. We ask that in each case,
the Claimant also requests all available HMRC Tax
Calculations (Form SA302) and/or any other income
records and we have pre-populated the pro-forma at
Annex 11 in this regard. Further details may also need to
be requested e.g. if a retail business was operated through
a company the company name, registered company
number and any VAT registration number should also be
provided.

(c) The period for which records should be requested is either
the start of that Claimant's period in post as a sub-
postmaster or branch assistant (the relevant year) or 1999,
whichever is later (we understand that HMRC records may
be available from 1999 onwards). Again, we have pre-
populated the pro-forma form in this regard.

(3) Assuming the Claimant would prefer that the data is sent to you as
their legal representative, the third party details space on the form
should be filled out with your details to authorise HMRC to send
their data to you. Again, we have pre-populated this with your
details on the pro-forma form.

(D) We would be very grateful if, when presenting your client's claim, you could
also please provide the form sent to HMRC and the response from HMRC
responding to the request and providing the documents. This is intended
to avoid the need for further requests and/or verification of what has or has
not been requested or provided.

9.14 Tax exemption. HM Treasury has confirmed that redress payments made in
relation to overturned Horizon-related convictions will not be subject to income
tax, capital gains tax, National Insurance contributions, inheritance tax or VAT.
This position was confirmed first by the Ministerial Statement UIN HCWS303
made by Richard Fuller MP (the Economic Secretary to the Treasury) on 23
September 2022 to the House of Commons. It was written into law in the Post
Office Horizon Compensation and Infected Blood Interim Compensation Payment
Schemes (Tax Exemptions and Relief) Regulations 2023, S! 2023/184.

GBRO1/85492238_3 8
Date

HERBERT 05 September 2024
SMITH Letero
FREEHILLS [Claimant representative]

10. CONCLUSION

10.1 Post Office will await receipt of your client's interim payment application.

10.2 If itis helpful to discuss the interim payment process, the contents of this letter, or the
redress arrangements in place for affected individuals more generally, please do let us
know when a convenient date/time might be to do so and we can assist with any further
queries you may have.

Yours faithfully

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP

Enclosures:

GBRO1/85492238_3

Annex 1 — Interim Payment Application
Annex 2 — Further Information for Insolvent or Bankrupt Applicants

Annex 3 — Further Information for Representatives of Deceased and Incapacitated
Applications

Annex 4 — February 2024 Announcement

Annex 5 — Claimant Confidentiality Undertaking

Annex 6 — Legal Representative Confidentiality Undertaking

Annex 7 — Overturned Convictions Pecuniary Compensation Assessment Process

Annex 8 — Overturned Convictions Terms of Reference for the Independent
Pecuniary Compensation Assessment Panel

Annex 9 — Without Prejudice Application to Independent Pecuniary Compensation
Assessment Panel

Annex 10 — Data Protection Consent Declaration
Annex 11 — HMRC Form

POL00448913
POL00448913
