POLB 13(13")
POLB 13/97 - 13/115

POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

POST OFFICE LIMITED
(Company no. 2154540)
(the ‘Company’)

Minutes of a Board meeting held on 31 October 2013
at Camden High Street Branch, 112-114 Camden High Street, London NW1 ORR

Present:

Alice Perkins
Neil McCausland
Tim Franklin
Virginia Holmes
Susannah Storey
Paula Vennells
Chris Day

In Attendance:

Alwen Lyons

Sue Barton

Nick Beal

Timothy Warley
Andrew Thompson
Sharon Bull

Tom Moran

Kevin Seller

Apologies for Absence:
Alasdair Marnoch

POLB 13/97

POLB 13/98

ACTION:
Sue Barton

(a)

(a)

(b)

(c)

Chairman

Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director (for items 13/97-13/99)
Chief Executive Officer

Chief Financial Officer

Company Secretary

Strategy Director (items 13/98 & 13/110-13/111)

Head of Network Development (item 13/98 only)

Camden High Street Branch Manager (items 13/100-13/101)
Crown Regional General Manager (items 13/100-13/101)
Head of Network Finance (item 13/100-13/101)

Crown Transformation Programme Manager (item 13/102 only)
Head of Government Innovations Programme (item 13/103

only)

Non-Executive Director
INTRODUCTION
A quorum being present, the Chairman opened the meeting,
welcomed everyone to the Camden High Street Crown Office and
gave Alasdair Marnoch’s apologies for absence.

GOVERNMENT FUNDING AND STRATEGIC PLAN

The Board welcomed Sue Barton, Strategy Director, and Nick Beal,
Head of Network Development, to the meeting.

The Board noted the progress report on the Government Funding
and Strategic Plan and discussed the Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) with the NFSP.

Sue Barton updated the Board on the negotiations with the NFSP
to date. The Board sought assurance that the review mechanism in
POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

the MoU had the strength required to break the agreement if the
NFSP reneged on the changes required of them. The Board asked
the Business to ensure that the final legal framework agreement
included specific termination rights.

ACTION: (d) The Board asked for written legal advice on two issues:
General Counsel
(i) to give them comfort that the MoU or proposed framework
agreement did not breach any general law or regulation
applicable to the Post Office; and

(ii) to explain how the Post Office could exercise termination rights
under the MoU and final legal framework agreement to protect
itself from NFSP default.

ACTION: (e) The Board discussed the merits of the Chairman writing to the
Alice Perkins Secretary of State to explain that Board’s position and it was
agreed that a possible draft would be shared with the Board.

(f) IThe Board endorsed the position the team had negotiated, and
approved the next steps outlined in the paper subject to the written
legal advice received from the General Counsel.

(g) Sue Barton and Nick Beal left the meeting.

POLB 13/99 ROLE OF THE BOARD AND RELATIONSHIP WITH SHEX POST
FUNDING

(a) The Board discussed the role of the Board and its relationship with
the Shareholder and potential improved ways of working. The CEO
explained the Business’s interaction with ShEx officials and
assured the Board that this did not undermine their role.

ACTION: (b) The Board noted that Will Gibson would soon be leaving ShEx and

Alice Perkins the Chairman agreed to discuss his replacement and the ShEx
representative on the Board with Mark Russell, Chief Executive,
ShEx.

(c) Susannah Storey left the meeting.

POLB 13/100 ANALYSIS OF THE ECONOMICS OF THE CROWN NETWORK
MODEL

(a) The Board welcomed Sharon Bull, Head of Network Finance,
Timothy Warley, Branch Manager of Camden High Street, and
Andrew Thompson, Crown Regional General Manager, to the
meeting.

(b) Sharon Bull explained the economics of the Crown network model
and the effects of the Crown Transformation Programme. She
reported that even when the Crown Network achieved breakeven,

ACTION: 50% of the Crown branches would still be loss making. The Board
Sharon Bull asked for an analysis of this 50% to show the current state key cost
drivers and the projected costs post network transformation.
POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(c) The Board agreed that automation was critical to the transformation
and asked the Business to consider introducing more automation
on a faster timescale if possible, including at non-Post Office sites.

ACTION: The Board asked for a note on the testing and deployment of the
Harry Clarke new machines including where they will be available to visit.

(d) Sharon Bull explained that the transformation plan did not include
automation and an open plan environment at every branch. The
CEO stressed that she would like all Crown branches to be
ACTION: transformed to the new modern image but recognised that the short
Harry Clarke term objective was to achieve breakeven. The Board asked the
Business to consider more radical solutions post 2015 to drive

automation and further reduce the property requirement.

ACTION: (e) The Board asked for an update on the development of the Retail
Martin George Offer available in Crown Branches, including the possibility of
introducing a third party offer or renting out the space.

POLB 13/101 PRESENTATION BY THE BRANCH MANAGER CAMDEN HIGH
STREET

(a) Timothy Warley gave a presentation on the opportunities and
challenges of running Camden High Street Branch. He explained
his involvement in the changes in the Branch and the challenge of
leading the team. He recognised the changes in the Business since
many of his team had joined and the need to support their
development, but found the performance management tools
available cumbersome. His vision was for the branch to be more
customer-focussed with additional automation, lower staffing levels
and a drive to get rid of paper.

(b) The Board asked what could be done to ensure the right people
leave through redundancy and performance management. The
CEO explained that the current redundancy exercise was voluntary
but that she had started a piece of visioning work with the CWU to
look at a 2020 Crown Branch and challenge all the staffing
agreements and procedures.

(c) The Board thanked Sharon Bull, Timothy Warley and Andrew
Thompson for their presentation and they left the meeting.

POLB 13/102 INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS UPDATE

(a) Tom Moran joined the meeting and gave an oral update on the
current position regarding Industrial Relations.

(b) He explained that the CWU had cancelled their Royal Mail strike
scheduled for Monday 4'" November after an improved offer from
RMG. The Post Office strike was still scheduled to go ahead
although talks still continued. The Business could not afford to
move towards a similar offer to that made by Royal Mail.

(c) Tom Moran explained the two areas of visioning underway with the
POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

CWU: to find a redundancy solution which exits the right people
from the Business and introduces more effective performance
management; and to trial a new branch model outside the existing
staffing arrangements. The Business and CWU would work
together to run a number of offices which had been earmarked as
franchise branches to see if they can be made to breakeven
without a change of ownership.

(d) Tom Moran reported that 18 of the targeted 35 franchise branches
had now been announced and were in consultation with more
announcements expected over the coming weeks.

(e) Tom Moran left the meeting.

POLB 13/103 PROJECT MAYPOLE
(a) Kevin Seller, Head of Government Innovations Programme, joined
the meeting.
(b) The Board:

(i) Noted the progress made to date in developing options for the
future of POca;

(ii) Agreed the proposed approach and noted the key risks and
business interdependencies associated with the Business’
preferred option;

(iii) Noted the income variation against Strategy Plan projections;
and

(iv) Agreed that the proposed approach be delegated to the
Executive Committee with updates being provided to the
Board at regular intervals.

ACTION: (c) The Board asked for a future agenda item on the effect of Universal
Martin George Credit on the Business.
POLB 13/104 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT

(a) The Board noted the Chief Executive’s report and discussed the
following specific items:

(b) Mails
The new pricing for the ‘shoebox’ size packet was now in place and
was already having a positive effect on mails volumes. Plans for
Christmas were underway, focussing on queue-hosting to help the
customer with the new formats and the Dangerous Goods
requirements.

(c) ATM
The increased rates for a property with an ATM are likely to come
into force in November with a possible risk of £14m and an ongoing
cost of £6m per annum. The Business is supporting a likely legal
POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

challenge from retailers.

(d) DWP
The CEO was invited to a Digital Identity conference at 10 Downing
Street, chaired by Francis Maude, Minister for the Cabinet Office
and Paymaster General, and was pleased with the more positive
attitude express towards the Business.

(e) Energy
ACTION: The CEO had been contacted by Edward Davey, Minister for the
Martin George Department of Energy & Climate Change, to discuss the use of

branches to give energy information to vulnerable customers.
An Energy paper would be presented at the November Board.

(f) Project Sparrow
Sir Anthony Hooper has now been appointed as Chairman of the
Horizon Working Group. The Business was working to prepare the
team of people to work on the mediation and case information
necessary as there were likely to be up to 150 cases put to the
Working Party for a decision on whether they progress into the
mediation process.

(g) Financial Services
ACTION: The new FS incentive scheme will be presented at the November
Nick Kennett Board. The Board asked for confirmation that the Bol will share the
incentive scheme with the FCA.
The Board were anxious about the drop off rate for current account
applications and asked what could be done to improve the
situation. The CEO explained that a new ID process was now in
place which should see an improvement in accounts opened,
although despite the introduction of 7 day switching, there is still
considerable inertia in the current account market.

(h) Sue Barton
The CEO told the Board that Sue Barton had resigned and would
be leaving the Business. The Board asked the CEO to try to ensure
that Sue Barton remained until the NFSP legal deal was completed.

POLB 13/105 INTERIM REPORT AND CONDENSED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS FOR 2013 — 2014

(a) The Board received the draft Interim Report and Condensed
Financial Statements for 2013-2014.

(b) The Board discussed the inclusion of the segmental income report
and pillar commentary in the front half of the interim report. It was
agreed that the CFO and CEO would decide whether or not to
include this analysis after taking input from RMG and ShEx.

(c) The Board:

(i) Approved the approach to Going Concern, and agreed the
Going Concern status for the Company at the half year;
ACTION:
CFO/CEO

ACTION:
Chairman/CEO/CFO/
Chairman of the ARC
ACTION: CEO/CFO

POLB 13/106

ACTION: CFO

ACTION: CFO

ACTION:
Kevin Gilliland

ACTION: CFO

POLB 13/107

POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(a)

(b)

(4)

(e)

(f)

(a)

(ii) Approved the Interim report, confirmed that the interim
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
IAS34 ‘Interim Financial Reporting’ and delegated
responsibility to CEO and CFO to sign the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities on behalf of the Board;

(iii) Agreed to delegate authority for reviewing final amendments
and completing the Interim Report on behalf of the Company
to a Sub-Committee, the quorum for which to be comprised of
any three of the Chairman, CEO, CFO and the Chairman of
the ARC; and

(iv) Approved the Letter of Representation to the Auditor, and
authorised CEO or CFO to issue it on behalf of the Board.

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE UPDATE

The Board received the financial performance update for
September 2013, the 2013-2014 Q2 full year forecast and the
2014-2015 Budget look-ahead.

The CFO explained that the expected recovery in the second half
of the year meant that the EBIT target looked secure, but his
concern was that the revenue and exit rate trajectory for revenue
growth would not be at the level required to hit next year’s targets.
The Board asked for a detailed report as part of the financial report
tracking the second half of the year with more detail on costs.

The Board recognised the need to grow the revenue and agreed
that any EBIT upsides should be reinvested on activity which would
drive current year revenue back to the £900m target. The CFO
reported that he had tasked the commercial/sales teams with
closing the gap.

The CFO was asked to include two measures for Network
Conversions on the scorecard showing ‘network conversions’ and
‘contracts signed’.

The Board noted the Network Transformation scorecard and the
income decline for locals and asked for a note to the Board in
November to explain trend.

The CFO explained the £40m budget gap for 2014/15 and the need
to implement the cost reduction activities necessary. A more
detailed budget debate would come to the January Board.

MINUTES OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS AND MATTERS ARISING

The minutes of the Board meeting held on 25 September 2013
were approved for signature by the Chairman. archhe Board
meeting held on 23r,
POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

POLB 13/108 STATUS REPORT

(a) The Status Report, showing matters outstanding from previous
Board meetings, was noted.

POLB 13/109 FINANCIAL SERVICES BOARD SUB-COMMITTEE TERMS OF
REFERENCE

(a) The Board approved the draft Terms of Reference for the Financial
Services Board Sub-Committee, but re-emphasised that key FS
decisions and actions would still come to the Board.

(b) The Chairman explained that, after consideration by the
Nominations Committee, it had been agreed that Virginia Holmes
would Chair the sub-committee and that Tim Franklin would be a
member.

(c) It was proposed that the Bank of Ireland Finance Director be invited
to the sub-committee to present the Capital and Liquidity report.

POLB 13/110 MUTUALISATION UPDATE
(a) Sue Barton joined the meeting.

(b) The Board received an update on the progress of the mutualisation

timeline.
ACTION: (c) The Post Office Public Purpose statement would revert to the
Sue Barton Board in November.

(d) The Board noted the mutualisation update and actions, and agreed
that an update detailing the progress and activity as set out in the
paper be sent to BIS for information on a monthly basis.

POLB 13/111 POST OFFICE ADVISORY COUNCIL

(a) The Board received a paper on the establishment of a Post Office
Advisory Council.

(b) The Board reviewed the Terms of Reference for the Post Office
Advisory Council (POAC). It was agreed that:

(i) the Council would be more effective if restricted to around 20
members;

(ii) the Business should consider whether payment of a small fee
for attending a meeting as well as expenses would be
beneficial;

(iii) the Business would review the membership rule of asking a
member to stand down if they missed two meetings; and

(iv) an inaugural dinner and then an annual dinner was preferable
to dinner before each meeting.
POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(c) The Chairman explained that after consideration by the
Nominations Committee, it had been agreed that Tim Franklin
would Chair the Post Office Advisory Council and that Neil
McCausland would be a member.

ACTION: (d) The Board asked Sue Barton and Tim Franklin to agree any
Sue Barton/ changes and finalise the Terms of Reference.
Tim Franklin

(e) The Board:

(i) Approved the Terms of Reference and arrangements for the
establishment of a Post Office Advisory Council, subject to any
changes agreed by Sue Barton and Tim Franklin;

(ii) Agreed a budget allocation of £40K per annum to establish
and run the Council; and

(iii) Agreed that the POAC Chairman work with the Secretariat to
establish to Council, in line with the proposals outlined in the
paper, with the aim of holding a first Council meeting in early
2014.

(f) I Sue Barton left the meeting.
POLB 13/112 ANY OTHER BUSINESS

(a) Authentication of the Post Office Limited Company Seal
The Board approved that the affixing of the company seal may be
authenticated by any one of the following: a current Director of the
Company; the Company Secretary; the Assistant Company
Secretary; the General Counsel; and Piero D’Agostino, Principal
Lawyer.

POLB 13/113 ITEMS FOR NOTING
(a) The Board noted the Significant Litigation report.

(b) The Board noted the Report on Sealings and resolved that the
affixing of the Common Seal of the Company to the documents set
out against items numbered 1075 to 1085 inclusive in the seal
register was hereby confirmed.

POLB 13/114 NEXT MEETINGS

(a) It was noted that the next Board meeting would be held on 27
November 2013, and that the next Board awayday would be held
on 10-11 June 2014.

POLB 13/115 CLOSE

There being no further business, the meeting was then closed.
POL00158089
POL00158089

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential
