POL00305575

POL00305575

From: Belinda Crowe[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=BELINDA CROWE79B93F 1 1-569F-4526-A078-
F5B4958A8917220]

Sent: Fri 08/08/2014 3:25:07 PM (UTC)

To: Chris M Da‘

Ce: Belinda Crowe/

Subject: Second Sight: Part 2 Response

Attachment: Part 2 Response (v0.3).docx

Chris, we discussed the fact that I am preparing to send a letter to Second Sight in response to their ‘generic’ report
which will go to applicants in the Scheme and may well end up becoming public.

I have left a message for Chris Aujard as I understand he is picking up some texts in the hope that he will clear this
over the weekend. However, if he doesn’t, Paula asked that you clear it. The text of the letter, which is near final, is
attached. Martin is copied as he has agreed to take a look.

There is an annex to go with the addressing the detailed points but they are technical and run to many pages (and are
still being worked on).

The aim is to get this out on Monday so I wanted to give you chance to have a look at this rather than hit you with it
on Monday.

We have been advised by Linklaters and Brunswick and their comments have been taken on board.

Paula is generally supportive of a robust approach and I am pretty certain Chris is. It is a strong letter but the generic
report is potentially very damaging for the Post Office and also the quality of Second sight’s work, not only on this
report but the individual case reports is so poor that I think we need something formally on the record that shows
that we have made attempts to tackle this. the danger of not doing is that we could get criticised for the amount of

money we have paid them for such poor quality.

There is a risk that Second Sight pass this to JFSA who make it public as proof that Post Office is attempting to fetter
Second Sight’s independence and the letter is drafted in a way to mitigate that.

Finally, I may need to ask you to sign it if I cannot get Chris to clear it. I would be happy to sign it but the general view
here is that in view of the contents I should not do so as I am secretariat to the Working Group.

I would be happy to discuss and with luck (although not for him) I will manage to get hold of Chris.

Best wishes

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

