IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

Security
Project Initiation Document (PID)

Project Title:

Security Compliance and
Safety

Version Control:

Version 2 — Dated 27" February
2013

Author and Project
Manager:

Sharron Jennings

Project Sponsor:

Andy Hayward

POL00129339
POL00129339
IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

Contents

1. Background
1.1. Project Aim
1.2. Project Scope and Benefits

2. Project Phases

3. Project Organisation Structure

3.1. Organisational Diagram
3.2. Roles and Responsibilities

4. Project Finance

5. Project Assumptions Risks and Constraints

1 Background

1.1 Project Aim

POL00129339
POL00129339

The programme aims to provide a series of initiatives across the Supply Chain aimed

at monitoring the effectiveness, or otherwise, of access, control and security

processes within Post Office Ltd Supply Chain and its cash operation sites, This will

in turn mitigate the threat to our people and assets.

The programme also aims to test the integrity and compliance of Supply Chain

Security procedures through the following programmes:
POL00129339
POL00129339

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

1.2 Project Scope and Benefits
In Scope:

Operation Stripe Testing:

e Ascertain the effectiveness, of access, control and security within the Post
Office Ltd Supply Chain

e Ensure that Post Office Ltd Supply Chain staff are adhering to business
standards and procedures

e Raise awareness of threats to Supply Chain in order to reduce risk to people
and assets

e Develop a calendarised plan of activity for the financial year 2013/2014 based
on identified risk (Criminal and Geographical based assessment)

e Ensure Security and Supply Chain te work together in a collaborative way to
improve Security processes and procedures.

Surveillance:

e Develop a calendarised plan of activity for the financial year 2013/2014
based on identified risk (to be agreed and delivered by Security and Supply
Chain)

e Monitor and review end to end operational procedures, to include Matrix
loading, patrols, cross pavement surveillance

e Monitor and review management information with agreed action plan to
mitigate identified risks

e Inclusion of ad hoc patrols in line with emerging risks and the capturing of
information for M.!. and analysis.

e Develop a clear set of guidelines for dealing with non-compliance (major and
minor)

e To include Taskforce reports of non-compliance

Premises Attack Plan
e Ensure 100% depot adherence to the PAP requirements
e Ensure all depots have a calendarised plan showing one PAP per quarter,
with Security Manager attendance for at least one PAP

Security Inspections
e Review to ensure no duplication

e Agree acalendarised plan of Security Inspections based on identified risk
¢ Ensure at least 90% adherence
POL00129339
POL00129339

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

2. Project Phases

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

3. Project Organisation Structure
3.1. Organisation Team

Working Group
Sharron Jennings

Phil Furness

Andrew Scott

Rebecca Portch

Tracey Bond

Andy McCabe

Gordon Grant

Robert Daily

Bradley Edwards

Nominee for Simon Cassar
Nominee for Simon Eldridge

Governance Group
Andy Hayward
Keith Henderson
Simon Eldridge
Simon Cassar

3.2. Roles and Responsibilities

There are a number of individuals who will play an important role in ensuring the

success of this Project:

Andy Hayward Provide strategic direction and governance of the
Project

Sharron Jennings — Overall management of the Project

Phil Furness Supply Chain Compliance lead

Andrew Scott Security/Supply Chain lead

Andrew S McCabe = Overall lead on Surveillance

Gordon Y Grant Overall lead on PAP’s and Security Inspections
Robert Daily Security Team North lead

Bradley Edwards Security Team South lead

4. Project Finance
This will be BAU activity in support of the programme.

POL00129339
POL00129339
POL00129339
POL00129339

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

5. Project Assumptions, Risks and Constraints

Where processes are concerned, ownership by senior managers within
Supply Chain is required to promote a consistent approach and accountability
from all members of the Supply Chain estate

Assumption that Security activities will be embraced and supported by Supply
Chain

Cultural shift maintained on compliance

Correct use of Conduct Code

Unknown additional priorities (i.e. staffing issues, achieving targets etc)
Education element required to support. The training team of Supply Chain to
provide robust TTL packages in line with current threats and crime trends
Completion of operational intervention will be subject to T & S constraints and
the availability of resource

Other prioritised workload, emerging threats
