POL00120311
POL00120311

Cond Dicingow

Meeting: 4 May 2016

Attendees:

Team / Function Attendees

Legal Martin Smith of Cartwright King (MS)
Kamrul Zaman of Bond Dickinson LLP (KZ)
Rodric Williams (RW)

Financial Services Centre (FSC) Andy Winn (AW)

Security Helen Dickinson (HD)

Comms Melanie Corfield (MC)

Network Nick Beal (NB)

Support Services Anne Allaker (AA)
Wendy Mahoney (WM)
Shirley Hailstones (SH)
Kath Alexander (KA)

Network Business Support Centre Ibrahim Kizildag (IK)

Information Technology & Change (IT&C) N/A

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps

AP mismatches/ I AP mismatches — AA has sent a brief to AW and has asked AW to get in touch with her I
SSKs if further clarification was needed. AA saying that she would like the '2010' report and
she understands that Peter Newcombe has a copy of the report. AW to pick up with lan
Humphries in the first instance.

SSK — AA referring to the Trowbridge incident and how a few Crown Branches have
raised SSK losses despite Horizon not likely to be at issue. Various teams are involved
and security is currently looking into Trowbridge. AA saying that she will monitor how
the Trowbridge matter plays out and then the Crown team will look into managing the

ongoing SSK issues. Further updates will be provided on the next call.

Bangor KA has had a discussion with Pete Newcombe who in turn is in discussions with Steve

4A_32869062_1 1
POL00120311
POL00120311

Blandfield. Work in progress and further updates will be provided on the next call

Transaction AA is still waiting for a response from lan Humphries to clarify if the matter has been
corrections fully resolved.

Sean Farrow AA clarifying that the matter was reopened on 8 April 2016. Currently looking to see if
(SF) supply the answers are in the ATOS domain or cash management. AA unable to comment
chain further until she has chased for information. AA will copy SH and AW into her email.
Wimbledon SH seeking clarification of the figures. MS saying that there was limited information
119001 available as data only present for the last year and half. The recent data suggests false

balance issues and therefore it will be useful to look into older data as well.

SH asking who should make the decision about looking into the older data. MS saying
that RW could give the go ahead. MS will liaise directly with RW outside of the
meeting.

RW happy with this but also emphasising that this matter is subject to the group action
and data could be disclosable. RW asking for no email traffic on this matter.

Freeths RW saying that there is ongoing litigation in respect of this matter and it was not
Solicitors suitable to discuss this during the call in order to maintain privilege. RW briefly saying
that a Letter Before Claim has been served which he needs to respond to. RW will
liaise directly with SH and KA to outline what further assistance he will need from them.

NB also clarifying that the last call minutes stated that hard copy documents should not
be destroyed however this also extended to electronic documents as well. RW.
confirming and saying that all data should be preserved and retrieval and this applied
in particular to archived data.

Mismatches (100 I AA has been in touch with the Local Authority/Housing group and will forward email
branches) update. Gale will be liaising with Loraine Garby and Kate Wilson regarding finances.
AA also saying that she has corrected/updated the technical matters and there are in
fact around 177 branches affected. AA will share the information with SH and KA once
the update from Gale is received. This matter could potentially be closed thereafter.

4A_32869062_1 2
POL00120311
POL00120311

Sutton Oak To be closed.

New Issues Identified

Name Area ___I Issues/Observations/Comments

MS. Cartwright King I No issues

KZ Bond Dickinson I No issues
LLP

RW Legal No issues

HD Security No issues

Mc Comms No issues

KA Support No issues
Services

WM Support No issues
Services

IK NBSC No issues

NB Network No issues

AW FSC No issues

AA Support No issues
Services

SH Support No issues
Services

Action Points

AP mismatches, SSKs — AA to send brief to AW. AW to catch up with lan Humphries.
Bangor — KA to update further on next call.

Transaction corrections — AA to chase lan Humphries and update further on the next call.
Sean Farrow — AA to update further

Wimbledon — MS to discuss with RW.

Freeths — RW to update where appropriate.

Mismatches - AA to liaise with SH and KA once updated.

NOOO OWN

4A_32869062_1 3
