POL00101999
POL00101999

Message

From:

on behalf of

Sent:

To:
‘timfranklin1@t
Alisdair Camerot

Subject: Re: Sparrow

Thanks Mark.

This is unwelcome but on the other hand it does give us a real opportunity to get our position across -
so may turn out to be a blessing in (heavy) disguise.

It will of course, require a lot of preparation and I am happy as ever, to contribute.

Alice

original Message.
From: Mark R Davies i.
Sent: Thursday, Januar
Alasdair Marnoch 4

Alwen Lyons

Nei] McCausland

~ ; Richard Ccallard
Virginia Holmes

Dear all

Further to this, we have been informed today of a short inquiry into the Mediation Scheme by the BIS
select committee in Parliament. This will take place in early February. It will take the form of two one
hour sessions, one with representatives of subpostmasters and the other with ourselves. We understand the
NFSP have been called and expect this goes for the JFSA.

This is not unexpected, but is frustrating. we will, however, have a very clear opportunity to put the
Post Office's position very clearly on the record.

We are working up a handling plan and will of course update you as soon as possible.

best wishes
Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobile:

Sent from my iPad

On 14 Jan 2015, at 16:21, “Mark R Davies" I

wrote:

Dear all

>
>
>
> There is the likelihood of further media activity in the coming days on Sparrow.
>
>

>
> The BBC campaigning journalist who has made this a personal mission plans to run a piece on the BBC's
Inside Out programme on Monday. This is a regional programme. This will follow a meeting, this Sunday, of
the JFSA at which they are considering whether to take a legal route. The journalist and the JFSA are
very close.

>

We have a structured and proactive media and public affairs strategy in the face of this.

vyvvyvy

POL-0101582
POL00101999
POL00101999

> We are writing to MPs offering 121 meetings to go through each case as relevant to their constituency,
and sending them a version of the attached note. At the same time we are engaging with relevant
journalists to put our side of the story with a proactive statement.

>

>

>
> There is a balance to be struck between addressing the issue head on where it is raised in public
arenas and fanning the flames when the approach the team is taking is working in relation to containing
coverage. But I am of the view that we have got the balance right

Best wishes,

Mark

Mark Davies I Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

treet, London, EC1V 9HQ

[Footer 5] ”

<Mediation Scheme final - 0950 - 140115.docx>
<image001. png>
<image002. jpg>

VVVVVY¥Y¥Y¥VYVY¥VY¥VVV¥

EEERREREER RRR EH
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

sess iese

seskieseaeaee

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0101582
