POL00144864
POL00144864

From: Rodric WilliamsI
Sent: Thur 27/06/2013 6:56:43 PM (UTC)
To: Parsons, Andrew

Ce: Ben Thorp
Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues

Nice one - thanks

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

@ 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

@ Post Office stories

© @postofficenews

From: Parsons, Andrew I,
Sent: 27 June 2013 19:43

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Ben Thorp

Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues

Rodric
As discussed, please find attached a version of the letter for those SPMRs who are currently not aware of the situation

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson
POL00144864
POL00144864

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Parsons, Andrew

Sent: 27 June 2013 17:51

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: ‘Ben Thorp’

Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues

Rodric

I've reviewed the SPMR letters. I've attached mark-ups of two of the letters which show the suggested amendments.
that should be made across all the letters.

The amendments are:

¢ To insert an opening paragraph that explains POL's investigation and highlights the fact that we have sought
to protect SPMRs from any harm in the interim period.

¢ To remove the word "problem" and to replace this with the less dramatic word: "issue".

e I don't think we should apologise in the letters. I know this sounds hard but in apologising we are admitting
some degree of culpability. I think we should maintain a more cold, procedural approach to correcting what is
effectively an accounting irregularity.

e In some circumstances it appears that the error caused a transaction record from a former SPMR at a branch
to be carried over into the records of a later SPMR at the same branch. In my view this is a dangerous
admission, as the complete separation between SPMR records is a cornerstone principle of ensuring Horizon's
integrity. Although this has happened and is completely explainable, I don't think we ever want to expressly
document this.

I considered removing some of the technical language around what caused the error. However, on reflection, I think
this level of detail displays transparency and the robustness of POL's approach (even if the SPMRs don't fully
understand it)

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

www.bonddickinson.com
POL00144864
POL00144864

From: Ben Thorp
Sent: 25 June 2013 11:14
To: Parsons, Andrew

Ce: Rodric Williams

Subject: POL - Horizon issues

Andrew

By way of very brief introduction, my name is Ben Thorp. I am a Bond Dickinson secondee (from the Newcastle office)
currently working with Rodric Williams in POL’s Legal team for the next few weeks.

We have received the attached query from the business regarding historical issues a very limited number of branches
had with Horizon. POL intends to refund any losses caused by these issues, but not seek to recover any gains.

Could you please review the letters and let Rodric and me have any comments you may have, particularly in the
context of the Spot Reviews?

If you would like to discuss anything arising from your review, please do give either Rodric or mea call.

Kind regards,
Ben

Ben Thorp I Legal I Tel:
1* Floor, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ

peereeeeeeertceeceeecececeeccececeeeccccceccceereectceceeecceccccttcec
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

privileged and protected by law. rodric.williamsf only is authorised to

© notify andrew. ‘38 soon as possible and delete any

be unlawful

Any file ied to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transm
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus c!

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Di
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon T
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing

son LLP which is a limited liability ps
e, NEI 3DX. wher
ur VAT 1

list of

nto inspection, We use the term partner to refer to an
627.

istration number is GB12

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
