POL00100557
POL00100557

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

POST OFFICE LIMITED
(Company no. 2154540)
(the ‘Company’)

Extract from the minutes of a Board meeting held on 26 February 2014

Present:

Alice Perkins
Neil McCausland
Tim Franklin
Virginia Holmes
Alasdair Marnoch
Susannah Storey
Paula Vennells
Chris Day

In Attendance:
Alwen Lyons
Richard Callard
Chris Aujard

Belinda Crowe
Mark Davies

POLB 14/17

ACTION:
Mark Davies

POLB 14/18

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(a)

(b)

at 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ

Chairman
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Chief Executive

Chief Financial Officer

Company Secretary

Non-Executive Director designate, Shareholder Executive
General Counsel (items 14/17-14/19)

Programme Director for Project Sparrow (items 14/17-14/19)
Communications Director (items 14/17- 14/20)

REVIEW OF THE CURRENT PROSECUTION POLICY

Chris Aujard, General Counsel; Mark Davies, Communications
Director; and Belinda Crowe, Programme Director for Project Sparrow
joined the meeting.

The Board received a report reviewing the Company's current
prosecution policy, which had been discussed at the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee (“ARC”) on 11 February 2014 and by the
Executive Committee (“ExCo”) on 13 February 2014.

The Board agreed that any communication regarding the changes in
approach to prosecutions should be reactive. The Business needed to
revise its key communication messages and be ready with them.

The Board noted the summary of the discussions that had taken place
at ARC and ExCo.

The Board approved the implementation of Option B as a new
Prosecutions Policy as detailed in Appendix A to the paper.

INITIAL COMPLAINT REVIEW AND MEDIATION SCHEME
The Board received a report on the challenges facing the Initial
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme (“the Scheme”), and the

steps being taken to address them.

The CEO explained that the paper set out the worst case scenario as
POL00100557
POL00100557

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

the Board had requested. The Board were concerned by the potential
costs of the scheme and the level of possible compensation.

(c) The CEO agreed with the Board’s concerns, and reported that she
had met both Sir Anthony Hooper, the independent Chairman of the
Working Group, and Second Sight, the forensic accountants working
on the mediation scheme, to try and ascertain their opinions on how to
progress matters more quickly.

(d) The CEO informed the Board that Second Sight had yet to produce
their first written report for the mediation scheme, and that, until such
time as a number of reports had been produced, which would be over
the next four weeks, Sir Anthony Hooper felt unable to form a view on
the best way to manage the scheme going forward. He strongly
advised against taking any precipitous action at this stage. Sir
Anthony offered to meet the Board at a later date if that would be
helpful.

(e) The Board discussed the mediation scheme and possible support for
Second Sight to enable a more efficient process.

(f) It was noted that, in respect of each individual application, the project
team were taking extensive advice about the Post Office’s potential
legal exposure. However, it was acknowledged that, in light of the
facts now available, and the projected level of legal claims and costs,
it would be sensible to commission more generic legal advice on the
overall level of legal and financial exposure (taking account of the

ACTION: possibility of class actions). This advice should consider the steps
Chris Aujard that could be taken to mitigate any exposure including considerations
of alternative structures that might be available to deal with the
mediation cases. Such advice should have regard to alternative
dispute resolution mechanisms, such as the Financial Ombudsman

Service.
ACTION: (g) The Board asked for an update to be circulated on the position with
Chris Aujard/ the Business’ insurance underwriters and asked the Business to
CFO revisit the legal advice on insurance to ensure it was robust and that

the correct disclosures had been made. The Board requested that all
future documentation consider potential insurance claims and
disclosure.

(h) The Board thanked the team for its candid report and noted the report
on the Scheme.

POLB 14/19 BRANCH SUPPORT PROGRAMME

(a) The Board received and noted the report on the Branch Support
Programme.

(b) Chris Aujard and Belinda Crowe left the meeting.
POL00100557
POL00100557

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential
