POL00297030

POL00297030
From: Mark R Davies[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MARK R DAVIESA80D7269-659B-41D0-9C80-
68D9DE4FA7C5D38]
Sent: Tue 02/07/2013 10:14:05 PM (UTC)

To: Martin Edwards;
Ce: Mark R Davies{__
Subject: Re: PV and AP brief

On BBC - Concerned to learn that you have lined up an interview with the BBC. Keen to understand your
thinking here.

On media statement - we can offer to share statements but not to agree them: he will try to water ours down.
Suggest we say in the brief "We will let you know our handling plan in relation to the media, and share
statements. We would be grateful if you were able to do the same. You will appreciate the danger of the media
exaggerating the report and our need firmly to defend our reputation.”

on Fujitsu: "clearly this issue has significant bearing on one of our suppliers, Fujitsu. They will be asked for their
views on the report before publication."

On the User group naming, I know Lesley and Alwen were keen to avoid referencing Horizon so it needs a call
from them. I am uneasy too because it places all the emphasis on the "computer"

M

Sent from my iPad

On 2 Jul 2013, at 23:08, "Martin Edwards" I

Thanks — questions/comments below. Current draft attached (so far I’ve only re-worked the summary
box, but that’s the key section I think).

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 02 July 2013 22:57
To: Martin Edwards
Subject: Re: PV and AP brief

Thanks
Current version is pretty weak.

The speaking note needs to be firmer - we want to make clear our position and underline our view that
no evidence to support the systemic failures.

It should specifically address the BBC point. WHAT POINT SHOULD WE MAKE. GRATEFUL FOR SOME
WORDS

A really key point is that we should not guarantee to agree our media lines with JA. If he comes out
strongly as it sounds as though he will, we will have no choice but to come back strongly. So am
concerned about the line where it talks about agreeing media statements. SO SHOULD WE REMOVE THIS
ALTOGETHER? DIFFICULT TO ASK FOR HIS MEDIA STATEMENT WITHOUT OFFERING TO SHARE OURS...
POL00297030

POL00297030

There needs to be a line in there about Fujitsu if there isn't currently. WHAT LINE?

I think it needs to be up front in addressing the issue where JA is said to be angry - the prosecutions and
the new evidence.

On training we need to be very careful about language - the current version is too loose - this is your
point about not leaving any glimmer which suggests that cases might need to be reopened. So we need
to acknowledge that training can always be improved (rather than our training must be improved -
important difference) and need to follow that with further statement that there is no evidence of
systemic failures.

The brief needs to make clear that none of the 14 or the 62 impact on the spot reviews in the interim
report and are therefore not relevant to the interim report.

We shouldn't call the user group a "Horizon" user group - makes it appear we are acknowledging issue
with Horizon - branch management user group? CAN WE CALL IT AN HORIZON SUPPORT USER GROUP?

Can you send final version to me before it goes wider so I can go through one more time? Will look back
on notes to see what missed.

Overall it didn't feel to me that it captured Alice's views and I think she was right to be so clear.
It may be worth setting out three overall "rocks" for the two of them to return to:
- there is no evidence in the interim report to support any suggestion of systemic failures

- this is a system which deals with six million transactions a day or more than 40 million a week, and is
used by more than 50,000 people every day

- we must be satisfied that when the report is released it truly reflects the position - the Post office
business is too important to too many people for faith to be questioned unfairly

Another point which needs bringing out is the public money point - we do have a duty to protect public
money, and where there is wrongdoing we must act: it would be entirely wrong if we did not. We want
to support our people and will make sure that we do everything we can to improve training and support
in order to ensure that their stewardship of public funds cannot be questioned.

We also need to bring out the scale more - how many convictions over what period compared with xx
transactions in 11800 branches etc...

Mark
Sent from my iPad
On 2 Jul 2013, at 22:31, "Martin Edwards"

} wrote:

Send me thoughts on the current version, I’m doing quite a lot of re-working of the
original. thanks

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 02 July 2013 22:30
To: Martin Edwards
Subject: Re: PV and AP brief

Hi
Do you reckon you'll have a new version over shortly ? Or shall I just send you some
thoughts on the current version?

M

Sent from my iPad
On 2 Jul 2013, at 21:37, "Martin Edward:

Many thanks Susan and Alwen. I’Il make a few drafting changes and
recirculate.

On the prosecutions section of the brief there is a half-finished sentence (see
below) — what were you planning to say?! Was this going to cover the issue
around previous convictions? If not, what is our best possible defence against
the suggestion that this process had called into question the validity of
previous prosecutions? Think we definitely need a line on this.

On the first bullet below, presumably we should add a sentence to state that
where it is clear that the Horizon system isn’t the issue at stake, we have a
duty to protect public money by pursuing appropriate action (and this why
some prosecutions are still happening)? Presumably there is some kind of
reasonableness test here —i.e, a spmr can’t just get off scot free by saying it’s
an Horizon issue, irrespective of the circumstances?

. Prosecutions

« Where cases have been referred to SS via JFSA these are subject to the
immunity agreement. Where we have investigated sub postmasters
since the start of the SS work, and the sub postmaster has said that the
Horizon computer systems has been key to the issues that have arisen in
the branch we have not taken action against the sub postmaster.

e Where POL takes legal action against a

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: 02 July 2013 20:34

To: Martin Edwards; Paula Vennells; Hugh Flemington; Mark R Davies
Cc: Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons; Simon Baker

Subject: PV and AP brief

Martin/Mark

Susan and I have pulled this together with help, so it is now over to you, to
work your magic and send on the final document to Paula, Alice and me
tonight.

Hugh would you please check any comments please come back to Susan.

Mark would you also please check

POL00297030
POL00297030
POL00297030
POL00297030

Martin is holding the pen please send back to him
Also include in AP and PV and my pack any other docs you think we need

Thanks
Alwen & Susan

Susan Crichton I HR & Corporate Services Director
<image001 .jpg>
Ce

<20130702 JA meeting brief.doc>
