POL00167159
POL00167159

From:

Marilyn Benjamin

Sent: Mon 08/02/2010 10:35:00 AM (UTC)

To: Warwick Tatford ~

Ce: John Longman' j

Subject: Fw: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged
Attachment: pic13811.gif

Warwick and John,

For your information and comments.

Jarnail Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

—_ Forwarded by Marilyn Benjamin/e/POSTOFFICE on 08/02/2010 10:35 -----

homas Penny"

05/02/2010 17:10
SUES - SEEMA

MISRA - Legally Privileged

Jarnail

This is an email that I received earlier from Gareth. You will see that he is clear that in order to
answer Counsel's question about any issues he needs to be able to check the underlying transaction

logs to be able to say whether there were any issues. On the specific issues you raise Gareth’s view
is:

2. He needs information and time to research the background to this case before
providing any response;

3. He is not currently in a position to make a clear statement. It is possible for there to be problems
where transactions have been “lost” in particular circumstances due to locking issues. When this
happens then we have events in the underlying eventing logs to indicate that there was an issue.
Whenever we provide transaction logs to POL we check for any such events. In the case of West
Byfleet we have not been asked to provide any transaction logs and so have not made these checks.

4. Gareth has reviewed the statement by Eleanor Nixon. There is nothing technical there for him to
comment on. If POL are able to expand on exactly what they did to resolve the issues and what they
found to be the issues there, then he could comment on that. At first glance it is purely a case of
incorrect use of the system and clearly with any system if incorrect information is input then incorrect
POL00167159
POL00167159

results come out.
I hope that helps.

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

E-mail: david.jonesm/

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 05 February 2010 16:06

To: Jones David M; Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged

David / Penny,

Brief responses as follows, but not sure that I should put them in a
Witness Statement:

2. I need [Jones David M] information and time to research the background
to this case before providing any response

3. This is where I'm reluctant to make a clear statement. I am aware of one
problem where transactions have been lost in particular circumstances due
to locking issues. When this happens we have events in the eventing logs to
indicate that there was an issue and whenever we provide transaction logs
to POL we check for any such events. In the case of West Byfleet we have
not provided any transaction logs and so have not made these checks.

4. I have reviewed the statement by Eleanor Nixon. There is nothing
technical there for me to comment on. If POL are able to expand on exactly
what they did to resolve the issues and what they found to be the issues
there, then I could comment on that. At first glance it is purely a case of
incorrect use of the system and clearly with any system if incorrect
information is input then incorrect results come out.

If you feel it OK to pass this onto POL then that’s fine by me, but I’m
reluctant for it to go further without POL’s agreement and understanding of
the potential implications.

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

FUJITSU
POL00167159
POL00167159

auseway, Staines,
Hor Internally?
} (or Internally.
H

TW18 3BF UK

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office: 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Sine Original Message-
marilyn.benjami

On Behalf Of

.a. Sing
Sent: 05 February 2010 T5750
To: Jones David M

Cc: Jenkins Gareth GI; Thomas Penny

Subject: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES - SEEMA MISRA - Legally Privileged

Dear David and Penny,

On first glance points 2 - 4 have not been answered which I reproduce
below.

2) My barrister telephoned me yesterday evening and requested that I find
out any information that Fujitsu may hold in relation to an office called
Callender Square in Falkirk. Apparently, Anne Chambers a Systems
Specialist employed by Fujitsu was cross examined and it is said that she
had full knowledge of an error in the Horizon system at this Post Office.
Our barrister would like Gareth to deal with this matter and expand upon
whatever issue Anne Chambers raised at court within his witness statement.

3) When Gareth completes his statement could he also mention whether there
are any known problems with the Horizon system that Fujitsu are aware of.
If none could this be clarified in the statement.

4) Could Gareth read the statement from Eleanor Nixon attached below and
respond in his statement to the points raised by Eleanor Nixon about
Horizon.

(See attached file: Eleanor Nixon Statement.rtf

Could you please give this matter your urgent attention and look forward
to
hearing from you.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Team
POL00167159
POL00167159

FOI II IG II I III II III II III III I I IE I RK eae

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system.
FOIE III I IIIS III ISI IIIS ICI III ICI III I I II I ICI IH I EI I I I aE ea
