POL00154361
POL00154361

From: Mandy Robertsot
Sent: Thur 01/11/2018 6:
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerdf,
Ce: Mark Underwood1__

Subject: Group Action: Bond Solomon witness familiarisation feedback [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Attachment: _DOC_152623989(1) Angela Van-Den-Bogerd Familiarisation Feedback.pdf
Attachment: _DOC_152623736(1)_Angela Van-Den-Bogerd Familiarisation Feedback.pdf

Dear Angela

Ahead of your call with Dave to discuss your preparations for trial, please find attached your feedback forms from the
Bond Solomon witness familiarisation training course.

As we have said previously, the feedback from the different trainers over the course of the training week was
excellent. These feedback forms should help identify areas to work on as part of your preparation to give evidence,
together with a reminder of where you performed well in the training.

Kind regards

Mandy

Mandy Robertson
Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

womblebonddickinson.com

A)

only is authorised to

jas soon as possible and delete any

Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copyir ‘Be"inlawful. Information about how we use

personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website

ction software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
sry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

n checked by us with virus

loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP. is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or
tration number is GB123393627.

consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT re;

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing se
in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate le
another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see www. womblebonddickinson.com/legal

I entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor can bind

or obliga

notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
