POL00245359
POL00245359

From: Mark Underwood

Sent:
To: Parsons, Andrew;
MacLeod: _ GRO
Ce: Lukas, Elisa
Subject: RE: Remote Access Wording
Thanks Andy,

My greatest concern is that we don’t qualify the statement that transaction data can be deleted / changed by
detailing that - although theoretically possible — because the logistical challenges that would need to be overcome
are so huge, it really is not a credible line of enquiry.

I really do think we need to include a qualification which, in some detail, set outs the logistical challenges. Without
this qualification, I think the letter could be quite damaging (particularly if leaked to the Network / Media) as it
provides soundbites that give credibility to an allegation that actually lacks any merit.

If I recall correctly; we are not obligated to respond to Freeths Reply, but we have a desire to do so and before we
receive Particulars on 1 Dec? I think this gives us enough time to apply suitable pressure on Deloittes to provide us
with this information? If they are confident enough to have made statements that this is possible, then presumably
they have the information necessary to be able to detail exactly how it can happen?

Mark

From: Parsons, Andrew
Sent: 20 November 2016 13:17

To: Mark Underwoodi=!Jane MacLeod; Rodric Williams
Cc: Lukas, Elisa; Prime, Amy

Subject: RE: Remote Access Wording

Thanks Mark.

I've updated the attached. Where I agreed with your suggested amendments, I've included them and deleted the

respective comment. In relation to your other questions, I've added my answers to the attached.
A

Andrew Parsons
Partner

Bond Dickinson LLP

POL00245359
POL00245359

Follow Bond Dickinson

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Mark Underwood
Sent: 18 November 2016 21:15
To: Parsons, Andrew; Jane MacLeod; Rodric Williams
Cc: Lukas, Elisa; Prime, Amy

Subject: RE: Remote Access Wording

Andy, Jane & Rod,
I have track changed my comments, for your consideration, in the attached version.

Mark

From: Parsons, Andrew
Sent: 18 November 2016 19:25

To: Jane MacLeod; Rodric Williams

Cc: Mark Underwood!-! Lukas, Elisa; Prime, Amy
Subject: Remote Access Wording

Jane, Rodric

As discussed in the con with Tony, please find attached our draft wording on the "remote access" issues. This wording
will be part of a longer letter to Freeths that we hope to circulate next week.

In the attached, we refer to certain information provided by FJ to Post Office about editing transaction data. This
information was by way of an email (attached) that was arguably subject to litigation privilege. By referring to this
information in our letter (i) we may be waiving privilege in that email and (ii) Freeths could push for a collateral waiver
of privilege in other emails from FJ on the same topic.

We have not expressly referred to the email in the letter to minimise this risk. However, my view is that if we do not
explain that Post Office relied on information provided by FJ, Post Office's story is severely weakened and hence
some risk of waiving privilege should be taken.

Happy to discuss this point in more detail. All comments on the attached are welcomed.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner

Bond Dickinson LLP
POL00245359
POL00245359

Follow Bond Dickinson:

of

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

nly is authorised to
"Js soon as possible and delete any
be unlawful

‘ommunication or attachments is prohibited and

-d to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection so
used by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus chi

Any

le ware before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or d:
which may be

ks before opening any attachment.
Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in En

London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a fist of members’ names is open to inspection. We
consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB12 7.

\d and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office is 4 More
use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP. or an employee or

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

FESS SI SISSISI OCIS SICIII SII ICICI ICICI I ACK CR a a1 GRR a CO I RR CSC RR a CSR oR a CSR CCG

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

EE 2 RRR A RR A IRR A SOR RI ARR CARR I ORR ACOA RGR GR A CORR ACO RGR ao
