POL00085836

POL00085836
Message
From: Craig Tuthill f
Sent: 02/05/2012 22:36:43
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
cc: Sue Richardson {~ vad?
Subject: RE: IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE - Urgent Request Please
Attachments: Briefing Doc Craig 2nd May 2012.doc; image001.gif; image002.jpg; image003.gif; image004 jpg
Angela
To see the updated document with input for Sue and John
Regards
Craig Tuthill
Network Services National Support Manager
Network & Sales Directorate
Post Office Ltd

c/o Stephanie Lawrie

1* Floor Bunhill Row Wing
148 Old Street

LONDON EC1V 9HQ

%

Supporting and improving branch performance

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 01 May 2012 20:29

To: Craig Tuthill

Subject: IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE - Urgent Request Please

Craig,

I met with Simon Baker today — he’s been asked by Alice Perkins to find a way of demonstrating that the Horizon system
is robust and not subject to “glitches” as claimed by the JFSA former spmrs. An MP is spearheading their campaign and
in particular the Hamilton (2003) case. The MP is to visit the model office in a week or so and Simon would like us to
provide an easy to understand walk through document of our appointments and training approach — this is where you
come in, no doubt ably supported by John and/or Lin and Sue.

POL-0082894
POL00085836
POL00085836

[attach a note that I provided to Sue a few weeks back so that she could explain to Alice what our approach is. Would you
use this as your starting point, amending and updating as you see fit. Would you also embed the supporting documents —
e.g. the training offer document Sue recently pulled together.

The claims from the JFSA former agents include that they were not aware of their contractual obligations in terms of
making good losses. What we need to do is detail the points at which they are advised of this — in the Contract Advisors
interview script; the declaration they make on transfer and the spso contract they signed; I’ll send you what information I
have.

We need to have this to Simon by the end of this week so would you please pull this together and then we can discuss in
more detail.

I said we would also provide a copy of the training and audit reviews that Sue completed recently

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Network Services
Post Office Ltd

ist Floor Admin, Swansea Mail Centre,
Siemens
Mobile: Mobex

Email: angela. van-den-bogerdi..

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply

email and destroy all copies of the original message.

POL-0082894
