POL00295386
POL00295386

From: Alice PerkinsI

Sent: Sat 23/06/2012 8:14:39 AM (UTC).
To:

Subject:

Thanks Paula. I'm v glad you did this. Right thing to do and he responded in the right way. I thought he would. I've no
idea whether we will get any flak about Mark but if we do, we are ina perfect place to handle it.

I hadn't expected you to mention Tom - altogether different and lower profile.

I too am looking forward to breakfast. I can't now remember what your next commitment is - it was v tortuous getting to
this point! - but if you could do longer than 9am that would be very good - I have until at least 9 30. But if not we must
just be organised. I think the crucial thing will be our plans for the summer mainly geared to preparation and resource
for the Spending Review, mutualisation, and other strands of work following the awayday including what we stop/slow
down.

I hope you get some weekend.

Alice

From: Paula Vennell:
Sent: Friday, June 22, 2012 10:17 PM
To: Alice Perkins
Subject: Re: NL

Dear Alice,

first of all, I'm so sorry for you that you have had so many mails from me today - there is just a lot on! Thank you
for suggesting breakfast on Tuesday; I did ask several times to do that - much easier F2F. If you have an agenda,
pls forward at some stage.

Re Mark, yes, NL was grateful that I mentioned it. I explained the proper process that had been followed and the
calibre of candidates he had been competing with for the role. I had to leave a message but he texted back and
said something like: 'I appreciate the information, thank you, that all sounds fine’. And we had a great time over
supper - the minister is good company. Plus, Richard Kemp (Cll Leader L'pool) persuaded NL to agree to try for
a Cabinet presentation and also one at the Perm Secs awayday. This was followed up by mail as well. So we'll
keep the pressure up.

Offer letter has gone to Tom btw. He decided on the Crown role - which is good - we should put our best people
on the important work. (There is rather a lot of that of course!) I shan't mention Tom to NL specifically, as he
came via a search consultant..

Bon weekend. Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 22 Jun 2012, at 12:39, "Alice Perkins":

wrote:

Good.
My query re NL was in relation to Mark's arrival. Was he OK about that?
A

From: Paula Vennells I.
Sent: Friday, June 22, 2012 10:27 AM

To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Re: External Review of subpm cases
POL00295386
POL00295386

Yep. I agree.

Just to keep you in the loop, there are very good internal comms/briefing of stakeholders this
morning.

The only thing I couldn't see was what happens if a Subpostmaster calls the NBSC and asks to be
part of the review; same re ad hoc MP enquiries. (The answer has to be that we look into it; but
what I'm looking for is how the call centre answers the query.)

I haven't mentioned specifically this week to NL. But have done previously and he was relaxed.
However, I am sure the Shex team will have done so, as we have been liaising very closely with
them all week. (They are always v good at this but i shall check:)

The rest of the process is underway, which I think you know? James is meeting Ron next week.
He has written to all MPs that were originally invited. And after he has met Ron, we will contact
those who attended. James and Oliver cases will be reviewed first.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 22 Jun 2012, at 09:21, "Alice Perkins"

Thanks. It will be great to have him on board. (Btw was NL OK about it?)

On press, quite right not to to give it oxygen and to put lid on idea of s/o else paying
asap.

I met Ron yesterday briefly and thought he looked the part! Excellent.

Alice

From: Paula Vennell
Sent: Friday, June 22, 2012 08:45 AM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Fwd: External Review of subpm cases

Thought you'd like to see this from Mark - supportive and excited at joining.

The only coverage this am is the Telegraph which is balanced. It does give a fair
amount of space to Andrew Brigden's comments re Cabinet Office picking up the bill.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:
POL00295386
POL00295386

From: Mark Davie:
Date: 22 June 2012
To: Paula Vennells
Subject: Re: External Review of subpm cases

Paula, sorry to pick this up so late. But I agree - absolutely nothing to be
gained in giving the story legs. Best course of action is to hold the
(strong) lines and stick with them.

All well - last day at Rethink. Really looking forward to July 9!

Best wishes

Mark

Sent from my iPad

On 21 Jun 2012, at 19:05, Paula Vennells

Mark, Alana was going to call you but is in Downing st.
My sense is we are doing the right thing in not offering
interviews, as that puts us on the defensive and also gives it
more airspace.

Do you agree - you must say so if not pls!

Hope all is well.
Paula

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

Subject: 1
cases

xternal Review of subpm

Hello All,

Following on from Alana’s earlier e-mail, please find
below latest update on media interest in this story.

Matt Prodger at the BBC has also done a piece to
camera on this story on a couple of occasions during
the day on the BBC News 24 channel as well as
posting the story on bbc.co.uk We have no indication
if this interview will make tonight's national BBC news
programmes but it would seem likely.

Channel 4 currently has the story, straight from the
James Arbuthnot feed, on their website. Again, we
have no indication whether or not it will make the
Channel 4 News tonight but would seem likely
particularly as they have a case study.

The Press Association have the story running on their
wire service.

BBC Radio 5 Live is running a piece tonight with a
case study

I have also taken calls from James Hall at the Daily
Telegraph (story currently on the Telegraph website),
BBC Radio Wales and Surrey.

Ronan

Ronan Kelleher
Head of PR and Media

From: Alana Renner

Sent: Thursday, June 21, 2012 03:10 PM

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Simon Baker; Alwen
Lyons; Chris M Day; Kevin Gilliland; Lesley ] Sewell;
Martin Moran; Nicholas Kennett; Paula Vennells;

c: Mike Granville
Subject: External Review of subpm cases

All, the appointment of the external reviewer to look at
the cases brought to us by James and other MP's has
been picked up.

The BBC are running it as ticker on their News

POL00295386
POL00295386
POL00295386
POL00295386

channel after Matt Prodger the BBC
correspondent,who has run pieces previously on
Horizon, has been on to our Press Office, he had been
give a copy of the TOR. Matt has also been on to BIS
and to the external forensic accountant who is doing
the preliminary work on the cases.

Alan Jones from PA has also been in touch which
means it will almost certainly go wider. Channel 4
have also been through to James Arbuthnott’s office
who have given them our agreed statement.

We have let the NFSP Press Office know (we had
alerted them to the possibility of this earlier in the
week).

We will keep you up to date as this develops.

Alana

Alana Renner
Communications Director
Post Office Ltd

148
M

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not
use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at
100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y 0HQ with the
registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148
OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered company
number 02154540

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete
this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA
EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y 0HQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
POL00295386
POL00295386

EC1V 9HQ with the registered company number 02154540

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON
EC4Y 0HQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the
registered company number 02154540

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y 0HQ
with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered
company number 02154540
