POLO0108058

POL00108058

Message

From: Paula Vennells } i
on behalf of Paula Vennells i . GRO i
Sent: 02/08/2013 16:

To: Theresa lles

Subject: Fwd: Personal and Confidential

Ppo and the two file notes (Alice's and mine) for my return. Thx p

Sent fro

m my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alice Perkins
Date: 2 August 2013

‘paula.vennells! _
Subject: Re: Personal and Confidential

Yes. It is the fact that she sees so much as beyond her control which made me most worried. It is her
alibi. That is why I pushed back and also why I asked her to flag up if there was anything she needed
which she couldn't get.

lam concerned that she won't cap SS off at the 47 because it's too difficult. And am also concerned
about their costs and why we haven't nailed those.

Sol am sorry but I think you are right.

A

From: Paula Vennells [mail
Sent: Friday, August 02, 2013 04:52 PM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Re: Personal and Confidential

Hi Alice. Theresa confirmed it is on file.

Thank you for doing the meeting and the note. It makes me sad but doesn't surprise me.

There are two alerts for me - the first is your point about the bland Board paper: I have just seen a bland
update from Susan on this week's work, which I have immediately sent on to Chris, with some concerns
about lack of progress (some issues - SS costs and working party process - remaining the same as when I
left last Wednesday/Thurs) and no risks flagged at all. for example, there is no colour on the fact that
our external lawyers have issued disclosures on 9 cases, up from 2 a week ago.

The second alert is how much Susan sees as 'beyond her control’. One for my full return.

I will keep close to this and to Chris, who also was briefed to deal with the SS costs issue. (Heartening he
is rising to the challenge.)

Separate note to follow on your update - the last unless I need to bother you. P

Sent from my iPad

On 2 Aug 2013, at 16:13, "Alice Perkins" < wrote:

POL-0110925
POLO0108058
POL00108058

As promised.

Pi can you make sure this gets on to a file?
Thanks

A

From: Alice Perkins
Sent: Thursday,
To: 'theresa.iles

Cc: Bea Sharp ~~
Subject: Personal and Confidential

Theresa,

Here is the document to which I was referring.

i should be grateful if you could make sure Paula sees it on her return (but no need for
her to see during her holiday).

Please can you make sure that no-one else sees it?

Many thanks

Alice

From: Alice Perkins

Sent: Thursday, August 01, 2013 02:25 PM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: AP meeting with Susan Crichton

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

<AP meeting with Susan Crichton.docx>

peerrerrenrenrrrerecieernrerrersereretrcrsrrer rrr rre rset rrr rtr errr tty

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Seereerrertrertenrec ire ttr errr re ter errr reeret ert rrc rset terre rtrr ttt}

Click here to report this email as spam.

POL-0110925
