POL00448121
POL00448121

CTO2012 July 2023 SECTION 2 Getting Started on Horizon V4.0

Getting started on Horizon

Login

You will be given a Horizon username and a
temporary password. The username is unique to you

and is created from your Smart ID. CCR Tun cz eee tte
» Type in your user name and temporary password = —
and press ‘Enter’ —

* Amessage will pop up requesting you to create
anew password between 7 and 14 characters in
length, containing at least one number and one
letter

» Amessage will confirm that you have successfully

logged ress ‘Enter’ to exit screen
r-- ----- weeeeny fe
1 Remember! Never share your password with 1
anyone, including your manager. 1
ee
Attaching to a stock unit

In order to serve customers, you need to be attached
to a stock unit.

» From the ‘Home Screen’ press ‘Back Office’
then ‘Admin’, select ‘Attach User’

» Use the down arrow until you find your username
~ Select your username and press ‘Enter’

» Select your stock unit and press ‘Enter’

«You are now attached to your stock unit

You won't need to do this every time you log in, but

always remember to check you're attached to the

correct stock unit by looking at the bottom of the
Horizon screen.

lle ell ll ll eee I
1 Remember! Always complete a cash declaration 1
I when you take over a stock unit. You can find out =!
"how to do this in Section 10.

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000080
SECTION 2 Getting Started on Horizon V4.0

Using two or more Horizon terminals

In branches with more than one Horizon terminal, it is
possible to be logged into multiple Horizon terminals
at the same time.

This is useful, for example, if you are processing Drop
& Go items and need to ‘lock’ the session, so you can
serve a customer at another Horizon terminal.

On the first Horizon terminal:

» To ‘Lock’ the session on your initial Horizon
terminal, press ‘Lock’

On the second Horizon terminal:

» Now log into a second Horizon terminal to serve a
customer

» When you have served your customer and are
ready to return to the first Horizon terminal, log
out

On the first Horizon terminal:

» To unlock and return to the Drop & Go session,
press any key to wake up the screen

« Enter your Smart ID password when prompted

» You will be presented with the original session

Please note: You can ‘lock’ sessions on multiple
Horizon terminals, but please remember to complete
all sessions and log out of each Horizon terminal.

pee ee eee ee ee eee eens
1 Warning:

I” another user tries to log in to a terminal that

1 you have locked, they will see a message (see

1 image). If they continue and log in, all of your

1 locked sessions on all terminals will be settled

1 to cash

1. If no activity is carried out for 60 minutes, the

1 terminal will time-out. Please remember to

1 return to all locked terminals within 60 minutes.
I We recommend that you log off from all

I _ terminals you are not currently using to avoid

1 this issue

.

POL00448121
POL00448121

CTO2012 July 2023

Session Locked By Another User

Another user has locked this counter. Please check
with your colleague before continuing. If you continue
to log on to this counter, the other user will be logged
‘out from both this counter and any other counter

where they have an active session. Any outstandin
transactions will be settied to cash.

focument are fice INTERNAL. Dis
ice and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

The conte
on behalf of Post

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

19, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

@

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000080_0001
POL00448121
POL00448121

CTO2012 July 2023 SECTION 2 Getting Started on Horizon V4.0

Smart ID

The Smart ID system links each Horizon user's ID to their training and HR record. If you are recruiting a new
assistant, they need to have passed the necessary vetting checks and the compliance training before they
can serve customers. Here is an overview of the process to follow:

Ring the Branch
Support Centre to let
them know of your —>
intention to recruit a
new assistant

Smart ID is used to
generate Horizon ID
and temporary
password for new
assistant

Key: BranchManager_ Pst Ofce Branch Assistant

*Directly Managed Branch assistants complete compliance training and test before attending the classroom training.

How does the Branch Manager create a Horizon ID using a Smart ID?

» On Horizon go to ‘Back Office’, then ‘Admin’ and select ‘Create (User)’

«Follow the on-screen prompts and enter the user’s Smart ID, check the name displayed belongs to
the user

© The Horizon ID (Smart ID + 2 digits) will be generated
» Create a password for the user, add a role to their Horizon ID, and attach them to a stock unit
(if required)
* Tell the user their Horizon ID and temporary password. They can now log in using their Horizon ID and
temporary password which they will be asked to change when they log in

For full details go to Horizon Help: ‘Back Office’, ‘Smart ID’ ‘Create User’ ‘Counter Process’.

What happens if temporary cover is needed in branch?

+ Ifthe temporary assistant has a Smart ID, follow the process to create a new user. If they don't, follow the
process for recruiting a new assistant. It's important to make sure the temporary cover has been vetted
and passed their compliance training and tests so that they are compliant to serve in branch

How long does it take to get a new assistant live on Horizon and ready to serve?

Once the completed P250 has been sent to Post Office, it can take up to three weeks for vetting to be completed.
After vetting is complete, the assistant’s Smart ID will be sent to the branch email address.

, Top Tip! When planning extra resource for Christmas, allow plenty of time for vetting.

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
‘on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000080_0002

POL00448121
POL00448121

SECTION 2 Getting Started on Horizon V4.0 CTO2012 July 2023

Transaction Acknowledgements (TAs)

What is a Transaction
Acknowledgement?

Transaction Acknowledgements (TAs) are an
automated way to account for transactions carried
out on the Paystation or Camelot Lottery terminals
each day.

Transaction Acknowledgements are sent
electronically overnight and are processed by the first
person who logs into Horizon after it has been sent.

A pop-up message appears on Horizon and you won't
be able to serve until the outstanding Transaction
Acknowledgements have been processed:

* Check the cash received for your Paystation
and Lottery transactions against the list of
outstanding Transaction Acknowledgements

« ‘Process TAs' to accept all entries on the
screen

«Physically move the cash in or out of the stock
unit where the Transaction Acknowledgements
were accepted. This ensures that your stock
unit will balance

Viewing accepted Transaction
Acknowledgements

There may be occasions where an assistant needs
to serve customers quickly, so they process the
Transaction Acknowledgements without checking
or physically moving the cash in or out of the
relevant stock unit.

On those occasions, you can print a report to show
what was accepted, on Horizon go to:

‘Back Office’, ‘Reporting’, ‘Reporting Office’,
‘Outstanding and Processed’
» Enter dates from (yesterday) to (today)

This report prints on the back office printer, so
remember to switch it on.

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
‘on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000080_0003
(ie) (Qyererres
EXPERIENCE

SECTION 2 Getting Started V3.1 draft

The Basics of Customer Experience

Our Customer Experience Drivers help us understand what our customers want from us. These underpin
our values and help us focus on the things we know that are important to our customers. Our behaviours

in these Drivers define how customers rate our customer experience.

“I want the person who serves me to be friendly, act and present themselves professionally, while
effectively using their expert knowledge to get me the right product. It’s important they actively listen

and understand my needs to serve me in an efficient manner.”

Here you will find the key basics a customer would expect from us, each and every time they visit.
Remember, these are the basics. We should always be actively looking for ways to delight our customers.

FRIENDLY

Greet customers with a smile
Thank customers for waiting
where appropriate

Give my full attention
throughout their visit

I use good manners at all times
I build rapport with customers
Listen and talk in a pleasant,
good natured, easy manner
Treat my customers with
warmth and respect, caring
about the experience I provide

Always say goodbye and
thank you as customers leave

PROFESSIONAL

I look smart at work, taking
pride in my appearance

Respond appropriately and
build rapport with customers,
providing relevant information
with respect and integrity
lam able to understand the
different needs and priorities
of customers

I engage appropriately with
different customer types whilst
remaining calm under pressure

KNOWLEDGE

Ihave a good understanding
of the transactions, products

and services we offer and keep
myseff up to date with changes

I am aware of my surroundings
and how to use the technology
relevant to my role

I perform a wide variety of tasks
and learn new skills quickly

I share my knowledge

with colleagues and am
comfortable observing others
to learn new things

UNDERSTANDING

I offer a personalised customer
experience by asking relevant
questions to help me identify
what is important to my
customers

I know how to fulfil my duties
and understand the attributes
that lead to great customer
satisfaction such as being easy
to do business with

We have a variety of product
experts and refer customers to
those where appropriate

POL00448121

POL00448121

CTO2012 XXXX 2023

Friendly Efficiency

ihe

Knowledge
Happy ,

Customers

Understanding

EFFICIENCY

I am prepared and organised,
ready to do my job in the best
possible manner with the least
waste of time and effort

I make sure I have everything
Ineed to do my job before
starting each shift

I am capable and confident
and can work at pace to meet
customer flows and demands
with a flexible attitude

I focus on important tasks first,
limiting distractions, so my
customers can see I value their
time

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000080_0004
