POL00198121
POL00198121

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce: Jorja Preston[,

Subject: FW: Meeting with james Arbuthnot

Hi Alwen,

Thanks. I’ve changed the draft a bit. Less defensive sounding now.

Happy (delighted even) to be offered support at the meeting whether by Paula or Chris!
A

From: Alwen Lyons
Sent: 25 November!
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Meeting with james Arbuthnot

Alice
Please see below a draft letter to James.

It may of course change after your meeting with Tony Hooper today. I will ask Jorja to have a hard copy ready for you
to review tomorrow.

Paula has said she would like to attend the meeting, and if she is not available Chris Aujard could attend on her
behalf. We can of course discuss tomorrow.

Thanks
Alwen

Dear James

When we spoke in Edinburgh, we agreed to arrange a date to discuss the progress being made on the
commitments the Post Office made following the publication of the Second Sight Report. Alwen will be
in touch with Janet to find a suitable date in the first part of January.

I should like us to be able to update you both on the improvements we are making to the way we
engage with subpostmasters, take their feedback and support them when things go wrong; and on the
mediation scheme.

On the latter, we received 147 applications by the time the scheme closed on 18 November. The
Working Group, chaired by Sir Anthony Hooper, has agreed a process to allow a proper investigation of
applications accepted so that it can make an informed and evidence based decision on whether a case
should proceed to mediation. Under this process, it may take longer than first envisaged before the
first cases reach the mediation stage which is why I think it would be sensible for us to meet in the New
Year rather than earlier. In the meantime, if there is anything you need to know, please do not hesitate
to let me know.

I look forward to seeing you and hope that in the meantime, you will have a good Christmas.

Best wishes

AP
POL00198121
POL00198121

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com
