POL00189722
POL00189722

From: Alwen Lyo.
Sent: Mon 01/07/2013 2:00:07 PM (UTC)
To: ‘Alice Perkins’.
Subject: Janet meeting
Alice

I have updated Paula, who will be updating the Board this afternoon.

Janet was sure that James would want the meeting on the 8" to go ahead. I explained the problems we have with the
SS approach, where they are only concluding a case if the spmr accepts the Post office’s evidence, they are not using
the base forensic data to come to their own verdict and putting that to the spmr.

Because of this they could be presenting cases on the 8"" which are incomplete and saying they haven’t got enough
evidence. Janet said that James’ would push them on this tomorrow, and we will do so this afternoon at 3pm when
we see them face to face. (Susan is back for the meeting)

I asked Janet about James’ conversation with Jo Swinson and she said he had alerted her because Second Sight had
told him a couple of weeks ago that they ‘think they have found something in the system’ and he thought the Minister
should know. SS did not tell us they had said this to James.

I suspect these are the two defects which were known to us, and which we flagged up to SS. The first of which 3 years
ago has been discussed in court and is in the public domain. I shared this with Janet and showed her the small losses
and explained that the subpostmasters who had any shortages were repaid and those with gains were allowed to
keep them.

I talked Janet through the MP cases, and that we are being told that they have not found anything in the computer
system to date, but that some processes could be improved.

We have now arranged for Paula and I to meet James face to face on Wednesday morning

Sorry off to the SS now

Thanks
Alwen
Alwen Lyons I Company Secretary

@® 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL00189722
POL00189722

———

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

