POL00201950
POL00201950

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd,
Sent: Thur 20/03/2014 9:49:09 AM (UTC)

To: Parsons, Andre

Ce: claire.parmente:
Subject: RE: Meeting on Friday [BD-4A.FID20472253]
Andy,

T agree the aproach. Lorraine Garvey who works for Rod Ismay is probably the best person in POL to talk to regarding
what happenned in 2008 with the Giro deposit transaction. Let me know how you want to approach Lorraine and I'll drop
her a note in advance so that she has the heads up.

Thanks,
Angela

From: Parsons, Andrew [
Sent: 19 March 2014 21:01
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Cc: ‘claire.parmente
Subject: FW: Meeting on Friday [I

Angela
FYI below re Ron's earlier email (at the bottom of this chain) about receipts for giro / banking transactions.
There's a suggestion below about how to investigate this point. Do you agree with this approach?

If so, would you be able to provide the names of the key people we'll need to speak to about this?
Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

Blin)
www.bonddickinson.com

From: Belinda Crowe [
Sent: 19 March 2014 15:
To: Parsons, Andrew; Rodric William:
Cc: David Oliver1; 'claire.parmente
Subject: RE: Meeting on Friday [BD:

Belinda Crowe

Sounds good to me. Go for it.
POL00201950
POL00201950

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

From: Parsons, Andrew [

Sent: 19 March 2014 15:01

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Belinda Crowe; David Oliver1; 'claire.parmente:
Subject: RE: Meeting on Friday [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Rodric
I agree — the way we did the spot reviews fits here. Our approach was:

1. Identify the key knowledge holders at POL and FJ (this feels like Gareth Jenkins and the product manager
from POL)

2. BD prepares a list of questions to help prompt thoughts / add some structure

3. Hold a call or meeting with the team to discuss the issue.

4. BD prepares a draft response for further input / approval.

If you and Belinda agree, I'll liaise with Angela to identify the people we need to investigate this.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Rodric Williams :
Sent: 19 March 2014 14:
To: Parsons, Andrew
POL00201950
POL00201950

Cc: Belinda Crowe; David Oliver1
Subject: FW: Meeting on Friday

Andy —I think the issue buried in Ron’s 0953am email re: “the mid-2008 changeover on GIRO/Bank paying-in books”
and consequential receipt change could be approached as if it were an old-style Spot Review.

Can you remember how we would go about doing it?

Happy to discuss, Rod

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 19 March 2014 14:26
To: Rodric Williams

Subject: Fw: Meeting on Friday

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: Wednesday, March 19, 2014 11:15 AM
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; 'andrew.parsons.
Cc: David Oliver1; Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: Meeting on Friday

Angela
The actions from the Working Group were:

ACTION Post Office to provide Second Sight with a copy of the Factfile.

ACTION Second Sight to urgently review the factfile and consider using it as the basis for the production of the Part
one report (the “mediator briefing”).

ACTION Second Sight to discuss with AVDB any outstanding issues, areas of disagreement or queries before the
circulation of the Part one and Part two reports.

So do we have any idea about their timing of the presentation of their part 2 report?
Best wishes

Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

“lPostline!.

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 19 March 2014 10:28 _
To: Belinda Crowe; 'andrew.parsons

POL00201950
POL00201950

Subject: Fw: Meeting on Friday

Both,

Fyi

From: Ron Warmington!
Sent: Wednesday, March 19, 2014 09:53 AM

Subject: RE: Meeting on Friday
Angela: No meeting possible this week I'm afraid. Two reasons:

1. I have to drive up to Scotland tomorrow evening to!

Reports; and (most urgent of all) the Thematic Report (on which Ian how
has lead role), we can't assign that much time... and...

2. Chris has taken the lead on the Fact File Response (to allow me to push
forward uninterruptedly on the CQRs and POL Reports and Ian to work on
the Thematic Report and preparing for next week's MP meeting)... so Chris
will shortly be sending you an email listing the consolidated input of all
three of us. It follows that having me attend, rather than Chris, makes no
sense.

... Chris would be free to meet with you - in Swindon if necessary - anytime
from Tuesday onward. Ian and I could dial in or maybe also attend
depending on what we all want to achieve. Swindon is only really convenient
for you and me of course.

We'll today be releasing, along with several other CQRs, the CQR on Scott
Darlington (M038), prepared by his brother Steve. There's a section in it - from
pages 11-13 - dealing with the mid-2008 changeover on GIRO/Bank paying-in
books that thereafter meant that only one RECEIPT was printed and that went
back to the customer. From that point onward, branches no longer had copies of
Receipts to help them identify paying-in keying errors, etc. In effect,
Steve/Scott assert that this was a systems design blunder that not only
removed a vital link in the Audit Trail but in doing so led to a situation where
mistakes made at the counter (that benefitted customers at the expense of the
POL00201950
POL00201950

SPMR) could no longer be detected and rectified either by the branch
staff/SPMR or by POL itself (i.e. they would only be detected if the customer
came forward to repay his windfall, which would, of course, rarely happen).
Steve also asserts that this change rendered the branch balances unreliable with
the consequence that all subsequent civil or criminal actions would be unsafe.
The reason I mention this issue - which we have previously raised - is that it will
need a response not just in POL's reply to the M038 CQR but also in your Fact
File. For sure we'll be addressing it in the Thematic Issues Report.

Best regards, Ron.

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd ii

I'm on leave technically this week and therefore not in London which is why I suggested Swindon. I could do Thursday
morning in Swindon which will allow me to get home at a reasonable time and back to my week off. Could you do
Thurs morning? It would be good to meet up and discuss the points you mention below and anything else that will
enable a good report to go to WG on 26th.

Best regards

From: Ron Warmington I GRO
Sent: Monday, March 17, 2014 11:23 AM
To: Angela Van-Den-Bi

‘TanHenderson'

Subject: RE: Meeting on Friday

Angela: Unfortunately it doesn't look as though Friday will work for us... for a
couple of reasons:

° Although I've marked up a copy of your ‘Fact File’ with my comments (and
also done the same on the ATM note) and shared that with Ian and Chris so that
Chris can consolidate it with their input so we have one combined 2nd Sight
contribution, unfortunately Chris isn't available Friday (or on the following Monday.
but could get to Swindon on any other day next week I think). Wouldn't London be
better?

° T also can't make this Friday because it looks as though I'll have to pop up
to Scotland on that day to attend a funeral of a dear friend.
POL00201950
POL00201950

In any event, it's already a good document Angela (though we can see you have some
more sections to add) and will serve well I think. Needless to say, there are some
points that we'd like to discuss where our findings show a different slant that you
may either dispute; agree with and wish to leave to us to communicate; or where you
may wish to tweak your write-up.

Best regards, Ron.

GRO

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd;

Sent: Monday, March 17,201410:09AM CS”

To: ‘rwarming,

Subject: Meeting on Friday

Hi Ron,

Just checking that you are ok to meet in Swindon on Friday. I have a room booked

all day so we can be flexible - 10ish to allow for travelling ?

Have you reviewed the factfile? Is there anything else you need for your report?

Please let me know and I'll co-ordinate.

Best regards,
Angela

GRO

KAKA KAKA KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KIKI KIKI IKKE REE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy
or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

AAAI KIKI KK III IK IKK III RII III.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
POL00201950
POL00201950

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential

If you are not belinda,crow
ation, distribution, publication o Copyin

rivileged and protected by k
lease notify andrew.parsor}

only is authorised to

access this e-mail and any a

possible and delete any

Unauthorised use, dissemi

ay be unlawful

to this e-mail will have been chee!
ised by software viruses and you sho

Any
which may b

sion. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or dan

d by us with virus detection soft

arry out your own virus checks before op

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partn tered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newe: pon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of nes is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer toa
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
