STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

SPEAKING NOTE FOR POST OFFICE MEETING WITH CRIMINAL CASES
REVIEW COMMISSION - 6 NOVEMBER 2015
Attendees

Frazer Stuart, Legal Advisor (CCRC)
Amanda Pearce, Group Leader (CCRC)
[]

Rodric Williams, Solicitor, Corporate Services (POL)
Andrew Parsons, Solicitor (Bond Dickinson)

Objectives
1. Ensure that the CCRC are being effectively supported by POL.

2. Get an insight into the CCRC's current lines of enquiry. What is the
question that the CCRC is trying to answer?

3. Try to set some parameters around future disclosures and timings. Get
answers to POL's letters of 10 September and 2 October.

4. Reinforce the message that (i) there is no problem with Horizon and (ii)
false accounting is about SPMRs manually submitting false figures; not
about the probity of IT systems.

Topics

1. Documents provided by Post Office to date

1.1. Where available, the following documents have been provided for all 20
cases:

- Mediation Scheme documents

- Hardcopy POL security file (green jackets)
- Hardcopy POL / RM legal file (buff jacket)
- Hardcopy CK file (orange jacket)

- Hardcopy POCA file (red jacket)

- Electronic — RM and POL legal file

- CD/ tape recordings (interview recordings)
- CK case reviews

- Total number of docs disclosed: 7,648

1.2 Unless it discovers something new, POL does not expect to be providing
any more documents in the above categories.

POL00065670
POL00065670
STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

1.3 Data room

- Is it working for the CCRC?
- Hosting cost to POL so need to keep this under review.

2. Further documents to be provided

2.1 Civil litigation files

- Issue:

o POLis holding various litigation files that were created in
around 2011 when POL was threatened with civil legal
action by Shoosmiths.

o These files may contain some prosecution documents
and there are, what appears to be, copies of old
prosecution files.

o. The files may be duplicate material already provided to
the CCRC.

- Applicable cases:
o Jo Hamilton: 380 docs
o Julian Wilson: 1498 docs
o Scott Darlington: 726 docs
o Seema Misra: 2608 docs

- POL raised this issue with the CCRC in our letter of 2 October 2015
— no response yet.

- Recommended approach:
© Provide those files that are obvious copies of
prosecution papers — approximately 23 files.
o POL to preserve the remaining civil litigation files in case
the CCRC needs them at a later date — 9 files.

2.2 Electronic files from CK and POL security

- Volume:
o CK: 2,700 documents
POL security: 184,000 documents
- Issue:
o Documents are not held in any useful structure for the
CCRC's purposes.
o May contain material related to cases outside the 20
cases under review.

POL00065670
POL00065670
STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

o Giving the CCRC unfettered access would be a breach
of the DPA unless clearly mandated under a valid $17

request.

POL raised this issue with the CCRC in our letter of 10 September
2015 — no response yet other than a request to preserve

documents.

Options:

(1) Provide full access to all documents — not recommended.

- Unhelpful for CCRC.

- Risky from a DPA compliance perspective.
- Not consistent with the approach taken to other disclosures.

(2) Conduct keyword searches for relevant material. For

example:
Keyword Docs I _ Docs inc
family*
Hamilton 6,177 11,318
Jo* w/2 Hamilton 767 905
Josephine Hamilton 572 663
Josephine Hamilton AND between 31 31

1 March 2006 (audit) and 30 Nov
2007 (conviction)

*family docs are those connected to documents having a

keyword eg. an email may contain a keyword; the attachments

to the email (which do not contain a keyword) will be family

documents.

(3) Conduct ad hoc searches for particular documents as

required by the CCRC

- If the CCRC is looking for specific documents or information

on particular cases, POL could:

Design bespoke search criteria to find such documents.

Agree that criteria with the CCRC.

Disclose the responsive documents under cover of

bespoke s17 notices.

POL00065670
POL00065670
POL00065670
POL00065670

STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

3. Other material that POL could provide

3.1. Key point: POL needs to understand why the CCRC needs documents
so that it can then make informed searches for possibly relevant
documents.

3.2 Other important points re documents held by POL:

- POLis a big organisation and documents could be held in lots of
places. Broad requests for types of documents will likely return
significant amounts of material; much of which will likely be irrelevant
for the CCRC's purposes.

- POL has changed over time - particularly since separation from RM.
General documents are therefore time sensitive and may therefore
only be relevant to some prosecutions and not others (eg. changes
in policies, changes in Horizon, etc.)

- Best for CCRC to make narrow targeted requests. Focusing on
specific cases rather than general issues is likely to return more
fruitful material.

3.3. Board reports:

- Commissioning of Horizon. This happened back in the late 1990s.
Highly unlikely that POL holds the board reports about this given the
amount of time that has passed.

- Most recent board reports are about scheme process, costs and
progress or about managing media and political enquiries. These
would not be relevant to the CCRC.

- Details of specific prosecutions are not routinely reported to the
board.

© This is a delegated function with decision making
authority usually resting with the GC / Security team.

© The board has not typically directly authorised individual
prosecutions.

o However, this has changed over time and may have
been different when the RM board was in charge and
prosecutions were effectively conducted by RM on
behalf of POL.

3.4 Fujitsu material

- Fujitsu is the IT provider of Horizon.
POL00065670
POL00065670

STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

- Avery large volume of material about the operation of Horizon is
held by Fujitsu and POL IT.

- This material is probably too vast and technical to be of use to the
CCRC, though specific requests for particular information could be
made.

- Fujitsu did provide POL with a presentation on the main controls
used to ensure that the data in Horizon is accurate. This is more
user friendly and could be of use to the CCRC.

3.5 Criminal risk advice following SS' interim report - BAQC.
- Key piece of advice was from BAQC - CCRC already has this.
3.6 Civil risk advice following commencement of the Scheme

- Given levels of claims that were submitted through the Scheme
(£100m but massively over-inflated), POL commissioned Linklaters
to provide advice on the risk of civil claims against POL.

- Linklaters found that "absent proof that Horizon is malfunctioning
(either generally or in the specific case) the Post Office has a right to
recover losses from SPMRs, the SPMRs have no right to
compensation for such losses and the circumstances in which there
will be a consequential loss claim are limited to those in which
inadequate notice of termination was given."

- POL therefore commissioned Deloitte to undertake a desktop review
of Horizon's assurance regime (essentially reviewing the control
documentation produced by Fujitsu and POL) — they found no major
concerns but made a few minor recommendations.

- These documents could be disclosed but may be of limited
relevance given focus on civil liabilities.

3.7 Select Committee

- In February 2014, Post Office appeared by the BIS Select
Committee to answer questions about the Scheme and Horizon.

- POL made a written submission to the Select Committee — could be
disclosed to the CCRC.

- lan Henderson stated at the SC hearing: "Failures are inevitable with
that infrastructure. In general, Horizon has a robust recovery
mechanism to cope with those failures."
POL00065670
POL00065670

STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

3.8 Panorama

- POL did make a written submission to Panorama, however this was
largely based on the earlier submission to the Select Committee.

- Interaction with Panorama was otherwise fairly limited due to
concerns about the BBC's impartiality.

4. Update on mediation scheme

4.1 Allinvestigations completed. SS are no longer engaged and conducting
no further work for POL.

4.2 Mediations:

- Now fully underway with dozens having taken place in the last few
months and dozens more coming up shortly.

- POL aiming to complete all mediations by the New Year.

- No major compensation pay-outs — a few very minor settlements
based on the particular circumstances of certain cases (eg. failure
by POL to train a particular person, etc)

4.3 POL has still not found any evidence of an error in Horizon and
maintains that nearly all problems have been caused by human error by
Branch staff.

4.4 Other challenges

- Media interest has largely died down.

- Some MPs still engaged but much lower profile.

- DSARs — process nearly complete and conduct largely without
controversy

5. Update on CCRC progress
5.1 What volumes of documents has the CCRC reviewed?
5.2 What lines of enquiry are being explored?
5.3 How is the CCRC conducting its review?
- All cases in parallel?

- Test cases first?
- Targeting particular issues?
POL00065670
POL00065670

STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

5.4 Does the CCRC still see that there are "exceptional circumstances" to
warrant its review?

5.5 What output are they expecting?
5.6 When do they expect to reach a conclusion?

5.7 Can POL do anything to help?

6. Actions
- POL to circulate note of meeting?

- Other?
