Meeting: 13 November 2013
Attendees:
Team/Function

Legal

Financial Services Centre (FSC)

Security

Communications

Network

Information Technology & Change (IT&C)

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

POL00139719
POL00139719

Attendees

Rodric Williams (RW)

Martin Smith of Cartwright King (AB)
Kayleigh Harding (KH)

Andy Winn (AW)

Dave Posnett (DP)

Ruth Barker (RB)
Anne Allaker (AA)
Nick Beal (NB)

Kath Alexander (KA)
Steve Beddoe (SB)

N/A

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps

Prestbury AA to check with GP before closing the matter.

ATM Gluing Wincor engineer interviewed and denied wrongdoing.

Case Investigations confirm he owns a Rolls Royce. Income does not

correspond with Wincor information. Denies being at the branches
despite CCTV evidence. Bailed until February and will hopefully
be charged.

Rhigos Branch

Nothing untoward found other than declaring and re-declaring
within a few minutes. Similar to Nelson. Reports requested from
Fujitsu re power outages. No balancing issues up to last week.
Wife in post, no losses occurring. Ongoing support until January
2014.

Investigators requesting confirmation whether they can continue
with their investigations. AA to establish whether to hold until

4A_27807183_1
POL00139719
POL00139719

January 2014.

Post & Go

No further update. GP and AA received report — they have
questions to pick up with SB team. No Horizon related issues
established. Lack of training and instructions and practice within
branch. Report to be provided following meeting with SB team.

Belfast Refresh

Ongoing. Several steps to be taken before data transferred,

Nelson

Ongoing support — New effect has been that Branch now £60.00
over. Do not account for motor disks correctly. Trainer visited
branch to train and support SPM. Steps taken and support given,
no further issues.

Continued support until December.

Pontycymer

KA in branch with field team on Saturday to put onto single stock
unit. SPM taking a week's break. Relief SPM and field team to go
into branch. Appears to be human error. Ongoing support to be
given.

Further update in due course.

Martin Griffiths

To be closed.

Carluke Post
Office

MS spoken to BTO Solicitors. BTO have spoken to Crown Office
and they understand POL has no information as Police
investigation. Crown Office has ordered Police to look for original
records and provide them to the Crown Office. Crown Office likely
to take over the matter without POL involvement.

To be closed on action log.

Sandy Park DP - 2 branches in Wales where possible ATM officer may have
visited. Now ruled out.
Ongoing matter.

Historic Option within Horizon to put in an unpaid cheque. If option taken,

Transaction

discrepancy

a gain can be obtained.

1. Why was this function on Horizon. Program change
request to be put forward.

2. Establish which branches have these transactions and
ascertain how to deal with this.

4A_27807183_1
POL00139719
POL00139719

Icon which allows you to tell horizon you have an unpaid cheque.

Opposite entry will default to cash. Increase value of unpaid
cheque, decrease level of cash needed to balance. Can create

gain.

Should be established whether fraudulent activity during audit
depending on how long ago transaction took place.

To be updated further.

Lake Post Letter sent. No further action needed.
Office
Fleckney KD raised with SB —- DVLA issue. Passed to Charles Brown. No

response received.

Issues with DVLA system. Some new products with DVLA. If
customer came in with new vehicle and attempted transaction at
41 or 2" of month, DVLA system not caught up and error code
showing on system.

SB to update following response from Charles Brown.

NB — concerns with other DVLA issue which had been known

about for 3 % years and not resolved.

Horizon related
call logs

AA forwarded 4 calls from NBSC. Discrepancy in branch with no
explanation. SPM's claim Horizon at fault. AA downloaded
transaction information during period discrepancy occurred.
Response to be provided to branch.

AA to review and report back.

MS to circulate to members of the call a step by step guide to
ascertain whether issues should be brought to the call.

New Issues Identified
Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments
DP Security No issues
AW FSC No issues

4A_27807183_1
POL00139719
POL00139719

RB Communication I No issues
Ss

NB Network No issues

MS Cartwright No issues
King/Legal

KA Network No issues

KH on behalf of Legal No Issues

AP

RW Legal No issues

SB IT&C No issues

AA Network Health lottery — when delivered the plan was SPM could cancel

ticket. Cancel function not made available at the time. Long
session with SSP about issue. If no cancel button customer must
have cash to pay for it. Once ticket printed it cannot be reversed.
If person used debut card and card refused, stuck with ticket and a
loss.

Should be a cash only transaction. Branches misinterpreting cash
only transaction. Horizon will accept any method of payment. POL
created communication to explain in interim before solution
delivered, and sent to only 200 branches.

Managing interim fix, cancel button to go live this week.

SB to follow up with JB and report back.

Action Points

1. Prestbury — AA to discuss with GP whether matter can now be closed and report back in next
week's call.

2. ATM Gluing — DP to provide update in due course.

3. Rhigos — AA to establish whether investigations should be placed on hold until January 2014
when field support will cease.

4. Post & Go - AA and GP to meet with IT & C to discuss report and provide a further update.

5. Belfast Refresh - RW to monitor ongoing process and provide updates when necessary.

4A_27807183_1 4
POL00139719
POL00139719

6. Nelson — continued branch support until December. Further update to be provided in due
course.

7. Pontycymer — Network to provide further update.

8. Martin Griffiths — to be closed on action log.

9. Carluke Post Office - to be closed on action log.

10. Sandy Park — DP to update further in due course.

11. Historic Transaction discrepancy — AW to update further.

12. Lake Post Office - to be closed on action log

13. Fleckney — SB to follow up response from Charles Brown and report back.

14. Horizon related call logs — MS of CK to circulate document to all members of the call which
gives criteria and step by step guide as to what issues should be brought to the Horizon call.

15. Horizon related call logs — AA to review 4 issues she has been made aware of and ascertain
whether issues should be brought to the call.

16. Health Lottery — SB to follow up with JB and establish whether fix to the system is to go live and
also whether this is being communicated to all branches.

4A_27807183_1 5
