Working Group for the Initial Complaint Review and Case Mediation Scheme

Participant's code: 534159264

Attendees

Sir Anthony Hooper (Chair)

Alan Bates (JFSA)

lan Henderson (Second Sight)

Ron Warmington (Second Sight)
Chris Holyoak (Second Sight)

Chris Aujard (Post Office)

Angela Van Den Bogerd (Post Office)
David Oliver (Post Office)

Andy Parsons (Bond Dickinson)
Claire Parmenter (Bond Dickinson)

Apologies

Kay Linnell (JFSA)
Belinda Crowe (Post office)

Agenda

MINUTE

1. Status of current applications that have not yet been accepted

. Status of accepted applications awaiting a Case Questionnaire Response
. New Case Questionnaire Responses

. Post Office / Second Sight investigation progress

. Standing case updates

. Cases with Second Sight to review PO investigation reports

. Any other queries raised by Applicants / Advisors

* Billing arrangements — Philip de Nahlik, Begbies
e Howe & Co extension requests

. Issues with resourcing / timings

. AOB

POL00026660
POL00026660
POL00026660
POL00026660

Thursday 24" April, 13:00 — 14:00

1.

Status of current applications that have not yet been accepted

N/A

Status of accepted applications awaiting a Case Questionnaire Response

N/A

New Questionnaire Responses

rase Working Group decision / action(s)

M008 WG accepted the case into the scheme with a 4 week deadline — 5" June.

M100 WG accepted the case into the scheme with a 6 week deadline — 19" June.
M108 WG accepted the case into the scheme with a 6 week deadline — 19" June.
M120 WG accepted the case into the scheme with a 4 week deadline — 5" June.

Post Office / Second Sight Investigation Process
Cases under Post Office Investigation:

« AVDB confirmed that since the agenda had been circulated, a further 4
investigation reports had been uploaded. A total of 16 Post Office investigation
reports are now on Huddle for SS to review.

e WG agreed that the focus of the investigations and all reports produced within the
scheme should be on whether or not PO bears responsibility for the losses
incurred.

Investigations are proceeding on all cases but the proposed deadline extensions reflect
the impact of that prioritisation on the report writing stage of the process.

case Status Working Group decision / action(s)
Investigation complete. Finalising

M005 report. Extension (not 1°) to 4"" June I Extension granted to 4" June.
required.
AVDB to update on call. .

Moo6 Investigation complete. Finalising Woe to update on timescales at next

- G meeting on 15" May.

report as a priority.
Investigation complete. Finalising

M031 report. Extension (not 1“) to 4" June I Extension granted to 4" June.
required.
Complex investigation on-going.

M067 Extension (not 1°) to 2™ July Extension granted to 2" July.
required.

POL00026660
POL00026660

Case

No. Status Working Group decision / action(s)
Investigation complete. Finalising

Mog0 report. Extension (not 1°) to 4"" June I Extension granted to 4" June.
required.
Investigation complete. Finalising

Mog5 report. Extension (not 1°) to 4"" June I Extension granted to 4" June.
required.
Investigation on-going. Extension : th

M116 (not 1%) to 4 June required. Extension granted to 4" June.
Investigation complete. Finalising

M132 report. Extension (not 1°") to 4" June I Extension granted to 4" June.
required.
AVDB to update on call. A nd

oe os Extension granted to 22° May. Letter to
M143_I Investigation complete. Finalising I sooiicant confirming this timescale will

report as a priority. Letter from SAH
to be sent by 9" May.

be sent from SAH by 9" May.

e M006 — AP confirmed that the on-going litigation is stayed until the end of July.
Applicant had stated to AB that they were due back in Court in June. AB confirmed
that he would contact the applicant and update the WG at the next meeting on 15"

May.

. Standing and other case updates

Case

No. Status Working Group decision / action(s)
No response from applicant despite
M004 latest attempts, Letter from SAHto fees update WG at the next meeting on
be sent by 9" May. .
Applicant would like his case to be
Moo4 considered in the Scheme. AVDB to update WG at the next meeting on
Corresponding with applicant to 15” May.
seek written confirmation.
Applicant has advised that she AVDB confirmed that the applicants were
" * happy with the internal investigation and
ma12 Sonoma, Later seking tor expressed a wish to withdraw their case.
confirmation in writing was sent on AVDB to update WG at the next meeting on
2" May. No response received yet. I 45!" May,
AB to contact applicant and ask them to
M114 Letter detailing findings sent on 29" respond,
April. No response received yet. AVDB to update WG at the next meeting on
15" May.
AB to contact applicant and ask them to
Still no response from applicant on respond.
M142 findings. PO will chase applicant

again on 7" May.

AVDB to update WG at the next meeting on
15" May.

POL00026660
POL00026660

6. Any other queries raised by Applicants / Advisors

Billing arrangements — raised by Philip de Nahlik, Begbies.
« Howe & Co extensions

Working Group decision / action(s):

« Ashort letter from SAH to go out to Philip de Nahlik stating that the scheme does not
permit fees related to investigation of the applicant’s claim to be carried over into
mediation.

« DOwill circulate Howe & Co’s email requesting extensions to the remainder of the
WG by COP on 8" May.

« SAH will write to Howe & Co addressing the following:

= The WG has granted their requested extensions.

«The WG's concerns about the length of time taken to submit CQRs in some of
the older cases.

« The WG's request for assurance that the applicants involved are aware of the
requests for further time.

7. Issues with resourcing / timings
N/A
8. AOB

« SAH confirmed that now he has had comments from the WG on his letter to the
Minister, he will send it out by 9"" May. It was agreed that a signed copy will be
circulated to all members of the WG.

« SAH confirmed that all members of the WG may comment on the latest M022 draft
with respects to comments made at the face-to-face WG meeting on 1° May before
noon on 9" May.

e SAH confirmed that he would write to the applicant in M022, their professional
advisor and PO in tandem and that his letter would include:

o That Part One and Part Two of the Mediator Briefing Pack would not be
provided at this time.

o That Part One of the Mediator Briefing Pack will be sent to them within 2
weeks.

© That both parties have 7 days to reply from the date Part One of the
Mediator’s Briefing Pack is received.

o The expected date for receipt of Part Two of the Mediator Briefing Pack.

o Areference to confidentiality.

¢ SAH confirmed that this letter and SS’s report will be sent on 12" May by special
delivery
POL00026660

POL00026660

WG committed to doing everything possible to support SS to upload a finalised draft
of Part One of the Mediator Briefing Pack by 14" May — ready for the next WG
meeting on 15" May.

SS confirmed that draft reports for M054 and M127 will be circulated by 15" May.

WG confirmed that SS’s timelines are 4 weeks long and that any extension requests
should be brought to the WG for consideration and approval. WG agreed that SS
should review their caseload and bring forward any extension requests at the next
WG meeting on 15" May.

CA committed to writing to Oliver Heald — in reply to his letter discussed on 1° May —
asking him to forward his letter to the constituent in question. The letter will ask the
individual to relay the circumstances which led to their late application to the scheme
—and to state the detail of their claim. PO will then consider whether they will accept
the case into the scheme.

WG agreed that acceptance of a new case into the scheme was PO’s decision — and
confirmed that the WG only has jurisdiction over those cases within the scheme.
