Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

Appendix 8 to 7.4 Juveniles and
Appropriate Adults

Version 1.0 Final
March 2011

Review Date: March 2013

Ray Pratt

Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail
Mobex
Mobile

POL00104894
POL00104894
POL00104894
POL00104894

Contents

Key Accountabilities

1. General

2. Role of the Appropriate Adult

3. Commencing in the Absence of an Appropriate Adult
4. Care of Juveniles (& Royal Mail Group Young Persons)
Change Control

Glossary

BYRD eW

Royal Mail 2011 Appendix @ to 7.4 Juveniles & Appropriate Adults (7.4.8)~ RM V1.0 ~ Page 2 of 9
Key Accountabilities

POL00104894
POL00104894

Who is
accountable?

What do I have to IWhen do I have

do?

to do this?

How do I do
this?

All members
of Royal Mail
Security

Ensure you comply I Ongoing

with these
procedures

As detailed
within these
procedures

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 8

Appropriate Adults (7.4.8)- RI V1.0 - Page 3
POL00104894
POL00104894

Juveniles and Appropriate Adults

1.

1.1

General

This Appendix deals in the main with the legal requirements in
respect of juveniles and appropriate adults in England, Wales and
Northern Ireland. The legal position in Scotland is different;
nevertheless the requirements in this Appendix should be seen as good
practice and adopted as appropriate.

Person Responsible for the Juvenile’s Welfare. Immediately following

the suspect approach of a juvenile, an Investigator, should ascertain

the identity of a person responsible for their welfare. That person

may be;

1.2.1 The parent or guardian, or

1.2.2 If the juvenile is in local authority or voluntary
organisation care, or is otherwise being looked after under the
Children Act 1989; a person appointed by that authority or
organisation to have responsibility for the juvenile’s welfare,
or

1.2.3 Any other person, who has, for the time being, assumed
responsibility for the juvenile’s welfare.

The person must be informed as soon as practicable that the juvenile

has been approached and why. They should also be informed of their

current whereabouts. If a juvenile is in care as described in 2,

they may well be living with a parent or other adult responsible for

their welfare. If this is the case, in addition to informing the

care authority, the person they are living with should also be

informed.

Appropriate Adults. It is expected that the person responsible for
the juveniles’ welfare will be the same person as the appropriate
adult but this is not necessarily so as the person may not be
suitable to act in this role. An appropriate adult in the case of a
juvenile is;
1.3.1 Their parent, guardian or, if the juvenile is in local
authority or voluntary organisation care, or is otherwise being
looked after under the Children Act 1989, a person representing
that authority or organisation.

A social worker of a local authority.

Failing these, some other responsible adult aged 18 or over
who is not a police officer or employed by the police or a member
of a RM Security Team.

.3.
1.3.

The following should not be used as an appropriate adult;

1.4.1 An estranged parent if the juvenile expressly and specifically
objects to their presence.

-4.2 A potential witness (including victims).

1.4.3. A person suspected of being involved in the offence or
investigation in question.

1.4.4 A person who has received admissions to the offence prior to
attending to act as the appropriate adult.

1.4.5 A person who appears to be mentally disordered or otherwise
mentally vulnerable.

B

Police stations will have a list of social workers who are on call to
perform the task of appropriate adult if it is not possible to
contact the juveniles’ parent, guardian or person representing the
care organisation. Once an appropriate adult has been identified they

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 8 to 7.4 Juveniles ¢ Appropriate Adults (7.4.8)- RM Vi.0 ~ Ba
1.7

1.8

POL00104894
POL00104894

should be asked to attend the location of the juvenile as soon as
practicable.

Preservation of Evidence. Should it be thought that by informing a
person responsible for the juvenile’s welfare or their appropriate
adult, would compromise the recovery of evidence at a premises search
then investigators should take the juvenile straight to their home
address and inform the necessary person(s) on arrival. They can then
seek consent to search whilst at the address. If these circumstances
apply it is advised that the juvenile be accompanied by a RMG Ltd
Friend or a responsible manager known to the juvenile, until the
appropriate adult is present.

Maintaining Records. A record must be maintained of any action taken
in respect of juveniles.

Consent. If consent is required before carrying out any
investigation activity then the consent should be sought and granted
from both the juvenile and the appropriate adult.

Role of the Appropriate Adult

Appropriate adults on attending should be given a form GSO01A - Guide
for Appropriate Adults. This form explains in detail their role. An
Investigator must also advise the juvenile that the duties of the
appropriate adult include giving them advice and assistance and they
can consult with their appropriate adult in private at any time. The
juvenile must be cautioned and offered their legal rights in the
presence of the appropriate adult, even if this has previously taken
place.

Appropriate adults can exercise any of the legal rights on behalf of
the juvenile including obtaining legal advice, even if the juvenile
has declined it. However, a juvenile cannot be forced to see the
solicitor if they are adamant that they do not wish to see them.
Should the appropriate adult waive their right to speak with a
solicitor the Investigator should ask them if there is any reason why
they don’t want legal advice and a record made of any reason given.
If it is because of cost then they should be informed of how they can
access Publicly Funded Legal Advice as detailed in paragraphs 4.8 and
4.9 of P&S 7.4 Interviewing Suspects. Once it is clear that the
appropriate adult does not want to speak with a solicitor in person
or on the telephone they should cease to be asked their reasons.
Investigators should note that an appropriate adult is not obliged to
give reasons for declining legal advice and should not be pressed to
do so.

Although an appropriate adult will be with a juvenile during relevant
investigation activities it should be noted that the juvenile can
consult privately with a solicitor, without their appropriate adult
present if they so wish. Additionally appropriate adults can be
absent should the juvenile consent to a strip search and does not
want them present; as long as the appropriate adult agrees. A record
shall be made of the juvenile’s decision and signed by the
appropriate adult. (Strip searches must be conducted in accordance
with Annex A to Code C of the PACE CoP).

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 8 to 7.4 Juveniles ¢ Appropriate Adults (7.4.8)- RM V1.0 - Page $ of 9
POL00104894
POL00104894

2.4 Private Consultations. Generally a juvenile is allowed to consult
with their appropriate adult in private at any time. If a juvenile
wants to consult privately with their appropriate adult and it is
thought that they have on them evidence of an offence, then it is
quite likely that the juvenile will try to distance themselves from
the evidence by attempting to dispose of it. Accordingly where it is
thought that the suspect has evidence on them, the suspect should be
asked to consent to a search of their person before allowing a
private consultation. If they refuse then the consultation can take
place as long as the Investigators remain in line of sight of the
suspect. If not then the question of arrest will arise. Further
details on arrest can be found in the Criminal Investigation P&S 7.1
Suspect Approach & Arrest, which can be found on the RM Security
Sharepoint Site under Investigation Activities - Dealing with the
Suspect.

2.5 When the interview commences an investigator should confirm with the
appropriate adult that they have received a copy of the form GSOO1A.
It should also be reiterated that the appropriate adult is not there
merely as an observer but to;
2.5.1 Advise the juvenile.
2.5.2 Observe whether or not the interview is being conducted fairly

and,

2.5.3 Facilitate communication with the person being interview.

2.6A juvenile should not be asked to provide or sign a written statement
under caution or record of interview, in the absence of the
appropriate adult. Appropriate adults should be asked to sign any
sealed master tapes and if they are present at an interview using
notes of interview they should be given an opportunity to read and
sign the interview record or any written statement taken down during
the interview. Any refusal to sign should be noted and witnessed by
any Investigators present. Should the juvenile take issue with the
presence of, or complain about an appropriate adult at interview, the
interview should be suspended and advice sought from a Senior
Investigation Manager (SIM) or the Criminal Law Team (CLT).

3. Commencing in the Absence of an Appropriate Adult

3.11It is not anticipated in RM Security cases that it will be necessary
to commence an interview with a juvenile in the absence of an
appropriate adult. However there are exceptional circumstances when
such an interview can be commenced as follows:

3.1.1 The juvenile consents to be interviewed without an appropriate
adult being present.

3.1.2 A SIM at BPC 8 or above authorises the commencement of the
interview because is considered that any delay whilst awaiting
the attendance of an appropriate adult will lead to any of the
circumstances detailed in a-e below.

a. Interference with, or harm to, evidence connected with an
offence;

b. Interference with, or physical harm to, other people; or

ce. Serious loss of, or damage to, property;

d. Lead to the alerting of other people suspected of committing
an offence, but not yet apprehended for it; or

e. Hindering the recovery of property obtained in consequence of
the commission of an offence.

However the SIM must be satisfied that the interview will not

significantly harm the juvenile’s physical or mental state.

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 8 to 7.4 Juveniles & Appropriate Adults (7.4.8)- RM VI.0 - Page 6 of 9
POL00104894
POL00104894

3.2 Should the juvenile not consent to commence an interview in the
absence of an appropriate adult then the interview can only commence
if the suspect is arrested and a Police Superintendent or above
provides authority.

3.3 If an interview has been authorised by a Superintendant (or above) or
a SIM, because it is considered that the delay would lead to any of
the consequences in 3.1 then once sufficient information has been
obtained to avert the consequences the interview must cease and
arrangements made for an appropriate adult to attend.

4. Care of the Juvenile (& Royal Mail Group Young Persons)

4.11f it is thought that a juvenile (or a Royal Mail Group Young Person
(RMGYP)) is likely to cause harm to themselves then police assistance
must be requested at an early stage. If it is thought that following
the interview and searches the juvenile (or RMGYP) will suffer harm
at the hand of another then police assistance should be requested in
order to protect them.

4.2 Even if there is no specific risk to the juvenile (or RMGYP)
arrangements should be made to prevent them going home alone after
the interview. Should the appropriate adult live with the juvenile
then it is acceptable for them to leave in their care. If not
arrangements should be made for the juvenile (or RMGYP) to be taken
to their home address and given into the care of a responsible adult.
Investigators should ensure that the juvenile or RMGYP is content
with what they will tell the responsible adult bearing in mind their
right to privacy.

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 8 to 7.4 Juveniles ¢ Appropriate Adults (7.4.8)- RM Vi.0 ~ Ba
POL00104894
POL00104894

Change Control

Final

1.0

Ray Pratt

Michael F Matthews
March 2011
Internal

ee
Security

___ Date_ ]
March 2011

Ray Pratt

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via vi March 2011
Security Sharepoint

Documentation History

v.l
Final
Mar 2011
Mar 2011

Document Change History

vi Document Prepared in RM Layout.

Glossary

POL00104894
POL00104894

CLT Criminal Law Team

PACE Police & Criminal Evidence Act 1984
SIM Senior Investigation Manager
Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F

Matthews
Royal Mail Security

6A Eccleston Street

LONDON

sW1l 9LT

Postline:

STD:
Email

© Royal Mail 2011 Ap

pendix &

