POL00184727
POL00184727

From: Rod Ismay, ___. =
Sent: Sun 10/02/2013 9:40:27 PM (UTC)
To: ‘ron.warmingtont

Bakerf

‘irh
Subject: Re: Fwd: Bracknell site address

Hi. Simply because your enquiry was of an unspecified address in Bracknell and the only time Bracknell town crosses my
radar is in respect of Fujitsu having an office there

I don't recall this other address being mentioned on any call with me
I was just offering an address and you were going to check it against what the expected affidavit says
Happy to discuss

Thanks Rod

From: ron.warmington
Sent: Sunday, February 10, 2013 08:47 PM
To: Simon Baker; Ian Henderson
Subject: Fwd: Bracknell site address

; Rod Ismay

Chaps: FYI. Ron

Rod: could you please share with us all why you are focussing now on a Fujitsu, rather than a Royal Mail/ POL
facility?

Best regards. Ron

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Rod Ismay!
Date: 8 February 201
To: Ron Warmington +
Ce: Simon Baker
{ ~ GRO

ubject:

Tan Henderson'

} Dave Posnett ¢_
site address

Thanks for your quick reply Ron.

I was planning to speak with Simon early next week regarding contacts into Fujitsu. Can I, therefore,
suggest that we do that in first instance. As you suggest a senior referral may be appropriate here.

I have now copied Dave on this email myself. My error maybe in trying to minimise inbox overload. It
may, however, be worth a little chat on one of the next calls about comms protocols just to be clear on
whether the whole audience should get all emails or whether we can streamline to actionees only
POL00184727
POL00184727

where appropriate just to make inboxes manageable. We can obviously brief each other at checkpoints
on all activity.

As for the building, I've not googled it myself yet but we do (he said diplomatically) embrace a range of
architectures for all seasons! You could do a history of 17"-21* century architecture across our whole

network and supplier base.

Thanks again for our discussion this morning and look forward to catching up next week and beginning
to get into some spot reviews soon.

Many thanks and hope you have a good weekend
Rod

Rod Ismay I Head of Finance Service Centre

field, S49 1PF

postoffice.co.uk
@postofficenews

From: Ron Warmington I
Sent: 08 February 2013 16:18

To: Rod Ismay

Cc: Simon Baker; 'Ian Henderson’
Subject: RE: Bracknell site address

Thanks Rod. That's the one I found on Google Maps. Bloody ugly building isn't it?

Do you think you or I should seek info directly from Fujitsu as to the who what
when where why and how of that basement office? I laid out the questions in my
earlier emails. Something tells me that a request like that ought to come from
POL's CEO.

Thanks, Ron.

p.s. are you going to and do you want me to routinely copy Dave Posnett on these
sort of emails?

From: Rod Ismay [
Sent: 08 February 2¢

To: ron.warmingtor
Cc: Simon Baker
POL00184727
POL00184727

Subject: Bracknell site address

Hello Ron,

Thank you for our call this morning.

Here is the address that I promised to send on:

Fujitsu Services Ltd, Lovelace Road, BRACKNELL, RG12 8SN

As discussed, if this is indeed the location that is presented in the expected affidavit then we are happy
to clarify the scope of operations provided to Post Office there.

Thanks, Rod

Rod Ismay I Head of Finance Service Centre

postoffice.co-ul
@postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Je HORII IO IO BIS ISO IID IIS IIE IIS III III III III III III III

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
