POL00116801
POL00116801

Confidential and Privileged Document

Post Office Limited &

Proposal to carry out an Independent Review of past fraud and
theft cases in order to determine whether the facts support the
business’s findings and the charges brought against individuals

nD

Proposal:

Proposal for an Independent Review of past fraud and theft
cases:

Second Sight has been invited to carry out a review of a yet to
be determined number of closed, and possibly some still open,
fraud and theft cases. The background here is that the Post
Office has, in accordance with its historical and statutorily-
authorised powers, pursued cases involving fraud, theft and
false accounting principally in the criminal courts. This has
resulted in a large number of prosecutions and restitution of
stolen funds. In recent years, a number of defendants have
asserted that the Post Office’s National Computer System,
‘Horizon’ is the real culprit here. They claim that it has been
throwing up mysterious differences (shortages) for which they
have taken the blame. Some of these cases have been taken
up by Members of Parliament and this has resulted in
heightened publicity attaching to individual cases and to the
issue as a whole. This involvement and publicity has also lent
support to assertions that Horizon really is the root cause of the
problem and that some of those convicted only made false
accounting entries because there seemed at the time to be no
other viable course of action. They claim, in effect, that they
have been unfairly convicted and financially ruined. It has
become obvious that a truly Independent and thorough Review
needs to be carried out and indeed this has, we understand,
been requested by some MPs. This Review would determine,
for the sampled cases, whether:

» the Post Office has thoroughly investigated the facts,
including the alleged perpetrator’s claims about Post Office
systems and other inadequacies

» there is any indication that assertions that “Horizon is the
Real Culprit” have any basis in truth

POL00116801
POL00116801

» the Courts have been presented with all relevant
investigative findings and that any evidence that might
support any defendant’s case has also been properly
considered by the company’s investigators and then
disclosed to the Court

» there is any indication, or pattern, as to where the missing
funds really went (the point here being to review defendants’
claims that the false accounting - that most of them have
admitted - was their only way out when those “mysterious
shortages” hit them)

» there exists any evidence of systemic flaws or control
weaknesses within the old or new Horizon systems and the
Post Office’s related operational procedures

» the Post Office has failed to do anything that it should have
done... or done anything that it should not have done... in
regard to the investigations and prosecutions

Our investigators have extensive knowledge of complex
financial systems and a wealth of experience of investigating
fraud. They will, as discussed, need to be given powerful rights
of access to data and Post Office employees and agents.
Clearly, were the Brief, or our investigators’ access rights, to be
unduly constrained, then the quality and utility of the resultant
conclusions would be seriously devalued . We are delighted
that, in our initial meeting, there was not the slightest
suggestion that the Post Office is calling for anything less than
the sort of comprehensive, thorough, independent’ Review. that
we would be delighted to undertake.

2nd
POL00116801
POL00116801

Proposal:

Proposal for an Independent Review of past fraud and
theft cases, cont’d:

We will bring a dedicated and experienced team to carry out Should you have any queries, or wish to discuss this

this work and our aim will be to utilise a flexible and scalable further... or have us modify this Proposal... please contact
approach involving meetings, interviews, documentation jor lan Henderson o}
reviews and testing to achieve a reliable and robust result. In
order that we may deal with prior commitments, we plan to start
the work no later than June 26th.

This Proposal is signed, for and on behalf of Second Sight
Support Services Ltd, by:

As to our fees, we know that you understand that we cannot, at
this early stage, present you with a firm ‘total job’ budget. We
can assure you that you will not be paying for any ‘on the job
learning’ and that, with the sort of good and fast communication
that we confidently expect, things will move quickly and '
therefore at reasonable cost. We will be better able to '
forecast over-all costs once we have completed the initial
review of some of the selected cases and that will give you an
opportunity to maintain control over costs. As patterns emerge, Ron Warmington, Director
over-all conclusions will become easier to derive and more
reliable. Our findings will be addressed to Susan Crichton,
Legal and Compliance Director... and no Final Report will be June1*, 2012
issued until a draft has been verbally agreed and approved by

the Post Office.

London

We consequently propose that we work on a ‘Time & Materials
plus expenses’ basis until the work is completed or until such
time as the Post Office indicates that it has no further
requirements from us.

We propose that our fees, for lan Henderson and myself, will
each be charged at a rate of £1,350 per day (plus VAT and
expenses at cost). We envisage that a budget of around
£15,000 plus VAT should be allocated for this initial Case
Review.

At 2nd Sight, we gain and retain clients by
being trusted to achieve results that exceed
expectations without embarrassing anyone
with unreasonable costs. Our Core
Principles include:

> If what you need is beyond our
capabilities we will tell you that;

> We will only undertake work that we
know we are exceptionally good at
delivering;

> We will at all times work with your
people and give credit for their ideas...

a

2nd Sight — Core Principles:

POL00116801
POL00116801

>» Where we know of others who can serve
you better, we will, without cost,
recommend them;

>» Where we observe that work we would
otherwise carry out could better be done
by an existing in-house resource we will
tell you that;

rather than trying to sell back to you your » We will ensure that our range of

own work product;

> We will at all times guard against
duplicating the activities of others;

> We will only recommend investments in
procedural change, software, etc. where
we are convinced that the net cost of the
changes that we recommend will be less
than zero;

solutions, wide as it is, is demand-driven
not supply-led (i.e. we will not try to
convince you that your problems can be
hammered into a match with one of our
off-the-shelf solutions).
This Case Review will include the
following tasks:

» Select a representative sample of cases
that have led to prosecutions/court-
appointed restitution. The sample needs to
cover cases:

» where defendants claim they didn’t
take any cash

» where assertions have been made that
‘The System’ (i.e. Horizon) caused the
shortage (include old and new versions
of Horizon if possible)

» which have been taken up by MPs

> Carefully review all company-held
documentation focussing heavily on
probable reasons why shortfalls occurred or
built up

> Interview company investigators to gain
insights and to verify fairness of findings

”Case Review — Approach: -

POL00116801
POL00116801

>» Review defence submissions focussing
on evidence of innocence (consider
separately False Accounting and Theft)

> Try to establish WHY the shortages arose
(assign each case to a Probability Category
such as: Skill shortfall; Diversion to Failing
Business; Straightforward Theft (by whom?);
Mysterious Disappearance; etc.)

> Review all materials from the viewpoint
of the Defence (seek Proof of Innocence
and test evidence indicative of guilt)

» Study and selectively test, the ‘Horizon’
system in order to find any ‘Black Hole’,
Program Bug; etc. that might have caused
mysterious shortages

» Reach conclusions on each case and
identify any systemic issues/concerns
Contact Information:
Direct fee

Mobile
Areas of Expertise:

Email i
Managing large and high profile fraud
investigations

+ Interviewing both witnesses and
suspects

+ Liaising with legal teams and law
enforcement

+ Preparing affidavits, witness
statements and expert witness reports

+ Advising on how to improve Fraud
Awareness

+ Assessing systems in order to identify

control weaknesses, and devising cost-

effective ways to repair them

+ Advising and implementing anti-fraud
programmes and policies

+ Reducing Credit and Fraud Losses in
Financial Institutions

+ Getting to the underlying truth in highly
complex fraud situations, for example
where employees have been falsely
accused and evidence planted to draw
attention away from the true
perpetrator

Resources -

Director, London, United Kingdom

POL00116801
POL00116801

Ron Warmington

Ron is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountant and a Member of
the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners.

In his 44-year career, Ron spent 35 years in two of the world’s largest
banks: Citibank and GE Capital. Prior to moving into the field of fraud
investigation, Ron held a number of senior positions, in Systems and
Process Design, Technology Audit; Internal Audit and Investment
Management, including serving as Regional Head of Internal Audit and as
CFO of Citigroup’s Global Investment Management Business. He also
served as a member of Citigroup's European Audit Committee. Since
then, he has spent over twenty years specialising in bank fraud
investigations and fraud management, including heading up Global
Banking Investigations (and European Director of Security) at Citigroup .
In 2001, Ron joined GE Capital as European Director of Fraud
Management, leaving in 2009 to undertake contract investigations and
fraud management business through his company: 2nd Sight.

Ron has led hundreds of investigations in every aspect of banking and
finance, including: Retail and Card businesses; Commercial Lending and
Investment Banking; Trading and Derivatives (including ‘Rogue Trader’
cases); Investment Management; Mortgages (including sub-prime); Asset-
based Finance; Internal fraud and corruption at all levels; and Commercial
& Trade Finance

2nd
Conta
Mobile
Email

Areas of Expertise:

* The acquisition and examination of
evidence derived from computers and
other digital devices

+ Expert witness testimony on
technology matters at various Courts
and Tribunals including as an expert
instructed by the Crown Prosecution
Service

+ The investigation of complex or high
profile fraud involving technology
issues

+ Managing large or high profile fraud
investigations

+ Interviewing both witnesses and
suspects

+ Liaising with IT specialists, legal
teams and law enforcement

+ Preparing affidavits, witness
statements and expert witness reports

+ Assessing systems in order to identify

control weaknesses, and devising cost-

effective ways to repair them
+ Advising and implementing anti-fraud
programmes and policies

~

Resources — lan Henderson

Contractor, London, United Kingdom

POL00116801
POL00116801

lan is uniquely qualified as an investigator, a Chartered Accountant, an
IT Auditor and a Forensic Computer Examiner. Professional
qualifications include FCA, CISA and CCE.

lan was previously Head of Investigations at the Personal Investment
Authority. Immediately prior to this, lan held a number of senior
regulatory roles at Lloyd’s of London. As Manager of the Lloyd’s Loss
Review Department, lan was responsible for the independent
investigation of financial losses exceeding £800 million. He was also
Manager of the Action Group Support Unit who worked closely with
members of Lloyd’s who were disputing liability for Lloyd’s losses. In this
role lan dealt directly with Members of Parliament who were raising a
various issues concerning Lloyd’s losses.

lan has examined over 300 personal computers, network servers and
personal digital devices in the last 5 years. He has also been responsible
for over 20 major fraud investigations and has directly facilitated
substantial financial recoveries as a result of examining the digital
evidence. He has been appointed as the Court’s computer expert in civil
cases in both England and Scotland and has given evidence as a
forensic computer expert in numerous civil and criminal cases, including
a major terrorism trial at the Old Bailey. Between January 2001 and July
2005, lan acted (part time) as Special Advisor to the Criminal’Cases
Review Commission. lan was also a selected as a con ing author:to
the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners’ “Fraud Ook”.
