CTO2019 July 2023

Travel Money Card

POL00448128

POL00448128

SECTION 9 TRAVEL MONEY V4.0
POLCC 60/23 REVIEW: 01/08/2024

Every branch can sell a Travel Money Card for home delivery. Customers can purchase the Travel Money Card in
branch and it will be delivered to their home address in 2-3 working days. All home delivery Travel Money Cards
are personalised with the customer's name printed on the back and are sent by Royal Mail 1st Class delivery.

The Travel Money Card is available in 22 currencies:

© Sterling » Australian Dollar » South African Rand
» Singapore Dollar » New Zealand Dollar » Norwegian Krone

» Euro » Canadian Dollar » Swiss Franc

» US Dollar » UAE Dirhams * Thai Baht

» Polish Zloty » Czech Koruna © Turkish Lira

» Swedish Krona * Hungarian Forint — » Danish Kroner

; Remember: When processing the sale, ensure that the customer has the relevant
1 forms of identification before commencing the transaction.

How to process a Home Delivery

» From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Travel’, then ‘Multi
Currency Card’

» Select ‘Home Delivery’ and follow the screen prompts

» Select Currency screen

» Select the appropriate option for the type of currency
requested by the customer from the option list

» Ensure the customer is aware of the minimum (£50)
and maximum (£5,000) values of currency that can be
loaded onto the card

The screen will show the currency options to choose from:

«Select the relevant option and enter the appropriate
sterling value (or foreign value if appropriate)

Horizon will automatically display the relevant options

available to the customer:

«The foreign currency amount

© The exchange rate

» The total sterling value that the customer needs to pay

» Discuss with the customer the relevant choices

» Select the agreed quote and press ‘Enter’

Horizon will display the print quote screen:

» Press the appropriate option

» Continue to ‘Selecting the customer's method of
payment’

After the quote has been printed or you have selected ‘No’ (to

print the quote), select method of payment:

* Cash

» — Credit or debit card

« Japanese Yen

» Chinese Yuan

* Hong Kong Dollar
» Saudi Riyal

7
1
1
1

i Re tal

Pe eee eee eee ee eee

' Remember: There is a minimum initial load
value of £50. If you enter an amount less than

1 £50, you'll see a message asking you to increase

1 the amount to meet the minimum value.

' Check that the customer has one of the

; following as evidence of identification:
«Valid UK Passport

Non-UK Passport (although the customer
has to be a UK permanent resident, they
may still hold a non-UK Passport)

UK photo full or provisional driving licence
Valid EEA identity card

documents need to be valid and in date.

Check the customer is a permanent resident
of the United Kingdom

Check the customer is 18 years of age or over
If the customer is using a debit or credit card

document until the end of the transaction as I
1 you will need to capture the details on Horizon 1

i ms

! Ensure that you select the correct method of

' payment and agree the appropriate method of
payment with the customer. At this stage you

are not taking payment, just selecting how the

1 customer will pay. Only when the value is in the 4

1 basket can the payment be taken. 1

S aii Sis Se Se eee

enim em geiing

The content:
on behalf of

this document are c
2 and for the f

sd Post Office INTERNAL. Di
2 intended, is net permit

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

19, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000087
SECTION 9 TRAVEL MONEY V4.0
POLCC 60/23 REVIEW: 01/08/2024

Travel Money Card

Identification

Horizon will prompt you to select the appropriate
identification for the Travel Money Card.

» Select the relevant identification

Remember - If you select ‘No ID Available’ the
transaction will be cancelled

» Input the reference number of the identification —
double check that you have entered this correctly
and press ‘Enter’

» — Input the Country of Issue (only required if passport
is used as identification). Enter the country name in
full (no abbreviations) and press ‘Enter’

» Input the Expiry Date and press ‘Enter’

« — Input the Date of Birth — double check that this is
correct, and press ‘Enter’

» Horizon will then ask you to enter the customer's
details. Enter all details as prompted ensuring that
everything is entered accurately, and with only one
name entered into the forename field

Settling the transaction

If the customer is paying by cash, settle the transaction
to cash. If they are paying by debit or credit card, follow
the details below.

Before selecting the debit or credit card button on

Horizon:

» Ask the customer for the payment card and ID

Check that the security features are present on the
card

Once the card has passed all the checks:

» Remind the customer that the debit or credit card

issuer may charge a cash advance fee, but Post
Office will not

» — Select ‘Debit Card’ or ‘Credit Card’ on Horizon

» Press ‘Enter’ and continue to enter all details as
prompted by Horizon

Once you have entered all the details, settle the

transaction to ‘Debit/Credit Card’.

POL00448128
POL00448128

CTO2019 July 2023

! Important: Please check that you have entered !
I the customer's details accurately. If any details
1 are incorrect, the customer will be unable to

1 activate their card and will need to contact the
1 Travel Money Card contact centre.

.

Remember: Always print a duplicate copy
of the customer's credit/debit card session
receipt (which shows the customer's name,
identification details and the card prefix)
and retain it for two years. This is to comply
with our Bureau regulations for cash
advance transactions.

Customers requesting to withdraw the full

balance from their Travel Money Card

This can be completed by processing a cash

withdrawal. Any balance remaining on the card

in any currency will be converted to Sterling

automatically. Please be aware that:

* Abalance enquiry will be needed first, to
check the available balance on the card

* Sterling cash withdrawals cost £1.50 per
transaction. The available balance will
therefore be the balance, minus the £1.50
fee

» The maximum daily cash withdrawal from a
Travel Money Card is £300

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, di

on behalf of

2 and for the purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

ing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000087_0001
CTO2019 July 2023
Travel Money

Travel Money Pre-Order in branch

Placing a Pre-Order for currency is made up of a
single transaction:

» From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Travel’, then ‘Pre-
Order’ service

* Select ‘Create Order’

*  Aprompt will be displayed reminding you that
ID is required for purchases over £1,000, and to
check with the customer before continuing. Select
‘Enter’ to acknowledge the prompt

«Select the country of destination, and advise the
customer of any restrictions displayed. Press
‘Enter’ and select the currency required

«Select ‘Sterling’ or ‘Foreign Currency’ and input
the amount requested

» The ‘Would you like to print a quote’ screen
appears. Select ‘Yes’ to print a quote or select ‘No’
to go to the next screen

«Confirm the amounts with the customer and press
‘Enter’

* Ask the customer how they will be paying and
select the appropriate payment method. If you
select ‘Cash’, this can’t be changed. If ‘Debit’
or ‘Credit card’ is selected, a prompt will be
displayed to remind the customer of the potential
cash advance fee

* For debit or credit card payments follow the
instructions in the red box opposite. For Cash
payments under £1,000, select ‘Settle’ to
complete the transaction; Horizon will print
two receipts

» Hand the customer their receipt and advise them
to bring it in with their ID when collecting their
order

» Retain the second receipt in branch
Once payment has been taken, the order will

automatically be sent to First Rate. There is no need
to submit the order separately.

POL00448128
POL00448128

SECTION 9 TRAVEL MONEY V4.0
POLCC 60/23 REVIEW: 01/08/2024

! Debit or credit card payments for Travel

1 Money:

» After selecting debit or credit card, Horizon
will prompt you for the last four digits of
the card number. Input these and press
‘Enter’

» Input the customer's surname, forename
(and initials if appropriate)

» Select the customer's title and press ‘Enter’
and continue as below

For debit or credit card payments, and cash

payments for £1,000 and over:

» Select the customer's proof of ID and enter
the details as prompted

«The ‘Order Created’ message will appear;
select ‘Enter’

» Select ‘Settle’ to complete the transaction
or select ‘Pre-Order’ service to create an
order for a different currency

Accepted ID for Travel Money (Bureau de
Change) transactions:

» Valid UK Passport (UK or foreign issued)
«UK photo full driving licence

» Photocard EEA Driving Licence

» EEA Identity card

1 All documents need to be valid and in date.

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post

Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000087_0002

SECTION 9 TRAVEL MONEY V4.0
POLCC 60/23 REVIEW: 01/08/2024

Travel Money

Customer collecting a Pre-Order placed in
branch

Currency Pre-Orders placed before the 2pm cut-off will
be delivered to the branch the next working day.

» Obtain the customer's Pre-Order receipt and ID used
when placing the order

» From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Travel’, then ‘Pre-
order Service’, then ‘Collect Order’

«Input the order number from the receipt and press
‘Enter’

» Confirm the customer's details and press ‘Enter’

» Confirm the amount on the screen, open the envelope
in front of the customer and count the currency out to
confirm the amount. If correct, press ‘Enter’

«Ifthe value is over £500 or was paid using a debit or
credit card, the customer needs to provide their driving
licence or passport. When the proof of ID has been
accepted press ‘Enter’

» Settle the transaction and Horizon will print two
receipts. Hand the first receipt to the customer, along
with their order receipt, the currency ordered and
their ID

» Retain the second receipt and attach it to the original
receipt produced when the order was created. Keep
these in branch for two years

Customer collecting a Click & Collect order
placed online

» Scan the barcode on the customer's confirmation
printout. If the scan doesn't work or there is no
barcode, launch the transaction by pressing ‘Collect
Order’

* Horizon will prompt you to check the customer has
their payment card and ID

» Check the order has arrived in branch and that it
is the correct order. Do not hand the order to the
customer yet

«Input the customer's ID details when prompted.
Follow the screen prompts and Horizon will
automatically print two receipts, one for the customer
and one for the branch

© Open the envelope and count the contents to the
customer, then press ‘Settle’ to end the transaction

» Retain the ‘Settled’ receipt with the branch copy of
the transaction receipt

POL00448128
POL00448128

CTO2019 July 2023

IID is not required to collect orders under I
I £500 if they were paid for using cash !

@ Vo

Travel Money Online

‘Order sont

Your Reference Numt
PoLs0000218

‘Your Order

ber

"You can check to see what online Click &
" Collect orders are coming to your branch for

customer collection:
» From the ‘Home

» Horizon will disp!

1 their order reference
1 ID), it doesn’t matter
1 printout.

then ‘Pending Orders’

Collect orders on their way to your
branch, and any branch fulfilled Click &
Collect orders (see next page)

I Important: As long as the customer has

Screen’ select ‘Travel,

lay a list of Click &

number (and relevant
if they don't have their

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post

Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000087_0003
CTO2019 July 2023
Travel Money

Branch fulfilled Click & Collect Orders
(selected branches)

Branch fulfilled Click & Collect orders are limited to Euros
and US Dollar notes only. To process a Click & Collect
customer collection:

» Scan the barcode on the customer's receipt or press
‘Collect Order’ on the Travel screen and enter the order
number manually

» Ask the customer for the debit/credit card that was used
to place the order and their ID. Follow the prompts to
enter their card details

» The order will be shown on screen with ‘Branch’ next to
it to show that it should be made up from branch stock.
Check that the customer's details on their payment card
match those on the order, then press ‘Yes’

» You will be prompted to make up the order using
your own currency stock. Providing you have enough
currency to fulfil the order exactly, select ‘Yes’ and
continue with the order

» Follow the prompts to capture the customer's ID details;
two receipts will print

» Count out the currency to the customer and hand them
their receipt. Obtain the customer's signature on the
branch copy receipt

© Press ‘Settle’ and a third receipt will print. Keep this
receipt with the signed branch copy

Click & Collect: not enough currency to fulfil the
order

If you have not checked your pending orders regularly, you

may not have enough currency to fulfil the order when the

customer collects. If this happens:

» When you are prompted to make up the order using
your own currency stock, select ‘No’

» Your customer will be offered ‘Wants Entire Order’
or ‘Request Partial Fulfilment’. Select the option they
require

» If the customer wants the entire order, contact First Rate
(number can be found in Section 01 Useful Information)

«If the customer wants a partial fulfilment, enter the
amount that can be fulfilled from your stock

» Select the reason why you can't fulfil the whole order

» Enter the value of the refund to be credited to the
customer. Do not refund the customer in cash, they will
receive a refund to their payment card in approximately
3 working days

POL00448128
POL00448128

SECTION 9 TRAVEL MONEY V4.0
POLCC 60/23 REVIEW: 01/08/2024

r
H Important: Customers can place a Click
1 & Collect order for same day collection,

1 as long as there is enough stock in your
¥ branch. Check for any pending orders

H regularly, as new orders can be added at
1 any time.

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000087_0004
POL00448128
POL00448128

SECTION 9 TRAVEL MONEY V4.0 CTO2019 July 2023
POLCC 60/23 REVIEW: 01/08/2024

Travel Money

Buying back currency

When a customer has foreign currency that they want
us to buy back:

Important: On Demand and Euro Dollar

» Check the notes are acceptable by using the t Ht
Foreign Currency Guide on Horizon Help. Count d :
the notes out and agree the total foreign value to —_g Dranches can purchase foreign currency from
be exchanged 1 any customer. 1

© For Euro or US Dollar Buy Back, select ‘Buy Euro’ I Euro only and Pre-Order branches can only i
or ‘Buy US Dollar’ from the Home Screen 1 Purchase currency from customers when it was I

» For other currencies, select ‘Buy Notes’ from the 1 purchased from a Post Office and the customer
‘Home’ Screen. Select the appropriate currency _ has their original receipt !

if shown. If not shown, select ‘Buy Currency’ and

select the relevant currency from the picklist and

press ‘Enter’ rey

1 Remember! It is important that you do not i

1 buy or sell 500 Euro or 1,000 Swiss Franc 1

1 denomination notes. These high value 1

' banknotes represent a risk to your branch and

1 1

' !

4

* Select ‘Foreign Currency’, enter the value and
press ‘Enter’

» Discuss the options available with the customer
and select their choice. Press ‘Enter’

» Settle the transaction. Count out the sterling value
to the customer and hand them their receipt.
Place the foreign currency in your till

to the business, as they tend to be used by
money launderers.

Horizon Help Foreign Currency Guide

Use the Foreign Currency Guide on Horizon Help to

check that any banknotes presented are the currency

the customer claims they are and that they are valid.

Do not accept any notes that do not appear in the

Foreign Currency Guide.

To access the Foreign Currency Guide:

» F7 Horizon Help — F4 Travel — F9 Foreign
Currency Guide

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000087_0005

