POLO0072146

POL00072146
Message
From: mandy.talboté GRO i
Sent: 22/05/2008 16:38: ~ °
To: Stephen Dilley [/ E/OU=FIRST ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SJD3]
cc: mandy. talbot!_
Subject: RE: Fw: LETTER FROM EX TEMP - MARINE DRIVE [1A.F1D18640]
Thanks for the update on the situation with Castleton. I think that is
typical that he chooses to put is head in the sand whilst hoping the
problem will go away.
We are compiling some information from the business to deal with the
allegations made by Day which seem to spring from the delusion that agency
law is the same as employment law.
Regards
Mandy Talbot
Dispute Resolution
Company Secretary's Office
Royal Mail Legal Services
148 old street
London EC1V 9HQ
Postline
Mobile: @..
External Email:
-Stenhen Dillev! + F
i GRO i To: <mandy.talbot
H H ce: bromine *
Som ‘ Subject: RE: Fw: LETTER FROM EX TEMP - MARINE DRIVE
22/05/2008 17:24 (1A. FID18640]

Dear Mandy,
Thanks for forwarding the letter.

Dorothy Day was indeed close to Mr Castleton - she gave evidence on his
behalf at the trial in December 2006.

Marine Drive is closing or has already closed as part of Network Change.
Tracy Marshall previously confirmed to us that Mrs Day was not eligible
for compensation because she held a temporary appointment since about
28th May 2004.

Would you like me to advise on whether POL was obligated to make the
contract for services permanent (as she suggests)?

Update on Castleton

In terms of the sale of the property at Marine Drive, the trustee in
bankruptcy has spoken to Mr Castleton as neither him or his wife were
moving matters forward. He vehemently denied he has an interest in the
business or any trading matters at the property and this continues, as
the branch is now closed. An agent is valuing the property and the
trustee have requested this is done on various basis’:

As a residential property; and
As part residential and shop

The trustee will let us know once she has received this valuation report
and ascertained the equity. Assuming there is sufficient equity I

POL-0068709
suspect we'll then be instructed to repossess and sell the property.
I'll keep you updated.

Kind regards.

stephen Dilley

Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

GRO

iin BORap OATES. Coit

-----original Message-----
From: mandy. talboti_
Sent: 22 May 2008 1
To: karen.arnol
Cc: john. legag:
neil.corrick.
rosemary. kin
Subject: Re: FW

paul. inwood
; jessica.madrore
Stephen Dilley
TETTER™ FROM EX TEMP - MARINE DRIVE

Karen

I suspect that she has be wound up by the fact that she was friendly
with the ex permanent Postmaster Castleton who we sued and who we may
possibly bankrupt. She supplied a witness statement in his favour.

Marine Drive was under consideration for permanent closure under
Network Reinvention can you advise what its current status is?

In the first instance we would respond that as Day was never employed by
POL she merely had a temporary contract for service determinable upon
notice that employment law has no bearing upon the relationship between
her and POL.

Rosie can you advise if any of the cases in which the status of
postmaster as being agents not employees were upheld involved a
postmaster with a temporary contract?

I would imagine that there would be no restriction upon her applying for
a permanent position as a postmaster with POL as long as she could (a)
demonstrate that she held suitable premises from which to run a
postoffice branch (b) could provide a satisfactory business plan and (c)
could pass the interview process.

Given the problems we had with Castleton I would have thought that POL
would be happy if a prospective permanent postmaster had come along?
Can the BDM or the contract manager for the relevant part of the country
advise whether or not she ever applied for the position at Marine Drive
or at another branch and if so what the response was.

As far as we are aware Castleton still owns the premises at Marine
Drive.

His contract was terminated and as per usual a temp was appointed to
keep the business going pending either the conclusion of the appeal or
after termination of the substantive contract alternatively if nobody
applied for the position on a permanent basis. Castleton could have
carried on running the retail side of his business so perhaps this is
what she is talking about when she says that the post office changed
part ownership in 2004.

Are temps prohibited from joining the NFSP? if so why?

can we find out if she has ever contributed anything to the premises at
Marine Drive? I am currently dealing with a case where a temp was not
only allowed to have subs for the NFSP deducted from her remuneration,
but was allowed to apply for a loan to purchase equipment which she then
matched and awarded a share in success payment! !

The rationale for compensation under the Network Change programme is to
compensation substantive permanent postmasters who have invested in the
branch by purchasing the premises and setting up a retail business
whilst paying a premium to buy the site from the outgoing postmaster,

POLO0072146
POL00072146

POL-0068709
for loss of an income stream. The temp has contributed nothing bar her
services and as her contract can be determined by 7 or 28 days notice is
entitled to nothing.

stephen

If there are anycomments you would like to make which youlearned during
your conduct of there Castleton case I should be grateful to hear from
you.

Thanks

Mandy Talbot

Dispute Resolution

Company Secretary's Office
Royal Mail Legal Services
148 old street

London EC1V 9HQ

Karen Arnold

To: John
Legg/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Paul
22/05/2008 15:16
Inwood/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Mandy

Talbot/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Neil

Corrick/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
cc:

Subject: Fw: LETTER FROM
EX TEMP - MARINE DRIVE

Dear All

Please see the letter attached to the e-mail below, please can you offer
any advice/information before I look at pulling together a response to
the letter

Thanks
Regards
Karen

Contracts Advisor - North Central England Network Support Post office
Ltd

Upper Floors, The Markets Crown Office, 6 / 16 New York Street, LEEDS
LS2 7DZ

Mobile:
External

ooon- Forwarded ‘by aren on 22/05/2008 15:04 -----

NSA Centrally

Supported To: Karen
Arnold/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE

POLO0072146
POL00072146

POL-0068709
Sent by: Trudy cc:

Finch Subject: LETTER FROM EX
TEMP - MARINE DRIVE

15/05/2008 14:08

Hi Karen

This has come to us via Farnworth

Ta T
>>>> Letter from ex Temp PM - Marine Drive.pdf attachment was removed
>>>> from

this email <<<<

wee
Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and wales registered
number

4138203 registered office 148 Old Street London EC1V 9HQ

seni

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system
SAR ISHII ITT SHOES EIS ar Sa IGE ISITE IGE IH ISTIC TIGER

Please think before you print: do you need a paper copy?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may
be legally privileged and protected by law. The intended recipient only is
authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete
any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or
copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus
detection software before transmission. You should carry out your own virus
checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England
and

wales number 0C311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to
a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP
Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

SE Se ee ee ee ee ae ee a ae ee esa ee rao ae eae sea dessa desea desea

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and wales registered number
4138203 registered office 148 Old Street London EC1V 9HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

POLO0072146

POL00072146

POL-0068709
