POLOOO096666
POLO0096666

Message

From: Paula Vennells

on behalf of — Paula Vennells

Sent: 19/06/2012 21:

To: Alice Perkins CB i

Subject: Fwd: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

Alice, i thought you'd like to see this - a remarkable note from James to Shoosmiths. Very balanced and helpful.

I won't reply to him as I think it needs to be left low key between us, as he is suggesting to Shoosmiths. (And it is being
handled well between his and our staff.) We can thank him in person next time we meet.

Paula

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

Rael

From: Alana Renner GRO
Date: 19 June 2012 17:
To: Susan Crichton +, Alwen Lyons
Paula Vennells ¢ Mike Granville <_
Subject: FW: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

All, fyi, a constructive note from James to Shoosmiths below. We have not been approached by the
Times yet, our on call press officer has our statement and instructions to come to me or Ronan if
contacted, I will let you know if we are. Have a nice evening. Alana

WALKER, Janet [mailte
Sent: 19 June 2012 17:41
To: Alana Renner

Subject: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

Alana,
Here is what James has just sent to Mr Channer. Shall I leave you to share this with your people?

Kind regards
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

www.jamesarbuthni wm.

POL-0096249
POLOOO096666

POLOO096666

Dear Tadge,

Thank you for your patience and understanding in not being invited to the meeting on 18 June,
between MPs and Post Office Limited management. I felt that it was important to discuss the
entire SubPostmasters and Horizon matter between these parties first before we brought in
other groups, largely because I believe we have found a very positive way to resolve this
problem.

As you know, prior to yesterday’s meeting, I met privately with the Chairman of Post Office Ltd
and members of her staff. On each occasion, the meeting was cordial and productive. From
these meetings, we have come up with a plan for the Post Office to appoint an independent
forensic accountant (to be chosen in consultation with me) who will examine each case
individually in order to establish exactly what has happened. The individual SubPostmaster /
mistress concerned will be given the opportunity to be involved, as will his or her MP.
Interviews will be conducted, data investigated, and in this way it is hoped that an explanation
can be arrived at that will put to rest any question over what exactly has occurred.

I must put to you here that all this is extremely sensitive. This you know, but the Post Office
has told me and the other MPs who are interested in this matter that in every situation where
an individual has been prosecuted for alleged fraud or theft involving the Horizon system, the
courts have found in favour of the Post Office. The question was asked repeatedly of the Post
Office staff yesterday whether there had been any case upheld where the discrepancy reported
or found had been found to be the fault of the system. We were assured this was not the case.

The MPs at the meeting were happy with the solution offered. I believe it is the best possible
way to proceed, and am satisfied with what detail I have seen thus far. I have sent a press
release to this effect to The Times.

Tam not sure how you might handle things from your end. Of course you will have a different
take on this, but I would urge some caution. If — and I am not entirely credulous — the Post
Office is correct, and individuals may well find themselves at fault while believing vehemently
that they are not, trumpeting the proposed solution too early and too loudly may well result in
serious embarrassment, to say the least, of those involved. The problem is that, of course,
everyone is innocent until proven guilty, but IF it turns out that one of the most trusted
individuals in a given community — which SubPostmasters and mistresses invariably are — is not
innocent, then a higher price will be paid by that individual than if things were done rather
more discretely.

You may wish to discuss this. It is a terrible conundrum, and I myself am not at all certain how
to handle things. Until I am, I am being rather less triumphant publicly about this than perhaps
T ought to be, but I am cautious by nature. And I am happy to talk this through.

Tam grateful to you for being so very helpful in this matter, and hope you will understand my
attitude.

Yours ever

James

POL-0096249
POLOOO096666
POLO0096666

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP
House of Commons.
London SW1A GAA

y d it in error, please notify the send
disclosure, or copying is not permitt This e-mail h
cepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by

ved it in error, pI
nitted. This e-m

POL-0096249
