POL00041687
POL00041687

Message

From: Andrew Parsons I

Sent: 22/03/2018 09:

To: Rodric Williams

cc: Jonathan Gribben
Subject: Litigation and Appointment - next steps [BD-4A.FID26896945]

Attachments: Draft Protocol.docx

Rodric
Do you need any input from us on the UKGI template?
My quick thoughts are that the key reporting windows should tie into our timings for Counsel's opinion, which are:
e End of April (after we have the Cs individual pleadings) ~ so report to UKGI in May?
° paperber (after all documentary and witness evidence is received) ~ report to UKGI in early October before

We couid also add a reporting date post-triai?

I know you know this.... but we need to be careful about sharing privileged information with UKGI. Are we putting in place
some protocol for sharing this information with limits on what UKGI can do with it?

A

Andrew Parsons
Partner

womblebonddickinson.com

BOND
DICKINSON ve

From: Jane MacLeod; .
Sent: 21 March 2018 15:56
To: Rodric Williams; Andrew Parsons

Cc: Patrick Bourke; Mark Underwood1; Veronica Branton; Diane Blanchard
Subject: FW: Litigation and Appointment - next steps

(Veronica — for awareness re Monday committee meeting; Di— for awareness re setting up a possible call on Friday}
All

lam being chased by UKGI for our views on this ~ can I have your thoughts? We have the first Board sub-committee
meeting on Monday and {I would like to flag this to them?

Also, we need to work up an agenda for that sub-committee meeting. So far my suggestions would be:
«  ToR
* — Litigation timetable & suggested dates for future meetings
e Update on developments since January board meeting:

POL-0038169
POL00041687

POL00041687
© Scope of disclosure
© Scope of Horizon hearing
© Appointment of IT expert
© Application for security for costs
© — Engagement with UKGI
* Contingency planning
« AOB
Anything else — we only have an hour? Could we have a call on Friday to discuss?
Thanks
Jane
* Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legai, Risk & Governance
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
9AQ
Sent: 01 March 2018
To: Patrick Bourke}
Ce: Jane MacLe i GRO ; Callard,

Patrick, Helen,

Thank you for your time last week.
As discussed, I attach a standard form litigation protocol along the lines of what we would propose to submit to the
Permanent Secretary. As you will see, this sets out various touchpoints in the litigation process, and the steps we intend

to take to ensure the Permanent Secretary remains fully informed at each salient point.

If you are able to provide more detail on the litigation timetable, or indeed if you have any comments or suggestions, we
would be happy to amend the protocol bespoke to the current litigation.

Separately I’d be grateful, as I indicated in my email to Helen on Monday, if in anticipation of Tom Cooper’s
appointment, you could let me know if you intend to agree an NDA similar to the one you have with Richard, and if so,
forward me the proposed text so that Tom and I may consider.

Kind regards,

Elizabeth

From: Patrick Bourke!
Sent: 23 February 2018 15°
To: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI ¢

POL-0038169
POL00041687
POL00041687

Ce: Jane MacLeot
Richard - UKGI ¢
Subject: Litigation Meeting

Callard,

Dear Elizabeth

It was a pleasure to meet with you this morning.

I just wanted to confirm that we have understood the need for an appropriately structured information flow in
relation to the matters we discussed earlier, and agree that some form of protocol to govern those arrangements
makes very good sense.

While recognising that there is no set format in this regard, it would nonetheless be helpful for us to draw
inspiration from similar arrangements you have put in place with other ALBs. You kindly offered to share
something with us for that purpose.

We will come back to you with our take on how this might work best in our case, having regard to the
particularities of our governance arrangements and the litigation itself.

In the meantime, do please feel free to get in touch if there is anything you'd like to discuss.

Kind regards

Patrick

° Patrick Bourke
Corporate Affairs Director

1 Floor
20 Finsbury Street
2017 Winner of the
Global Postal Award for
Customer Experience

London EC2Y SAQ

POL-0038169
POL00041687
POL00041687

SECIS IS IOS ISSO IOS OSI IORI SOE SIE IOSISISEIISIISORI SISSIES ORATOR IIE
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FEES ISIE ICIS SIE SSIOSESSISIORE SSIS SEIO ESSE SES aor daria ror ra rar

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

POL-0038169
