POL00083936
POL00083936

Crnd Dideingow

Regular Call re Horizon Issues
Meeting: 4 September 2013

Attendees:

Team/Function Attendees

Legal Rodric Williams (RW)
Jarnail Singh (JS)
Andrew Bolc of Cartwright King (CK)
Andrew Parsons (AP)
Kayleigh Harding (KH)

Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay (RI)

Security Rob King (RK)
Dave Posnett (DP)

Communications N/A

Network Gail Peacock (GP)
Anne Ellis (AE)

Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Steve Beddoe (SB)

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) N/A

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

s/Comments/Next ste}
Prestbury Steve has received information which is to be sent to GP.
Howden Not a Horizon issue — to be reviewed from action list.
Torch Visit SB has received photos of screens and trail of transactions

evidencing the fault. The scenario was recreated with Version 8.9
of Horizon, reference data and tests were run against it for postal
service transactions to see if the pricing was corrupted. Fujitsu
tried over 100 times to recreate the issue on the test system but it
cannot be done.

If someone had called into helpdesk with this issue they would
have been asked to reboot terminal. Fault appears to be limited to
this one Horizon system, rather than a network wide issue.

48_27301518_1 1
POL00083936
POL00083936

Crnd Dideingow

Nevertheless, there was clearly a problem in this branch —- SD has
photos of the problems with the screen and this error happened
over several days.

There does not appear to be any risk of Horizon shortfalls, just a
business issue — customer not getting the best deal / right price for
their service.

SB to speak to NBSC and FJ to scope the problem. SB to ask if
this situation occurs often and how many calls are received
reporting the fault.

Bureau Buy On agenda with Fujitsu. System working as designed but

Back improvements to be suggested. Ascertain other improvements and
how long they will take to be delivered and costs involved. To stay
on action log. SB meeting with Fujitsu on 05/09/13. He is to report
back.

ATM Gluing Subject of the investigation is Wincor employee Joshua Wood

Case (JW). Losses from June 2012 to July 2013 and JW suspended in

July 2013. Following suspension JW visited the Ludgate Circus
branch without authority and £10,900 subsequently showed as a
loss. Enquiries being made with Wincor who confirm they only
have data confirming details of which engineer last attended the
branch and no historic records of visits.

On 5/09/13 security team are visiting the crime unit to request it is
taken on as a Criminal Investigation. Wincor not actively
responding but adamant they do not have required data.

CK confirm there is one case awaiting sentencing where this issue
could possible affect. The case relates to ATM losses of £175,000.
Maintenance log to be reviewed to ascertain if JW was involved.
JW based in south of country, his main areas are Uxbridge Road
and west of London and therefore he is unlikely to be involved. CK
would like to see all data available.

Kendra Dickinson scrutinising data to see what area JW he
covered to see if any other matters affected.

48_27301518_1
POL00083936
POL00083936

Crnd Dideingow

Call logs to be examined to ascertain incidents before 2012 which
may indicate JW has visited the braches. Confirmation as whether
Wood had been to Ludgate Circus to be obtained. RK to take
forward.

Withdrawal of

prosecution

Closed

Rhigos Branch

Debt of £24k. SPMR blaming Horizon.

Live SPMR and therefore internal processes need to be
exhausted. Push through normal process to see if a Horizon issue
identified.

May be some challenges around SPMR refusing to follow
standard process (ie. wants solicitor to attend meetings, etc.) .
This is to be managed in the usual way.

E-top up

Situation where a top up is requested and the first request fails. A
second request is then made and the top up given to the
customer. Horizon does not recover the last transaction; it
recovers last 2 which provides a branch discrepancy. Fujitsu
provided rules around recovery which is contradictory to how the
system operates.

GP awaiting update from Steve. Document produced confirming
process. GP has sent to Scott in IT&C.

SB to make enquiries with Scott to see if this matter has been
progressed. If not to be discussed with Fujitsu.SB to update at
next meeting.

ATM Routers

RW has investigated further and does not believe that this issue
would impact on branch accounting. RW to confirm position at
next meeting.

ified

New Issues Identi

RW

On IT & C radar.

Legal 1. Crown branch — post and go and balancing process.

48_27301518_1
POL00083936
POL00083936

Crnd Dideingow

Durham - Machine giving out original note and change. £14k loss.
Issue with machine cannot be explained. 2 machines have been
replaced in the past. Overall balancing issues £250k over 3-4
years. Balanced at end of 2012. The accounting records for the
Post and Go do not affect branch records.

SB — project last year to clear balances. Durham, Nottingham and
Manchester have built up numbers again. Accounting process
different at different branches. No standard processes followed by
each branch. Sharon working with Wincor and Fujitsu to do daily
monitoring of the branches. Update at end of week.

RI - reporting about Barnsley branch — machine doing
transactions out of hours. Change coming out different to what
people putting in. Wincor went out to Barnsley.

Not a Horizon issue but may be causing branch anomalies. To
added to the list for SB to update.

2. Belfast refresh

Transaction data to be migrated to new server by Fujitsu. To be
moving from one place to another, it is being touched by POL and
therefore should be monitored. If risk manifested it would fall within
ambit of this call. RW keen to keep within this call. Watching brief
to be kept.

Gail Comms 1. Nelson

Branch complaint that the branch alarm system (that sends a
signal through the branch telephone line) was impacting on
Horizon comms.

Report provided by SB. Broadband was monitored for 3 month
period and it went down on one occasion overnight. Broadband
solid and only tripped to wireless backup once. Report also shows
that the ADSL line was solid within working hours.

Alarm uses PSTN element of line and Horizon uses the broadband
element of line. If broadband goes down it goes to wireless
backup. The alarm cannot therefore affect the Horizon system

comms

SB to set out in an email to RW to outline issues and response to

48_27301518_1 4
POL00083936
POL00083936

Crnd Dideingow

his previous request. Concrete assessment of risks and findings to
be provided.

Pay station - uses PSTN element not broadband line. Contract
states that Pay station should be on a separate line. If the line
went down it should not affect Horizon. SB to clarify situation to
RW and GP.

GP request to put cameras into the branch to be discussed with
RK offline.

2. Missing cheques.

Some cheques at FSC cannot be tied to a branch as no details on
the back. Equates to around £18k and some big amounts. RW to
review Spot Review and take forward. RW to update next week.

Dave Posnett Security No issues.

Rod Ismay FSC Branch tweeted re balancing issue and other SPMs joined in.
Addressed with branch manager. No action required.

Andy Parsons Legal No issues.

Andrew Bolc Legal No issues

Action Points

1. If the regular attendee for each team is not in attendance, another member of that team will need
to send a representative who up to speed on matters discussed. Message to be impressed on
all those involved in the call.

2. SB to send information regarding Prestbury and Nelson to GP.

3. ATM Gluing - Call logs to be examined to ascertain if there are any incidents recorded before
2012 and to identify any branches visited by engineer. Confirmation as whether Wood had been
to Ludgate Circus to be obtained. RK to take forward and to provide CK with investigations

carried out by Kendra Dickinson.

4. E Top-up - SB to make enquiries with Scott to see if this matter has been progressed. If not to
be discussed with Fujitsu. Update next meeting.

48_27301518_1 5
POL00083936
POL00083936

5. Torch Visit - SB to speak to NBSC and FJ to see if problem is reoccurring and report back. SB to
talk to service team of Fujitsu and Kendra Dickinson within NBSC.

6. Post & Go - SB to update regarding the investigation into the matter and its findings.

7. RW to keep a watching brief on Belfast refresh the data migration project — to update when

necessary.

8. Nelson (Alarm and comms issue) — AP to add to action log. SB to set out in an email to RW and
GP a concrete assessment of the risks relating to the various comms systems

9. Missing Cheques — RW to review and update in the next conference.

48_27301518_1 6
