POL00087648
POL00087648

Message
From: Mark Underwood1. GRO }
on behalf of — Mark Underwood1)
Sent: 29/06/2015 08:
To: Alison Bolsover: I Parsons, Andre’
Pheasant, Andrew I ; Rodric Williams I
cc: Patrick Bourke,
Subject: Recoverable debt associated with Applicants to the

Attachments: 150626 V2 Cases State of Play in Respect of Debt Treatment.xlsx

Hi all,

Those of you on the 10" of June teleconference will recall that it was agreed any debt associated with Applicants to the
Scheme would be treated, broadly speaking, in two ways:

1) Applicants with resolved cases (through mediation or otherwise) should have some form of agreement in place
with PO. Debt recovery in respect of these cases must therefore follow these agreements; and

2) Those cases that are not resolved through the Scheme will be treated BAU, save those cases that are with the
CCRC. BAU for CCRC cases will only begin once the CCRC has completed its review.

I have now been through all the cases in the Scheme and marked up accordingly what, provisionally, category they fall
into. This is attached.

The issue that remains is the timing of beginning BAU processes and the recovery of debt.

Initially, it was felt BAU would begin at once. However with the significant recent media interest, we would like to
ascertain what cost there would be if we were to delay beginning BAU process until, for example, September. In order to
achieve this, I think we need obtain the following info:

e —lunderstand (thanks RW) that a full provision is made in Post Office’s accounts for former agent debts (i.e. we
immediately write down their value to £0) with any subsequent recovery being treated as profit. For current
agent debts, we make the full provision after 60 days, or after 90 days if they are a “multiple” operator. Thus, it
is important we ascertain the amount of money that is potentially recoverable for each case and not just focus
on the level of outstanding debt not yet written off.

e The statute of limitation date for each case.

With the above two pieces of information, I think we should be able to work out:

How much is recoverable

e = The cost of delays
Which cases should be prioritised etc

In order to achieve this, and make sure there is no duplication of work, I think the most logical next step is to arrange a
call. I understand Andy Pheasant is on hols until Weds, so I will try and find time in everyone’s diary for Thursday.

Any questions, do shout

Mark

POL-0084706
POL00087648
POL00087648

Mark Underwood
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

POL-0084706
