POL00458471
POL00458471

From: Karen McEwari
Sent: Sat 20/01/2024 1

To: Tim Perkins... Owen
Woodley
Ce: Simon Recaldin, GRO J
Subject: RE: Post Office Scandal Live Events
Hi Tim

This looks great, I have provided my builds which it looks like are well embedded in terms of delivery.
I do think we should have a way of going back to colleagues who have been through the training, as a
post session check-in. I think some people may find even the training quite distressing. Can Julia
maybe help with this? Also, worth seeing if Martin H can get any help from Optima (within their
current contact scope as we pay them enough already).

Have the People Team inputted?

We need to provide alternative session at all three venues, one of these weeks is half term (1 think)
Think that’s all from me for now

Well done, great work

K

From: Tim Perkins CS
Sent: Friday, January 19, 2024 4:53 PM

Owen Woodley

Cc: Simon Recaldin:
Subject: Post Office Scandal Live Events

Hi Karen and Owen,

As promised, I am writing to you to outline the plan for the live events — apologies for a bit of a
lengthy email.

lam after two things really:
* Sign off to go ahead with the sessions
* Your sponsorship to get SEG and LT attendance at the sessions

We are planning to hold the sessions across Bolton, Chesterfield and Wood Street on 7", 15" and 22"%
February respectively. The Wood Street session will be live cast and recorded to enable those unable
to attend any of the sessions in person to take part. The sessions will last one hour (with 90 minutes
put in diaries) and will be hosted by me (clear senior sponsorship and connection to culture
change/Ethos being the reason for this).

Aims

The aims of running the events are:
POL00458471

POL00458471

1. To ensure that colleagues have an understanding of what happened in the Scandal direct
from the business

2. To ensure that all colleagues are aware of the human impact of the Scandal

3. To enable colleagues to think about the cultural conditions that may have existed at the time
of the Scandal and understand how they can safeguard against these conditions in today's Post
Office

4. To get a gauge on whether there are particular areas of today's culture that we may need to
immediately focus on

5. To allow colleagues to have some dedicated space and time to engage with the Scandal

6. To collate questions that colleagues may have on the Scandal (to be responded to after all
the sessions have been run)

Event Plan

There will be a Slido running throughout the session to collate any questions that colleagues may
have, but these will be answered after all three lives sessions are completed in writing to ensure that
the answers given to questions are accurate and clear.

The events will run as follows:
1. The session opens with a video of headlines from the Scandal.

As inquiry told it's worst miscarriage in recent history’, we reveal.

30 DIE WITHOUT
JUSTICE IN POST ©
OFFICE SCANDAL

Sate er
ANT LEAST. 92 vietiios of
the Fost Oftice IT seandal I

hav faiting for
justice, the Daily Mail ©

> 025/055.
-nnananensnsananneneninnstinsinessmnttnnnnenmnsesn( jean

2. Colleagues will be asked to rate (/10) their level of understanding of what happened in the
Scandal at the start of the session. This will be done through a live poll.
POL00458471
POL00458471

Rate out of 10, how much do you think you know about the background
and the timeline of the Post Office Scandal?

‘Sean tw QM vse
lk tojove

0.0

a

3. Colleagues will be taken through a timeline of events and the background to the Scandal.
Example slide below.

4. Colleagues will be asked to rate (/10) their level of understanding of what happened in the
Scandal at the end of the timeline and background session. This will again be through a live poll.

5. Colleagues will be taken through the financial and reputational impacts of the Scandal at a
high level — mostly using headlines and quotes from the various judgments. Example slide
below.
POL00458471
POL00458471

2 THE OUTSET

Government to foot bill for

postmasters’ compensation (feats

Former Post Office chief hands back CBE
as Horizon scandal intensifies
Post Office admi
slur was used t
Horizon scandal
Debt meant at ed es a kowry

6. Colleagues will watch a video of a collection of victims giving testimony to the Williams
Inquiry. This video is in final production now. It is also with Diane Wills and Simon Recaldin to
ensure that we take into account the sensitivity of showing Inquiry footage internally — they are
considering letting Sir Wyn and the legal advisers for each of those featured know about our
intentions here. We had discussed getting Jo Hamilton to do a piece direct to camera for this,
but I think she is just too busy with other commitments right now.

7. Colleagues will be asked to imagine they were in the victim’s shoes and say how they would
feel — this will form a live wordcloud. Depending on time, there may also be the opportunity for
colleagues to share reflections at this point (in small groups or across the larger group,
depending on different size audiences)

How do these stories make you feel?

Sea He OR oe ate
ok to in

BSE)
a

eas

ytoracttenssid
SAUTE

1 cone wk

POL00458471
POL00458471

8. Colleagues will be asked to consider 7 areas of culture. The areas are: curiosity, capability,
transparency, oversight, bias, speaking up and individual behaviours. This section works by
asking colleagues to pick between two statements for each of the 7 areas of culture to consider
what they think they might have seen or heard in the business against each one.

Curiosity

cgeen ented
ihe eure

9. Colleagues will watch a ‘call to action’ video of Nick, where Nick will talk about his
experience of restorative justice and why it is so important that we learn from the Scandal and
keep the memory of it alive in our business in order to prevent the cultural conditions that
existed in the past recurring today or in the future. The script for this video is completed but
the video is yet to be filmed and is with Mel Corfield.

10. Colleagues will be asked to anonymously complete something called the ‘Yes check’. This is
a series of 10 questions where they will be asked to answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from a personal
perspective. They would be expected to answer ‘yes’ to all the questions and any where they
answer ‘no’ they will be guided to discuss their response with their manager, another manager
or to use the Speak Up function. This tool is something we have adapted from work done by
HSBC post a money laundering scandal they had in North America and is a very powerful way of
connecting every individual to the safeguarding of the culture. The tool will be made available
for ongoing use after the sessions and be part of the accompanying e-learning that will follow in
March. Completing this anonymously at the time of the event may give us some useful insight
into areas of the culture where we need to make some changes — for example, using the
question below, if 20% of colleagues respond that they don’t know how to raise concerns, we
can do a response piece of comms on raising concerns post the sessions:
POL00458471

POL00458471

Do I know how to raise concerns in the business?

I have attached the work in progress deck that will be used to host the sessions if it is easier for you to
see how the content will work by scrolling through the deck. We also have a script that I will be using
to guide me through the event (without being completely scripted), which I can also share if helpful.

I think it is important to note that we will be sharing the support that is available for colleagues as
part of the sessions and I will open the sessions by acknowledging that the sessions may be extremely
hard for some colleagues and that others need to respect that. Per Karen’s suggestion, we will also do
some ‘exit surveys’ with colleagues after the sessions to help us with understanding the impact of the
sessions (on individuals and on our culture).

Input required

I would like us to be flagging that we will be running these sessions in the townhall on Wednesday

(24" January), hence wanting to get your sign off on running these sessions in line with the above

ASAP. Iam happy to jump up at the Townhall and mention it or for Nick to do so as part of his
remarks — Lucy Kirwin will be asking Nick for his preference. Invites will then go out from the comms
team into colleagues diaries depending on their work location.

I would also like us to consider SEG attendance at these sessions. I think it is vital that we have some
very visible SEG attendance (not necessarily in Bolton or Chesterfield, but certainly for the Wood
Street event) and also LT attendance (given we will have the LT operating by the time of these
sessions). If you confirm that you agree, I will work with EAs as we still have time to move the timings
at this point to guarantee some SEG/LT attendance.

Any questions, let me know.
Tim

Tim Perkins (He/Him)

Programme Director - Ethos
POL00458471
POL00458471

100 Wood Street
London, EC2V 7ER

postoffice.co.uk

@
