A guide to
managing
stamps

® ©
POL00028021
POL00028021

Contents

03
04
06
o9
10
13
14
16
18
19

Introduction

Booking in a Stock Remi

Managing Special Stamp issue stock

Stock holding levels

Returning stock to the National Stock Centre

Use of Open Postage Stamps

Accounting — managing discrepancies in your stock
Use of Stock Adjust

Incidents that may cause discrepancies in your stock
Further support

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
SECTION 1

Introduction

The purpose of this guide

This guide has been published to offer you support
and tips to help you manage the supply, booking in,
accounting and return of stamps in your branch.

It is not intended to be a full transactional guide, but aims
to offer you support in managing stamps. Full operational
guidance can be found on Horizon Hel,
contact the Branch Support Centre on}.

GRO

Partnership

POLO00028021
POL00028021

Why has tt

Post Office has changed and continues to change.
The support Post Office offers Postmasters has been
significantly increased both in the network and in the
support centres. We have reviewed and revised our
procedures for stamps to make them more secure and
wanted to share this with you in this guide.

guide been created?

We recognise that sometimes things do go wrong, and

if they do we will work with you to resolve things as
quickly as possible through the support processes we
have in place. Some of these scenarios relating to stamps
are described in this guide.

We know Post Office hasn't always got things right and
we hope this guide gives you confidence that we are
changing, with Postmasters at the heart of everything
we do.

We want to work with you to help you best manage stamps and stock in your branch, to best meet the needs of

our customers and branches.

What we will do What we ask of y«

Deliver your stock order securely to you
? fo you I 30 minutes

Please accept the pouch into branch and, for security purposes, place securely in the safe for

Count the stamps to make sure you
receive what you expect

Please open the pouch, check that the contents match what the advice note states, then manually
enter onto appropriate Horizon lines within 24 hours of receipt - and if the contents don't match,
please contact the Branch Support Centre

Provide enough stamps to you so you
can meet your customers’ needs

Continue to sell the stamps to exhaustion — please don't return any usable stamps to the National
Stock Centre unless you are asked to do so

Check the contents of all pouches you
return to the National Stock Centre

Please check you have entered the returned items accurately on Horizon and you have inserted the
return advice note into the pouch

Provide support if you discover a

discrepancy in your stock week, but at least monthly

Please sell stamps from the correct Horizon buttons and count your stock on hand preferably every

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
SECTION 2

Booking ina

POL00028021
POL00028021

Stock Remittance

Receipt of a Stock Remittance

If your Stock Remittance is delivered by Cash in Transit,
please check that you have received the correct number
of pouches, before selecting:

- Back Office

—  Rems and Transfers

- Delivery

Then please scan, in turn, the delivery pouch barcode
on each pouch listed on the Delivery Advice Note. Once
complete, Horizon will produce two copies of a pouch
delivery receipt, one of which should be handed to the
Cash in Transit representative.

Although you scan a Stock Remittance pouch onto
Horizon, unlike cash it does not automatically add the
contents onto Horizon. You'll need to do this manually by
selecting:

- Back Office

-  Rems and Transfers

- In from ADC

- Enter relevant quantities received from the Stock

Remittance Advice Note

Stock Remittance Advice Note

Please enter quantity details from this side
onto Horizon

All Stock Remittances should be booked in on Horizon
within 24 hours of receipt. Please open and check

all pouches, check that the contents match the Stock
Remittance Advice Note and manually enter the
quantities received onto Horizon.

Please take care to book in the stock received on the
correct line on Horizon and enter the correct volume
received, as otherwise it may cause a discrepancy in
your accounts, and to Rem in the whole of your Stock
Remittance delivery, not just parts of it.

The Stock Remittance Advice Note is double-sided, with
one side showing the Pick List used by the National
Stock Centre and the other the Despatch Note for your
use in branch. Please use the Despatch Note side when
checking and booking in your stock, as the units of
measure differ.

Please attach the Delivery Advice Note to the
Remittance In slip and retain it, along with the pouch
delivery receipt, in your branch for two years.

Pick List; TN2772208

vie Lise rage 1/1

This side is for National Stock Centre use —
please ignore it

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
Discrepancy in your Stock Remittance

Please report any discrepancy in your Stock
Remittance as soon as you discover it.

If the contents of a Stock Remittance pouch do not
match the Stock Remittance Advice Note inside
the pouch:

e Please record the particulars of the discrepancy on
the Stock Remittance Advice Note

«Sign the entry

e If possible, ask a second person to check the
remittance. They should then write ‘checked by’ and
their name and sign the entry

Please contact the Branch Support Centre about the
discrepancy right away o1
booking in the stock on Horizon

e They will take details of the discrepancy from you
and advise you what accounting entries to make

«They will also issue you with a call reference number

for you to record on the relevant Stock Remittance
Advice Note

POL00028021
POL00028021

Non-delivery of expected Stock Remittance

If you are expecting a Stock Remittance and you do not
receive it:

e Please do not place any further orders for the
same items
° Pl tact the Branch Support Centre on
_jto report the non-delivery and they

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
SECTION 3

Managing Special
Stamp issue stock

Special Stamp issues and philatelic items

Special Stamps and related philatelic products are issued
by Royal Mail periodically throughout the year at pre-
determined dates, which are published in Branch Focus.

If your branch receives these items, please Rem in
the Special Stamps as ‘Special Stamps’ on Horizon.

POL00028021
POL00028021

Following a change to the process in March 2021,
Special Stamps no longer need to be moved to
“Ordinary Stamps’ on Horizon two weeks after the

first day of sale. Special Stamps should continue to be

Choosing the appropriate Horizon button means your

stock is accounted for and sold accurately.

Please book the items in on the correct lines and sell

accounted for as ‘Special Stamps’ on Horizon as long as
they are held within your stock.

Christmas Stamps should be booked in and remain on
the same accounting lines until sold or returned to the

them from the correct buttons, to help us supply you
with the correct amount of stock for future issues, and
please remember to book your stock onto Horizon within

24 hours of receipt.

e First Day Envelopes are special
envelopes that customers can
fix Special Stamps or definitive
stamps to on the first day of
issue, so they receive a
special postmark

e Asset of Royal Mail Stamp
Cards (postcards) is produced .
to illustrate each issue of
pictorial and definitive Special
Stamps. Some cards show a
picture of one of the Special
Stamps enlarged to postcard
size. Please ensure Stamp
Cards are sold as full packs — .
they should not be opened
to be sold as individual
Stamp Cards

« A Presentation Pack is
produced with each new
pictorial and definitive Special
Stamp issue. Each pack

contains a set of the stamps,
held behind transparent strips
on card, and protected by a
transparent sleeve. The card
opens up to reveal information
about the stamps and

colour illustrations

Smilers Sheets are issued on
selected Special Stamp issues
and always with the Christmas
stamp issue. They consist of

a sheet of stamps with labels
attached to each stamp

Miniature Sheets are issued on
selected Special Stamp issues
to commemorate a particular
event or anniversary. The
sheets may contain pictorial

or definitive Special Stamps,
which are surrounded by

a border

National Stock Centre.

A Prestige Book is a small
book with multiple pages
displaying various stamps
from the issue, often with an
explanation of each one

A Coin Cover is a C5 envelope
with 1 coin attached, including
a set of stamps for the issue
with a franked impression
‘ontop

Specific details about
the sale and withdrawal
of these items are

contained in the relevant
Branch Focus article

for each Special

Stamp issue.

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
Disposal of time-expired philatelic items

Please don't return withdrawn First Day Envelopes and
Royal Mail Stamp Cards to the National Stock Centre.

Instead, please account for these items on Horizon, then
destroy them locally. We will let you know the issue and
withdrawal dates in Branch Focus.

On the next working day following the withdrawal
date of the First Day Envelopes and Royal Mail
Stamp Cards:

From the Back Office menu, please select:
— Weekly (or Monthly) Accounting
- Weekly (or Monthly) Spoilt/Destroyed Stock
- Input the quantity you have withdrawn
- Select First Day Envelope or Stamp Card
as appropriate
- Settle the transaction as normal.

POLO00028021
POL00028021

Your stock on hand will automatically be reduced.

The system will print a receipt — please keep this in
your branch for two years.

Please destroy the First Day Envelopes and Royal Mail
Stamp Cards you have withdrawn locally, by tearing
in half and disposing in accordance with your
disposal instructions.

Withdrawn Presentation Packs, Miniature Sheets, Smilers Sheets, Prestige Books and Coin Covers

If you still have any of these items on hand when you are
notified of the withdrawal of the issue, they should be
returned to the National Stock Centre on the appropriate
stock line (see Section 5, ‘Returning stock to the National
Stock Centre’ for details of how to do this).

Please return any withdrawn items to the National Stock
Centre within the timescale given in the relevant Branch
Focus article. The date is important as the facility to
Rem out will be removed from Horizon shortly after the
withdrawal date, potentially resulting in a discrepancy in
your branch account.

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
Special Stamp issue distribution

Where possible, quantities of philatelic stock items sent
to your branch will be based on your previous branch
sales. You can order additional stock on Horizon or
Branch Hub.

Your philatelic standard distribution is based on your
previous customer demand.

Please sell Special Stamps to exhaustion where possible
rather than returning them to the National Stock Centre.

The exception to this is for Christmas Stamps.
We will publish the withdrawal date and process in
Branch Focus.

POL00028021
POL00028021

How to amend your Special Stamp
standing order

We aim to align the supply of philatelic stamp stock

you receive to the sales in your branch. This should help
minimise over-supply of stock to you and any returns you
may need to make to the National Stock Centre.

If the amount of philatelic stock you currently receive
does not reflect your branch sales, please contact the
Branch Support Centre on} a
the amount. If your requirements change over time, you
can continue to amend the level of stock you receive

by letting the Branch Support Centre know your

new requirements.

Please don't return any Special Stamps to the National
Stock Centre unless you're asked to do so.

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
POLO00028021
POL00028021

SECTION 4

Stock holding levels

You should only hold enough stock in your After the initial two-week sales period, please sell any

branch to last for the next six weeks. remaining Special Stamps ahead of definitive/ordinary
stamps where possible.

Holding too much stock can result in greater potential

for discrepancies and more of your time spent having to If you would like to amend the number of stamps you

count them. receive for Special Stamp i: ntact the
Branch Support Centre o

If you are holding a lot more stamps than you'll be able
to sell in six weeks, please return excess stock to the
National Stock Centre (see Section 5, ‘Ri i

the National Stock Centre’ for details of how to do this).

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
POLO00028021
POL00028021

10

SECTION 5

Returning stock to the
National Stock Centre

Returned stock process

Returned secure stock should only be remitted to the National Stock Centre when you are asked to do so by
Post Office, unless you have large volumes of excess stock on hand.

We will publish a Branch Focus article to let you know the specific product withdrawal date and timescale for return.
Please meet the published timescales so your customers are not inconvenienced and to minimise any potential branch
discrepancies.

Please remit out any stock against the correct accounting lines, otherwise this could potentially result in discrepancies
in the branch accounts.

You can order pouches
for returning stock

on Horizon or Branch
Hub. The stock code is
GRPO02 - Bundle of 20.

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
Remitting stock back to the National
Stock Centre

When returning stock to the National Stock Centre,
please use a Stock Pouch GRPO02. It is a green/
clear pouch.

Please remember: stock items should be Remitted out
separately from cash and coin on Horizon.

From the Back Office menu on Horizon, please select:
« Rems & Transfers

« Outto ADC

e Input Quantity and select appropriate stock item

Then, please place the item in the pouch

e Select further items until the pouch is full — but not
too full — or there are no more items to return

e Settle the session and scan the pouch

«Place the Horizon Return Advice Note in the pouch
and seal the pouch

If you have more items to return, please use a new pouch
and start a new Remittance out session. Each pouch
should have its own Return Advice Note enclosed.
Please take care to place the correct Return Advice Note
in the corresponding pouch it relates to.

The maximum value of stock you can put in a single
pouch is £26,000. If the value of items being remitted
exceeds this value, please complete a separate
Remittance out session on Horizon for each pouch used.

Remittance by Royal Mail Special Delivery: If you send a
remittance by Royal Mail Special Delivery, the maximum
value of stock you can place in a single pouch is £2,500.
If the value of items being remitted exceeds this limit,
please complete a separate Rem out session on Horizon
and use a separate pouch.

POL00028021
POL00028021

Collection of your Stock Remittance

When you have entered all of the stock items you need

to Remit out to the National Stock Centre on Horizon,

please then gather together all the pouches and, from

the Back Office menu on Horizon, select:

« Rems & Transfers

« Pouches Prepare Collection

« Scan the barcode on each of the Stock Pouches

« Once complete, please select Enter and keep both
copies of the Collection Receipt with the pouches,
awaiting collection

Stock Pouch (GRP002) details will automatically print on
the collection receipt as a zero value.

When the Cash in Transit representative arrives, you

should obtain their Authorised Collectors’ Card (ACC)

then, from the Back Office menu on Horizon,

please select:

¢ Rems & Transfers

* Pouches Despatch

« Scan the barcode on the Authorised Collectors’ Card
to validate it

Please hand both copies of the Collection Receipt to the
Cash in Transit representative, then the pouches, asking
the Cash in Transit representative to initial against the
relevant pouch number line on both Collection Receipts,
as each pouch is handed over.

When all pouches have been handed over, please ask
the Cash in Transit representative to enter their name,
signature and date/time of collection on both Collection
Receipts, before handing one copy and the Authorised
Collectors’ Card back to them.

Please keep the other copy of the Collection Receipt with
the Remittance out slip in your branch for two years.

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
Returning stock to the National Stock Centre

We fully check all returned stock at the National Stock
Centre and will let you know as soon as possible if there
are any discrepancies discovered between the Horizon
Return Advice Note and the actual pouch contents.

Return of stamps — please don’t return ordinary value
indicator or non-value indicator stamps unless you're
asked to do so. Please sell all stamps to exhaustion
unless we ask you to do otherwise.

Discrepancies in Stock Remittances to the
National Stock Centre
If you think there was an error made in a stock pouch you

have sent to the National Stock Centre, please contact
the Branch Support Centre on c

If we find an error in a stock pouch returned to the
National Stock Centre, the Stock Team will contact you as
soon as possible.

Returning Special Stamps/stock (except First
Day Envelopes and Royal Mail Stamp Cards)

Any of the following philatelic items still on hand when
you are notified of the withdrawal of the issue should be
returned to the National Stock Centre on the appropriate
stock line:

« Miniature Sheets

Presentation Packs

Smilers Sheets

Prestige Book

Coin Cover

Please don't return withdrawn First Day Envelopes and
Royal Mail Stamp Cards to the National Stock Centre.
Instead, please account for these items on the system
and then destroy them locally (see Section 3 ‘Managing

POL00028021

POL00028021

Damaged, spoiled or torn postage stamps

Any damaged stamp or stock items should be returned to
the National Stock Centre.

Please process them as a returned stock remittance,
inputting the items against the relevant lines in Rem out
to ADC, and despatch the pouch as normal from

your branch.

Obsolete stock

Please follow any product withdrawal instructions
published in Branch Focus, including return timescales, to
minimise the chance of you being left with obsolete stock
in your branch.

If you have an obsolete stock item to hand that you are
unable to return to the National Stock Centre, due to the
button for that item no longer being available on Horizon,
please contact the Branch Support Centre on

They will advise you on the steps to
take to resolve this.

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
POL00028021
POL00028021

SECTION 6

Use of Open
Postage Stamps

Use of Open Postage Stamps button on Horizon

The Open Postage Stamps button on the Horizon Front Office
home screen should only be used to capture sales of stamps
that don't have their own individual sales button.

If this button is used in error, for any item other than Open
Postage Stamp sales, after the transaction has been settled:
«Please reverse out any transactions that aren't Postage, as
otherwise this will affect your branch account
and remuneration
Please carry out this reversal as soon as the customer
session has been completed

Please don't use the Adjust Stock/Declare Stamps function to
do this as it may lead to accounting issues.

Selecting the correct buttons will ensure the correct
remuneration is received.

Post Office — A guide to managing stamps
SECTION 7

POL00028021
POL00028021

Accounting — managing
discrepancies in your stock

Accounting — stock items Remmed
in incorrectly

If you discover a discrepancy and would like any help to

For a stock item Remmed in on the wrong line or an
incorrect amount entered, discovered more than 10
days after the Trading Period in which the rem
was input:

resolve it, please contact the Branch Support Centre on
i

‘the Branch Support Centre on
i. . They will let you know the next
steps to take to correct your account

For a stock item Remmed in on the wrong line or an
incorrect amount entered, discovered after you have
input your stock rem but within the same Trading
Period or within 10 days after completion of previous
Trading Period:

Incorrect item sold (for example, 1st Class
stamp button selected when 2nd Class stamp

:, . _ was sold):
« You can amend this by performing an Existing )

Reversal of the incorrect entry, then Remming in the
correct entry again

e Please don’t use the Adjust Stock function in this ©)
scenario, unless asked to by the Stock Team, as it e
may result in a cash discrepancy

If you realise that you have pressed the wrong button and

sold an incorrect item after the transaction has been settled:

Please select ‘New Reversal’

Then select the item you wish to reverse (in the

above example, the 1st Class stamp)

e Then sell the correct item (in the above example, the
2nd Class stamp)

This will correct the sales data to Royal Mail, amend your
stock on hand and ensure the correct remuneration is
received for the transaction.

Definitives defined

Definitive stamps have the profile image An example

of the Queen's head on them, and of a definitive

no other image. Designed by Amold stamp

Machin, these are the most common

types of stamp we sell.

Within definitive stamps, our biggest

sellers are non-value indicator versions

- these don't show a value on them, but Noneveluey

indicate the service (such as theese

1st Class or 2nd Large). enti
stamps

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
Discrepancies in your stock when you balance
{including new process from March 2021)

Physical shortage or surplus in stock at balance
There are two elements involved in checking your stock
when you balance:

1. Definitive stamps (e.g. 1p/5p etc.) — please complete
a declaration of all definitive stamps you have on hand.
The total of this is shown on the Balance Snapshot as
‘Postage Stamp’

2. Non-value indicator stamps (e.g. 1st/2nd Class,
Special Stamps, philatelic items etc.) — please check
the Balance Snapshot or Stock on Hand report
against the number you have on hand and adjust any
differences, via a Stock Adjustment, using Reason Code
29 (Surplus) or 39 (Shortage) as appropriate

As of March 2021, we introduced a new process for dealing
with a discrepancy in your stock items, including non-value
indicator stamps, asking you to record the discrepancy

as a Stock Adjustment. The new process means any
discrepancy you find in your stock will be visible both to you
and to us, so we can help you resolve any stock issues more
easily.

Please see Section 8, ‘Use of Stock Adjust’ for further
details.

In this scenario, you should no longer carry out sell/
reverse transactions to correct the amounts.

Declaring your Definitive stamps

When completing your stock unit balance, please input on
Horizon the quantities of each denomination of stamp you
have in your stock (excluding the volume stock listed on the
Stock on Hand Report, e.g. 1st Class, 2nd Class, Special
Stamps, philatelic items etc.) as below:

From the Back Office Home Screen, please select:
«¢ Weekly/Monthly Accounting (F2)

© Declare Stamps 22

« New Declaration

POL00028021
POL00028021

Please select the stamp line in the list for the stamp value
you are declaring and input the actual quantity you have on
hand. When you have declared all of your stamp values and
selected Enter:

«The system will compare the declared stamps total with
the system held total and will alert you if a discrepancy
is found. You can then either confirm the discrepancy
or check your declaration again — there is no limit to the
number of times you can check your declaration

When your declaration agrees with the system held total or
you have confirmed a discrepancy, please select Print the
Stamp Declaration report and keep it with your Stock Unit
Balance report for two years.

When you select ‘Balance Report’, any discrepancy in your
stamp declaration will be visible. Please then select the
appropriate Reason Code.

Please see Section 8, ‘Use of Stock Adjust’ for further
details.

Discrepancies in your stock when
you balance

All other stock items (including
non-value indicator stamps)

The Horizon system is designed to maintain a constant
state of balance, and any alterations to stock levels result
in a corresponding cash increase or decrease. Therefore,
when balancing, please always correct your stock before
you declare your cash.

Please use the Balance Snapshot or Stock on Hand report
to check that your actual stock on hand agrees with the
figures held on Horizon.

If the actual stock you have on hand is different from the
figures shown on Horizon:

« Please Stock Adjust any such stock differences found
when you balance your account. This will ensure any
discrepancy you find in your stock is visible both to you
and to Post Office

Please see Section 8, ‘Use of Stock Adjust’ for further
details.

Where possible, it is recommended that balancing is

carried out weekly, to reduce discrepancies and enable
more accurate balancing.

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
SECTION 8

POL00028021
POL00028021

Use of Stock Adjust

Applicable use of Stock Adjust

The Stock Adjust function in Horizon should only be used

for specific purposes:

«If, when you check your stock at balance, you find
that the stock you have on hand does not match the
figure on Horizon for that stock item

e To correct a discrepancy in your stock if the
Post Office Stock Team asks you to

Using the Stock Adjust function for anything other

than the above scenarios could cause cash errors,
inaccurate remuneration, incorrect settlement and stock
reconciliation for clients and additional work to monitor,
investigate and correct them, so please only use Stock
Adjust for the scenarios above.

Stock Adjust Reason Codes

We have revised the Reason Codes to make them
clearer and more appropriately worded:

* 29-To record more stock on hand than the
system held figure

* 39-To record less stock on hand than the
system held figure

* 49 -Only to be used if asked to by the
Post Office Stock Team

Stock Adjust

When you need to use the Stock Adjust function to
adjust your stock figures:

From the Back Office menu, please select:
« Weekly/Monthly Accounting (F2)
e Stock Adjust 55

The system will display the Adjust Stock Holding screen,

with a table showing the system held value and quantity

for each stock item.

¢ Please select the line in the table for the stock item
that needs correcting and input the actual quantity
you have on hand

« When you have corrected all stock discrepancies,
select Enter

« For each stock item, please select the appropriate
Reason Code

You won't be able to proceed until you have applied a
Reason Code against each stock Item.

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
POLO00028021
POL00028021

Record of Stock Adjustments

Carrying out a Stock Adjust transaction won't produce a receipt as a matter of course. However, if you wish to
maintain a record of the stock adjustments made, a Transaction Log report can be produced, to show all Stock
Adjustments made within a specified timeframe. This report can then be printed and associated with your Stock on
Hand report.

The steps to do this are:

Back Office (F14)

Report (F4)

Transaction Log (32)

Mode (54)

Open the top bar, type SA, and the Horizon
Online screen will show Stock Adjustment
(Positive/Negative)

« Press Enter

e Select Date From and enter the date you wish to

view from

e Select Date To and enter the date you wish to
view to

« Press Enter and a Print or Preview option should
be available

* Select Print

The report can be filtered down further if necessary,
e.g. by Stock Unit, User, Time, Product etc.

If you discover a discrepancy and would like any help to
contact the Branch Support Centre on

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
SECTION 9

POLO00028021
POL00028021

Incidents that may cause
discrepancies in your stock

Stock physically lost

If you know that you have physically lost a particular
lease report it to the Branch Support

soon as possible, obtain a
reference number and follow the next steps given.

If you have a discrepancy in your stock that you don’t
know the reason for, please see the relevant section

in this guide, carrying out a Stock Adjust transaction if
needed to correct the difference between the system
held figure and what you actually have on hand.

Please take care to treat stock in the same careful way
that you treat cash. As an example, at the time this
guide was written, a sheet of 1st Class stamps is worth
£42.50, so it should be kept as secure as cash would be
in your drawer. If it was lost, then it would become a loss
to the branch, just as if you lose a £20 note.

Stock physically found

If you physically find stock that you previously thought
was lost, please see the relevant section in this guide
(Section 7), carrying out a Stock Adjust transaction if
needed to correct the difference between the system
held figure and what you actually have on hand.

Stock declarations

When completing the weekly Balance Period (BP)
balance and monthly Trading Period (TP) balance,
please don’t use the Declare Stock button (Weekly/
Monthly Accounting — button 23) on Horizon.

The stock in your branch is accounted for by following
the processes described in this guide, carrying out a
Stock Adjust transaction if needed to correct a difference
between the system held figure and what you actually
have on hand.

Using the Declare Stock button on Horizon will
overwrite the stock on hand figures, which could cause
discrepancies as it will result in the need to manually
declare all value stock in the branch.

If you do find the Declare Stock button has been
ll the Branch Support Centre on
_jfor advice.

GRO

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
SECTION 10

Further support

There are Operational Training Guides available on

Branch Hub that include further information and support

on balancing processes and investigating discrepancies.

From the home page:

«Please log in to Branch Hub

e Select FAQ - from the landing page

« Select Postmaster Operational Training — from the
Knowledge Bases drop down

Select Training Guide or Training Catalogue — from
the categories section

Knowledge Bases

POL00028021
POL00028021

Postmaster Operational Training

Categories
Compliance Workbooks
Distance Learning Packs
Training Calendar
Training Catalogue
Training Guide

Work Aids

As well as the resources on Branch Hub above, if you or
your team would like further training on these processes
or other operational areas, you can also take a look at our

Postmaster Operational Training Catalogue on One or

Post Office - A guide to managing stamps
POL00028021

POL00028021

For questions about stamps and stock processes
or if you experience a related issue, please call
the Branch Support Centre on GRO

This guide will be updated as necessary. If you
have any feedback or questions about the guide,
please share this with your Area Manager or
use the Feedback and complaints button on the

home page.

Thank you.

Version 2.0 September 2021

o 6
