POL00104849
POL00104849

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

P&S Doc 7.5. V6

SEARCHING Jan 11

1. PURPOSE

Conducting searches is a fundamental part of cr
of this document is to specify the required P
Investigators within Royal Mail Security.

inal investigations. The purpose
cedures & Standards for all

2. CONTENTS

Section 3 Introduction
Section 4 Consent to Search

Section 5 Powers to carry out Searches

Section 6 Health & Safety

Section 7 Documentation - completion guidelines
Section 8 Searching a person

Section 3 Searching vehicles

Section 10 Searching premises
Section 11 Searching official lockers

Section 12 Friends present during Searches

Section 13 Property Recovered during Searches
Section 14 GS027 Procedure (Thanks for Co-operation)

3. INTRODUCTION.

3.1 Investigators within Royal Mail Security have no statutory power to conduct
searches without the appropriate consent as described at Section 4 below.
The possibility of any misapprehension by a suspected offender, the Police
oz indeed any other person, in this respect must be avoided.

3.2 Any search which is carried out in England & Wales or Northern Ireland, as
part of a criminal investigation, must be conducted in accordance with the
Police & Criminal Evidence (PACE) Act 1984 or the PACE (Northern Ireland)
Order 1989 as appropriate. Investigators must ensure that they have a
thorough understanding of the legislation, in particular the relevant Code B
of the PACE Codes of Practice (CoP). Searches carried out in Seotland shail
be in accordance with Common Law.

3.3 Irrespective of the area of legal jurisdiction in which a search is carried
out, Investigators are required to complete the relevant search forms as
described at Section 7 below.

3.4 Investigators will conduct themselves in a professional and courteous
manner, demonstrating consideration and respect for other persons and
property (for example preventing other people in the office or house from
taking offence to what must be a disagreeable procedure for them, or to
preclude the risk of neighbours getting to know what is going on).

3.5 There are no grounds for damaging or destroying property during the course
of the searches. If existing damage is observed during a search,
consideration should given to making a written record using the relevant
Record of Search form GSO0SC, and/or taking a photograph of the affected
area.

3.6 It is also important that the area and the nature of search are completely

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104849
POL00104849

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

proportionate to the loss being investigated and that all aspects of the
search can be justified.
Back to contents

4. CONSENT TO SEARCH.

4.1 In the absence of a search warrant authorising Investigators to search or

the police searching under their powers (including searches conducted under
Section 18 or 32 of PACE) a search of private property cannot be conducted
without the consent of person(s) entitled to grant it. Investigators must

ensure that the suspect is in a position to give consent to any proposed
search. In addition RMG Investigators have no power of seizure during
searches with consent. Therefore if a suspect objects to an Investigator
recovering evidence of an offence or items obtained as consequence of an
offence then consideration should be given to obtaining Police assistance.

4.2 Grounds and Extent of Search In accordance with the PACE CoP Code B 5.2,
before seeking consent to search an Investigator shall state the purpose o
the proposed search and its extent. This information must be as specific as
possible, particularly regarding the articles being sought and the parts of
the premises to be searched. Searches are conducted for the purpose of
recovering potential evidence of offences and/or any property or items
obtained as a consequence of those offences.

4.3 Investigators are not permitted to conduct any search for which consent was
given under duress or withdrawn before the search is completed. (See
paragraph 4.9 below).

4.4 Consent to Search Form. Using the Consent to Search form GS005, the
Investigator must ensure that the Interviewee fully understands the
questions therein and appends their reply in the space provided. It is good
practice from an evidential perspective to complete the consent
documentation whilst the interview is being recorded. In any event consent
must be obtained and documented before the search takes place.

4.5 Locker Search. Consent should also be obtained for a search of the personal
locker but, if declined, the icial locker can be searched on the basis
that is the property of our Business. See Section 11 below.

4.6 Extent of searches. Care should be taken not to go beyond the limits of what
is reasonable. To do so could result in challenges under the Human Rights
Act. For example, to search the whole house when the suspect is a young
person living with his parents may be excessive. Similarly to search the
bedrooms of the suspect’s children might be unreasonable and subject to
challenge. Unless of course, there is reasona’ suspicion that evidence,
such as stolen property, may be hidden there.

4.7  Suspect’s Presence at Search. In normal circumstances the suspect should be
present at all searches. If, however, the person concerned refuses to be
present when a search is conducted they should make this clear when
completing the GS005, and in addition, provide a separate note in his own

ng giving permission for the search to take place. The Investigator can

then present this note as necessary to anyone who is entitled to see it. As

a precaution, it is advisable to preserve the note as evidence.

wr.

4.8 Interviewee Refuses or Withdraws Consent to Search. Investigators have no
power to search persons or private premises without consent. In some
circumstances an Interviewee 1 ask what will happen if consent to search
is not given. Such situations need to be handled with care and diplomacy so

as to avoid any inference at a later stage that the consent was given under

duress. It is advisable to explain to the Interviewee that the Investigator

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104849
POL00104849

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

would like to carry out the search with consent in order to progress the
investigation. The question of consent should be posed again with the reply
being recorded on the GS005. An ambiguous answer should be treated as a
refusal to give consent.

4.9 Refusal to consent to search. If the interviewee continues to refuse to give
consent for a search and there is reason to think that property is
outstanding, the question of an arrest will arise. Remember the
Investigators power of arrest is only exercisable all the arrest criteria
apply and it is not reasonably practicable for constable to make an arrest
instead. It is imperative that Investigators have a thorough understanding
of their powers of arrest, which can be found in the Criminal Investigation
Procedures and Standards under
Investigation Activities - Dealing with the Suspect, 7.1 Suspect Ap
and Arrest. Once the suspect is under police arrest, the police
permitted to carry out searches under the provisions of PACE S18 or $32 as
appropriate.

ach

In circumstances whereby an Interviewee withdraws their consent to carry out
4.10 any search, or part of a search, the same principles apply as outlined at
4.8 and 4.9 above.

Recording any withdrawal of consent. Unless the withdrawal of consent to the
4.11 search takes place during a taped interview, a written record should be made
either in the notes of interview, the GS005 or in a notebook of the
withdrawal of consent. A search cannot commence or continue once consent
has been withdrawn. The interviewee may consent only to a partial search,
for instance of certain rooms only, in which case, only these areas can be
searched unless the necessary police assistance is obtained.
Back to contents

5. POWERS TO CARRY OUT SEARCHES.

5.1 As discussed above, RMG Investigators have no power to conduct searches
without the appropriate consent.

5.2 Search Warrants. In some circumstances it may be appropriate to consider
applying for a search warrant. This should be discussed with a Senior
Investigation Manager wherever possible before action is taken.

5.3 Applications through the Police. Applications for search warrants are
addressed through the Police who will both make the application and execute
any necessary searches. The Police must also be reminded that RMG
Investigators have no statutory power of search without consent.

5.4 Named on the Warrant. Under Section 16(2) of PACE, RMG Investigators can be
named on a search warrant allowing them to accompany and advise Police
Officers and enter premises without obtaining the consent of the occupier.
Investigators named on the warrant may conduct searching and seizures as
long as they are in the company of a constable.

5.5 Section 18 & 32 of PACE. Under Sections 18 and 32 PACE, Police Officers
can enter and search premises without a warrant. Investigators accompanying
Police Officers may search under the supervision of the Police Officer in
charge. However Investigators must be introduced at the outset of the search
by the Police and have their ID cards available for production if required
(PACE Code B 6.5 ii). If after being introduced the suspect objects to the
Investigators being present they must leave the premises. Investigators
should note that although they can assist in a search they cannot seize any
property discovered; this must be done by a Police Officer.

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104849
POL00104849

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

Back to contents

6. HEALTH & SAFETY.

6.1 Investigators must exercise extreme vigilance and common sense whilst
conducting searches of any kind. The health and safety of all persons
involved is of paramount importance.

6.2 The Criminal Investigation Safe Systems of Work can be found in the Criminal
Investigation Procedures and Standards under Investigation Activities -
Health & Safety & PORA. Investigators are expected to be fully aware of
these including the ‘Controls and Measures’, which must be applied and/or
managed through a risk assessment approach.

6.3 Health & Safety (H&S) Personal Searches. Should it be suspected prior to any
person search that the suspect may have on them evidence of an offence or
items obtained as consequence of an offence then the search must be
conducted in accordance with PACE, with a GS005 being completed. Where there
is no reason to suspect that a person has evidence of an offence or items
obtained as a consequence of an offence on then,
but it is considered a search is necessary to mitigate risk to Health &
Safety, Investigators must obtain and record the consent of the person in
theiz notebook and where appropriate offer the presence of a friend. Most
importantly the scope of the search itself must only go so far as to rule
out the presence of an item with potential to cause harm and should not
extend to the close examination of items contained in wallets, purses etc.

6.4 It is possible that, during a search of this nature, the Investigator
encounters evidence that could reasonably be suspected as stolen, or
otherwise significant to the enquiry. In such circumstances, the H&S search
should cease and consent obtained on for GS005 for the search to continue in
accordance with PACE. A written record of the facts must be made,
preferably in an official notebook and signed by those present.

Back to contents

7. DOCUMENTATION - COMPLETION GUIDELINES

7.1 In obtaining consent to search the Investigator must ensure that the suspect.
correctly completes the Consent to Searches - Interviewee form GS005. In
addition if the suspect is not the person entitled to grant entry to either
a vehicle or premises then the Investigator must ensure that the following
forms are completed as appropriate;

1. Person Entitled to Grant Entry to Vehicle form GS005a,

2. Person Entitled to Grant Entry to Premises form GS005b
In each of these 3 forms, the Investigator may complete Part 1 if
Part 2 consists of self explanatory questions to which the interviewee, or
person entitled to grant entry, should be invited to append their reply in
the space provided before signing and dating the document. Any questions
which do not apply may be scored through and “Not Applicable” written in the
‘reply’ box. Space is provided at the bottom of the form to enable the
Investigator to comment if it is felt necessary. Such comment may include
details of any friend or neighbour requested or whether the search is
conducted to identify legitimate held asset, etc.

7.2 GS8005e - Record of Search. A separate record detailing each search must be
completed. Part 4 may be used to record details of any significant
occurrence during, or relating to the search in question.

7.3. GS005d - Record of Property Recovered During Search. The form should be

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104849
POL00104849

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

completed if property is recovered on a search. Sufficient detail to
properly identify the search to which this form relates should be entered in
the “Search of” box at the top of the form. I£ property is recovered the
Record of Search form GS005c will be page 1 and the first Record of Property
Recovered on Search form GS00Sd will be page 2. The ‘Entry No’ should
reflect a chronological record of order in which the ‘recording officer’
made the record. See also Section 13 below - Property Recovered During
Searches.

7.4 Questions and Answers at Search - The Question & Answer sections of the
GS005d may be used if necessary to record any questions put to the suspected
person during the search. It is imperative that these questions do not
constitute an interview and as such must be asked solely for the purpose of
furthering the proper and effective conduct of a search. This includes
questions to;

1. Discover the occupier of specified premises, or to find a key to open
a locked drawer or cupboard or to otherwise seek co-operation during
the search.

2. Determine if a particular item is liable to be seized. If questioning
goes beyond what is necessary for this purpose, the exchange is likely
to constitute an interview as defined by Code C of the PACE Codes of
Practice, and would require the associated conditions.

The parties concerned must sign any such questions and replies.
Back to contents

8. SEARCHING A PERSON.

8.1 Wherever feasible Investigators must plan operations to ensure that an
Investigator of the same gender as the

suspect is available to carry out personal searches. If this is not
possible, in order to provide a safeguard against an allegation of
misconduct, arrangements must be made a supervisor of the same sex to
attend as a witness.

8.2 An Investigator of the opposite gender may, if necessary, conduct a search
of the outer garments (coat, jacket, gloves, headgear, and shoes as long as
they are removed from the suspect’s person). However, a person of the same
sex must conduct a search requiring ‘patting down’ or the removal of
anything other than outer clothing. If outer clothing is removed then a
person of the opposite sex can only be present if the person being searched
specifically requests it. A record must be made of this consent. (PACE
Codes of Practice, Code A, 3.6)

8.3 If exceptionally a person of the same sex is not available the Investigator
should consider contacting the Police for assistance or asking the suspect
to attend a Police Station on a voluntary basis.

8.4 Important. Investigators are reminded of the limitations, described at 7.4
above in relation to questions put to a person during a search.
Back to contents

9. SEARCHING VEHICLES.

9.1 The PACE CoP Code B, 2.3 determines that a ‘vehicle’ falls within the
definition of ‘premises’ for the purpose of this code. Investigators are
therefore reminded that;

1. Consent to search a vehicle can only be given by the owner, or person
entitled to grant entry to the vehicle in question, and

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104849
POL00104849

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

2. That person must be given a copy of the Notice of Powers and Rights
(GS004).

9.2 Important. Investigators are reminded of the limitations, described at 7.4
above in relation to questions put to a person during a search.
Back to contents

10. SEARCHING PREMISES.

A Notice of Powers and Rights (GS004) must be handed to the owner/occupier,
10.1 which fully explains the conditions of the search. The time at which the
‘notice’ was given is to be recorded on the appropriate ‘consent’ forms.

It is important that any search of premises must be conducted at a
10.2 reasonable hour unless this would frustrate the purpose of a search.

Important - Investigators are reminded of the limitations, described at 7.4
10.3 above in relation to questions put to a person during a search.
Back to contents

11. SEARCHING OFFICIAL LOCKERS.

Official lockers are provided to some RMG employees for the purpose of
11.1 housing personal effects. Consent to search an official locker should be
sought from the employee concerned and recorded on the 63005.

In the event of this consent being refused or withdrawn by the suspected
11.2 offender and it is considered essential that a search must be made,

permission to use that particular locker may be formally withdrawn from the

key holder. The contents of the locker should then be removed in the

presence of a reliable and independent witness. This may be a Manager or

Union Representative.

Withdrawing permission to use an official locker should only be considered
11.3. in circumstances when the facts can fully justify it.

Investigators should ascertain whether a suspected member of staff has an

11.4 official locker and its number. In some offices, it is not unusual for
employees to have unofficial use of additional lockers. This may be
determined from either the official records held locally, or discreet
enquiries.

Important. Investigators are reminded of the limitations, described at 7.4
11.5 above in relation to questions put to a person during a search.

Back to contents

12. FRIENDS PRESENT DURING SEARCHES.

RMG employees must be offered the ‘presence of a friend’ at all interviews

12.1 and searches conducted by RMG Investigators. Irrespective of whether or not
the Interviewee opted to have a friend present during an interview, the
offer of the ‘presence of a friend’ must be made in respect of each search.

As described on the form GS003, the ‘friend’ must be at least 18 years of
12.2 age and not already involved in the inquiry.

It is important to remember that the offer of the ‘presence of a friend’ at
12.3 both the interview and the ‘person’ search is a RMG requirement only. The
PACE Codes of Practice, Code B, 6.11, determines that a friend, neighbour or

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104849
POL00104849

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

other person must be allowed to witness the search of premises (which
includes vehicles).

Such requests may be declined by the Investigator if there are reasonable
12.4 grounds to believe that the presence of the person would unreasonably delay
the search, hinder the investigation or endanger anyone. Either way the
Investigator must record the reason and the grounds for this decision on the
appropriate search documentation.
Back to contents

13. PROPERTY RECOVERED DURING SEARCHES.

Any property seized during a search is likely to become significant
lence. Failure to comply with the correct procedures may result in the
evidence being invalid as part of any later proceedings. Investigators must
ensure that they are fully conversant with the PACE Code B, 7 refers to the
seizure and retention of property.

13.1

The Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 Part 2, provides for circumstances
13.2 whereby it is necessary to seize large volumes of material for later
sifting. (PACE Code B, 7.7 to 7.13 refer).

As described at section 7.3 above, any item of property recovered during a
13.3 search shall be recorded using a form GS005d Record of Property Seized

During Search. During joint operations with the Police or other

organisations, their equivalent documentation may be utilised.

Further guidance concerning the handling of evidence and managing exhibits
13.4 can be found in Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 - Rules & Continuity of Evidence.
Back to contents

14. GS027 PROCEDURE. (Thanks for co-operation)

The purpose of this procedure is to offer apologies and thanks to an
14.1 innocent member of staff who has cooperated during an enquiry, by consenting
to be searched.

The procedure should not be used in circumstances involving an employee who
14.2 is suspended from duty immediately after the search, or is handed into
custody.

Using the draft wording detailed on the GS027, the Investigator should

14.3 arrange for a letter to be prepared and signed by the appropriate local
Manager before it is passed to the employee concerned. In borderline cases
it is recommended that the Investigator should be more inclined to give the
declaration rather than to withhold it. If you are in doubt consult your
Manager.

A copy of the letter signed by the local manager should be retained in the

14.4 case papers.
Back to contents

CONFIDENTIAL
