POL00301427

POL00301427
From: Jarnail Singh{/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=JARNAIL.A.SINGH6CEADABD-67E9-4ECA-94F2-
005716658847]
Sent: Wed 22/01/2014 3:29:10 PM (UTC)

To: ‘Parsons, Andrew’

Cc: Rodric William:
Flemingtort
Subject: RE: M141 /Rees - Summary for Mediation Process - Furnace - FAD363642 [BD-

4A.F1D20472253]

Andrew
We have discussed this previously. This is a very difficult area to address .I agree with Harrys advice we should only
include facts in summary of these cases to Tony Hooper for the reasons outlined in Harrys email below.

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

@ 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
wy

I Postling G RO

iMobex

@ Post Office stories

® @postofficenews
YY

From: Harry Bowyer
Sent: 22 January 20
To: ‘Parsons, Andrew'

Cc: Jarnail Singh

Subject: RE: M141 /Rees - Summary for Mediation Process - Furnace - FAD363642 [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Andy,

Further to my earlier email I have had a chance to consider the position.

Our brief was to make the case summaries as neutral as possible and keep them free of the taint of
our opinion - a straight reporting of the facts as alleged. I have been careful only to directly quote
what was said in interview and have been at some pains to avoid any comment on the strength or

otherwise of the case or the tactics that Post Office might employ.
POL00301427
POL00301427

It would be possible to amend the documents, as you suggest, but that is not something that we
would advise because these documents may end up in the public domain with certain foreseeable
and unattractive consequences:

i. There is a substantial waiver of privilege.

ii. The views of the prosecuting lawyers, at an early stage of the proceedings, on the
strengths/ weaknesses of our case being exposed to defendants and their defence
teams. This could create problems should we recommence prosecutions. In extreme
instances we could become witnesses in our own cases. (An obvious example is the
case of Choudry (Wasim Abbass) in which neither the Post Office investigators nor
the POL systems cover themselves in glory - Iam sure that our mutual client, POL,
does not want a document in the public domain that provides a route map to how to
attack us where we are most sensitive.)

iii. I We reveal the working practices of POL prosecutions at their early stages.

iv. Wecannot address the issue of the expert as that is not entirely within our bailiwick.
We have advised that in a number of cases we would be reluctant to prosecute
without an expert but the whole issue of funding and timescales is a matter entirely
within the control of POL and the stage that we have reached is a matter of some

sensitivity - certainly not something that we need published.

If you need any more help please get in touch.

Kind Regards

From: Parsons, Andrew:
Sent: 22 January 2014 09:45
To: Harry Bowyer r
Cc: martin smith; JarnailA Singh; J. ma
Subject: RE: M141 /Rees - Summary for Mediation Process - Furnace - FAD363642 [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Harry
Do you think bits below will be completed this week?

I'd like to fix a date in the diary for Tony to review the documents.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Parsons, Andrew

Sent: 21 January 2014 12:46
To: 'Harry Bowyer’

Cc: martin smith; Jarnail A Singh (.

Subject: RE: M141 /Rees - Summary for Mediation Process - Furnace - FAD363642 [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Harry

POL00301427
POL00301427

Thanks for the below. Would it be possible to incorporate these comments into the case summaries so that this

information can be passed to Tony Hooper? This will probably need a little re-wording / bit more contextual
information given that Tony is not aware of the issue with the Horizon expert as yet.

Jarnail - did you bottom our whether Rees is to be charged or dropped?

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Direct: I
Mobile}
Fax: I

POL00301427
POL00301427

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Harry Bowyer [. GRO i

Sent: 16 January 2014 11:21

To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: martin smith

Subject: RE: M141 /Rees - Summary for Mediation Process - Furnace - FAD363642

Andy,
Martin is out of the office and has asked me to respond to you

In the case of Rees we have advised against prosecution as his version of events, whilst fishy, would be
difficult to rebut and his subsequent reinstatement would embarrass any future prosecution. If this advice
is acted upon by POL then there is no bar to his joining the mediation scheme.

In regard to the other four cases

El Kasaby: This is a Scottish case with BTO solicitors. The SPMR himself is not under investigation but his
wife was interviewed along with their manager, Rosemary Stewart. The progress would depend on the
decisions as to who was charged and what the charges were - usual position of admissions to covering loss
but denying theft. Were this an English case and I were prosecuting I would probably be happier with an
expert instructed.

Haji Nadeem Choudry: The SPMR is not as yet under investigation. His brother, Wasim Abbas, and one of
the counter staff, William Daw were interviewed. This case has a number of difficulties attached to it and
whilst we have admissions from both to false accounting we do not have admissions to theft. Again we
would want to have an expert in the background as there would be sure to be an attack on Horizon. This
case may well cause the Post Office some embarrassment in that Wasim Abbass passed himself off in
interview as the SPMR in circumstances that our investigators might have been expected to spot. This was
a “self funding” Post Office and some of our systems in place at the time may be open to criticism.

Nachhatro Kaur: The SPMR is the potential defendant. This is a recent case dateing back to October 2013.
The defendant admits false accounting not theft. In my view a very strong case - the defendant gives
different versions to auditors and in interview none of which seem to be sustainable. The only way out is
an attack on Horizon for which we will need to instruct an expert.

Darren King: The SPMR and one of his staff were interviewed. Both admit to false accounting but not theft.
Again the obvious way out is an attack on Horizon and an expert will be necessary.

In each of the four cases we have admissions to false accounting or its equivalent but in each case there is a
strong inference that the defendant took the money. Each of these cases is dependant on expert evidence to
show that the discrepancy was not down to Horizon.

If you need any more information please get in touch.

Harry
POL00301427
POL00301427

Martin
Thanks for the case summaries which look good. A couple of questions:

e In the case of Rees, the conclusion appears to suggest that Mr Rees is now not going to be prosecuted
(particularly as he has been re-instated). Is that correct? If so, can we now accept Mr Rees application to the
Scheme?

e On the 4 other cases, it would be useful to set out (a) the next steps in the investigation process and (b) when
we expect a summons to be issued. If these cases are being held up by the need for the Horizon expert, then
we will need to address this point. The pressure from the WG is that they want Tony to confirm that progress
is being made on these cases or that there is good cause for delay.

Kind regards
Andy

From: martin smith;
Sent: 15 January 2014 14:41
To: Parsons, Andrew.
Cc: Jarnail A Singh;
Subject: M141 /Rees - Summary for Mediation Process - Furnace - FAD363642

Andrew,
Please find attached the Case Summary for Sir Anthony Hooper in relation to the applicant Rees.

Kind regards,

Martin.

CartwrightKing

meee SOLICITORS =

Birmingham I Derby I Leicester] London I Newcastle I Nottingham I Sheffield
Majority House, 51 Lodge Lane, Derby, DE 3HB
POL00301427
POL00301427

"We have a new website" Re
www.cartwrightking.co.uk WV inI ( K

This message is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. If you have received
this in error please delete this message and let us know by email or telephone.

A list of directors is available at each office. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation
Authority No:312459. VAT Registration No: 737837295.

Save a tree - please only print emails that you must

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

GRO.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be leg:
is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not martinsmit
as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distri
prohibited and may be unlawful.

pggtected by law. martin.smit

please notify andrew.parsong

pying of this communication or aliachments is

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661.

Our registered office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term
partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
