“WHISTLEBLOWER” (SPEAK UP) IN POST OFFICE ® LTD

Post Office® Ltd places great importance on the ethical conduct of its business
and the protection of its good reputation. In accordance with best practice, Post
Office® Ltd proposes to now adopt its own Employee Confidential Disclosure
Policy & Helpline. This would allow workers to raise reasonably held concerns
relating to serious matters that could put Post Office® Ltd, its workers, or members
of the wider public at risk. Worker confidential disclosures usually involve bringing
forward concerns that are in the organisation’ s interest to investigate and resolve.
These include fraud, the giving or taking of bribes, financial malpractice,
misreporting, or practices that might endanger individuals or the environment.

Whilst this Policy & Helpline would now specifically apply to Post Office® Ltd it will
obviously support and encompass the recently launched RMG_ “Speak Up"

policy.

Post Office® Ltd has historically encouraged workers to raise concerns about
serious malpractice with line management in the first instance or where
appropriate, with other dedicated help lines, such as the Security Helpdesk, the
Bullying and Harassment Helpline, HBSC or HR Helpdesks to name a few. The
“Whistleblower” hotline will be created in order to supplement these existing
specialist help lines, to be used where the worker concerned does not feel
confident in raising concerns via these existing routes and Post Office® Ltd
recognises that sometimes escalation through these routes will not always be
possible. In such instances Post Office® Ltd wants to encourage workers to contact
a “Whistleblower” confidential hotline, which is being proposed to be run by
Professional Witness Ltd (P.W.L.), a third party supplier who is currently used for
other vital business services

Access to the proposed hotline will be made by phone or via an e-mail service to
enquiry¢ 7

P.W.L. will treat all contact and concerns in
ne calls received will be tape recorded to ensure

Pp
all the information is captured accurately. There is no requirement for workers to

provide any contact details if they do not wish to. The worker will be requested to
provide information about their concern, for example the history of the concern,

POL00423204
POL00423204
any relevant individuals and the reason why the worker is particularly concerned
about the situation

Details of the concern will be captured when raised through P.W.L. will then be
assessed and forwarded to Post Office® Ltd Security Team who will act on it in the
most appropriate way escalating to the necessary level and an individual to act.
Any resultant investigations will be undertaken by people with appropriate
authority who have the technical and professional knowledge relevant to the
particular case. The P.W.L hotline will also filter and escalate any apparent non Post
Office® Ltd cases to the appropriate section in accordance with the Group

“Speak Up" policy to the relevant contact point, examples of which are
suggested below. These may include worker concerns about serious malpractice to
be raised via other routes across other areas of RMG that mean raising concerns
via alternative business helpdesks.

All calls and communications to the P.W.L Hotline will be answered within 2
minutes and acknowledged formally within 3 working days if appropriate and

requested by the worker.

CONTACT POINTS.

Employee Confidential Disclosures “Whistleblower”

To report a concern.

Telephone 0800 ???? ??? and choose to either speak to an operator, or
leave a voicemail message. Your call will be treated in confidence

Alternatively leave a message using the confidential e-mail address based

service using enquiry’

Bullying & Harassment Helpline

A free helpline, operated by an independent company, to offer confidential advice
relating to bullying or harassment concerns, and to assist in initiating harassment

complaints.

Telephone: ;

POL00423204
POL00423204
POL00423204
POL00423204

Security Helpdesk

To report any information about a crime relating to RMG, or for advice regarding

security.

Telephone r

Email:

Corporate & Social Responsibility Helpdesk

To ask a question relating to health, social engagement, the environment, and

safety issues.

Telephone: I

Ema
