POL00117180
POL00117180

Letter to Jo Swinson MP

I am writing to update you about a decision we have made regarding the Complaint
Review and Mediation Scheme which was set up in 2013 in relation to allegations
about Post Office Ltd’s Horizon computer system and associated processes.

I am pleased to say that Post Office Ltd has now completed investigations into all
the individual cases put forward for consideration in the Scheme. Furthermore, I am
pleased to again confirm that no evidence has been found through these
investigations of any system wide issues with Horizon.

As a result of this, we have decided to put forward for mediation all the remaining
cases, with the exception of those where the Courts have ruled on the subject of the
applicant’s complaint. This will accelerate conclusion of the Scheme while
continuing to provide a focus for individual concerns and without impacting
negatively on our commitments to applicants.

Of the 136 cases that entered the Scheme and have now been investigated, [xx]
have already been resolved, closed or put forward for mediation. A further [xx]
involve earlier Court rulings. This means we now intend to put xx cases forward for
mediation, overseen by the Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution (CEDR). The
Post Office will also continue to offer independent analysis for all cases from
forensic accountants.

For those xx applicants who have been the subject of Court rulings, mediation
cannot alter those rulings, while the Post Office is under a positive ongoing duty
immediately to disclose any information that might undermine its prosecution case
or support the case of the defendant. However, we will of course consider each of
these cases carefully, on a case by case basis, while applicants remain able to
pursue the normal legal avenues open to them to appeal. In doing so they will have
the benefit of the Post Office’s investigation into their case and the opportunity of a
review by independent forensic accountants Second Sight.

Should applicants give their consent, the Post Office is also prepared to discuss
individual cases, and our investigations, in confidence with Members of Parliament
or indeed to meet separately with individual applicants to discuss their cases.

We will work with Second Sight to support completion of their further report in order
that it is available to inform the ongoing mediation process

The Post Office will also publish a report outlining the background and steps it has
undertaken to handle this issue.
POL00117180
POL00117180
POL00117180
POL00117180
