Notes from Second Sight / Post Office meeting 12 June 2013 Regarding SROOS

Attendees: Ron Warmington, Pete Newsome, Steve Allchorn, Alwen Lyons, Lesley Sewell, James Davidson

Actions:

1. Post Office will now focus on answering the following questions:

POL00188299
POL00188299

Question ‘Comment
1 I What was in basement of the Bracknell building inI Key points:
2008 « There were two test systems. One for HNG and one

for Horizon. At that time:

« HNG was the new yet-to-be implemented system
(not being used by any sub postmasters)

* Horizon was the “live” test system. Ie the one that
reflected the live world.

2 I Did the people in the basement have access to the
live environment.

No. Physical and logical controls in place to prevent
access to the live environment

3. I Was there a “covert operations” team

No such team existed or exists now.

* This is hear say, not evidence

«If this was said, it could have been a joke.

* As evidence Ron / Ian to confirm if any of the emails
scanned use this term. If it did exist it would have
been mentioned in emails.

4. I Was Mr. Rudkin’s suspension from the NFSP
connected to this visit.

No = this was a coincidence
We need to find out the reasons for his suspension

5. I Why might have Mr Rudkin heard the words “Td
better reverse that entry now or he'll have a
shortage tonight.”

This is hear say, not evidence

‘As Mr. Rudkin is not able to name the individual, we
aren't able to establish the context or reason for this
comment.

As the basement hosted the test environments (with
no access to live data), the comment may have been
referring to activities within one of the test
environments.

© I Who did Mr. Rudkin meet in Bracknell that day and
why was he taken to the basement

So far we have not identified anyone who met Mr.
Rudkin that day

+ Mr Rudkin has not yet provided us with a name
* Sign-in logs for 2008 have been destroyed.

2. Steve will review the response to SROO5 to ensure they take into account the relevant version of Horizon at the

time

aw

Post Office will not respond to the list of 26 questions as the responses to the above will cover these questions
Steve to work with the Testing Team to try to determine who, if anyone, talked to Mr. Rudkin that day, and if

anyone of them were involved in the foreign currency project.
5. Steve to chase down those involved in the foreign currency project to determine who Mr. Rudkin was meant to

meeting in Bracknell

No

Peter to double check if the sign-in logs for 2008 can be retrieved
Steve to talk to Will Russell to find out if he can help with this.
