POL00448788
POL00448788

21:39 0 4G @)

@ www.postofficeviews.co.uk

We are writing to inform you that, for reasons beyond our control, Yateley Post Office had to close
‘on Thursday 8 lune 2023, and it re-opened on Tuesday 13 lune 2023. The Post Office is temporarily
‘operating on reduced hours, from Monday to Friday, between 09:00 and 15:00. We will inform
‘customers once this service wil resume to operating with the original opening times.

Additionally, the Outreach services at Datchet. Crowthorne and Tudor Drive Outreach, operated by
the postmaster from Yateley Post Office, ceased from Wednesday 21 June 2023, Please accept my
‘apologies for the late notification on this occasion We have completed a review of the service
Provision in Datchet, Crowthorne and Tudor Drive, and currently we are not looking to open a
replacement service at this time.

When a service is closing, Post Office carefully review service provision in the area to determine
whether services can be sustainably maintained by opening a replacement Post Office, and what
future services might be needed. However. Post Office is operating in a challenging economic
‘limate, The impact of rising costs, inflation, and lamited funding from Government mean that we
are unable to fund the costs for every replacement Outreach service, and we alto need to ensure
that any new service is sustainable for Post Office and the operator.

We appreciate that the surrounding communities value their Post Otfice and that customers will be
disappointed that we are unable to provide a sustainable replacement service at this time. We
apologise to customers who may need to travel further to alternative branches from June 2023.
Customers may use any suitable alternative Post Office service, details of possible alternative
branches for Datchet. Crowthorne and Tudor Drive areas provided at the end of the letter,

We will display posters at Yateley Post Office branch and locally to inform customers about these
changes.

W you are @ local representative, It would be helpful if you could share this information through your
social media channels and with any local groups or organisations that you know within the
‘community, for example on noticeboards. local charities and in GP surgeries, to help our customers
and your constituents understand what is happening to the Post Office in the local community. If
‘you would like a supply of posters. please let us know.

We're carrying out this notification in line with our Principles of Community Engagement An extract
relating to notification is available at the end of this letter

We would like to thank you for your patience and support at this time.
Yours faithfully
Graham Brander

Graham Brander
Network Provision Lead

ae Otes Lanta etnnt tng Wes epee Ne 2184840

