POL00139714
POL00139714

Cond Dickingow

Meeting: 20 November 2013

Attendees:

Team/Function

Attendees

Legal Rodric Williams (RW)
Martin Smith of Cartwright King (AB)
Andy Parsons (AP)
Kayleigh Harding (KH)

Financial Services Centre (FSC) Andy Winn (AW)

Security Dave Posnett (DP)

Communications

Network

N/A

Anne Allaker (AA)

Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Peter Prior Mills (PPM)

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps

Prestbury No Horizon issues found. Conversations with Assistant, however
Clear communication with SPM to ensure the branch clear with
the explanation regarding their concerns then matter can be
closed.

ATM Gluing Engineer bailed until February. Further update to be provided in

Case due course.

Rhigos Branch I No change.

Post & Go

No change. Durham — One of Crown Managers is attending

Durham to share best practice.
Report written to outline concerns with P&G machine.

As the P&G machines have been upgraded, they have needed
new operating process. Sometimes communication of new
processes has not been comprehensive so some branches have

POL00139714
POL00139714

Cond Dickingow

different methods of balancing which appears to be the issue.

AA and GP to discuss the report with SB and report back on
whether there are consequences for branch accounting.

Belfast Refresh I No updates.

Nelson No change. Update following further support.

Pontycymer No change. Update following further support.

Sandy Park No suspicion engineer had been near the branch. Awaiting
information from BOI in order to update further.

Historic Horizon button live which should have been de-commissioned.

Transaction
discrepancy

Icon never removed. Scale of issue — 20 branches holding values
totalling £3.3k ranging from 70p to £1.8k. 3 branches with
significant figures.

AQ has established how to remove button. Attempting to establish
what do to with affected branches. Whether to settle centrally and
for POL to take the hit or for the individual branches to repay.

PPM noted that there were a number of challenges around
making the new changes to the system but not clearing up old
issues or buttons which should not be there. For example, some
buttons removed but can be accessed through PLU functions.

PPM to discuss with Fujitsu.

Fleckney —
DVLA
transaction

Known issue since 2010. SB has confirmed that enquiries still
being made. Further investigations required. To be updated
further in due course.

Health lottery
transactions

Fix put in place so branches can reverse the transaction.
Communication went out to all branches in last week's branch

focus.

Will form part of improvement programme. Matter to be logged in
the lessons learned document at the close of the project.

Horizon related
calls

None of the 4 issues from last week need to be brought to group
as there are explanations for the errors. No errors which will
impact this call.

New Issues Identified

POL00139714
POL00139714

Cond Dickingow

Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments

AW FSC No new issues.
Lake Post Office - SPM has now written back talking about
Horizon shortfalls. Cash cheque adjustment done in branch. SPM
blames Horizon for allowing the error to be made.
AW to forward correspondence to RW along with response. To be
referred to Angela
AW and PPM carrying out work re cheque remittance process.
Current cheque process run over 2 screens. Suggestion to Fujitsu
that all buttons to be brought onto same screen.

PPM IT&C 5 issues being looked into: Postcode lookup, Passport duplicates,
Branch stock ordering, Certificate of posting, Cheques.
SB updating NFSP

MS Legal No issues

DP Security No Issues
Rhigos, Mannacan [?], Nelson - AA to update DP further re
investigation

AP Legal No issues

RW Legal No issues

AA Network No Issues

Action Points

1. Prestury, Rhigos, nelson and Pontycymer — AA to provide update in due course.
2. ATM Gluing Case — DP to provide further update.

3. Post & Go — AA and GP to discuss report with SB.
4

Belfast refresh - RW to update following further developments.

gM PN On

POL00139714
POL00139714

Cond Dickingow

Sandy Park — DP to update following receipt of further information from BOI.

Historic transaction discrepancy — PPM to discuss with Fujitsu.

Fleckney — SB to update further.

Health lottery transactions — AA to log within the ‘lessons learned’ document.

Horizon related call — AA to update further if any relevant matters referred from NBSC.

I. Lake Post office —- AW to forward recent SPM and intended reply to RW. To be discussed

with Angela.

. Rhigos, Mannacan and Nelson — AA to update DP further re investigation.
