POL00103489
POL00103489

Message
From: Jane MacLeod
on behalf of Jane Macleod <_
Sent:
To: Ken McCallf Thomas Cooper
cc:
Avene Regan q i
Subject: Post Office - Recusal Application CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO
All

Justice Fraser handed down his judgment today in relation to the recusal application, and as anticipated, has rejected
our application for him to recuse himself. Somewhat less expectedly, he also refused our application for leave to appeal,
which means we now need to apply directly to the Court of Appeal for permission to appeal. I have set out below next
steps which include — unfortunately — changing the time of the Board sub-Committee.

Consequential Orders

In setting out directions as to how matters should proceed from now , he has ordered that:
e the application to the Court of Appeal for leave to appeal his decision not to recuse himself, should be filed by
the end of the Court day on Thursday (c4pm)
e the Horizon trial should continue with the last witness for Post Office (Steve Parker from Fujitsu) to give
evidence on Thursday morning (11 April), and expert evidence to be given as soon after 20 May as diaries can
be aligned.

Next steps

Briefings

We had scheduled a board sub-committee for Monday evening (15 April) to provide a briefing on the proposed grounds
of appeal in the Common Issues trial, and start the Post Office governance processes in relation to the decision whether
to appeal the Common Issues judgment . Unfortunately we were advised today by David Cavender’s clerk that he had
inadvertently misled us and David is not available at that time. I now believe that both David Cavender and Lord
Neuberger will be available on Tuesday 23 April (1 am waiting for written confirmation), and we will check alternative
availability as soon as we have that confirmation.

Timetable

The following summarises the next steps:

10.00 am Thursday 11 Horizon trial continues — Steve Parker (Fujitsu) to give evidence
April

4.30 pm Thursday 11 April I Filing of Application for Leave to Appeal recusal application & request to stay Horizon
trial pending decision

w/c 23 April Board sub-committee to discuss application for leave to appeal the Common Issues
judgment

thd Briefings meetings (if required) with shareholder — UKGI to advise requirements

16 May (Subject to outcome of recusal application) latest date for Managing Judge to hear

consequential orders arising out of Common Issues judgment including leave to appeal
and costs orders. Note this date does not work for the Claimants’ Counsel, so may be
brought forward.

POL-0103072
POL00103489
POL00103489

Not before 20 May Expert evidence to be heard in Horizon trial (again subject to the application to stay the
Horizon trial)

My apologies for changing the date of the Board sub-committee.
Kind regards,

Jane

® Jane MacLeod

Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street

LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number}

POL-0103072
