POL00149276
POL00149276

From: Melanie Corfield
Sent: Mon 20/10/2014 9:01
To:

; Tom Wechsler:
Subject: Fw: Remote access - reactive statement - in strictest confidence [BD-4A.FID26214201]

As discussed

From: Parsons, Andrew‘.
Sent: Sunday, October 19, 2014 08:47 PM

To: Melanie Corfield; Jessica Barker

Subject: RE: Remote access - reactive statement - in strictest confidence [BD-4A.FID26214201]

Mel

I'm just about comfortable with this. I understand that although FJ cannot alter individual branch transactions, they
can inject a transaction into a branch's accounts (though use of this facility is very very rare) so we just need to keep
being careful with any changes to the wording below until we get to the bottom of this.

A

Andrew Parsons

Managing Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Melanie Corfield [.
Sent: 17 October 2014 18:09

To: Jessica Barker; Parsons, Andrew

Subject: Remote access - reactive statement - in strictest confidence

Hi both

A quick update because Fujitsu comms have come back with revised wording - I think they have made our statement
stronger so that is good, but I suspect because there is (ofcourse) some remote access so that the system can be
maintained etc Second Sight will continue to pursue. Have a good weekend!

Mel

\f we are asked about remote access potentially being used to change branch transactions it is simply: "The system is
designed to prevent any access, either remote or direct that would allow individual branch transactions to be
altered."

If pressed further: "The system has been designed to prevent any access, either remote or direct, that would allow
individual branch transactions to be altered. Fujitsu has controlled access to the Horizon system for software updates
POL00149276
POL00149276

and maintenance purposes. This is of course strictly controlled with security processes in place, but could not, in any
event, be used to alter individual branch transactions - there is no facility within the system for this."

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this em:

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and m
access this e-mail and an hments, If you are not melanie.corfield
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of

bnly is authorised to
_} please notify KC. ossible and delete any
communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful.

Any files at

(this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC.
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of mi
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT reg

7661. Our registered
to refer to a member of

1s! names is open to inspection, We use the term partn
ration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
