POL00108440
POL00108440

Message

From: Chris Aujard [IMCEAEX-
__O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=CHRISTOPHER+20AA04
80B7-40D2-ADE7-6F6FEAE19CC3F88@C72A47.ingest. local]

on Chris Aujard <IMCEAEX-

behalf _O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=CHRISTOPHER+20AA04

of 80B7-40D2-ADE7-6F6FEAE19CC3F88@C72A47.ingest.local> [IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=CHRISTOPHER+20AA04
80B7-40D2-ADE7-6F6FEAE19CC3F88@C72A47.ingest. local]

Sent: 17/04/2014 11:

To: Sarah Paddison I

CC: Amanda A Brown},

Subject:RE: Sparrow Sub-Ctte: for the returns file

Hi Paula — hope you had a good and refreshing break.
On the points you raised in your email below, my thoughts are as follows:

1) Accelerated closure ~ you are right: this is definitely in scope and will be one of the options explored.

2) On resources, some context may be helpful:

e David is supporting Belinda in managing the whole programme (and for my money, is doing a really good job,
and would be a great asset to the Post Office if we could encourage him to stay on permanently, but that is
another discussion...)

e Carolyn is here for a limited period of time - probably only another 2 or 3 weeks~ to develop the various options
and document them thoroughly. Belinda has reconfigured the team and the programme manager function has
been spread among other team members so it was “one in” and “one out”.

e The reason for the doubling up/attendance at meetings etc is that Carolyn came in at short notice and she and
David doubled up in the first stages — helps with knowledge transfer

e@ There are number of things that are going on at the moment that I am conscious are not particularly visible to
you, eg:

- supporting the Working Group ~ it ‘meets’ every week and needs papers, updates etc.

- dealing with Second Sight and all their (many and esoteric) queries

- running the Scheme (PAs, purchase orders, case management delays etc}

- servicing various committees (Programme Board, ExCo, Board and now Sub-Committee, meetings etc.
- the Linklaters interface

- the Deloittes work,ete

As a separate point, we should pick up the big issue that I think this highlights, which is that there is not an agreed
enterprise-wide approach to resourcing high profile non- BAU projects. I am not sure what the solution is at this stage,
but will pick up with Neil and Chris D after Easter.

Hope this hits the spot!
Cheers

Chris

From: Theresa Iles

Sent: 16 April 2014 15:10

To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Amanda A Brown; Sarah Paddison
Subject: RE: Sparrow Sub-Ctte

Hi Chris

POL-0110987
POL00108440
POL00108440

Re your response {as requested by Paula below}, if you intend to reply by close of play tomorrow and as I’m on leave,
would you please include Sarah and she will print to pop into Paula’s folder for Tuesday.

Thanks

Theresa _ .

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 14 April 2014 21:24

To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Theresa Iles

Subject: Re: Sparrow Sub-Ctte

Chris, thanks that's perfect.
You are right that Mark should be there - I meant to include him.

I think we will be asked by the Board about accelerated closure. Do you think we should have given it some
consideration, or is that already included in your analysis of options bullet point? Or are we dismissing it out of hand? I
came away unclear on that point as did Chris.

Can you make sure that Mark is completely glued into all the work. His view will count greatly as we get into evaluating
the art of the possible.

Asmaller point and I hope you don't mind me asking: CFO prompted and I want to support his challenge about too many
people doubling up in meetings and work. What is Carolyn here to do? To be clear I have no issue with good resource
but I have now seen her alongside David twice (in the first meeting in fact she contributed than David did); am not clear
why we have them both? What's the difference in their roles?

Could you reply to Theresa rather then me as I shall not be opening emails now till I return. (So pls text if there is
something you need me to see.)

Theresa pls put in Return file. Thx
Cheers, Paula
Sent from my iPad

On 14 Apr 2014, at 16:33, "Chris Aujard" GRO iwrote:

Hi Paula — the weekend was great.
-) ; many thanks for asking! On the sub-committee, my (very brief) thoughts are:

1) CD doesn’t really need to be there, as I think that any finance issues can be picked outside the
meeting and/or via Exco

2) The composition feels about right - though I would suggest that Mark D either attends or is on
standby to attend if needs be

3) In terms of David and Carolyn’s attendance, that was pretty much a one off to allow them to get
feedback on paper and inform further work required. Because of speed of pulling the paper
together they had some of the detail to hand if that was needed. That said, as it happens, it
wasn’t needed as we never discussed the options!

On the actions that was are working on, set out below is a summary (Belinda has a longer, more
detailed list, but I think this captures the essence):

POL-0110987
POL00108440

POL00108440
° List of public statements made by Minister in parliament (statements/debates/PQs) and
elsewhere about the Scheme generally and its timelines
. Options for role of Second Sight — including reducing it and options for supporting
them. Analysis to take account of likely views of stakeholders
. Note on options for making Linklaters and Deloittes advice/reports available to MPs, applicants,
advisors, including a comms/stakeholder plan (acknowledging requirements to protect legal privilege
. Note on PO’s ability to make ‘token’ payments to applicants, taking account of restrictions
relating to use of public money
. Analysis of options for modifying the Scheme, including financial analysis and assessment of
alignment of ministerial commitments with a recommended way forward
. Timeline of key actions and decision points from now to recess
. Deloitte assurance work underway. CIO to provide update to Board and Sub Committee on 30
April.

Hope this helps. Enjoy the garden!
Cheers

Chris

-----Original Message-----
From: Paula Vennells
Sent: 14 April 2014 14:40
To: Chris Aujard

Subject: Sparrow Sub-Ctte

Chris, hi! I hope you had a great weekend? I am sitting looking out on my garden thinking that I'm not
missing Old St!

We didn't get chance to catch up after the above and so as this is so high profile at present, before I
finally switch off, I want to be sure I am clear on next steps and what the team are working on. Could
you drop me a note back?

Also, Chris D queried attendance at the Sparrow S/C, which he may raise:

Firstly, whether he should attend at all. He was invited at my request as I felt we should keep an eye on
costs; but on reflection, that doesn't have to mean attendance.

Secondly, he wondered and so did I, why we had so many colleagues in the room? You and Belinda
clearly need to be there but it wasn't obvious why David and his colleague from PA were there, both of
whom said nothing.

Could you let me know on both? If Chris doesn't attend do we need other finance support? And is the
make up of the S/C group right?

Thanks, Paula

Sent from my iPad

POL-0110987
