POL00254872
POL00254872

Message
From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGi:
on behalfof — Clarke, Stephen - UKGI_
Sent: 10/05/2018 11:52:
To: jane.macleod~ jrodric.williamst,
cc: Callard, Richard
Elizabeth _} Lambert, Helen - UKGI [
Subject: In Strict Confidence: Briefing to fact-check

Attachments: 2018 05 10 Horizon Litigation - Facts of the Case.docx
Importance: High
Jane/Rodric,

I believe you are aware that BEIS Permanent Secretary Alex Chisholm has asked us for a full written briefing on the
Horizon Litigation asap. In the attached, we have set out the facts of the case, including relevant background, based on
our understanding of information provided to us by POL over the years since the issue first arose. Of course, we'll also
flag to Alex that the Protocol is being finalised and will be submitted to him in due course.

Please can you check this briefing for factual accuracy and either (i) confirm that it is accurate or (ii) correct the
inaccuracies. (Note: it’s just a fact-checking exercise, so we’re not looking for opinion and only require amendments if
there are factual inaccuracies). Please can you provide this by close of play this Tuesday. (We’ll submit to Alex asap
after the subcommittee, in case any new facts emerge that need to be added to the briefing — if so, grateful if you could
flag these to us too).

Regards,
Stephen

Stephen Clarke I Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments
Corporate finance and governance in government.

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

POL-BSFF-0092935
