POL00241025
POL00241025

From: Rodric Williams,
Sent: Wed 20/04/2016 6:10:48 PM (UTC)

To: Parsons, Andre “GRO,
Subject: RE: Group Action - action list

Thanks — can you pls give mea quick call — I’d like to run something past you quickly.
My number i:

From: Parsons, Andrew {mailto},
Sent: 20 April 2016 19:07

To: Rodric Williams 7
Cc: Matthews, Gavin; Mark Underwoor
Subject: Group Action - action list

Rodric

Action list from our meeting. I've also added in some other actions that we have discussed previously so we have
everything in one place. Your actions are in Yellow.

Group Action

Strategy

Mark to send round "time bar" letter.

2. BD to draft notice for D&O insurer / broker

3. BD to prepare timeline of events / process map for litigation

4. Rod to raise with Jane the issue of a standstill agreement on claims against FJ

5. BD to advise on costs recovery (including in-house legal time) in context of group action.
6.

7.

8.

. BD to prepare short briefing note on Group Litigation procedure.

__ BD to do bullets for Rod on Chairman / Minister meeting.

I set up meeting with Mark Davies to test the litigation strategy from a comms perspective (i
agrees)

Team
9. Rod to pitch "steering group" idea to Jane
10. BD to refine list of Counsel into a recommendation

Documents
11. BD to prepare letter to FJ re document preservation
12. BD to speak to Kath / Shirley re getting full story on past document gathering exercises

Short-term steps
13. BD to prepare protocol on "What to do on receipt of Letter of Claim"
14. BD to prepare response to Freeths last letter.

CCRC
15. BD to circulate updated CCRC tracker
16. BD to check whether "payments mismatch" document is in CCRC data room
this

Chairman report
. Rod to revert to BD on Deloitte privilege question:
19. BD to liaise with BAQC re reviewing criminal files

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
POL00241025
POL00241025

Managing Associate

Bord Diclcingor
msie:I GRO

Follow Bond Dickinson:
Blin)

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

Fonly is authorised to
‘as soon as possible and delete any

be legally privileged and protected by law, rodrie,willian
iplease notify andrew.parsonsf
munication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rodrie.williams(t”
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or cop

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

endorsed by it.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given not

This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office is 4 More
London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or
consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB1233936.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
