Learning Needs Analysis and Strategy
Enhanced User Management (EUM) ~ Phase 2

1 Document Administration

POL00036345
POL00036345

V0.1 08 Feb 2018

i* Draft for review

V0.2

21 Feb 2018

Feedback from V0.1

1.1,1 Approvers and Reviewers

This document requires input from the following stakeholders, who are required to review and/or
approve the document, as listed:

julie Thomas

Network Development Director

Katrina Holmes.

Head of Network Gateway

Joe Connor

Head of Shared Services

Jackie Newton

Head of Learning

Esther Harvey

EUM Project Lead

Michael Haworth

Network Business Representative

Lisa Mobley

Communications manager - network

Jayne Bradbury

HRSC

Tom Basquille

Learning design & solutions Manager

Paul Summers

Project Manager

Shaun Turner

Product Owner ~ EUM Programme

Robert Oldiand

Learning Technologies Manager

~<I<I~<I<I<I<I<I</z/z/z/2

2I2I 2) 2) 2)2I2\I2I«I~I~«)«

Approval required by 02 Mar 2018

08 Feb 2018 V6.1 to be submitted
Reviewer feedback required by 15 Feb 2018
21 Feb 2018 V0.2 submitted for final approval

O1 EUM BAU Impact
Detail

vo 3 21 Dec 2017

None

Learning
Design
Team
SharePoint

02 EUM Scope

email 06 Feb 2018 I None

Learning
Design
Team
SharePoint,

In Commercial Confidence

Version 0.2
Page 1
POL00036345

POL00036345

2 Contents
1 Document Administration ... 1
3. Executive Summary....

3.4 Introduction... 3

3.2 Cutline of the Change ..

3.3 Decisions Outstanding and Assumptions...

3.4 Learning Needs Analysis Summary

3.5 Recommended Learning Solution(s} ROM Costs...

3.6 Benefits of Recommended Learning Solution... 5
4 New Learning Solution ..

4d Existing User Learning Solution .....
5 Impact on Business as Usual Learning Solutions.
6 Learning Solution ROM Costs... a)

6.1 New Learning Solution(s) ....

6.2 Updates te Existing BAU Learning Solutions ........... 10
? Risks and Issues ... 10
8 Dependencies .... / 10
Delivery Plan . 10
9 Gut of Scope... 11
In Commercial Confidence Version 0.2

Page 2
POL00036345
POL00036345

3 Executive Summary

3.1 Introduction

Post Office is undertaking an enhancement of its systems, hardware and network. The Enhanced User
Management (EUM) project forms part of the broader network and technology transformation, and is
focused on the:

« Provision of ForgeRock, a User Management system which will interface with Horizon Online and
the HR system SuccessFactors (SF)

« Provision of a unique Post Office ID (POID) which will be called a Smart ID, will be created in
ForgeRock and linked to the Horizon user name

e Capability to control access to Horizon Online transactions if the user has not successfully
mandatory compliance learning

To ensure that the learning needs of all colleagues has been properly assessed and a plan agreed to
get the changes live, the Learning Needs Analysis and Strategy (LNAS) will:

e Analyse the impact of the change on:
ce Existing branch colleagues and Post Office colleagues
e Business as usual (BAU) learning solutions for newly appointed postmasters
© BAU learning solutions developed for all branch and Post Office colleagues
e identify if a new learning solution is required for existing users, newly appointed postmasters
or Post Office colleagues
» Identify all changes that must be made to the existing learning solutions
« Provide indicative costs for new learning solutions
* Provide indicative timescales for updating existing learning solutions
e« Recommend how the development and delivery of any new learning solutions for existing users
and newly appointed postmasters can be achieved ahead of the change going ahead
« Recommend how updates can be made to existing learning solutions and provide indicative
timescales
» Identify any risks, issues or dependencies related to the proposed change and the learning
solution requirements

3.2 Outline of the Change

The learning need has been assessed during the design phase of the system change, using the project
scope supplied by Esther Harvey, project manager.

For phase two of the EUM deployment the scope of the project has been reviewed and updated.
The scope is:

escript
1 [Branch colleague will be able to have IA user will be able to logon to more than one terminal,
lmultiple sessions live on Horizon but will jeach one will be linked back to their one POID, however
jonly be able to use one active session at Jone session would need to be “locked” for the other

la time session to be active.

2 [Horizon training reminders IA series of timed messages will be displayed at login for
la Horizon User. They are based on the expiry dates
linked to their POID held in Forge Rock. The messages
Iwill remind them that they have training due to expire in
le.g. 1 week, 4 days, 2 days etc.

3 IContinued verification of users in branch IScreen warning prompts on Horizon (randomly
displayed), displaying user’s name and requesting the
luser to confirm this is them, with a call to action if not.

In Commercial Confidence Version 0.2
Page 3

POL00036345

POL00036345

[Training Control.

levery time a branch user logs into Horizon the
Iwill check that all of their relevant compliance training is
lup to date. If the colleague is not compliant they will be
locked out of the system or the product.

5 [Creation of a new training user role on
Horizon Online

When the training controls have locked the branch user
lout of the system or the product, the colleague will be
lable to sign into the system using their training role.
[They must then complete the necessary compliance
raining and test to give them near real time access
back into Horizon or the specific product.

6 ICreation of new screen to view branch
colleague training records

Each branch colleague will be able to view their own
raining records. The screen will show :

e Upto date compliance records

« Expired compliance records

7 ICreation of a Branch Manager office
compliance report

Branch Managers will be able to print a compliance
report showing ail active users’ compliance records and
lexpiry dates for their branch.

IS limprovernents to drive branch migration
land conformance to Smart ID

is Additional MI reporting to enable appropriate
tracking of new scope

l» Automated deletion of previous Horizon IDs to drive
use of the new POID

le Deletion of the Restricted Use ID (RUID) that was
delivered as part of EUM phase one.

¢ User interface improvements

9 Increase support for Smart ID
deployment

lb Branch Standards team increased to reinforce
conformance ahead of training controls being applied

le Short term increase of NBSC colleagues to support
calls once training controls are switched on

10 ICreating an interface between Horizon
Online and SuccessFactors Learning

lusing the Post Office Data Gateway

For all cornpliance tests completed on Horizon Online theI
data needs to flow into SuccessFactors Learning. The
interface must include the individual’s POID.

11 IEvent management information (MI)

[To enable some additional MI to be provided to Branch
Standards,

12 [Emergency Override capability

\To enable emergency access back on to Horizon for all
branches - to switch off EUM training controls
unctionality, in a controlled way at Horizon level to

restore service immediately.

Note: Items 8 to 12 do not impact the branch learning solution as they support the migration of Smart
ID or the system processes not visible to the branch.

Out of Scope: The Counter Training Office (CTO) system will not be updated as part of this project.

3.3 Decisions Outstanding and Assumptions

in Sections 3.5.1, 4.1.2 and 6.1.17

Does the project want to provide a hardcopy of the
quick reference quide for all branches as outlined

The assumption is that a one-off distribution to all
branches will be required and funded by the
project.

INote: The QRG will aiso be available electronically.

When should the existing user management
process be removed from the CTO classroom
course?

[The assumption is that there will be at least half of
the network live on Smart ID before the classroom
training is amended and Smart ID added to
lonboarding eLearning.

In Commercial Confidence

Version 0.2
Page 4

POL00036345
POL00036345

3.4 Learning Needs Analysis Summary

3.4,1 New learning solution(s)
For newly appointed postmasters and colleagues: No new formal learning is required. They will be
trained on the new process as part of the standard onboarding process.

For existing users: They will have access to a Quick Reference Guide, which will be updated by the
Learning Team to reflect the Phase 2 changes.

The communication lead will provide instructional emails detailing the system change. Updates to the
Horizon Online Help pages should be delivered by the project. These are not within scope for the
Learning Team.

3.4.2 Updates to existing learning solutions
For newly appointed postmasters and colleagues the material impacted by the change is:

« 4 pieces of CTO classroom learning
e i onboarding eLearning module

it is estimated that this will take 6 weeks.

As it has been decided not to upgrade the CTO system it will be necessary to remove the user
management section from the CTO classroom training course and move this training to the in-branch
training provided by the Network Operations Team.

For existing branch and Post Office colleagues no material was identified as being impacted by the
change.

3.5 Recommended Learning Solution(s) ROM Costs

3.5.1 New Learning Solutions

In the original Learning Strategy it was agreed that the Quick Reference Guides (QRG) would be
electronic versions only and therefore no printing costs. The project has indicated that hardcopy
versions may be required and the indicative costs are:

Quick Reference : 2 sided A4 colour
laminate x 11,500 copies

3.6 Benefits of Recommended Learning Solution

The new learning solutions will be developed in line with the Learning Academy principles and will
provide the following benefits;

+ Designed once and delivered to many
« Consistency of the learning experience

In Commercial Confidence Version 0.2
Page 5

POL00036345
POL00036345

4 New Learning Solution

4.1 Existing User Learning Solution

4,1.1 Introduction
The learning needs for the existing users have been assessed using the project scope supplied by
Esther Harvey, project manager.

The following key stakeholders were engaged to agree the learning needs:

m7: i
Shaun Turner EUM Product Owner
Michael Haworth Network Business Representative
4.1.2 Audiences
These are the audiences affected by the proposed change to EUM:
Active Horizon Online Users I Postmasters 500 Nationwide I Quick Reference Learning
and Branch Guide (QRG) on Design
Managers One website and Team
Post Office
Learning
Management
System
Instructional Lisa
emails Mobiey,
Comms
Manager
Assumed one-off EUM
distribution of Project
hard copy of
QRG to all
branches
Active Horizon Online Users I Counter 53,500 Nationwide Signposted to Lisa
Colleagues QRG on One Mobley,
Comms
Manager
Active Horizon Online Users I Temporary 530 Nationwide Signposted to Lisa
Postmasters QRG on One Mobley,
Comms
Manager
Support Services Human 10 Bolton Communication EUM
Resources by EUM Project Project
Service
Centre
Support Services Network 60 Nationwide Question and EUM
Operation Answers Project
Advisors
and
Network
Operation
Managers
In Commercial Confidence Version 0.2

Page 6
POL00036345
POL00036345

Support Services NBSC 55 Chesterfield I Communication EUM
Advisors by EUM Project Project

Operations Security 40 Nationwide Face to face EUM
and Fraud Training Project
teams

These audiences are out of scope for the proposed change to EUM

Active Horizon Online Users I BFPO They will continue to use their existing Horizon User IDs
Colleagues

Support Services Financial They will continue to report using credence and this will
Services not change
Colleagues

Support Services Engineers I They will continue to use their Horizon Globai User ID

4,.1,3 Impact Analysis

Although this a procedural change which impacts all branch colleagues, a detailed communication will
go to each branch via One website and instructional emails. The updated branch Quick Reference
Guide will be available electronically. Branch colleagues don’t need a formal iearning solution for this
change. Horizon Online Help operational instructions will be updated by the project to support branch
colleagues.

4,1,4 Learning Curriculum

There is no formal learning solution for branch colleagues. The existing Quick Reference Guide will be
updated and includes the following:

arning Modul rners To;

Overview e What is Smart ID?

Administration e How does a new branch colleague get access to
the Horizon system?

* How is Smart ID used to create a Horizon User
iD?

» Why must mandatory compliance training be
kept up-to-date?

»® How can compliance records be checked in

branch?
« How can the user log on to multiple Horizon
systems?
« What is a training user role?
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs} « FAQs and Answers
Further Help « Where to go for further help and support

4.1.5 Learning Evaiuation

Branch colleagues will receive robust communication and an updated Quick Reference Guide (QRG).
There is no formal learning solution and therefore no learning evaluation. The QRG is a piece of
support material that will be made availabie online for access at any time.

In Commercial Confidence Version 0.2
Page 7
POL00036345
POL00036345

5 Impact on Business as Usual Learning Solutions

5.1.1 Introduction

Post Office has learning solutions to train newly appointed postmasters and colleagues and ongoing
learning material to support business as usual activities. There are approximately 300 unique files of
various types, hosted on SuccessFactors Learning, Totara and One.

As part of the Learning Team work for the Network Development programme each piece of learning
material has been logged on a database. This log is maintained by the Learning Team.

To assess the impact of the EUM changes on BAU learning solutions each file was reviewed locking for
specific references to creating a user, logging on, generic trainer logon, Horizon global user names and
relevant Horizon screenshots,

5.1.2 Learning Materials Requiring an Update
All of the learning materials identified will need updating to ensure that new colleagues have access to
current and correct information as part of their ongoing learning.

The learning materials that were current on 22 January 2018 were assessed, A total of 5 BAU learning
material files have been identified as requiring amendments. These files will have a final assessment

just prior to being submitted to the document owners for amendment.

5.1,3 BAU materials for newly appointed postmasters and colleagues

CTO Classroom

Post Office Onboarding
Practical Learning
Supporting Notes Day
1

Trainer’s notes to
accompany Day 1
classroom learning

Page 11 ~ Remove
references to creating
user name.

This will be need to be
trained by the Network
Operations Team as
part of the in-branch
onboarding process

CTO Classroom

Post Office Onboarding
Learner Pack A NEW
V1LO

Learner’s practicals to
accompany Classroom
training

Page 2 - Remove
references to creating
user name.

This will be need to be
trained by the Network
Operations Team as
part of the in-branch
onboarding process

CTO Classroom

TRAINER Pack A
Classroom Practicals
NEW V1.0

Trainer pack to support
learner’s practicals

Page 4 - Remove
references to creating
user name.

This will be need to be
trained by the Network
Operations Team as
part of the in-branch
onboarding process

CTO Classroom

Post Office Practical
Learning - Enhanced
Customer Transactions
(Day3) Training Notes

Trainer's notes to
accompany Day 3
Enhanced Customer
Transaction classroom
training

Pages 2, 5-6 Remove
references to creating
user name.

This will be need to be
trained by the Network
Operations Team as
part of the in-branch
onboarding process

In Commercial Confidence

Version 0.2
Page 3
POL00036345
POL00036345

eLearning

Introduction to Hori
Online Learning Module

Onboarding eLearning
module to guide
learner through
Horizon equipment,
including how to use
the system, setting up

“Getting Started -
Passwords’ : The
Username section will
need rewriting and
include the new Smart
ID process

passwords and
transactions using the
Horizon screen

5.1.4 BAU materials for existing branch and Post Office colleagues
None identified

5.1.5 Timescales for updating BAU materials

It is estimated that the changes should take no more than 6 weeks allowing for signoff and approval.
Signoff and approval process is:

e i week Learning Academy QA
e i week Tech approval
e i week Compliance approval

Timescales for the updates are approximate and subject to variation. The time taken to update
materials is dependent on file type, the complexity of the change and owner review and signoff times.
Tt is the responsibility of the BAU document holder to update the BAU learning materials.

Note: The number of files impacted are subject to change since the data is drawn from various working
SharePoint sites. These locations are checked weekly for recent additions, deletions or amendments.

5.1,6 Counter Training Office (CTO) Impact

* The upgrade to the CTO system was removed from the project business case. The decision not
to upgrade the CTO systern means that the user management section must be removed from
the CTO classroom training course. A newly appointed postmaster can only be trained by the
Network Operations Team as part of the in-branch onboarding process.

« BAU classroom learning is facilitated by Network Operations Advisers (NOAs). They will need to
be updated at the time the CTO course is amended.

6 Learning Solution ROM Costs

The costs incurred for the creation and distribution of learning materials is the responsibility of the EUM
Project.

6.1 New Learning Solution(s)

6.1.1 Printing
The indicative printing and distribution costs by 1% class large letter for 11,500 quick reference guides
by a 3 party supplier (Linney) (as at 09 Feb 18)

2 sided A4 colour laminate 11,500 copies sent direct to branches £9417 pilus VAT

In Commercial Confidence Version 0.2

Page 9
POL00036345
POL00036345

6.2 Updates to Existing BAU Learning Solutions

Nil cost as all updates will be completed in house using Learning Design Team Projects or Learning
Academy resource.

7 Risks and Issues

The following risk and issue have been identified:

There is a risk if the baseline design is Learning Design Team to work closely with the
changed project manager to keep updated on the

The consequence is that the timescale project.

for the creation and/or amendment of
learning solutions may be impacted

The Business will not be updating the The user management section will be removed H
CTO system which is used for training from the CTO classroom training course and

newly appointed postmasters which this training will be provided in-branch by the

means that they will not be able to Network Operations Team

learn how to create new users in the

classroom

8 Dependencies

The tabie below lists the key dependencies for the successful delivery of the learning solution(s) and
the updates to the BAU learning solutions:

all the project deliverables and BAU learning solutions are accurate.

Delivery Plan

Note: Week TQ is the start of Phase 2 rollout and the planned date is subject to change

Colleagues I website I instructional I Manager
and emails
emails
T-14 12 Mar 2018 I BAU Learning Impacted Learning
Solutions update BAU learning I Design
starts solutions Team
T-14 12 Mar 2018 I Smart ID QRG Quick Learning
development starts Reference Design
Guide Team
T-9 16 Apr 2018 I QRG Approval QRG Post
Office
7-9 16 Apr 2018 I BAU Learning Impacted Learning
Solutions update BAU learning I Design
complete solutions Team
0 20 Jun 2018 I Phase 2 Go Live EUM
Project
In Commercial Confidence Version 0.2

Page 10
POL00036345
POL00036345

T+3 10 Jul 2018

Training Control EUM
Switch on Starts Project
tbe Final BAU comms Branch One Articles and I Comms
Colleagues I website instructional I Manager
and emails
emails

9 Out of Scope

For existing users a formal learning solution is not required. The Product Manager is responsible for the
updating of operational instructions on Horizon Online Help and the Comms manager is responsible for
communications to branches.

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No.2154540. Post Office and the

Post Office Logo are registered trademarks of Post Office Limited.

In Commercial Confidence

Version 0.2
Page 11
