POL00027849
POL00027849

Simon

From: Susan Crichton[imceaex-
_o=mms_ou=exchange+20administrative

49ab-8f0f-be4237a4ad4t RO Hi
Sent: Mon 29/07/2013°4:03:17 PM (UTC) ~

Subject: Copy of email to JA and draft to go to subpostmasters
Letter to JA following workshop v3.doc

From: Susan Crichton
Sent: 29 July 2013 17:
To: 'james.arbuthnot!
Cc: ‘janet.walker
‘alan.bates
Subject:

Dear James

When we last spoke, we talked about establishing a Working Party to establish a process for reviewing the outstanding cases. On
25¢" July the Working Party met for the first time and I am pleased to report that the meeting was very productive and
collaborative. Present at the meeting were JFSA (Alan Bates), Second Sight and representatives from Post Office.

Most of the meeting was spent defining the details of the mediation process. We all agreed how this should work and I have
outlined the steps draft email to MPs (see attachment). I know you had suggested you would like to write out to MPs to explain the
next steps in the process and I thought it would be useful to include details of the process which we have agreed.

The Working Party also agreed that: Second Sight would prepare the case files for each sub postmaster’s case, mediation would be
carried out by an independent, trained mediator, and that the sub postmaster would have support from an independent advisor,
of their choosing, to help them through this process. The Working Party is committed to the success of this and will play an active
role in managing these cases going forward. They did not expect every case to need the mediation process hoping that some would
be resolved at an earlier stage. It is intended that the Working Party will have an independent chair.

The Working Party is scheduled to meet again in early August, I will give you a further update following that meeting. I have
attached a draft email for you to send to any MP who has registered an interest in this matter with you.

Kind Regards

Susan Crichton
General Counsel
Post Office Limited
148 Old Street
London

EC1V 9HQ.
