POLO00059940
POL00059940

Message
From: Rachael Pantet

Sent: 27 Feb 2013 1 54

To: Jarnail A Singh [/O=MMS/OQU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP

(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Jarnail.a.singh6ceadabd-67e9-4eca-94f2-0057 16658847]
Subject: Ishaq trial

Hi Jarnail

POL v. Ishaq - Bradford CC - Re-trial Weds 6 March 2013

Just to update you on the developments of the above case.

larrived at court yesterday to support counsel Mark Ford from Lincoln House Chambers. Martin
who had spent most of Monday on the case had a number of issues arise on the first day of trial, so
many that the case did not actually get called on and the jury sworn until the second day (Tues) when
I took over.

Mr Ishaq is blaming Horizon and his co worker Mr Liaquat for theft of £21k. His DCS asserts that the
problems with Horizon were so problematic that he was left with no other option but to enter certain
fraudulent entries. Mr Liaquat worked alongside Mr Ishaq in the Post Office.

Gareth Jenkins was present and spent all day liaising with the defence expert via email on the few
issues that she had with Gareth's report - by the close of play on Tuesday, the defence expert agreed
with our expert Gareth that there is nothing wrong with the functioning of the Hz system, and that if
there were any reversals made, they did not correspond to any amounts of money or stock. (Ishaq
has made numerous reversals of large numbers of stamps). I will forward the agreed report and
attachments to you in a further email.

The other limb left open to Mr Ishaq's defence is to blame his co-worker. After an issue with whether
Mr Liaquat needed a translator which arose after he had sworn on oath and the jury empanelled,
(which I clarified with Mr Liaquat) the case was called back on and Mr L gave his evidence.

Mr Lcame up to proof, it was established after a lengthy cross examination by def counsel, that Mr L
only stayed after 5:30pm ona couple of occasions, did count the cash and stock but did not complete
BTS. He also said that he did not know how to do reversals, if there was a problem, he would ask his
boss (Ishaq).

Following Mr Liaquat's evidence, both counsel discussed the issue of defence counsel's ability to
continue as he had been struggling to talk. Following a meeting with judge in chambers it was
decided that defence counsel could not continue and there would have to be a retrial listed for new
def counsel to be briefed.

The case has now gone off to Weds 6th March 2013. We are confident that the issue with Horizon has

been dealt with, Mr L who will have to give evidence again, will be fine if he repeats what he said the
first time round.

POL-0056419
POLO00059940
POL00059940

After initial problems getting Mr Patel to attend, I liaised with him and made it clear that he needed
to attend, coupled with the assistance of Steve Bradshaw, Mr Patel has agreed to attend again next
week.

There was a further development with Mr Patel. As he is the new postmaster, someone - we do not
know who, in an effort to suggest that Mr Patel had also found discrepancies with the Hz system,
entered the post office, went through Mr Patel's bins and took print outs from the Hz system from a
bin without Mr Patel's knowledge.

The defence did not give us a copy of the evidence but handed it to Mark Ford as we started the
trial. The defence have made concerted efforts to derail the case. Lam confident that we have dealt
with each issue raised to date and the matter can proceed smoothly on Weds.

I will forward counsel's note on to you as soon as it is received.

Kind regards

Rachael

CartwrightKing

eee I

Nottingham I Birmingham I Derby I Leicester I Sheffield I Newcastle Gateshead
Norwich Union House, South Parade, Old Market Square, Nottingham, NG1 2LH
www.cartwrightking.co.uk @ @CartwrightKing

This message is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. If you have received this in error please delete this message and let us know by email
or telephone. A list of directors is available at each office. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority No: 312459. VAT Registration No:
737837295.

POL-0056419
