POL00231542
POL00231542

From: Paula Vennel

Sent: Tue 18/08/2015 5 AM (UTC)

To: Tim Parkerf~ “GRO. ~
Subject: Fwd: Panorama - update ~

Dear Tim,
T hope you are well.
I've copied below a note that has gone to the Board from Mark Davies, Communications Director.

The programme covered nothing new, was one-sided as we expected, and as we hoped has generated virtually
no media coverage at all - not even on any BBC channels. That is helpful.

Our focus now is on managing the politics/public affairs, by allowing the CCRC to take its course and rebutting
any suggestions for a public enquiry before then. If you would like a more detailed briefing any time, please let

me know.

Best wishes,
Paula

ps. Your strategy/performance pack should be with you end of play today.

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alwen Lyons L
Date: 18 August 2015
"virginia. holmes. t21"

(ShEx)"

Ce: Paula Vennells < Alisdair Cameron

Subject: Panorama - update

Dear All
Please find below a note from Mark about last night's Panorama programme.

Thanks
Alwen
POL00231542
POL00231542

Dear all

As you know, BBC Panorama broadcast its programme on the Horizon system last
night.

The programme was closely monitored by my team, legal and our external advisers.
We are meeting today to assess next steps in relation to the content. My overall view
was that it offered no new revelation and had been weakened in its intent by our
rebuttal over recent weeks, but was very partial, selective and one-sided.

I am glad to say that so far there has been minimal pick up of the issue in the wider
media: it features briefly on BBC news bulletins early evening yesterday, was on the
BBC website overnight as story number 9 in the online running order and has now
been removed from the main news lists. There was a small sidebar piece in the Times.

A team was monitoring social media live in the office last night. While sentiment was
adverse overall, there was a much smaller amount of activity compared to the BBC
documentary last week.

We have plans in place for wider next steps in relation to media, Parliament and
ministerial handling, as well as with wider stakeholders such as the NFSP (whose
view on the issue was not included in the programme). We are reassessing and
refining those plans today.

Thope this is helpful.

Best wishes

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Post Office Ltd

Mobile:

POL00231542
POL00231542

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street,
London EC2Y 9AQ.
