POL00034746
POL00034746

Branch Support Programme - Training Workstream
Introduction

The Branch Support Programme aims to increase the effectiveness of
support to postmasters across the Post Office network.

The training workstream sits as one of eight workstreams in this
programme. It’s primary purpose is to “digitise” content that is
currently delivered in a classroom over a number of days. However,
through the discovery phrase of this programme, we found that there
is a greater need across the business, as well as a number of
programmes or projects that are all looking at how to introduce
digital learning platforms for both employees and postmasters. This
is therefore reflected in the scope of the programme.

Context

The programme works within the Transformation portfolio as a
recognised programme with agreed milestones, funding and benefits to
be delivered. Angela van den Bogard is the Programme Director and
Gayle Peacock is the Programme Manager.

Scope

1) To introduce a technology platform that will act as the single
platform for all L&D needs across Post Office Limited moving
forwards (all other systems will migrate in the short and
longer term)

2) To implement and pilot the systems with postmasters who are
being onboarded to replace up to 8 days worth of classroom
delivered content with digital content.

3) To set up the appropriate back office processes to manage both

the current and new/commissioned content

Out of scope - but following the implementation of this platform
will be the migration of all current learning programmes.

Budget (add details)
£550k for procurement and content conversion

Releasing c. 20 FTEs from the FSA team by the end of the Financial
year

Core team members:

Sarah Malone, Ann Miller, Drew McBride, Pam Heap, Julie Thomas,
Julia Marwood, Sue Richardson, Gabriella Driver, Debbie Young, Clare
Langley
POL00034746

POL00034746

Additional full time resources will be supplied by the BSP

programme.

One Analyst for the requirements gathering process, one
technical specialist for horizon scanning/technical support,

anda

project manager for the lifetime of the project.

Additional members/stakeholders for specific workstreams:

Andy Holt,

Stephens, Jane Moore

Work packages

Jackie Newton,

Tracy Lloyd, Paul Bleasby, Amanda

1. Source Platform

To scope the requirements and source a
technical platform that will meet PO
requirements for a digital learning agenda

2. Content
Conversion

To agree the key formats for on-line
learning and appoint third parties to work
with for the variety of formats

To agree branding and look/feel guidelines
To manage the translation of content to a
digital format (own and sign off content)

3. Supporting
processes

To ensure that the introduction of new
technology has appropriate supporting
processes, training, metrics

4. Communications

To ensure that appropriate users and

and users stakeholders are involved throughout the
development process
To develop communications to support the
launch and use of the new platform
5. People To design new roles required to support the
implications platform in BAU

To manage the consultation, VR exercise and
to advise on alternative methods for
releasing resources should VR not fulfil the
required number.

Proposed involvement

1. Source Platform

Requirements gathering:

All core team plus Jackie Newton, Tracey
Lloyd, Tracy Bond, Jane Moore, Neil Hayward,
Spencer Chapman,

2. Content
Conversion

Content conversion:

Julia Marwood, Gabriella Driver, Sue
Richardson, Jackie Newton, Tracey Lloyd,
Tracy Bond, Jane Moore

Project Manager plus consultancy support
from Capita

3. Supporting

Project Manager

POL00034746
POL00034746

processes Gabriella Driver, Debbie Young, Sue
Richardson
4. Communications Project Manager
and users Sue Richardson, Sarah Malone, Debbie Young,
Gabriella Driver
5. People Ann Miller, Drew McBride, Sarah Malone,

implications

