POL00069983
POL00069983

Page I of 2

Nicola McSherry

From: Geoff.Porter@ GRO
Sent: 27 November 2006 10:07
To: Stephen Dilley

Subject: Re: Report

Dear Stephen

I will not be able to send the report until Wednesday as I am on my way to Paris
for A CoNference

My conclusions are that there is no evidence for a system failure

Looking at the cash transactioins which logically must be the reason for any
difference Castletons daily reconciliations do not make sense There are
differences every day which suggest that he was not couting the cash accuratelly
I also think that he has not paid in cash to cover error notices

Mr Jones of thje PO was concerned about the cash from the car auction I have
looked at the three examples he gives and I do not think there is a

Problem

I will contact you on Wednesday

Regards

Geoff

Geoffrey Porter
Senior Manager

BDO Stoy Hayward LLP
Charter Court, Third Avenue, Southampton SO15 OAP
DX_96881. Southampton 10

j extension

oo Original Message -----
From: "Stephen Dilley" [Stephen.Dilley@
Sent: 27/11/2006 08:42

To: Geoff Porter

Subject: Report

Dear geoff,

Please could you urgently email me your draft report and copy in tom beezer. We need to make an assessment before this
mornings hearing whether to use it and need to tell the court whether we have got a report.

Thanks stephen dilley
The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law.
The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient,
please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution,
publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. You

28/12/2006
POL00069983
POL00069983

Report Page 2 of 2

should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment, Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number 0C311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged
and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and
delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this
communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond
Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
00311430,

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to
Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law
Society.

[] Rightct I I fx] RightotI I fx] Rightc I '100 Best Companies to Work For" - The Sunday Times 2006
here to here to I here to I 'Global Fii f the Ye J" Age A ds 2006
downloa downlo: I downlo. I lobal Firm of the Year' ~ Accountancy ige Awards

I pictures. I pictures picture: I "Employer of the Year" - Accountancy Age Awards 2005
Tonelp I re. I 'Top 50 Where Women Want to Work' - The Times 2006
IMPORTANT NOTICE.

This communication and any attachments are confidential and may be protected from disclosure. We
endorse no information, opinion or advice contained in this communication that is not the subject of
a contract between the recipient and us. If you have received it in error please notify us immediately
and note that any storage, use or disclosure is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.

Whilst we check the communications we send for virus infection, we accept no responsibility for any
loss or damage caused to your systems by this communication.

Those communicating with us by electronic mail will be deemed to have accepted the risks
associated with interception, amendment, loss and late or incomplete delivery. They will also be
deemed to have consented to our intercepting and monitoring such communications.

BDO Stoy Hayward LLP is a limited liability partnership authorised and regulated by the Financial
Services Authority to conduct Investment Business. For a more detailed description of our electronic
communication policies, access the relevant page on our web site.
http://www.bdo.co.uk/electroniccommunications

BDO Stoy Hayward Investment Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial
Services Authority. For a more detailed description of our electronic communication policies, access
the relevant page on our web site.
http:/Awww.bdo.co.uk/electroniccommunicationsbdoshinvestmentmanagement

28/12/2006
