POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

SCHEDULE B6.3
HNG-X ACCEPTANCE PROCESS
Version History
Version No. I Date Reason for Issue
1.0 31/08/06 Agreed version as at date of signature of CCN1200
44 26/09/06 Minor corrections
20 25/01/07 Baseline copy of 1.1
6.0 16/06/09 Moving all schedules to V6.0 as agreed with Fujitsu
6.1 24/12/09 Applying changes as per CCN 1268
7.0 10/05/10 Moving all schedules to V7.0 as agreed with Fujitsu
8.0 21/02/12 Moving all schedules to v8.0 in accordance with
CCN1294d
9.0 13/01/14 Moving all Schedules to v9.0 in accordance with
CCN1349
10.0 10/09/15 Moving all Schedules to v10.0 in accordance with
CCN1506
11.0 31/03/16 Moving all schedules to V11.0 in accordance with
CCN1604
12.0 03/07/17 Moving all schedules to V12.0
Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 1 of 25

F/1659.2/631
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

SCHEDULE 86.3
HNG-X ACCEPTANCE PROCESS
1. INTRODUCTION

4.4 The purpose of this Schedule is to describe a clear, agreed process that enables
objective confirmation (or otherwise) of the fulfilment of Fujitsu Services’ delivery
obligations in respect of Project HNG-X and certain of the Associated Change Activities.

1.2 The process includes a mechanism for managing any and all. rectification activities
identified in order to complete the fulfilment of any HNG-X Acceptance Criteria that have
not been met.

2. DEFINITIONS

24 Acceptance

2.1.1. The HNG-X Acceptance Process will enable Post Office and Fujitsu Services to
provide:

2.1.1.1 confirmation that the deliverables are fit to proceed to the next stage in
the HNG-X Acceptance Process; and

2.1.1.2 confirmation that Fujitsu Services has met the HNG-X Requirements,
and any related contractual obligations, in an agreed manner.

2.1.2 HNG-X Initial Acceptance will be achieved on progressing through HNG-X
Acceptance Gateway 4.

2.1.3 HNG-X Final Acceptance will be achieved once all HNG-X Acceptance
Gateways have been passed through.

22 HNG-X Acceptance Process Stages

2.2.1 A series of HNG-X Acceptance Gateways exists for the HNG-X Acceptance
Process. The HNG-X Acceptance Gateways are each numbered but such
numbering does not imply that the HNG-X Acceptance Gateways must be
achieved in strict sequential order. The series. of numbered HNG-X Acceptance
Gateways for HNG-X is stated below, with the corresponding “Z#" point (as
defined in Schedule B5) stated alongside:

2.2.1.1 HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 1 - Readiness for Router Roll Out
(Acceptance Point 21);

2.2.1.2 HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 2 - Readiness for Data Centre Migration;

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 2 of 25

F/1659.2/632
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

2.2.1.3 HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 3 — Readiness for Live Pilot (Acceptance
Point Z2);

2.2.1.4 HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 4 — Readiness for Branch Migration
(Acceptance Point Z3);

2.2.1.5 HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 5 is not used.
2.2.1.6 HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 6 ~ End of Live Monitoring.

2.2.2. HNG-X Acceptance Gateways 1 and 2 must both be passed through as pre-
requisites for passing through HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 3. HNG-X
Acceptance Gateways 1 and 2 may be passed through in any order (the actual
order to be agreed and documented in the HNG-X Programme Plan).

2.2.3 Not Used.

2.2.4. A series of HNG-X Acceptance Process Stages exist, delineated by specific
HNG-X Acceptance Gateways as follows:

2.2.4.1 HNG-X Acceptance Process Stage “Test and Validation” is from delivery
of the agreed HNG-X Acceptance Plan to HNG-X Acceptance Gateway
3;

2.2.4.2 HNG-X Acceptance Process Stage “Live Pilot” is from HNG-X
Acceptance Gateway 3 to HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 4; and

2.2.4.3 HNG-X Acceptance Process Stage “Live Monitoring” is from HNG-X
Acceptance Gateway 4 to HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 6.

2.2.5 The HNG-X Acceptance Gateways and the HNG-X Acceptance Process Stages
can be represented diagrammatically as follows (HNG-X Acceptance Gateways

depicted as “AG”):
AG1
AG3
AG2
+ Poise —

FI1659.2/633
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

2.2.6. The HNG-X Acceptance Plan documents, inter alia, all the HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria and when they need to be achieved by. The HNG-X Acceptance
Process from AG4 to HNG-X Final Acceptance will be managed for Fujitsu
Services by its Post Office Account Service Management team.

2.2.7 ‘The Fujitsu Services’ Post Office Account Service Management team will
support the Fujitsu Services Acceptance Manager throughout the Live Pilot
stage by managing the provision of acceptance evidence in support of those
HNG-X Acceptance Criteria with the Acceptance Method of HNG-X Monitoring.

23  HING-X Acceptance Criterion

@ 2.3.1. An HNG-X Acceptance Criterion is a clear, objective and unambiguous
statement against which fulfilment (with supporting evidence) of an HNG-X
Requirement using an HNG-X Acceptance Method can be determined. There
will be one HNG-X Acceptance Criterion against each instance of an allocated
HNG-X Acceptance Method. There may be HNG-X Requirements that are, in
themselves, measurable and unambiguous. In such cases, the HNG-X
Acceptance Criterion may be marked ‘as per the HNG-X Requirement’. Where
the HNG-X Requirement is expressed as a Use Case, the HNG-X Acceptance
Criterion will be the fulfilment of the Use Case pre-conditions and post-
conditions or, subject to agreement between the HNG-X Acceptance Managers,
the HNG-X High Level Test Plans as detailed in the Test Automation Toolset and
associated with the relevant HNG-X Requirement, except where explicitly
stated.

2.3.2 HNG-X Acceptance Criteria will be documented by Post Office in DOORS and
extracted by Post Office into the HNG-X Requirements Catalogue at appropriate
points during Project HNG-X, including at the date of signature of CCN1200 and
at the end of the Requirements Stage.

2.3.3 Fujitsu Services is responsible for producing, within the timescale agreed
between the Parties, evidence to demonstrate that the relevant HNG-X
Acceptance Criterion has been met.

2.3.4 Further details of the presentation and status of HNG-X Acceptance Criteria are
r ) set out in the table below:

HNG-X ACCEPTANCE
CRITERIA FOR:

Functional
Requirements (general)

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 4 of 25

F/1659.2/634

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00393769
POL00393769

Development approach
for HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria

Functional Requirements will be specified through Use
Cases.

Use Cases in themselves will not have HNG-X
Acceptance Methods and HNG-X Acceptance Criteria
as they are at a different level of specification and form
the starting point for test scripts. However, Use Cases.
will each contain pre-conditions, minimal guarantees
and success guarantees, i.e. what is required to be true
before the Use Case is activated and what is expected
after the Use Case has been activated for both the main
flow and any variant paths.

Acceptance of each Use Case will therefore be fulfilled
when all paths have been exercised, and the pre-
conditions, minimal guarantees and success guarantees
or, subject to agreement between the HNG-X
Acceptance Managers, the tests associated with the
relevant HNG-X High Level Test Plan, have been met.
At the end of the Requirements Stage these will be
described within DOORS, and a version-controlled
extract will be provided by Post Office in the HNG-X
Requirements Catalogue, version 1. Further version-
controlled extracts shall be provided by Post Office
following any amendments to, or re-issuing of, HNG-X
Requirements in accordance with Schedule B6.1.

Position at the date of
signature of CCN1200

HNG-X Acceptance Criteria not available.

Functional
Requirements (Retained
Functionality)

Development approach
for HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria

Certain Functional Requirements will be expressed as
Retained Functionality Use Cases which are agreed not
to require main, variant and exception paths. They will
contain, as a minimum, a goal and a description and in
some cases more detail relating to Business Rules and
usage. Acceptance of these Retained Functionality Use
Cases will, as a minimum, be via the HNG-X
Acceptance Methods of HNG-X Solution Test and/or
HNG-X Release Validation and will require traditional
narrative. HNG-X Acceptance Criterion statements or,
subject to agreement between the HNG-X Acceptance
Managers, HNG-X High Level Test Plans to be jointly
developed by Post Office and Fujitsu Services which

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0

Page 5 of 25

F/1659.2/635
CONFIDENTIAL

POL00393769
POL00393769

shall reference existing Horizon test materials where
relevant.

Development of HNG-X Acceptance Methods and HNG-
X Acceptance Criteria will not be complete for Retained
Functionality Use Cases by the end of the
Requirements Stage. These will be agreed by the joint
test teams following the end of the Requirements Stage
and, following such agreement, will be included in any
subsequent versions of the Requirements Baseline
issued by Post Office to Fujitsu Services.

Position at the date of
signature of CCN1200

HNG-X Acceptance Criteria not available.

Functional
Requirements (Postal
Services)

Development approach
for HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria

The approach to acceptance for Postal Services will be
as described for Functional Requirements (general)
except where HNG-X Requirements are provided in
narrative form and have narrative HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria,

Position at the date of
signature of CCN1200

The scope of Postal Services and the materials to be
provided at contract will be described in the CCD
entitled “Postal Services Business and Operational
Context” (REQ/CUS/BRS/0001).

Training Requirements

Development approach
for HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria

High level pre-contract HNG-X Acceptance Methods
and HNG-X Acceptance Criteria (in narrative form) to
support high level training requirements have been
created. These will be further developed after the date
of signature of CCN1200.

The position at the end of the Requirements Stage will
be that updated HNG-X Acceptance Criteria and HNG-X
Acceptance Methods will be provided by Post Office
within DOORS. A version-controlled extract will be
provided by Post Office in the HNG-X Requirements
Catalogue, version 1. Further version-controlled extracts
shall be provided by Post Office following any
amendments to, or re-issuing of, HNG-X Requirements
in accordance with Schedule B6.1

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0

Page 6 of 25

F/1659.2/636
CONFIDENTIAL

POL00393769
POL00393769

Position at the date of
signature of CCN1200

HNG-X Acceptance Methods and HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria will be provided by Post Office within the HNG-X
Requirements Catalogue Draft at Contract. The HNG-X
Requirements Catalogue Draft at Contract will identify
which of these HNG-X Acceptance Methods and HNG-X
Acceptance Criteria have and have not been agreed
between the Parties at the date of signature of
CCN1200. Any such HNG-X Acceptance Methods and
HNG-X Acceptance Criteria not so agreed will be
documented as areas for agreement and detailed work
after the date of signature of CCN1200.

The User Interface

Development approach
for HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria

The functionality required to be supported by the HNG-
X User Interface will be derived from the Functional
Requirements generated through the Requirements
Definition Process. No HNG-X Acceptance Criteria or
HNG-X Acceptance Methods are required to additionally
and specifically accept these HNG-X Requirements in
terms of their presence within the HNG-X User Interface
as this is a fundamental pre-requisite to testing for
acceptance of the Functional Requirement.

Non-functional HNG-X Requirements for the HNG-X
User Interface will be created in the traditional narrative
style and will include HNG-X Acceptance Criteria and
HNG-X Acceptance Methods. A high level view of the
acceptance events which relate to these HNG-X
Requirements are described in the CCD entitled
“Establishing and Assuring the HNG-X User Interface”
(REQ/GEN/PRD/0001).

Position at the date of
signature of CCN1200

HNG-X Acceptance Criteria not available and not
required,

System Capacity and Performance; Migration and Impiementation; Operational and

Support Services; Design and Architecture; Security; Development; and Testing

Requirements

Development approach
for HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria

HNG-X Acceptance Methods and HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria are being created for all HNG-X Requirements.

The position at the end of the Requirements Stage will
be that updated HNG-X Acceptance Criteria and HNG-X
Acceptance Methods will be provided by Post Office
within DOORS, A_version-controlled_extract_will_be

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0

Page 7 of 25

F/1659.2/637
POL00393769

POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

provided by Post Office in the HNG-X Requirements
Catalogue, version 1. Further version-controlled extracts
shall be provided by Post Office following any
amendments to, or re-issuing of, HNG-X Requirements
in accordance with Schedule B6.1.

Position at the date of HNG-X Acceptance Methods and HNG-X Acceptance
signature of CCN1200 Criteria will be provided by Post Office within the HNG-X

Requirements Catalogue Draft at Contract. These HNG-
X Acceptance Methods and HNG-X Acceptance Criteria
will not have been agreed between the Parties at the
date of signature of CCN1200 and will be areas for
agreement and detailed work after that date.

24  HNG-X Acceptance Methods

241

2.4.3

2.4.4

HNG-X Acceptance Methods are an agreed set of pre-defined techniques by
which HNG-X Requirements can be objectively measured as fulfilled or not,
each against one or more agreed HNG-X Acceptance Criteria. HNG-X
Acceptance Methods are described in more detail at Annex C to this Schedule.

2.4.2 In general, an HNG-X Requirement will be allocated one or more HNG-
X Acceptance Methods. The objectives in allocating HNG-X Acceptance
Method(s) to HNG-X Requirements are to progress toward overall HNG-
X Final Acceptance as efficiently as possible, but subject to also being
able to identify and resolve defects (non-compliances) as early as
possible in the HNG-X Acceptance Process, to reduce overall
development costs and risks.

In summary, the relationships are:

2.4.3.1 each HNG-X Requirement will have one or more HNG-X Acceptance
Methods; and

2.4.3.2 each HNG-X Acceptance Method for an HNG-X Requirement will have
one HNG-X Acceptance Criterion.

The agreed HNG-X Acceptance Method(s) allocated against each HNG-X
Requirement will be documented by Post Office in DOORS and extracted by
Post Office into the HNG-X Requirements Catalogue.

25 HNG-X Acceptance Tracking

2.5.1

HNG-X Acceptance Tracking will be achieved through the production of a single
HNG-X Acceptance Tracking report that will be initially derived from the HNG-X

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0

Page 8 of 25

F/1659.2/638
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

Requirements. During the HNG-X Acceptance Process, the Acceptance status
of the HNG-X Requirements will be recorded in the Test Automation Toolset and
will be incrementally updated with the outcomes of the various activities. that
form part of the HNG-X Acceptance Process.

2.5.2 The acceptance status of the HNG-X Requirements will be maintained by Post
Office and shared with Fujitsu Services.

2.6 HNG-X High Level Test Plans

HNG-X High Level Test Plans (HNG-X HLTPs) identify those functions and conditions
that are mapped against the HNG-X Acceptance Criteria and that are required to
support the HNG-X Acceptance Process. HNG-X HLTPs will be produced by Post Office
or Fujitsu Services in accordance with HNG-X Programme Plan and are subject to joint
review.

27 ING-X A\ ince Incident

An HNG-X Acceptance Incident is raised when the HNG-X Acceptance Method fails to
prove that an HNG-X Acceptance Criterion has been met. HNG-X Acceptance Incidents
are classified according to Annex A to this Schedule.

2.8 HNG-X Minor Concession

Where the evidence fails to prove that an HNG-X Acceptance Criterion has been met,
Fujitsu Services may request Post Office to grant an HNG-X Minor Concession on the
basis that the failure of compliance or the deviation from the stated HNG-X Requirement
presents no adverse impact to Post Office. In all such cases a defect shall be raised and
if Post Office agrees to grant an HNG-X Minor Concession, details of the failure of
compliance or the deviation from the stated HNG-X Requirements shall be recorded by
Post Office and linked to the relevant HNG-X Requirement. Confirmation that all such
details have been recorded by Post Office shall allow the defect to be closed and the
HNG-X Requirements shall be deemed to have been satisfied providing that there are
no additional test(s) associated with the HNG-X Requirement that have either not been
run or failed for a different reason.

Should Post Office refuse to grant an HNG-X Minor Concession, the failure of
compliance or deviation from the stated HNG-X Requirement shall be rectified through a
defect management process agreed by the HNG-X Acceptance Board.

Following the granting of an HNG-X Minor Concession, should Post Office identify any
unexpected consequences that have arisen as a direct result of an HNG-X Minor
Concession then they shall be treated as an incident, and a date for resolution and
rectification measures agreed through the HNG-X Acceptance Board, but will not be
classified as an HNG-X Acceptance incident for acceptance purposes. This shall apply
up until HNG-X Final Acceptance after which no further Incidents arising from any HNG-
X Minor Concessions shall be raised.

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 9 of 25

F/1659.2/639
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

The Post Office shall maintain a register of all HNG-X Minor Concessions and shall
periodically share with Fujitsu Services details of all HNG-X Minor Concessions that
have been granted.

2.9 A in it ion

An HNG-X Acceptance Incident Collection is a facility in PEAK whereby fault reports
deemed to be HNG-X Acceptance Incidents will be grouped for management and
reporting purposes.

2.10 HI A in i e

For the purposes of the HNG-X Acceptance Process, an ' HNG-X Acceptance Dispute’
is defined in paragraph 7.1. An HNG-X Acceptance Dispute is not a Dispute in the
broader context of the overall Agreement between Post Office and Fujitsu Services,

2.11. HNG-X Acceptance Plan

The HNG-X Acceptance Plan will define which HNG-X Acceptance Criteria will be
assessed during which HNG-X Acceptance Process Stage. This plan will be produced
by the Post Office HNG-X Acceptance Manager and agreed by the Fujitsu Services’
HNG-X Acceptance Manager, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld.

3. HNG-X ACCEPTANCE PROCESS
3.1.1. HNG-X Acceptance Manager

The primary responsibility for managing the HNG-X Acceptance Process rests
with the HNG-X Acceptance Managers. This may be a specified
individual or, more likely, a role adopted by the respective HNG-X
Programme Managers.

3.1.2 HNG-X Acceptance Board

An HNG-X Acceptance Board will be nominated and the primary function of this
board shall be to assess and agree the acceptance status of the HNG-X
Acceptance Criteria associated with the relevant HNG-X Acceptance
Gateway. The Fujitsu and Post Office HNG-X Acceptance Managers
shall.prepare material for assessment by the HNG-X Acceptance Board
from which the HNG-X Acceptance Board shall provide a
recommendation to the ‘Joint Release Authorisation Board’ concerning
progression through the relevant HNG-X Acceptance Gateway.

The HNG-X Acceptance Board shall be constituted, deal with matters and meet
at intervals as set out in Schedule A2.

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 10 of 25

F/1659.2/640
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

3.1.3 HNG-X Acceptance Dispute Board

An HNG-X Acceptance Dispute Board will be nominated and the primary
function of this board shall be to settle any HNG-X Acceptance Disputes that
cannot be resolved by the HNG-X Acceptance Managers. The HNG-X
Acceptance Dispute Board shall be constituted, deal with the matters and meet
at the intervals as set out in Schedule A2.

3.2 Changes to the Agreement

3.2.1 After the end of the HNG-X Requirements Baselining Process and prior to HNG-
X Final Acceptance, where either Party requests a change to any provision of
this Agreement relating to HNG-X Requirements or the HNG-X solution, the
Change Control Procedure will be followed and both Fujitsu Services and Post
Office will review the HNG-X Acceptance Criteria to determine whether any
changes are required, Such changes may include:

3.2.1.1 deletion of HNG-X Acceptance Criteria that were derived from deleted
provisions;

3.2.1.2 addition of new HNG-X Acceptance Criteria relating to new or extended
provisions; and/or

3.2.1.3 modification of HNG-X Acceptance Criteria relating to changed
provisions.

3.2.2 If changes are made to tests that are already in progress or have been
completed then, unless both Parties agree otherwise, or the results of those
changed tests can be derived from the results of tests already carried out, those
tests shall be repeated.

3.2.3. Within 60 days of Final Acceptance, Fujitsu Services shall present to Post Office
a CCN to incorporate all Minor Concessions continuing to have an impact after
Final Acceptance into the relevant requirements. This shall allow a clear
requirements baseline for the HNG-X Release.

4. PROGRESSING THROUGH THE HNG-X ACCEPTANCE PROCESS

41 Paragraph 2.2.4 identifies the three key stages during which the HNG-X Acceptance
Process takes place, namely Test and Validation, Live Pilot and Live Monitoring.
Progression from one stage to the next is controlled by an HNG-X Acceptance Gateway
that has to be passed through.

4.2 HNG-X Acceptance Gateways have parameters associated with them that are

configured to meet the specific arrangements agreed between Post Office and Fujitsu
Services. The parameters are:

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 11 of 25

F/1659.2/641
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

4.2.1 as detailed in paragraph 4.6;

4.2.2 the number and status of HNG-X High Severity Acceptance Incidents;

4.2.3 the number and status of HNG-X Medium Severity Acceptance Incidents; and
4.2.4 the number and status of HNG-X Low Severity Acceptance Incidents.

4.3 The three key HNG-X Acceptance Gateways controlling progression through the HNG-X
Acceptance Process Stages are HNG-X Acceptance Gateways 3, 4 and 6 respectively
as described in paragraph 4.5.

4.4. [NOT USED]

45 Achievi IN Progression and Pi sion thre in. HNG-X Aci
Gateway

4.5.1 From Test and Validation to Live Pilot (HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 3)

4.5.1.1 Progression through HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 3 shall occur once all
of the following have been satisfied:

(a) subject to paragraph 4.6, all the HNG-X Acceptance Criteria
allocated in the HNG-X Acceptance Plan to Test and Validation
have been achieved;

(b) activities leading to HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 1 (named
“Readiness for Router Roll—Out (Z1)" and HNG-X Acceptance
Gateway 2 (named “Readiness for Data Centre Migration”) must
be completed and these two HNG-X Acceptance Gateways
passed through in accordance with paragraph 4.5.4.2 as pre-
requisites to achieve HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 3. Failure to
progress through HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 1 and HNG-X
Acceptance Gateway 2 will not prohibit any other programme
activities from continuing prior to HNG-X Acceptance Gateway
3;

(c) there are no outstanding HNG-X High Severity Acceptance
Incidents;

(d) the number of outstanding HNG-X Medium Severity Acceptance
Incidents is five or fewer and an agreed workaround exists for
each of them; and

(e) there is an agreed workaround for all outstanding HNG-X Low
Severity Acceptance Incidents except for those which the
Parties agree do not require a workaround.

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 12 of 25

F/1659.2/642
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

4.5.1.2 Notwithstanding progression through HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 3 in
accordance with paragraph 4.5.1.1, Live Pilot shall not commence until
confirmation that it may do so is given in writing to Fujitsu Services by
the Post Office Release Authorisation Board,

4.5.2 Achieving HNG-X Initial Acceptance - From Live Pilot to Live Monitoring (HNG-X
Acceptance Gateway 4)

4.5.2.1 Achievement of HNG-X Initial Acceptance shall occur on progression
from Live Pilot to Live Monitoring once ail of the following have been
satisfied:

(a) subject to paragraph 4.6, all HNG-X Acceptance Criteria
allocated in the HNG-X Acceptance Plan to Live Pilot have been
achieved;

(b) there are no outstanding HNG-X High Severity Acceptance
Incidents;

(c) the number of outstanding HNG-X Medium Severity Acceptance
Incidents is five or fewer;

(d) each HNG-X Medium Severity Acceptance Incident has an
agreed workaround and, subject to paragraph 6.4.2, an agreed
HNG-X Rectification Plan; and

(e) each HNG-X Low Severity Acceptance Incident has, subject to
paragraph 6.4.4, a target timescale for rectification and has an
agreed workaround except those for which the Parties agree
that such a workaround is not required.

4.5.2.2 Notwithstanding achievement of HNG-X Initial Acceptance in
accordance with paragraph 4.5.2.1, Live Monitoring shall not commence
until confirmation that it may do so is given in writing to Fujitsu Services
by the Post Office Release Authorisation Board.

4.5.3. Achieving HNG-X Final Acceptance (HNG-X Acceptance Gateway 6)

4.5.3.1 HNG-X Final Acceptance shall occur once all of the following have been
satisfied:

(a) the earliest planned date as specified in the HNG-X Programme
Plan for completion of Live Monitoring has occurred;

(b) subject to paragraph 4.6, all HNG-X Acceptance Criteria
allocated to Live Monitoring as set out in the HNG-X Acceptance
Plan have been achieved;

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 13 of 25

F/1659.2/643
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

(c) there are no outstanding HNG-X High Severity Acceptance
Incidents;

(d) the number of outstanding HNG-X Medium Severity Acceptance
Incidents arising from HNG-X Acceptance Criteria scheduled to
be achieved during Live Monitoring is two or fewer. For the
avoidance of doubt, this means that the total number of HNG-X
Medium Severity Acceptance Incidents at this HNG-X
Acceptance Gateway (including those outstanding from previous
HNG-X Acceptance Gateways) could be seven. However, this
total of seven would be reduced if any of the original HNG-X
Medium Severity Acceptance Incidents have been closed in
accordance with their agreed HNG-X Rectification Plans;

(e) each HNG-X Medium Severity Acceptance Incident has an
agreed workaround and, subject to paragraph 6.4.2, an agreed
HNG-X Rectification Plan; and

(f) each HNG-X Low Severity Acceptance Incident has, subject to
paragraph 6.4.4, a target timescale for rectification and has an
agreed workaround except those for which the Parties agree
‘such a workaround is not required.

4.5.4 Progressing through HNG-X Acceptance Gateways 1 and 2
4.5.4.1 Not Used

4.5.4.2 Progression through HNG-X Acceptance Gateways 1 and 2 occur once
all of the following have been satisfied for the HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria allocated to achieving progression through the respective HNG-
X Acceptance Gateway:

(a) subject to paragraph 4.6, all such HNG-X Acceptance Criteria have
been achieved;

(b) there are no outstanding HNG-X High Severity Acceptance Incidents;

(c) the number of outstanding HNG-X Medium Severity Acceptance
Incidents, together with any related HNG-X Rectification Plans or
agreed workarounds, are agreed between the Parties as being
acceptable to progress through the HNG-X Acceptance Gateway; and

(d) the number of outstanding HNG-X Low Severity Acceptance Incidents,
together with any related HNG-X Rectification Plans or agreed
workarounds, are agreed between the Parties as being acceptable to
progress through the HNG-X Acceptance Gateway.

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 14 of 25

F/1659.2/644
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

4.6.1 If the Parties do not agree whether HNG-X Final Acceptance, HNG-X Stage
Progression or progression through HNG-X Acceptance Gateways 1 and 2 has
occurred, the matter will be resolved through the procedure described in
paragraph 7 for resolving HNG-X Acceptance Disputes.

4.6.2 If, following investigation by Fujitsu Services, an HNG-X Acceptance Incident is
found to have been caused solely by a fault or deficiency in anything other than
those elements of HNG-X provided by Fujitsu Services, it shall not count
towards the thresholds identified in paragraph 4.5.

4.6.3 HNG-X Acceptance Incidents that are agreed to result from the same failure or
deficiency, or to. affect the same operational process or business function, may
be aggregated into a single HNG-X Acceptance Incident for the purposes of the
thresholds identified in paragraph 4.5.

The aggregation of two or more HNG-X Acceptance Incidents into a single
HNG-X Acceptance incident shall be proposed by the Fujitsu HNG-X
Acceptance Manager and agreed by the Post Office HNG-X Acceptance
Manager, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld.

4.6.4 If, other than as a result of a Default of Fujitsu Services, it is impossible for a
test to be carried out when scheduled in the HNG-X Acceptance Plan then that
test becomes known as a "Deferred Test". Deferred Tests will be carried out as
soon as reasonably practicable or at such later time as the Parties may agree
(which shall be no later than six months after HNG-X Final Acceptance)
provided that performance on that agreed date does not, other than as a result
of a Default of Fujitsu Services, become impossible (in which event the Deferred
Test shall be carried out as soon as reasonably practicable)

46.5 The non-occurrence of a Deferred Test at the time originally scheduled in the
HNG-X Acceptance Plan will not prevent HNG-X Stage Progression, HNG-X
Final Acceptance or progression through HNG-X Acceptance Gateways 1 and 2
each of which will be assessed on the basis of:

4.6.5.1 those tests scheduled to take place for that HNG-X Stage Progression,
HNG-X Final Acceptance or progression through HNG-X Acceptance
Gateways 1 and 2, as the case may be, which are not Deferred Tests;
and

4.6.5.2 those Deferred Tests which were originally scheduled to take place as
part of a previous HNG-X Stage Progression, HNG-X Final Acceptance
or progression through HNG-X Acceptance Gateways 1 and 2 and
which have been rescheduled in accordance with paragraph 4.6.4 to
take place for that HNG-X Stage Progression, HNG-X Final Acceptance
or progression through HNG-X Acceptance Gateways 1, 2 or 5.

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 15 of 25

F/1659.2/645
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

4.6.6 If, when a Deferred Test is carried out after HNG-X Final Acceptance, it is not
successfully completed, that failure shall not of itself constitute a Default under
the Agreement or entitle Post Office to raise an HNG-X Acceptance Incident.

4.6.7 Where a test that was originally scheduled to be carried out by Fujitsu Services
in the Solution Test Stage becomes a Deferred Test in accordance with
paragraph 4.6.4, the failure of Fujitsu Services to carry out that Deferred Test in
accordance with paragraph 4.6.4 shall constitute a Default under the
Agreement.

4.6.8 Other than as set out in paragraph 4.6.6, nothing in paragraph 4.6 shall reduce
or alter any obligations of Fujitsu Services under this Agreement.

5. HANDLING HNG-X ACCEPTANCE TESTING EVIDENCE

51 Evidence (including, without limitation, test results, test observations, data or other
information) provided by Fujitsu Services for review in relation to fulfilment of HNG-X
Acceptance Criteria ("HNG-X Acceptance Testing Evidence") shall by default be
available to all Post Office employees and contractors unless such evidence is:

5.1.1 Confidential Information, in which case disclosure shall be governed by the
provisions of Clause 61 of the Agreement; or

5.1.2 considered to be or categorised as sensitive in accordance with paragraphs 5.2
or 5.3 of this Schedule, in which case disclosure will be governed by those
provisions (as applicable).

5.2 HNG-X Acceptance Testing Evidence that can reasonably be considered to be
particularly sensitive because access to such information could compromise the security
of the HNG-X or other Post Office Services will be restricted to named employees or
contractors of Post Office who will be nominated by Post Office to review it on Post
Office's behalf. Access to the information will be in accordance with such reasonable
conditions as may be imposed by Fujitsu Services.

5.3 Subject to paragraph 5.4, HNG-X Acceptance Testing Evidence categorised by Fujitsu
Services (acting reasonably) as particularly commercially sensitive to Fujitsu Services
will only be disclosed to named employees or contractors of Post Office (such named
individuals to be approved by Fujitsu Services). Post Office will place such named
employees and contractors under a duty to keep confidential and not disclose Fujitsu
Services’ commercially sensitive information to any other person or Party without Fujitsu
Services’ prior written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or

delayed).

5.4 Fujitsu Services will not be entitled to categorise any HNG-X Acceptance Testing
Evidence as commercially sensitive where that evidence solely reflects a visible
manifestation or result of the operation of the HNG-X System, as opposed to how the
HNG-X System achieves that manifestation or result.

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 16 of 25

F/1659.2/646
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

5.5 Sensitive information disclosed as HNG-X Acceptance Testing Evidence pursuant to
paragraphs 5.3 or 5.4 may also be disclosed by Post Office or Fujitsu Services to the
HNG-X Acceptance Board if such disclosure is necessary for the resolution of an HNG-
X Acceptance Dispute.

5.6 At Post Office's request Fujitsu Services will supply supporting evidence for the
completion of a test that can reasonably be regarded as necessary for Post Office to
validate whether the HNG-X Acceptance Criteria for that test have been met.

6. MANAGING HNG-X ACCEPTANCE INCIDENTS

6.1 Raising HNG-X Acceptance Incidents

6.1.1 An HNG-X Acceptance Incident will be raised by Fujitsu Services when the
HNG-X Acceptance Method used fails to prove that the HNG-X Acceptance
Criterion has been met. In addition, Fujitsu Services will report to Post Office
any material undesirable occurrences, which are not HNG-X Acceptance
Incidents, observed by it whilst conducting tests.

6.1.2 Post Office may raise an HNG-X Acceptance Incident whenever Post Office
becomes aware of evidence that (a) any of the occurrences referred to in
paragraph 6.1.1 have arisen (b) the HNG-X Acceptance Criteria are not being
met or (c) the introduction of changes arising from Project HNG-X and/or the
Associated Change Activities that are subject to the HNG-X Acceptance
Process has resulted or might reasonably be expected to result in the existing
Horizon Applications or the Horizon Service Infrastructure no longer functioning
or being performed (as the case may be) in accordance with the provisions of
the Agreement.

6.1.3 Where the HNG-X Requirements Catalogue or Annex 2 of Schedule B6.1
expressly states that the application will not permit specified functions or
activities or cause certain specified behaviour, and those functions, activities or
behaviour are observed to occur during testing of the application, then the
observing Party will (in the case of Fujitsu Services) or may (in the case of Post
Office) raise an HNG-X Acceptance Incident.

6.1.4 Following resolution of an HNG-X Acceptance Incident raised in accordance
with paragraph 6.1.1, 6.1.2 or 6.1.3, a further HNG-X Acceptance Incident can
be raised in accordance with paragraph 6.1.1 if the applicable functions,
activities or behaviour are observed to occur again.

6.1.5 Each Party will raise an HNG-X Acceptance Incident as soon as reasonably
practicable after becoming aware of such incident. However, HNG-X
Acceptance Incidents may not be raised in respect of any HNG-X Acceptance
Criteria before commencement of the testing or assessment of those HNG-X
Acceptance Criteria in accordance with the HNG-X Acceptance Plan. Once
HNG-X Final Acceptance has occurred no new HNG-X Acceptance Incidents

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 17 of 25

FI1659.2/647
POL00393769

POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

6.1.7

6.1.8

may be raised. For the purposes of this paragraph a "new HNG-X Acceptance
Incident" means an HNG-X Acceptance Incident that occurs after the HNG-X
Final Acceptance Date or which occurs on or before that date, but is not
reported to Fujitsu Services before the HNG-X Final Acceptance Date. Once
HNG-X Initial Acceptance has occurred no additional HNG-X Acceptance
Incidents will be classified as HNG-X Acceptance Incidents in respect of HNG-X
Initial Acceptance.

An HNG-X Acceptance incident manifests itself as one or more defects
originating from either the Test Automation Toolset or PEAK. Such defects will
be allocated to HNG-X Acceptance Incidents following review and agreement by
the HNG-X Acceptance Managers from both Parties.

A PEAK fault report that is allocated to the HNG-X Acceptance Incident
Collection can only be closed with the agreement of both HNG-X Acceptance
Managers.

If a dispute arises whereby the HNG-X Acceptance Managers cannot agree as
to the status of a defect associated with an HNG-X Acceptance Incident, the
matter will be escalated according to the procedure described in paragraph 7 for
resolving HNG-X Acceptance Disputes..

62 Analysing and Classifying HNG-X Acceptance Incidents

6.2.1

HNG-X Acceptance Incidents will be jointly analysed by Fujitsu Services and
Post Office and a written report produced which will record:

6.2.1.1 initially, the agreed (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld by
either Party) severity classification of the HNG-X Acceptance Incident as
identified in Annex A to this Schedule; and subsequently

6.2.1.2 related rectification activities (if applicable); and
6.2.1.3 re-testing dates/periods (if applicable).

This information will be included in the test report issued at the time of
completing the HNG-X Acceptance Process Stage during which the HNG-X
Acceptance Incident was raised.

For the purpose of paragraph 6.2.1, an HNG-X Acceptance Incident will be
regarded as having been caused by the introduction of changes arising from
Project HNG-X and/or the Associated Change Activities that are subject to the
HNG-X Acceptance Process:

6.2.2.1 if that incident is identified during any of the HNG-X Acceptance Process
Stages; and

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0

Page 18 of 25

F/1659.2/648
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

6.2.2.2 where the behaviour of Horizon giving rise to that incident (i) has not
been previously observed, or (ii) had been previously observed in
relation to the Horizon Service Infrastructure or the Horizon Application
but such behaviour had been resolved prior to commencement of
testing of HNG-X,

unless following investigation by Fujitsu Services, that incident is found to be
unrelated to the introduction of changes arising from Project HNG-X
and/or the Associated Change Activities that are subject to the HNG-X
Acceptance Process and Fujitsu Services has provided Post Office with
reasonable evidence to demonstrate this.

6.2.3. Where an HNG-X Acceptance Incident can be attributed to faults in HNG-X, the
severity of that incident (for the purposes of HNG-X Final Acceptance and HNG-
X Initial Acceptance) shall be classified with reference to the fault in HNG-X
alone.

6.2.4 Either Party may request that the severity of an HNG-X Acceptance Incident be
re-classified in recognition of new evidence or if it is reasonably believed that
the impact of the HNG-X Acceptance Incident should be re-assessed.
Agreement to such requested re-classification shall not be unreasonably
withheld by either Party.

6.3 Repeat Acceptance Activities

6.3.1 Any failed test may, prior to the end of the agreed Live Monitoring be repeated
as many times as necessary in order for HNG-X Final Acceptance to be
achieved. Dates for such repeat tests will be agreed by the joint test teams
having regard to the overall HNG-X Programme Plan. Post Office will be
responsible for making personnel available to observe repeat testing if required.
Repeat tests will be proposed only when it is reasonably believed a different (i.e.
improved) outcome wouid result.

63.2 In the case of repeated HNG-X Document Reviews, HNG-X Design
Walkthroughs or HNG-X Monitoring, Post Office will be entitled to the same
elapsed time for the repeated activity as was scheduled for the original failed
activity. Repeat HNG-X Document Reviews or HNG-X Design Walkthroughs will
be proposed only when it is reasonably believed a different (i.e. improved)
‘outcome would result.

64 HNG-x Rectification Plan
6.4.1 For each HNG-X Medium Severity Acceptance Incident outstanding on the

HNG-X Initial Acceptance Date or on the HNG-X Final Acceptance Date, Fujitsu
Services will have prepared a written HNG-X Rectification Pian that includes:

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 19 of 25

FI1659.2/649
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

6.4.1.1 a statement of the operational impact and any necessary temporary
procedures to be adopted by Users;

6.4.1.2 adescription of how rectification is to be achieved; and
6.4.1.3 a timetable for rectification.
Post Office shall not unreasonably withhold its agreement to any such HNG-X
Rectification Plan and neither Party shall unreasonably withhold its agreement
to any workaround referred to in this Schedule.
6.4.2 It is acknowledged by the Parties that exceptionally they may agree that such a
HNG-X Rectification Plan is not required for each outstanding HNG-X Medium
Severity Acceptance Incident.
6.4.3 For each HNG-X Low Severity Acceptance Incident outstanding on the HNG-X
Initial Acceptance Date or on the HNG-X Final Acceptance Date, Fujitsu
Services will identify a target timescale for rectification
6.4.4 It is acknowledged by the Parties that they may agree that such a target
timescale for rectification is not required for each outstanding HNG-X Low
Severity Acceptance Incident.
7. HNG-X ACCEPTANCE DISPUTE PROCESS
7.1 General

If Post Office and Fujitsu Services do not agree on any matters relating to this Schedule
including:

7.1.1 the form or content of the HNG-X tests as defined in the HNG-X HLTPs
or in the Test Automation Toolset;

7.1.2 changes to HNG-X Acceptance Criteria, HNG-X tests, or the HNG-X
Acceptance Plan arising from changes to the provisions of the HNG-X
Requirements Catalogue;

7.1.3. whether any tests, HNG-X Document Reviews, HNG-X Design
Walkthroughs or HNG-X Monitoring should be repeated pursuant to
paragraph 6.3 as a consequence of changes to the HNG-X tests;

7.1.4 results of HNG-X tests;

7.1.5 whether an event or occurrence is an HNG-X Acceptance Incident;

7.1.6 the aggregation into HNG-X Acceptance Incidents;

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 20 of 25

F/1659.2/650
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

7.1.7 classification of severity of HNG-X Acceptance Incidents;

7.1.8 — whether progression through an HNG-X Acceptance Gateway or from
one HNG-X Acceptance Process Stage to another has occurred or
should proceed;

7.1.9 whether an HNG-X Acceptance Incident has been caused by a
deficiency or fault in a component of the HNG-X System (for which
Fujitsu Services is responsible) or a deficiency or fault in other services,
systems or data (including, without limitation, Reference Data) of Post
Office or a third party (for which Post Office is responsible); or

7.1.10 adequacy of HNG-X Rectification Plans,

the Parties will refer such dispute (an "HNG-X Acceptance Dispute”) to the
HNG-X Acceptance Dispute Board for resolution.

7.2 HING-X A\ a i lution

7.2.1. The HNG-X Acceptance Dispute Board is required to use all reasonable
endeavours to reach an agreed resolution on any HNG-X Acceptance Dispute
that is referred to it

7.2.2 \f the HNG-X Acceptance Dispute is resolved by the HNG-X Acceptance Dispute
Board, the decision of the HNG-X Acceptance Dispute Board will be final and
binding on the Parties.

7.2.3. In the event that an HNG-X Acceptance Dispute cannot be resolved by the
HNG-X Acceptance Dispute Board it will be escalated for Executive Review and
dealt with in accordance with the Dispute Resolution Procedure.

8. ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS

8.1 The following CCDs are associated with this Schedule B6.3:

Document Reference Document Title

1 REQ/CUS/BRS/0001 Postal Services Business
land Operational Context

2 REQ/GEN/PRD/0001 Establishing and Assuring
the HNG-X User Interface

8.2 There are no CRDs associated with this Schedule B6.3.

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 21 of 25

F/1659.2/651
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

High The HNG-X Acceptance Incident was caused by the introduction of
changes arising from Project HNG-X and/or the Associated Change
Activities that are subject to the HNG-X Acceptance Process and results
in a defect that would render a key element of one or more of the
Business. Capabilities and Support Facilities or a key element of the
Infrastructure unfit for operational use, which could include:

a) not allowing Post Office to undertake one or more Transaction
types;
b) not allowing Post Office to undertake one or more Transaction types

using the required business inputs or generating the required
business outcome;

c) creating system performance issues which are in, or are likely to
cause a, breach of Service Level Targets.

Medium I The HNG-X Acceptance Incident was caused by the introduction of
changes arising from Project HNG-X and/or the Associated Change
Activities that are subject to the HNG-X Acceptance Process and results
in a defect that would not prevent operation of one or more of the
Business Capabilities and Support Facilities or elements of the
Infrastructure, but would cause problems in the operational use of one or
more Transaction types.

Low The HNG-X Acceptance Incident was caused by the introduction of
changes arising from Project HNG-X and/or the Associated Change
Activities that are subject to the HNG-X Acceptance Process and results
in a defect that does not cause any adverse operational impact in the
use of the Business Capabilities and Support Facilities or an element of
the Infrastructure, or the HNG-X Acceptance Incident can be addressed
by a Fujitsu Services workaround without any adverse operational
impact for Post Office.

Non An incident raised by either Party which, following investigation is found:

Incident I, not to be a defect;

>» not to have resulted from the introduction of changes arising from
Project HNG-X and/or the Associated Change Activities that are
subject to the HNG-X Acceptance Process; or

» not to fall within the high, medium or low categories set out in this
column.

Schedule B6.3 Annex B Version 12.0
Page 22 of 25

F/1659.2/652
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

ANNEX B : HNG-X ACCEPTANCE BOARD

Refer to Schedule A2, Annex 1.

Schedule B6.3 Version 12.0
Page 23 of 25

F/1659.2/653
POL00393769

POL00393769
CONFIDENTIAL
ANNEX C : HNG-X ACCEPTANCE METHODS
Ty Description
HNG-X HNG-X Acceptance Criteria that cannot be objectively verified by a test of
Document HNG-X may be satisfied by Post Office undertaking a HNG-X Document
Review Review. The outcome of any such review will be documented by Post Office

in the HNG-X Acceptance Tracking Document. Fujitsu Services will supply a
list of documents (and any specific references within such documents) for
Post Office review, which may satisfy the agreed HNG-X Acceptance

Criteria.
HNG-X HNG-X Acceptance Criteria may be satisfied by Post Office participating in
Design an HNG-X Design Walkthrough led by Fujitsu Services of the Fujitsu

Walkthrough I Services’ design. The outcome of any such HNG-X Design Walkthrough will
be documented by Post Office in the HNG-X Acceptance Tracking
Document.

HNG-X Tests that are owned and managed by Fujitsu Services with significant
Solution Test I collaborative support from Post Office, for the purpose of verifying that the
Fujitsu Services’ solution for the HNG-X System satisfies the relevant HNG-X
Acceptance Criteria. The collaborative team will produce a joint test report
presenting the results of the tests.

HNG-X Tests that are run and managed by Post Office with significant collaborative
Release ‘support from Fujitsu Services, for the purpose of verifying that the HNG-X
Validation Release satisfies the relevant HNG-X Acceptance Criteria. The combined

team will produce a joint test report presenting the results of the tests and
provide evidence on any areas of non conformance.

HNG-X Post Office shall specify any need beyond the level of support that Fujitsu
Monitoring I Services are required to provide under normal operational practice (such as
a report etc). Duration, nature and characteristics to be agreed in advance
between Post Office and Fujitsu Services and will take place during Live Pilot
or exceptionally during Live Monitoring. The total duration of HNG-X
Monitoring and the obligations on Fujitsu Services to produce data/reports to
support Post Office monitoring to be agreed between Post Office and Fujitsu
Services (each acting reasonably and in good faith) for a particular HNG-X

Requirement.
HNG-X Where the solution to an HNG-X Acceptance Criterion is self-evident and
Statement of I does not lend itself to formal proving
Fact
HNG-X Relates to HNG-X Acceptance Criterion that represents an ongoing
Statement of I contractual obligation for HNG-X.
Obligation
Other Used by exception, to be agreed between the Parties.
Schedule B6.3 Annex C Version 12.0
Page 24 of 25

FI1659.2/654
POL00393769
POL00393769

CONFIDENTIAL

Schedule B6.3 Annex C Version 12.0
Page 25 of 25

F/1659.2/655
