“WHISTLEBLOWER” (SPEAK UP) IN POST OFFICE ® LTD

Post Office® Ltd places great importance on the ethical conduct of its business
and the protection of its good reputation. In accordance with best practice, Post
Office® Ltd proposes to now adopt its own Employee Confidential Disclosure
Policy & Helpline. This would allow workers to raise reasonably held concerns
relating to serious matters that could put Post Office® Ltd, its workers, or members
of the wider public at risk. Worker confidential disclosures usually involve bringing
forward concerns that are in the organisation’ s interest to investigate and resolve.
These include fraud, the giving or taking of bribes, financial malpractice,
misreporting, or practices that might endanger individuals or the environment.

Whilst this Policy & Helpline would now specifically apply to Post Office® Ltd it will
obviously support and encompass the recently launched RMG_ “Speak Up"

policy.

Post Office® Ltd has historically encouraged workers to raise concerns about
serious malpractice with line management in the first instance or where
appropriate, with other dedicated help lines, such as the Security Helpdesk, the
Bullying and Harassment Helpline, NBSC or HR Helpdesks to name a few. Post
Office® Ltd recognises that escalation through these routes will not always be
possible, for example in cases where the individual concerned does not feel
confident in raising issues via these existing routes or isn’ t sure exactly which
helpline they need to contact. The “Whistleblower” hotline will be created in
order to supplement these existing specialist help lines, and will provide a vehicle
for workers to voice their concerns in a safe and confidential environment. It is
proposed that the Whistleblower” confidential hotline will be run by Professional
Witness Ltd (P.W.L.), a third party supplier which is currently being used for other
vital business services.

Access to the proposed hotline will be made by a dedicated phone line or via an e-

.W.L. will treat all contact and

mail service to enquiry¢

concerns in complete confidence and all phone calls received will be tape recorded
to ensure all the information is captured accurately. There is no requirement for
workers to provide any contact details if they do not wish to. The worker will be
requested to provide more detailed information, for example the history of the

POL00423205
POL00423205
concern, any relevant individuals and the reason why the worker is particularly
worried about the situation.

Details of the concern will then be captured and assessed by P.W.L and forwarded
if appropriate to the Post Office® Ltd Security Team, who will then make the
decision on whom the issue should be escalated to for appropriate action. Any
resultant investigations will be conducted at the appropriate authority level by
individuals who possess the necessary technical and professional knowledge to
progress each specific case. In accordance with the Group “Speak Up" policy, the
P.W.L hotline will also filter and escalate any apparent non Post Office® Ltd cases
to the relevant section and contact point, some examples are suggested below.
These include worker concerns about serious malpractice, which need to be raised

via alternative business helpdesks across other areas of the RMG.

All calls and communications to the P.W.L Hotline will be answered within agreed
service level agreements with regards to answering the call and acknowledging
formally within a certain no of working days if appropriate and so requested by the
worker.

POL00423205
POL00423205

CONTACT POINTS

Employee Confidential Disclosures _ “Whistleblower”

To report a concern.

Telephone 0800 ???? ??? and choose to either speak to an operator, or
leave a voicemail message. Your call will be treated in confidence.

Alternatively leave a message using the confidential e-mail address based

service using enqui

Bullying & Harassment Helpline

A free helpline, operated by an independent company, to offer confidential advice
relating to bullying or harassment concerns, and to assist in initiating harassment
complaints.

Telephone

Security Helpdesk

To report any information about a crime relating to RMG, or for advice regarding

security.

Telephone:

Email: © GRO. -I

Corporate & Social Responsibility Helpdesk

To ask a question relating to health, social engagement, the environment, and
safety issues.

Telephone

POL00423205
POL00423205
