POL00458447
POL00458447

From: Karen McEwan{_
Sent: Fri 08/03/2024 10:40:11 AM (UTC)
To: Simon Recaldin{- cola

Marriot,
Subject: FW: Grievance Outcome and Full Report
Attachment: Grievance Investigation Report.pdf
Hi Simon

As promised on Wednesday, I attach a copy of the full report, you will be familiar with the entire
content from our conversation.
I appreciate your concerns regarding;
1. Reflecting the PDR grade as 3, and
2. How to manage the return t substantive role, both in terms of the working
relationship, and in terms of the incumbent situation.

As I mentioned, I am recommending that we ask Jo Stammers, who is extremely experienced in ER
matters, to partner you through these challenges, and to support a full review of OD across your
areas of responsibility.

By copy, @Nicola Marriott could you please arrange for Jo to connect with Simon as quickly as
possible, I am also aware that this investigation has taken some time to conclude, all for very good
reason.

Please treat the attached as private and confidential, not for onward communication with anyone
outside of this e mail.

Thanks Simon for your patience whilst the investigation has run, and for your time to discuss the
outcome on Wednesday

K

Karen McEwan
Group Chief People Officer

People Team

PASE. GRO

100 Wood Street, London, EC2V 7ER
postoffice.co.uk

From: Nicola Marriott
Sent: Saturday, February 17, 2024 12:13 PM
POL00458447
POL00458447

Outcome and Full Report

To: Karen McEwan 7
Subject: Fw: Grievanc

Hi Karen

Please find attached the grievance investigation report for 3. It is extensive in
terms of the findings given the level of allegations made, but this also summarises my
decision and recommendations.

In addition to the recommendations detailed here for your discussion with Simon, I would
also recommend:

¢ Leadership coaching particularly in relation to effective team dynamics and managing
performance

Whilst I do not believe escalation is required to the misconduct policy in relation to Simon,
the investigation does raise concerns around the effectiveness of his performance and a
number of further actions are now needed to get to the bottom of and correct issues that are
likely present within the function including ineffective OD and lack of a resourcing plan as
well as cultural issues arising from an 'us and them' mindset within the leadership team.

I was also made aware of a further issue on Friday where Simon is seemingly bringing in a
contractor through the procurement rather than HR route to avoid the HR process after the
appointment was previously not authorised.

Happy to discuss prior to you picking up with Simon.

Thanks

Nic

From: Nicola Marriott

Sent: 17 February 2024 12:05
To:
Subject: Grievance Outcome and Full Report

Hit.

As discussed on Thursday please find attached the formal grievance outcome and full
investigation report. As discussed, I am happy to arrange time to talk this through further if
necessary.

Thank you for your patience with regard to this matter.

Many Thanks
POL00458447
POL00458447

Nic
