POL00241067
POL00241067

® Information Rights Team
Post Office Limited
1* Floor
Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street
Londen.EC2Y.9AQ....
GRO I

Our reference: FOI201604010946

“Tim McCormact

xx April 2016

Dear Mr McCormack, .
Freedom of Information Request - FOI201604010946

Iam writing in response to your email received by Post Office Limited (“Post
Office”) on 1 April 2016, which I am dealing with under the terms of the Freedom of
Information Act 2000 (“FOIA”).

In your email you have requested the following information:

‘Under the Freedom of Information Act, I would like a copy of the Known Errors
Log that existed at 1st January of this year.

I can confirm that Post Office does not hold the information you have requested, we
do not recognise the terminology used. We do hold information about updates to the
Horizon system, however we believe that this information is exempt from disclosure
under Section 43(2) of the Act, concerning likely prejudice to commercial interests
and Section 31(1) (a) Law Enforcement.

Commercial Interest

Post Office considers that disclosure of information requested about updates to the
Horizon system would be likely to prejudice the commercial interests of Post Office
and other commercial partners, in that software updates for the Horizon system are
released on a regular basis to ensure that operational performance is maintained at
optimal levels, as you would expect for any large IT system. Such updates include, for
example, upgrades and improvements to functionality; and the introduction of new
business capabilities for products & services and to be commercially sensitive.

Post Office in this respect considers that disclosure of the information would weaken
its position in a competitive environment, by revealing information which could be
unfairly used by its competitors.

Law Enforcement

Post Office also relies upon the exemption under Section 31(1)(a) of the FOIA,
concerning law enforcement. Post Office considers that disclosure of this information
would be likely to inhibit its abilities to prevent and detect crime, in that software
updates for the Horizon system are released on a regular basis to ensure that
operational performance is maintained at optimal levels, as you would expect for any
large IT system. Such updates include, for example, security-related matters;
upgrades and improvements to functionality.

Depending on the nature and extent of changes they are applied in carefully managed
periodic releases, following thorough impact assessment and testing. The Post Office

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540, .
Registered Office Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London. EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited
POL00241067
POL00241067

cannot make public information that could compromise the security of its systems and
Iam unable therefore to provide you with technical details of our software updates.
Public Interest

As information has been exempted under Section 43(2) and Section 31(1)(a) of the
act, a public interest test applies. This involves weighing the balance of public interest
in maintaining the exemption or releasing the information. Post Office understands
that there is public interest in promoting the transparency and understanding of
matters which are of interest to the public. However, there is also strong public
interest in ensuring that Post Office is able to operate in a fair marketplace regarding
the commercial activities and security and also the risk to other commercial partners
and are not commercially damaged by the release of the information.

Post Office considers that, with regard to the information that has been withheld from
disclosure, the public interest is best served by maintaining the exemption respect of
the information requested.

I hope the information I have provided on this occasion is useful, however if you are
dissatisfied with the handling of this response, you do have a right to request an
internal review. You can do this by writing to the address below stating your reasons
for your internal review request.

Information Rights Manager
Post Office Limited
Information Rights Team

1% Floor

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2y.9AQ.

foiat

If, having requested an internal review by Post Office, you are still not satisfied with
our response you also have a right of appeal to the Information Commissioner at:

Information Commissioner's Office
Wycliffe House

Water Lane

Wilmslow
Cheshire
SK9 5AF
Telephone
www. inforrii

Martin Humphreys

Information Rights Team
foiat.
http://corporate.postoffice.co.uk/access-information

POL00241067
POL00241067

@postofficenews
