POL00091031
POL00091031

Message

From: lan Henderson
on behalf of — lan Henderson
Sent:

To: ; Susan Cri hton

Subject: RE: 2nd Sight Audit

Simon
This seems fine and is what we have already agreed with Janet at James Arbuthnot’s Office.
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Website: http: anc com
Linkedin: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidentia.
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at irk
delete the email and any attachments.

From: Simon Baker i
Sent: 26 July 2012 14:40
To: Alwen Lyons; Susan Crichton; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Ron Warmington; Ian Henderson; Rod Ismay
Subject: 2nd Sight Audit

All
Some questions have arisen about the process for including cases in the Second Sight review.

The underlying principle we need to bear in mind is that Post Office in no way should be involved in defining which cases
to include — it should be coordinated and agreed by the MPs who have requested the review, headed by James
Arbuthnot.

The principles I’d like to suggest are below.

e The audit will only include cases that have come through the office of James Arbuthnot.

This includes the “5S to 10 best” cases from the JFSA — they also need to come through James Arbuthnot’s
office.

e If the Post Office receive requests from SPMs for their cases to be included, they should ask to their local MP to
forward the case to James Arbuthnot’s office.

e If we receive requests from MPs we should ask them to forward their case to James Arbuthnot.

POL-0090675
POL00091031
POL00091031

e — From this list of cases from James Arbuthnot, Second Sight will then need to identity which cases to include in
their review — no more than 20, ideally 10. This allows Second Sight to select the cases which they believe will
best illuminate the issues of concern.

In terms of timescales, we would like Second Sight to start the work as soon as possible, but so far we only have 5 cases
(see list below), so my suggestion is that we keep the door open to the end of August, then draw a line under the scope.

Please let me know your thoughts. If we agree, Alwen, can you forward to James Arbuthnot’s Office for his views.

Regards, Simon

Sub Post-Master Post Office Name MP FirstName MP Surname
Alison Hall Hightown Mike Wood

Jenny O'Dell Great Staughton Jonathan Djanogly
John Dickson (blank) Alan Meale
Tracey Ann Merritt Yetminster Oliver Letwin

Jo Hamilton South Warnborough James Arbuthnot
Grand Total

Simon Baker
Programme Manager

Post Office Ltd
148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ

@ Cah all be proud of

Building a Post Office®w:

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
OHQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered
company number 02154540

POL-0090675
