POL00116057
POL00116057

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: Tue 09/07/2013 3:43:58 PM (UTC)

To: Susan Crichton;
Angela Van-De ; Martin
Edwards).
Flemingto!

Ce: Dave Hulbertt._.
Subject: FW: Actions

Slight changes below.

Lesley J Sewell
Chief Information Officer

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 09 July 2013 15:56
To: Paula Vennells;, i
Cc: Dave Hulbert ¢

Subject: Actions

ington; Susan Cricl
); Simon Baker I

Dear All

For discussion at our call at 4.

How do we manage activity going forward (Susan C):

. Assign a programme lead and internal project manager, the recommendation is that this is an external to
support the working group. Ideally someone who has had previous investigative experience to enable management
of SS. (note Simon is leaving the business shortly).

. Consider establishing an internal ring fenced working group to support the remaining Spot Reviews.

. The Branch User Group needs to be considered alongside the existing structure with the NFSP.
Recommendation/ToR and approach.

. Agree the ToR with SS for the remaining spot reviews.

. One to one meetings with interested MPs?
POL00116057

POL00116057
. Terms of Reference to be developed for the Independent review of new cases.
Immediate actions from the SS report:
Technical considerations (Lesley):
. Review the messaging and procedures when a SPMR has to deal with a communications failure — change as
appropriate.
. Review the hardware failures. Identify improvements.
. Consider a ‘suspense account’ at a branch level. Cost/process/implementation.
Process (Angela):
. Create a central repository for all SPMR cases. All 47 cases which have been raised with SS in the first instance
and then Legal cases. Review all sub post master interactions, eg P&BA, Legal, Security, NBSC.
. Review/Create process map for support of Sub post masters and change where appropriate.
. New cases: Reissue communications to the branches and agree mechanism for adding new cases to be
reviewed
. Consider an ‘outreach’ investigations support function. Cost/scale/responsibilities.
Behaviours (Angela):
. Check how we are dealing with cases and ensure we are handling delicately — how can we demonstrate that

we are improving. Angela
. Review our current training in light of the comments made in the SS report (process and behaviours).

. Interventions team — change of name?

Communications (Mark):

. Communications plan for the summer to cover BBC, and computer weekly et al.
° Communication to all MP’s who have cases.
. JA/AB

Regards Lesley

Lesley J Sewell
Chief Information Officer

POL00116057
POL00116057

J

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
