Branch Write Off Process
Proposal to write-off a branch loss could result from several scenarios.

If discrepancy is disputed by agent/operator, then the disputes process should be
followed and the agent advised to contact the Relationship Manager (RM) in the
Finance Service Centre (FSC).

FSC Relationship Manager investigates case and makes decision on whether the
discrepancy is proper to stand and whether this loss is attributable to the
agent/operator, FSC or Network. If consideration is to be sought for write off,
documentary evidence to support recommendation will be provided.

There may be occasions where Network propose write-off of a discrepancy after
completing investigations which indicate an agent should not be held responsible for
the cause of the loss. If investigations highlight the cause is outside of Network, the
case should be passed to the appropriate team within Post Office Ltd. to deal with
the case. (These cases should be minimal as majority of cases will be resolved
within FSC and Network).

With these cases, liaison with the Relationship Manager is essential to agree course
of action.

If consideration is to be given for FSC to write-off the loss:
Case forwarded to appropriate person for authorisation by proposer.
Return authorised case to Relationship Manager

Relationship Manager communicates decision to agent

Relationship Manager arranges for any necessary branch accounting procedures to
clear the loss from the branch accounts

Relationship Manager arranges for the loss to be charged to the relevant FSC.
budget

Supporting documentation retained for probity purposes.

If consideration is to be given for Network to write-off a disputed loss:

The Relationship Manager advises the agent/operator in writing that the case is
being passed to the Contract Advisor (CA) for further investigation.

The Relationship Manager forwards the case to the relevant Contract Advisor who
will review the case and make further investigations as required. If the loss relates
to Field Support Advisor (FSA) activity it will be necessary for the CA to refer the
case to the relevant BAU Area Manager (AM) for the Field Change Advisor (FCA) to
investigate.

Proposer (either CA or FCA) for write-off completes first section of ‘Write-off
Proposal’ document and the decision rationale document detailing why the
recommendation for writing off a debt partially or wholly is being made. The relevant
(branch) cost centre code will be supplied by the CA on request.

Write off Process — Revised October 2013

POL00087252
POL00087252
The documents to be completed are embedded below:

Write-off decision
rationale doc v5.xIs

Rationale document-

Write off proposal form-
fe
Write Off Proposal v
6.doc

The case is forwarded to the relevant sign off authority as shown in the section
headed Authority levels.

Authority levels:-

« < £5k— Agents Contracts Deployment Manager or BAU Regional Manager

© <£25k — Head of Network Services or Head of Network Operations

e >£25k and <£100k — General Manager Network Agency Sales, Services &
Transformation

e >£100k — would need to be referred to Finance for write off by Director

Complete write-off documentation and return to the proposer for action.

Return authorised case to Contract Advisor if passed to higher level for
authorisation who will send to Proposer and where appropriate the proposer’s line
manager.

Contract Advisor to advise the Network Services Finance Analyst by email, of the
write off decision.

Proposer returns authorised case to Relationship Manager and arranges via
Contracts Admin Team for copy to be filed on branch EFC.

der communicates decision to agent — in certain instances it may be more
appropriate for the proposer to advise the agent. This should be agreed between
the proposer and Relationship Manager e.g. where the case has been instigated by
Network. If the case is not going to be completed within 10 working days of the
escalation, due to the complexity of the case or additional time required for
verification of data, then the agent/operator should be advised accordingly in writing
by the Contract Advisor and the Relationship Manager updated.

If appropriate the Relationship Manager arranges for any necessary branch
accounting procedures to clear the loss from the branch accounts.

Relationship Manager arranges for the loss to be charged to Network budget.

Supporting documentation retained for probity purposes.

Write off Process — Revised October 2013

POL00087252
POL00087252
Branch write -off process when loss attributable to Network

appropriate.

Branch

= discrepancy

° identified that

z agent should not

o be held

= responsible for
= Follow internal prooess f = S
~ Dipue proms loss attributable to P&BA ‘Advise agent/operator of ‘Arrange for write.
= Branch see folbwed resuting ‘oF forward to CA # loss decision for escalated dispute ff to be brought File case papers
a eps hn cae attributable to Network cases, Arrange for any acct, to account against for probity
s sy mae ‘completing rationale for procedures to take place for relevant profit purposes
2 wite-of, Advise agent! alcases. cette
s ‘operator accordingly,
ry z
a
.S8
Ss » Send case to I
53 Z
Be and futher ecsion meds Forward tothe Ries sont! PaBA
Es investigations 4 relevant sign-off ‘operator of I Relationship Mgr.
a2 made required I Sissi ° ‘authority decalon I case Save copyto I
se Faved BrCAT ‘recommendation Network intiated branch EFC
38 Oy
bO
52
om

Write off Process — Revised October 2013

POL00087252
POL00087252
Branch write -off process when loss attributable to Network — authority levels

Agents Contracts Deployment
Manager or BAU Regional
Manager

Decision made

Return authorised

Finance
Analyst

Review cases up I caseto CA advise
to £5000 on waite-th NS Financia Analyst
\ of decison
rs
se Snud y =
SoSoss Return authorised
BESSE5 Review cases upI _,_<Dedkon mae, caset0 Ct ose
SoE0O0 to £25000 \< on wrteofl > fis Financial Anaya I ;
Ezorza
ee of decision
+
=
z x ——
2 Review cases over
8 4 f
re 25.000 fay caso over . Return authorised
2s Decsion made case fo CA 8 advise
S38 FAR 000 foe refered >< on vt-ff 7 NS Financial Analyst
5° Coe N77 ches

¥

Case referred to
>I Finanoe Analyst
for information

Write off Process — Revised October 2013

POL00087252
POL00087252
