Flip Charts from 6.12.2005

POL00119896
POL00119896

GAPS (1)
BIMS — no query phone number on reports

Generally — Lack of guidance on what steps need to be taken for
emerging cases.

No centralised record of queries raised by subpostmasters through
different channels.

No standard line to take with subpostmasters raising issues.

GAPS (2)

Guidance to Service Line on what to say and what not to say (about
Horizon)

Wording on Transaction Correction dialogues -> Meaning of “Make
Good” not understood by some subpostmasters. Already being
progressed separately.

Knowledge about how to get (transaction log audit trail) data from
Fujtisu.

Expertise to analyse transaction logs — branch auditor skill set +

How PO becomes aware of Potential Cases

NBSC Call

Letter to VIP -> referred to Ops Control

Late Account (former subpostmaster) } debt recovery
Disputed Correction }

Service Line

Audit -> Service Line

FOI/DPA Requests

Letter from lawyers acting on Subpostmaster’s behalf.
POL00119896
POL00119896

The Expert

Likely to be an accountant with IT knowledge (or an IT expert
working for an accountancy firm)

Possible benefit if from will-known (e.g. top 4) firm — credibility with
the court and with the other side.

Check with peter Corbett how this fits with External Audit’s existing
role:
- independence as seen by the court likely to be greater if not
from our external auditors;
- but external auditors are already responsible for assuring
integrity of accounts based on this data.

Need to raise with Fujitsu soon.

POL00119896
POL00119896

Gap Closure Requirements

1. I We need an expert explanation for the court of how the
system works and why it is well designed and constructed.
2. Internal role to analyse and report on audit trail transaction
log data:
a. Need more than 1 person for cover
b. Workload not predictable
c. Likely to be intensive (full time) work during preparation
for a case.
d. Need to understand branch transaction and accounting
e. Will need input/training from process/system designers
f. Needs to be able to communicated in plain English —
who does the analysis also needs to testify about it in
court if required.

Specific Actions

DH — to investigate BIMS process with Fujitsu (JR/MC to look at
internal issues in processes before DH takes to Fujitsu)
POL00119896
POL00119896

KB -— to write first draft (and circulate to all meeting attendees) for
a.Business policy statement on Horizon — what we say to
Subpostmasters and why — and how to recognise potential cases.

DH — to propose process for co-ordinating business response to
potential cases.

KB - to discuss need for and ToR of external expert with Fujitsu.
