POL00297915

POL00297915
From: Susan Crichton[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SUSAN CRICHTONCS5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-
BE4237A4AD4F]
Sent: Tue 23/07/2013 6:06:38 PM (UTC)
To: Martin Edwards.
‘rosie.gaisfor¢
Ce: Rodric Williams:
‘andrew.parso “J; Theresa

llesf GRO
Subject: Re: Confidential & Legally Privileged: Holding response to CCRC letter
That's fine.
Susan

From: Martin Edwards
Sent: Tuesday, July
To: Gaisford, Rosie +
Cc: Rodric Williams;
Subject: RE: Confidential &

7 ty Susan Crichton; Theresa Iles
Legally Privileged: Holding response to CCRC letter
Thanks Rosie — I think both this and the substantive response should come from Susan.

Susan — shout if you disagree!

Thanks,
Martin

From: Gaisford, Rosie [mailto:
Sent: 23 July 2013 12:47
To: Martin Edwards

Cc: Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew

Subject: Confidential & Legally Privileged: Holding response to CCRC letter
Importance: High

Martin

A letter from the CCRC dated 12 July 2013 addressed to Paula Vennells is attached above. We have drafted a
holding response to the CCRC's letter, to be sent out tomorrow morning (please see the second attachment above).
The holding response is currently in Paula's name. Are you happy for this to be sent out in Paula's name or would you
rather it was sent out in your name, Susan Crichton's name or in the name of another individual? This letter will be put
on letter-headed paper following your review.

A substantive response has also been drafted to the CCRC's letter. Once this substantive response has been
discussed with Brian Altman QC, a leading criminal barrister and former First Treasury Counsel, it will be sent out, by
the end of the week.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Kind regards
Rosie

Rosie Gaisford
Solicitor

for and on b

of Bond Dickinson LLP
POL00297915
POL00297915

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and n wvileged and protected by lay, GRO j only is authorised to
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not martin.edwards] { lease notify rosie. gaisford., Jas soon as possible and delete any
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
hich may be eaused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered

office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
