POL00302459
POL00302459

From: McInnes Tim (ShEx:
Sent: Thur 27/02/2014
To: Mark R Davies\..

Ce: Callard Richard (ShEx), GRO ~y; Martin
Edwards

Subject: RE: Public Purpose Doc etc

Mark

Apologies if I came across as a little curt but at our side we had always understood "shortly" as being a calendar Q1 statement.
That said we do understand the sensitivities around Horizon and that we need to look at things holistically (i.e. that there's no
value to anyone in POL making an announcement just for the sake of making an announcement).

Let's catch up next week.
Thanks,
Tim

Tim Mcinnes I Shareholder Executive I Department for Business, Innovation & Skills I T: f
www.bis.gov.uk I

See our latest annual review: www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive
The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher skills across the
economy.

BIS: working together for growth

From: Mark R Davies
Sent: 27 February 2014 18:29
To: McInnes Tim (ShEx)
Ce: Callard Richard (ShEx); Martin Edwards
Subject: Re: Public Purpose Doc etc

Hi Tim

I think that's a little unfair to be honest and I'd like for us to try to engage in ways more fitting with
mutual ways of working!!

This isn't a delay of any kind - far from it.
The minister's announcement was "shortly".

We can publish milestones around POAc which starts its work a full quarter ahead of schedule in
March.

But I'm not going to risk that announcement or the milestones being damaged by adverse publicity
around Horizon. I don't think that is anyone's interests.

On public purpose we need to get it agreed here first but also we don't want to throw such a massive
POL00302459

POL00302459

piece of work away with a quick and dirty announcement: instead we are planning a 12 month campaign
around communities which ministers will love.

We didn't fix on timings when we spoke but don't misinterpret what I am saying in any way other than
what it is - strategic assessment of timings: not delay. I'm not sure what the backs and forths you refer
to were.

I have have asked Tracy to set up a meeting. We've got a big week next week but I will find some time.

Best wishes

Mark

Sent from my iPhone

On 27 Feb 2014, at 18:13, "McInnes Tim (ShEx)

Mark,

Thanks. Let's lock something in the diary for next week / week after to talk timing, draft purpose wording
and the milestone release.

We did discuss only a few weeks ago that something would be coming out in March / April and that this
was in line with what Jo announced in November, what she was expecting and what she briefed Jenny
on. The emails today are the first I have seen around anything different although clearly I understand the
sensitivities around Horizon and the need to look at this holistically.

Given the backs and forths around this before Christmas if we are looking at something delayed I think
we will need to start managing expectations.

Thanks,
Tim

Tim McInnes I Shareholder Executive I Department for Business, Innovation & Skills I T:
71 www.bis.gov.uk I

See our latest annual review: www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive
The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth
and higher skills across the economy.

BIS: working together for growth

From: Mark R Davies; GRO i
Sent: 27 February 2014 16:01

To: McInnes Tim (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx)

Ce: Martin Edwards

Subject: RE: Public Purpose Doc etc

Hi again
POL00302459

POL00302459

Copying Tracy to work out a time to meet: just to flag, we have our second set of teamtalk
live events next week (quarterly across the business, listening and learning) as part of the
new framework so I am off to Bolton and a little constrained re timings.

I think things are more (and must be so) flexible than you set out below.

POAC launches on March 19"*, which is a very big moment and a very strong piece of work:
Richard will no doubt update you membership but it is extremely positive.

But I don’t want to launch the milestones or purpose until April at earliest as we need to
navigate the Horizon meeting with MPs on march 24". This has high potential for

reputational risk/media coverage.

The public purpose needs to go back to the Board next: I’Il keep you in the loop and let’s try
to meet next week.

M

Mark Davies I Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
<image001.png>

From: McInnes Tim (ShEx) [mail

Sent: 27 February 2014 15:54

To: Callard Richard (ShEx); Mark R Davies
Cc: Martin Edwards

Subject: Re: Public Purpose Doc etc

Mark,

Clearly I've not seen anything but I would be keen to catch up on this fairly soon. I flagged
to Martin last week that we were overdue a session and he indicated you would be coming
to me with availability.

I will speak to Richard on timings but I understood from our conversation last month that
this would accompany the milestones, and that both would be published in March. That
would be in line with what we all agreed with Jo and is the meaning behind what we
drafted for her to say in the HoC in November.

I'm flexible re. availability.

Thanks,

Tim
POL00302459
POL00302459

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Sent: Thursday, February 27, 2014 03:40 PM
To: ‘Mark R Davies' {7
Cc: McInnes Tim (ShEx)
Subject: Public Purpose Doc etc

Hi Mark (cc Tim, who I haven't yet shared this with and who may well have views)

Following yesterday's Board I thought I would jot down a few thoughts on the public purpose
doc. I have not commented on the draft itself as it sounded like others will be covering
that, but I am coming at this very much from the point of view that the public purpose
document is a step along the path towards mutualisation. As mentioned, this is going to be
quite a focus for ministers going forward.

Thoughts are:

* Publication - I take your point in the paper about not wanting the rollout of this to
collide with other areas. However, ministers are keen to see momentum on this and
on that basis would probably want something to come out sooner rather than later,
and the Annual Accounts in June(?) might be a bit late. I suppose we could show
ministers the public purpose doc once finished, and explain its belated release, but I
would have thought they'd want to show progress publicly.

* Monitoring - I am reasonably agnostic about whether the Board or the ARC
monitors the metrics related to the public purpose. That said, it would probably send
amore powerful message if it was the former rather than the latter, and if it was
indeed the latter then I would expect that the ARC would onward report to the Board.
* Mutualisation pledge - I initially wondered whether the documents' pledges should
finish with a final bullet about POL pledging to make progress towards mutualisation.
I think this would earn quite a lot of credit with ministers, buy you some breathing
space, and come at minimal cost to some extent. Having heard the discussions at
the Board, I still think this is true to some extent, but also accept that this is very
much about the public purpose and not mutualisation per se (even though one is a
prelude to the other). Nevertheless, perhaps something to gather views on?

* Building relationships based on trust - we are keen that POL begins to move
towards a more mutual culture before it becomes a mutual. Does this point about
trust also relate to the way POL treats its staff (its hard to tell from the measures on
this in Annex 4 whether "engagement data/tools" would include staff or not. A mutual
has to obviously include its staff so it would seem reasonably sensible to go down this
route.

Anyway, happy to discuss, and I echo the Board's view about how good the make up of the
POAC looks.

See you soon no doubt, cheers

R

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office Limited and Green Investment
Bank Shareholder Teams I Shareholder Executive

BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

POL00302459
POL00302459

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by
supporting sustained growth and higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together
for growth

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or
recorded for legal purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are
solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148
OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or
recorded for legal purposes.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for
legal purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
POL00302459
POL00302459

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes

