POL00423409

POL00423409
I
I
Strictly Confidential I
POLARC 17(4'")
POL ARC 17/43 — 17/62 I
I
POST OFFICE LIMITED I
(Company no. 2154540) I
(the ‘Company') I
Minutes of a meeting of the AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE I
held at 10.00 am on 18" May 2017 at 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ I
i
I
Present: i
Carla Stent Chair }
Richard Callard Non-Executive Director (RC)
Tim Franklin Non-Executive Director (TF) I
Ken McCall Non-Executive Director (KMC) I
In attendance:
Alisdair Cameron Chief Finance and Operating Officer (CFOO)
Jane MacLeod General Counsel (GC) I
Nick Kennett Chief Executive Financial Services and Telecommunications and I
CEO of POMS (NK) I
Alwen Lyons Company Secretary (CoSec) t
Amanda Radford Group Financial Controller (AR)
Johann Appel Senior Manager Internal Audit (JA)
Richard Williams Senior Manager Risk (RW)
Peter Mclver Audit Partner, Ernst & Young (PMI)
Claire Johnson Senior Quality Leader, Ernst & Young (CJ)
Amanda Bowe POMS ARC Chairman (AB) (Minute POLARC 17/45)
Deana Herley Senior Assurance Manager (DH) (Minute POLARC 17/47-49)
Rob Houghton Chief Information Officer (RH) (Minute POLARC 17/50)
Sharon Gilkes Business Performance and IT Transformation Director (SG)
(Minute POLARC 17/50)
Sally Smith Head of Financial Crime (SS) (Minute POLARC 17/52)

Apologies for absence:

Paula Vennells Chief Executive Officer (CEO)

POLARC 17/43 WELCOME AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

(a) A quorum being present, the Chair opened the meeting. The
directors declared that they had no conflicts of interest in the I
matters to be considered at the meeting in accordance with the
requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and the
Company's articles of association.

POLARC 17/44 MINUTES OF THE MEETING HELD ON 28™ MARCH 2017,

MATTERS ARISING AND ACTIONS LIST

(a) The minutes of the meeting held on 28" March 2017 were
approved as presented and the Chair of the committee was
authorised to sign them as a true record.

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 4

POL-BSFF-0238224
(b)

Strictly Confidential

The Committee noted the updated actions list.

POLARC 17/45 POMS ARC REPORT

(a)

(b)

(c)

ACTION: NK

(d)

(e)

ACTION: JH

(9)

(h)

POL ARC, 18 May 2017

POMS ARC Report
The Committee received a verbal report from Amanda Bowe,

POMS ARC Chairman following the POMS ARC meeting held
on 16 May 2017.

AB reported that good progress had been made to embed the
POMS risk framework, but highlighted two areas of concern:

1. Potential risk of non-compliance in the branch network
following mystery shopping undertaken by the POMS
compliance team; and

2. the lack of MI available to enable POMS to oversee POL
as their Appointed Representative.

AB recognised that plans were in place to rectify both issues.

The ARC asked for more detail on the mystery shopping results
and AB explained that issues had arisen with the sale of life
insurance and despite recent training the mystery shopper had
not been provided with all the necessary information. NK
stressed that there had been no customer detriment and that
the video mystery shopping had been a very small sample, but
that the exercise had highlighted a need to revisit and test the
training provided. AB promised the POL ARC more detail
once the internal audit had been completed.

The second concern regarding MI was in development and
initiatives such as EUM and SuccessFactors later in the year
would assist.

AB explained that the POMS ARC had a good framework in
place for assurance activity, with routine updates and a deep
dive later in the year.

The POMS ARC had received an interim paper on vulnerable
customers and had agreed the high level principles although
acknowledged that more work was need to embed them. The
ARC asked how vulnerable customers were being identified and
how staff were being trained. It was noted that Jonathan Hill
would report to the RCC in July and the ARC in September
on POL’s proposed approach to vulnerable customers.

AB reported that EY had attended the POMS ARC meeting to
report on the POMS audit and to ratify the interim profit. No
adverse issues had arisen and at the private meeting the
auditors had provided a positive report on the POMS processes
and management capability.

AB reported that Susie Hayward, POMS Head of Risk and
Compliance had resigned and although AB was sorry to see her
leave recruitment had commenced to replace her.

POL00423409
POL00423409

POL-BSFF-0238224_0001
POL00423409
POL00423409

Strictly Confidential

(i) NK reported the regulatory developments of the Insurance
Distribution Directive and the Senior Manager Regime for
Insurance and noted that the POMS ARC received an hours
training before each meeting to keep them updated.

The ARC requested future training on regulatory i

ACTION: JM developments and specifically asked for a list of all the
material regulators and regulations which affected POMS
and POL.

(0) The Committee noted the report from the POMS ARC
Chairman.

POLARC 17/46 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016/17 (ARA)

(a) The Committee received a report from Alisdair Cameron, CFOO I
and Amanda Radford, Financial Controller.

ARA Covering Note
(b) AR presented the draft financial statement section of the ARA,

which had been prepared ready for signing at the end of July
assuming that
1. confirmation of investment funding is received from
BEIS by the end of June
2. the EY audit procedures are complete, and
3. the legal review of control accounts in POLSAP by
Deloitte is finalised.

Financial Statements

(c) The Committee reviewed the Financial Statements and
Accounts in respect of Post Office Limited for the year ending
26" March 2017. The ARA had been prepared on a basis
consistent with prior years with the following exceptions:

4. Impairment of fixed_assets. The Financial Statements
were presented with a change to the treatment of fixed
assets moving to an impairment basis. This may have to
be reversed if we cannot see our way to commercial
sustainability post the Funding settlement.

2. Accounting for FRES. The accounting treatment for
FRES had been changed to move to use equity
accounting in joint ventures. This meant that the
Company and Group were now aligned. (supported by
EY)

3. Closure of the defined benefits pension scheme. With
the closure of the DB scheme the net pension asset of
£210m (which under accounting rules had been
revaluated from £193m) had been removed from the
balance sheet.

AR explained that there had been some debate with EY
about the discount rate to be used to value the pension
scheme asset. EY believed that the discount rate used
was at the prudent end of the range, however in the
round were content to support it.

The ARC supported this prudent approach.

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 3 I

POL-BSFF-0238224_0002
POL00423409
POL00423409

Strictly Confidential

(d) Work had been undertaken to verify the existence and value of
the fixed assets included on the balance sheet. This was now
being audited by EY. The controls over the revalued assets
were being reviewed as part of the Financial Controls
Framework.

(e) The consolidated income statement, page 6 of the Financial
Statements shows an EBITDAS of £13m compared with a
restated loss of (£17m) in 2016, and includes amongst other
things; the discontinued Cash in Transit business; the effect of
the pension closure; and the strong underlying trading
improvement.

The ARC thanked AR for the detailed presentation and
ACTION: CFOO stressed the need to explain the changes in the front end
ARA narrative.

(f) The ARC asked for comfort on the accuracy of the £42m
Postmaster Compensation provision. The CFOO explained that
the quantum of the provision had reduced significantly as the
Network Transformation programme draws to a close. We were
comfortable with the size of the provision which was intended to
be a prudent but realistic amount based on the likely branch
numbers and closure dates, with changes to the branches in the
programme inevitably changing the compensation paid. EY had
checked the accuracy of the calculations and had not
discovered any issues, but would continue to reconcile the
actual payments and the provisions made. However, they had
not completed their work and could reach a different judgement
on the provision at year-end.

(g) AR explained the Quality of Earnings calculation and the year
on year improvement in EBITDAS, excluding one-offs, of £35m.

Ernst and Young (EY) External Audit Risk Results

(h) The Committee reviewed the preliminary audit results report
which summarised the findings from EY audit of Post Office
Limited’s financial position and operations for the 52 week
period ended 26" March 2017.

(i) EY explained that the audit report was as advanced as it could
be at this stage and subject to finalisation of the outstanding
areas it was anticipated that EY would issue an unqualified audit
opinion. Specifically:

1. The revenue recognition work was completed
satisfactorily

2. The layout and classification of the P&L account were
agreed

3. Accounting treatment for Pension; FRES; discontinued
Retail Cash in Transit Business; Sparrow litigation;
Postmaster compensation; POMS; Goodwill and Fixed
Asset impairment were all satisfactory subject to the
areas already reported to the ARC i}

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 4

POL-BSFF-0238224_0003
POL00423409
POL00423409

I
I

Strictly Confidential

(i) EY would continue to monitor the contingent liability disclosures
nearer to the date of signing the ARA.

ACTION: JM The ARC discussed the Postmaster.Litigation and JM was
asked to circulate a note to update the ARC on the funding
of the Postmasters’ action. I

(k) EY recognised the progress made to improve the financial
control environment. More work would be done to check the
Joiners, Movers and Leavers data and manager access.

() The Committee noted the progress and findings from the EY
report.

(m) The Chair explained that the papers covering; Top Risks;
Executive Declaration; and Principle risks for the ARA would be
taken next and considered as part of the ARA discussion.

POLARC 17/47 TOP RISKS

(a) JM introduced the top risks and explained the changes made
since the January report. The risks had been grouped into risk
universe categories which were now aligned to the placemat
work, and were cross referenced to any risks highlighted in the
executive declarations.

(b) A few risks had been downgraded including Royal Mail
Alignment because of the closer working relationship with RMG
including engagement with RMG through the CEOs. However a
new RMG Industrial Action risk had now been added to the
register.

(c) The ARC discussed the IA risk and its effect on Post Office. JM
advised the Committee that contingency planning was already
underway for any RMG strike action.

(d) The ARC challenged the consistency in reducing the IT delivery
risk whilst IT delivery capability remained a disclosable risk in
the ARA. The ARC asked the Executive to consider the IT
risk scoring again as despite the reduction in IR35

ACTION: RH implications there were still challenges to the delivery of
the IT transformation.

(e) The ARC discussed the reduction in the people capability risk. I

The CFOO explained the good track record on recent hires I

which had enhanced the people capability of the business. I

There had been debate at GE over the impact of cost reductions

with an outcome that whilst individual situations might arise as

a consequence, the overall risk was not extreme. There was

now much better capability in the IT function, however if the

ARC felt the reassessment was premature the Executive

ACTION: MK would reconsider the people capability risk score to see if
the change was justified.

(f) The Committee noted the report.

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 5

POL-BSFF-0238224_0004
Strictly Confidential

POLARC 17/48 EXECUTIVE DECLARATION

(a)

(b)

(c)

DH introduced the Executive Declaration paper and explained
the results and the 15 items which had been considered
appropriate to disclose in the ARA. The ARC challenged
whether more of the detail of the 58 disclosures which had been
omitted from the report should have been presented to the ARC.

DH assured the ARC that 27 of the disclosures had been shared
with the Financial Controller to understand if they required any
accounting adjustment, and 31 of the disclosures were not
considered to be material or were sufficiently addressed by
other generic disclosures.

The Committee agreed the approach to disclosure as set out in
the report, and noted the items to be disclosed.

POLARC 17/49 PRINCIPAL RISKS.FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

JM explained that the Top risks and Executive Declarations fed
into the disclosures in the risk section in the ARA, but that the
less material risks were still visible to the Executive.

The Chairman asked it the ARC was comfortable with the 15
tisk which had been identified from the executive declarations
and their cross reference to the 7 principle risks for the ARA.

The ARC asked if the HMRC fine should be disclosed in the
ARA, JM reported that it would not be disclosed by HMRC. The
CFOO explained that the Executive acknowledged that the
inaccurate registration was an error which should not have
happened but this was a historical problem, reflected over and
under registration, the remedial action was now in place and this
fine although significant was not considered a material amount
for disclosure.

The Committee approved the draft principal risks, as set out in
Appendix 1 to the report, for inclusion in the Annual Report
and Accounts 2016/17.

DH left the meeting.

POLARC 17/50 IT CONTROLS UPDATE

(a)

(b)

POL ARC, 18 May 2017

Rob Houghton, ClO, and Sharon Gilkes, Business Performance
and IT Transformation Director joined the meeting.

The Chairman recognised the good progress being made and
asked RH to give and update on the recent Ransomware Cyber
Attack, and the internal audit report on access controls.

RH explained that the Post Office had not seen any evidence of
the Ransomware attack compromising the IT systems. The
investment to replace all the admin laptops a year ago had been

POL00423409
POL00423409

POL-BSFF-0238224 0005 _
POL00423409
POL00423409

Strictly Confidential

(c) key as the new machines had high protection against viruses,
which would have caught the attack if it had reached Post Office.

(d) Over the weekend the IT security team had upped the spam filter
for incoming mail and made sure that any vulnerable parts of the
operation were not connected to the network.

(e) Contact had also been made to IT suppliers to ensure that they I
were safe. The in-branch SSK and AEI machines which run on }
older software had been checked and were OK.

(f) HR reported that the business does use some XP software but
that this was ring-fenced behind a fire wall, these machines
would be patched over time but they were not a threat to the
wider business.

(g) I Areport had been sent to BEIS to update them on the position
and provide details and contact numbers for IT and Business
Continuity.

(h) The ARC thanked RH and his team for the work to date. RH was '
pleased with the position but would be more comfortable when '
the ITSOC (IT security centre) was completely operational.

(i) INTERNAL AUDIT — JOINERS, LEAVERS AND MOVERS
JA introduced the report of the internal audit carried out on the
26" April to test access management and Joiners, Movers and
Leavers (JML) processes. The audit had found that there was;
no overall process or ownership for JML; no system and data
owner; and no access management process. The ARC were
very concerned about the findings of the audit report.

(i) JM explained that she had taken over responsibility for setting
up the oversight for JML with involvement from HR, HR
Operations and IT. The ARC thanked JM for taking on the
coordination role but queried whether delivery should be owned
by one individual who had complete dependencies on other
functions; no matter how well understood and managed.

It was agreed that this would be monitored and if issues
ACTION: JM arose and remained unresolved JM would advise the ARC
Chair.

(k) JM recognised that the actions highlighted in the internal audit
report needed to be addressed urgently to ensure the HR data
is correct.

It was stressed that a similar issue had been raised at the

ACTION: JA ARC three years ago and the Committee asked JA to I
investigate who had taken ownership of the issue at that I
time, and why it had not been put right. I

()) The ARC were very concerned with Leavers still having access I
to the system. RH reported that removing Leavers from the

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 7

POL-BSFF-0238224_0006
POL00423409
POL00423409

Strictly Confidential

system was straightforward if the information processes were in
place.

(m) The ARC asked if the Executive were comfortable that the
payroll was accurate and that Leavers were not receiving
inappropriate pay. EY assured the ARC that their payroll
audit tests had not shown any problems but that they would I

ACTION: EY go back and check again to give assurance. I

The ARC asked the CFOO to brief the CEO on the
discussion and the urgency of the situation and asked the
CFOO and the CEO to be ready to discuss at the Board on
ACTION: CFOO the 25" May.
(n) The Committee noted the report.

(0) RH and SG left the meeting.

POLARC 17/51 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTROLS

(a) The Committee thanked AR and EY for their work on the
financial controls.

(b) EY explained that they were investigating one area of the
Journal Controls in POLSAP which they did not at this point
think was a material risk to the results. An update would be
provided when the situation was clear.

(d) The Committee noted the report.
POLARC 17/52 FINANCIAL CRIME RISK UPDATE

(a) The Committee received a report from Sally Smith, Head of
Financial Crime. I

(b) SS explained the work undertaken with HMRC to deliver the
action plan which was in place. AML training was underway with
branch training starting 10 days ago.

(c) There was no further news on the HMRC AML penalty or the 4"
AML directive, but the meetings with HMRC were positive. The
ARC asked if SS was getting the support that she needed from
the business and SS assured the ARC that she was.

(d) Product Risk assessments were broadly on plan, with work on
Drop & Go nearing completion and good progress on
MoneyGram and Giftcards. Work was underway on Bureau de
Change to articulate the risks and understand the actions
required.

(e) HMRC had flagged that it proposed to review bill payments later I
in the year. SS advised that work was underway with the legal
team to review the legal and regulatory framework around bill
payments to determine the extent of POL’s responsibilities.

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 8

I
POL-BSFF-0238224_0007
POL00423409
POL00423409

Strictly Confidential

(f) The ARC asked about the AML training completion rates. SS
explained the flaws in the original HR data which had now been: ai
cleansed but still included people on long term sick or maternity
leave. However the completion rates had significantly improved.

(9) JM acknowledged that the accuracy of HR data had been an
issue and migration to SuccessFactors involved a cleanse, and
would therefore resolve many of these issues.

The ARC asked for the plan to cleanse the HR data to be
ACTION: MK presented by the HR Director at the next ARC, and to return
to update the ARC at every following alternate meeting.

(h) SS assured the ARC that all the risk assessments were due by
the end of May.

(i) The Committee noted the report.
(i) SS left the meeting. I
POLARC 17/53 FINANCIAL SERVICES CONDUCT RISK UPDATE

(a) I The Committee noted the report.

POLARC 17/54 SAFETY
(a) I The Committee noted the report.
POLARC 17/55 TRANSFORMATION — CHANGE RISK UPDATE

(a) I The Committee noted the report.

POLARC 17/56 TAX UPDATE

(a) I The Committee received the interim tax update from the CFOO
who explained the main areas of taxation which effect the
Company:

¢ Value Added Tax
« Corporation Tax, and
e Employment taxes/PAYE

(b) The CFOO reported the partial VAT exemption from HMRC and
the advisory relationship with KPMG for VAT advice. KPMG.
believe that the partial exemption was secure but the CFOO
recognised the need to keep close to HMRC on VAT.

I
(c) AR explained that as the Company moved to a position of I
profitability more focus would need to be given to Corporation
Tax and the treatment of Research & Development spend. AR
reported the activity to recruit a tax generalist to be responsible
for all areas with the ongoing external support for specialist
advice.
I
I

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 9

POL-BSFF-0238224_0008
POL00423409
POL00423409

Strictly Confidential

The CFOO. reminded the ARC that a Tax strategy paper was

ACTION: CFOO due at the November ARC meeting, which would include
any outstanding. HMRC issues, the response to the tax
internal audit, and tax planning as the Company moves into
profit.

(d) I The ARC discussed the possible change of emphasis away from
EBITDAS, when the Government investment funding is in place,
and the Company moves into profit. The CFOO proposed that
at this point the Board should consider moving to profit after tax
as the primary scorecard measure.

(e) I The Committee noted the report and understood that a further
update would be provided at the November meeting.

POLARC 17/57 INTERNAL AUDIT REPORT

(a) The Committee received a report from Johann Appel, Senior
Manager Internal Audit.

(6) — The Chairman noted that at the previous meeting JA had flagged
there would be approximately 9 IA reports to table at this
meeting and queried why this was not the case. JA explained
that he had started with a back log in the plan but that all the
internal audits for 2016/17 had now been completed with reports
in final draft. Final reports would be available in the next 2
weeks.

(c) The ARC asked for assurance that management were not
prevaricating or negotiating away the action points. JA assured
the ARC that this was not the case.

The ARC asked JA to introduce SLAs for Al reports:
¢ 10 working days following fieldwork to complete and
ACTION: JA issue the draft report to management; and
¢ 10 working days for management to respond.

The IA process should set out how reports would be
provided, and the timings for response. The GE member
responsible should see the initial draft report, and be
ACTION: JA involved in ensuring that managers respond with the
agreed timescale.
(d) I The Committee noted the Internal Audit Report.
RISK UPDATE

POLARC 17/58 SUPPLY CHAIN PILOT OF THE PLACEMAT

(a) The Committee noted the report which would presented at the
next ARC.

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 10

POL-BSFF-0238224_ 0009
POL00423409
POL00423409

Strictly Confidential

POLARC 17/59 BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANNING

(a) The Committee noted the business continuity and crisis
management update.

DECISION PAPERS
POLARC 17/60 MODERN SLAVERY ACT STATEMENT I

(a) The Committee received a report in the name of Martin Kirke,
Group HR Director, presented by JM.

(b) The ARC asked where the modern slavery risk existed in the
Business. JM explained that there was potential for risk in the
postmaster network, but that the statement provided a
proportionate response to the legislation.

(c) The ARC challenged the passive nature of the statement and
asked whether the business should be doing more, especially
with regards to postmasters’ assistants.

The ARC asked for a note on the number of Postmaster
ACTION: JM/MK contracts which had been amended to take into account the
modern slavery act.

The ARC supported the statement but asked for feedback }
ACTION: JM/MK on how the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act were I
being deployed in the business

(d) The Committee recommended the 2017/18 Modern Slavery Act
Statement to the Board for approval and endorsed the actions
set out in the report with the addition of those actions raised by
the ARC.

NOTING PAPERS
POLARC 17/61 WHISTLEBLOWING REPORT

(a) JM presented the Whistleblowing (WB) report and explained
that 4 specific WB reports had been received since March 2016.
She acknowledged that this was a very low number of WB I
incidents and explained that individuals used other processes
to register issues, and this data was not captured as WB. A
communication had also been sent out to advertise the help line.

(b) The ARC asked if postmasters’ assistants had access to the WB
helpline, and although they do not have access to WB they can
use the Grapevine help line to report. JM reported that 2 recent
incidents were registered by postmaster assistants on
Grapevine, which gave some comfort that the process was
recognised by postmasters’ assistants.

(c) The ARC recognised that 4 incidents was very low but accepted

that the Executive were doing all the right things to promote the
support.

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 11

POL-BSFF-0238224_0010
POL00423409
POL00423409

Strictly Confidential

(d) The Committee noted the report.

POLARC 17/62 ANY OTHER BUSINESS

(a) There being no further business the Chair closed the meeting at
13.05pm.

[2017

POL ARC, 18 May 2017 12

POL-BSFF-0238224_0011
