POL00115879
POLO00115879

Briefing for Paula / James Arbuthnot call

KEY OBJECTIVES FOR CALL
JA to write to 2nd Sight confirming a clearer terms of reference for the review:
i. First stage process looking at 3 MP cases to report by summer recess

ii. Second (and final) stage reporting by end October — this will encompass all existing MP cases
which have sufficient evidence for 2" Sight to investigate (so excludes 15 cases)

iii. No new cases to be added to the review — we will take these forward as part of new review
process, personally overseen by Company Secretary

iv. Primary focus of review needs to be on investigating whether there are any systemic issues with
Horizon. Post Office will respond to wider process improvements, but there can be no confusion
between the two issues in the final conclusions.

SPEAKING NOTES

Introductory poi:
e Thank you for agreeing to the call, especially so soon after you return from Defence Committee business.

e I thought it would be good for us to touch base about the review and ensure we have the same opinion
on how to bring it to a conclusion. I know we share the same aims and I want to reiterate the Post
Office's commitment to this process. I am grateful to you for the way you have supported it, and for
making this clear.

e As you know Alice and I are very keen to ensure that this independent review gets to the truth about the
allegations raised against Horizon. If there are systemic issues with the system then we will of course
take steps to address them.

e We, like you, want this review be finished in such a way that we can quickly respond to any findings.

e It has taken longer than either of us thought and we always have to have a regard to the best use of
public money.

The current situation and proposed way forwards:

e Key issue is that to ensure the review process is brought to a satisfactory conclusion 2nd Sight need
greater clarity over the scope of the review in terms of: i) the number of cases; and ii) the primary
issues under investigation (systemic Horizon failures vs wider process improvements).

i) Clarifying the scope of the review of terms of number of cases

e As you will be aware, Second Sight currently have 29 MP cases and 20 cases leading to 27 spot reviews
(themes from JFSA)

e We understand that you have suggested they focus on 3 of these MP cases to bring them to conclusion
including a report before the summer recess. I think this is an excellent idea.

* However, from our discussions with 2" Sight it would appear that they are waiting for a clear
confirmation from you that this is the approach you want them to take (rather than a more open-ended
review designed to keep the JFSA on board). Please can you write again to confirm this approach?

Strictly Private and Confidential; Subject to Legal Privilege 10f3
POL00115879
POLO00115879

© The other existing MPs cases could still be reviewed by 2" Sight where they believe there is sufficient
evidence. They say they could complete this work and produce a final written report by the end of
October. However, they have also indicated that around half of the 29 MP cases do not have enough
evidence for them to take forwards as part of their investigation. [NB 2" Sight haven’t told James this
yet so it will be somewhat unwelcome news.]

e  Toenable a final report by October we need to stop new cases coming into the review or we will never
finish. New cases are still being submitted - 2 more this week. I would therefore suggest we need a
different process for new cases coming forward.

¢ We already have a review process in the Business and I think we need to incorporate the new cases into
this process but with my personal assurance James that there will be a new senior management
oversight. I would suggest cases come into our Company Secretary who will give them this rigorous
oversight. We would communicate with MPs as we assess each case.

ii) Clarifying the primary issues under investigation

e The other point it would be helpful for you to reiterate with 2m Sight is that, first and foremost, their
review needs to focus on whether there are any systemic issues with the Horizon system itself.

* Through the review process 2" Sight have of course identified a wider set of process improvements.
While this goes beyond the scope of the original enquiry, we are grateful for the feedback. I can assure
you we are already responding to these issues as they arise. If you would be interested I can ask my
team to brief you separately on this — there will be a package of measures we wish to take to improve
training and processes.

¢ I understand that 2" Sight may want to make reference to these process improvements in their final
report. We are not particularly comfortable with this, but if you agree they should cover such issues
there needs to be absolutely clarity that these are distinct from questions around the integrity of the
Horizon system itself - otherwise it could lead to confusion and misleading media headlines, to the
detriment of public and sub-postmaster confidence.

JFSA handlin,

1am of course hoping that the review will find no systemic problems with Horizon but I know we need to
a build relationship with JFSA and Alan Bates. My thoughts are that he would be good person to have on
a Horizon User Forum which might meet quarterly and help raise issues to the business.

e Can I suggest that I ask Alwen to contact Janet to organise a meeting after recess so that we could
discuss this point further? It would also be good to consider the other stakeholders for the review and
how they are likely to respond to any report.

Summing-up

* The proposed approach would mean we get (a) findings on the three selected MP cases by summer
recess; and (b) a full report on all the cases it is possible to consider by the end of October

* This seems to me to be a good way forward. You will appreciate that we do need a cut off. With a
business as complex as that of the Post Office there will always be cases, whether caused by systems or
processes, where questions are raised. This is a vast business dealing with almost 20 million
transactions/customers every week.

¢ It is right that we take steps to investigate such cases. We do so thoroughly and I can assure you that we
would continue to do so as business as usual. These issues are very important to us.

Strictly Private and Confidential; Subject to Legal Privilege 20f3
BACKGROUND: STAKEHOLDER GRID (NOT FOR JAMES AT THIS STAGE)

Stakeholder Response Recommended approach

MPs May not be satisfied that their __ I Meeting with each MP, 2 Sight/ or 2”
cases were not included in the Sight and Post Office to take them
review through the details of their case.

Note: not all cases have provided enough
detail to enable a thorough review,
however we could talk about findings in
similar cases

JFSA JFSA may respond negatively and I Maybe we have to accept that no matter
could withdraw support. They what we do they will not be happy unless
could take their views to the systemic issues are found, nonetheless I
media. would like to see if we can positively

engage with JFSA:

Post Office could invite JFSA to become
part of a Horizon user group.

We could ask JFSA on an on-going basis to
help us identify which new cases warrant
further investigation as sub postmasters
report issues in the future., although this
would not be through 2” Sight.

Media Any findings will generate media I We should work together to ensure our
interest, we have to be prepared I communication messages are aligned and
with our proactive messages reflect the good work that has gone into
before the report is published this investigation.

Strictly Private and Confidential; Subject to Legal Privilege 30f3

POL00115879
POLO00115879
