POL00126836

POL00126836
®
Objectives April 2013 — March 2014
Dave Posnett — Security Programme Manager, Security Operations
Timescales

1 Fraud Activity Return On Investment (ROI) Target achieved by 31
Evidence activity that produces recovery rates on closed enquiries of 65% or March 2014
more (subject to quarterly review). .

« Personal efforts to identify assets; searches, supporting on Retain annual Fl
operational enquiries, intelligence checks, POCA powers accreditation from POCC
(production, restraint, confiscation). Risks and issues

e Fl engagement; Security Manager FES completion, 48 hour A
reporting, financial intelligence checks (POL208, equifax, etc), escalated as appropriate
offender reports, taped summaries, legal memos — level of
engagement throughout the life of a case.

« Any other avenues explored to ensure that all necessary activity is
delivered to recover stolen funds.

2 I Reconsideration Cases (Cold Case Reviews) Evidence of business
Establish process for re-examination of archived FI cases and instigate benefits achieved
reconsideration activities. (recoveries)

e — Identify historical case where nominal order was awarded by the
crown court. Establish mechanics and

e Conduct fresh enquiries into available assets across spectrum of protocols for cases by
open/closed intelligence sources. August 2013

e Where applicable apply to the court for reconsideration and
progress case accordingly ... where not applicable identify other Commence and then
historical case (at least 3 attempts). conclude case by 31

March 2014

3 I Expand Geographical Remit To Genuine National Status
Demonstrate efforts to expand FI remits into all areas of the UK, so activities
are not restricted to only England & Wales.

¢ Ensure Part 4 accreditation powers are obtained re Northern Ireland I Accreditation obtained by
and demonstrate that these powers are utilised/used to evidence August 2013
attempted/actual recoveries.

¢ Explore workaround solution to utilising production, restraint and Solution in place by
confiscation powers in Scotland and demonstrate that these powers I August 2013
are utilised/used to evidence attempted/actual recoveries.

¢  Ascertain and implement process to acquire Land Registry data re I LR processes agreed &
Northern Ireland and Scotland, to support smoother approach to implemented — added to
asset identification/confiscation. FI spreadsheet

4 I Behaviours Line management

Actively contribute to the Post Office vision and story, demonstrate Post Office
values and Security behaviours and support business and Security
requirements and culture.

e Inter strand activity support

¢ Actively support the strand and wider team to meet budget out-turn
for Network and Supply Chain external crime incidences of £762K
and £460K respectively.

* Crown Office cover as required.

feedback

Evidence of branch visits
and engagement

Demonstrate other, wider
activities re supporting
Crowns and Network

POL00126836
POL00126836

Objectives April 2013 — March 2014

e Pair up with a Crown Office and/or other type of branch and
evidence an engaging approach on behalf of the Security team.

¢ Make contact with a local crown or other branch, arrange visit and
introductions, instigating regular contacts and visits thereafter, to
ensure branch is okay and that there is 2 way communication for
resolving security issues.

e Utilise arrangement for establishing procedures, transaction
knowledge and anything else that may assist with criminal/financial
investigations.

« Widen remit to other forums or avenues to demonstrate a proactive
and supporting role to Crowns and the rest of the network.

e Adherence to all elements of Security policies and procedures

e Adherence to all impacting personnel processes particularly 121s,
PDR completion and team meetings

e Create effective internal and external stakeholder relationships,

Identify and design innovative solutions and improvements for Post
Office and Security

5 I People Plan - Training

¢ Actas the SPOC for all Sec Ops training requirements, maintaining
appropriate audit records of areas delivered.

e Source, assess, arrange and deliver internal/external training as
appropriate for Sec Ops Team members.

e Develop Fl/Investigation/Security calendar for identified areas of
training, knowledge sharing, hot topics, etc, to be delivered at Sec Ops
team meetings.

e Factor in necessity, value and costs in respect of all training planned
and delivered.

« Support team lead and fellow colleagues to deliver people plan
activities with line of sight to support Post Office Story and Employee
Opinion Survey.

e Own and deliver specific areas of the work plan as agreed with team
lead

e Assist in delivery of the wider people work plan through collaboration
and support for security team colleagues, where appropriate

« Demonstrate business standards and security team behaviours through
delivery of all activities

Maintenance of Training
spreadsheet

Line management
feedback

Feedback from SOLT
and Sec Ops members

6 I Fraud Risk Programmes
Provide support in all areas of Fraud Risk programmes undertaken by members
of the Sec Ops Team.
e Actas the liaison/SPOC from Sec Ops team with Commercial Sec
team (and others as appropriate) re Fraud Risk programmes.
e Provide assistance, support and guidance to Sec Ops team
members allocated a Fraud Risk programme.
e Ensure all Fraud Risk programmes adopted by Sec Ops are subject
to Project Initiation Document (PID), project plan and Post
Implementation Review (PIR).

Regular contact and
engagement with
programme owners.

Evidence of appropriate
documents/milestones
maintained/updated

Quarter 1 Comments

POL00126836
POL00126836

Objectives April 2013 — March 2014

e Fraud Activity Return On Investment (ROI) - 72% recovery rate against closed cases (according to
John Scott at SOLT meeting 15" May 2013). Planning an intelligence check checklist for association
with all Fl cases raised ... to ensure all channels explored to maximise recoveries. I have attended
North & South Sec Ops team meetings, dealing with POL045s (voluntary bank disclosure), Altia
software, reconsideration cases and all aspects of training, so all Investigators are aware of the focus on
recoveries. Quarterly meeting held with FSC to ensure two way engagement in all things recovery
related. I am also to commence proofreading/sign off of submitted cases, again to promote recoveries
as well as ensuring compliance is adhered to.

e Reconsideration Cases (Cold Case Reviews) — Meetings held with FSC (30" April) and Cartwright
King (3 June) communicating intentions to conduct reconsideration cases — what it involves, why we
are doing it and the potential benefits. Awaiting Cartwright King (Phillip Bown) to communicate the
mechanics of getting such cases back into court and establishing what is required (e.g. in terms of
restraint/identified assets). To commence first phase in quarter 2 (selecting archived cases and
commencing cold case review on asset identification).

« Expand Geographical Remit To Genuine National Status — Part 4 powers obtained re Northern
Ireland orders, meeting with PSNI on 24" July (put back due to G8 summit) to discuss crossing t’s and
dotting I’s. Meeting held with Scottish FIU 12" June — to explore utilisation of POCA powers in Scotland
via PF and Crown, then report back to me. Land Registry system now set up in respect of both
Northern Ireland and Scotland, thus increasing this intelligence source to UK wide status.

e Behaviours - PDR timelines adhered to, including completion, submission, review discussion and
Objective setting. I have also continued to adhere to all security requirements such as monthly
submission of T&S forms, correct out of hours messages on my mobile and laptop, completion of
electronic calendar, etc. Wider team and Inter strand working and engagement has been demonstrated
— most notably in the people plan activities, 10 x Torch visits and becoming a member of the Crown
Loss Forum. I have provided details of my ‘buddy offices’ - Windsor Crown Office and Hurst Park Sub
Post Office ... to await ‘further communication’ on next steps.

e People Plan —- Training — I was part of the induction group but this has concluded following successful
delivery. I have asked to be placed in the training group. This is because part of my remit covers
training aspects for Sec Ops and wider teams (as appropriate/applicable). To this effect I have
delivered on the courtroom training course for Investigators (1% March), Dynamic Risk Assessment (12"
April), Cartwright King training day (11" June) and attended North & South Ops team meetings (29"
May and 20" May). Currently being planned and scoped are Mock Trial day, investigation refresher,
courtroom confidence for other teams, conflict management and situational crime prevention.

e Fraud Risk Programmes -— these programmes are being led by Commercial Security but nothing has
been communicated re assistance by Sec Ops. I have provided detailed knowledge to one Sec Ops
Manager and his Team Leader concerning ONCH programmes (mechanics, process, benefits, etc) but
have received no green light that this can commence as a new programme.

Quarter 2 Comments

Objectives April 2013 — March 2014

POL00126836
POL00126836

Quarter 3 Comments

Quarter 4 Comments

