POL00122123
POL00122123

From: Rob King,
Sent: Mon 11/02/2013 6:01:19 PM (UTC)
To: Jamail A Singh GRO
Ce: i
Subject: FW: New Criminal Prosecutions Policy meeting Monday 4 February
Attachment: content.pdf POL PROS POLICY.pdf
Attachment: content.pdf NEW CRI ENF PRO POLICY.pdf
Attachment: content.pdf INT PROTOCOL CIE.pdf
Attachment: content.pdf CODE FOR PROSECUTORS. pdf
Attachment: content.pdf NEW CODE F.pdf
Attachment: content.pdf CRI IN and EN PRO.pdf

Hi Jarnail,

Going through my emails; still someway to go! Tell me is there scope to for the policy to include documenting
circumstances when a criminal investigation is decided, it takes precedence over employee discipline or contractual
action. This may allow for greater clarity and deter contract managers from taking their own action which may
jeopardise the prosecution case.

Perhaps we can discuss
Regards

Rob

Rob King I Senior Security Manager Operations

148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

From: John M Scott

Sent: 05 February 2013 17:49

To: Rob King; Andy Hayward

Cc: Keith Gilchrist; Darrell Kennedy; Dave Posnett; Helen Dickinson; Andrew Daley
Subject: FW: New Criminal Prosecutions Policy meeting Monday 4 February

Dear Andy and et al.

As Post Office Ltd has separated form Royal Mail Group, there is a new to review the Prosecution Policy for the
business to ensure it is fit for purpose for our particular organisation and then endorsed by ExCo and the POL Board.

Please find attached a number of documents as detailed by Jarnail’s email below. We've had an initial meeting on
Monday and some amendments will be made in terms of the policy and stance to be taken. However there is now a
POL00122123
POL00122123

very short review period and I will be reporting back before going on leave this Friday.

Please review the policies and feedback any comments as a collective by email by Thursday so that I can collate and
respond.

Happy to discuss individually or collectively on a conference call, if so please give me a ring or arrange.
Not to be circulated wider please.

Cheers.

John.

From: Jarnail A Singh

Sent: 31 January 2013 15:21

To: Hugh Flemington; Susan Crichton; John M Scott; Alwen Lyons
Subject: New Criminal Prosecutions Policy meeting Monday 4 February

Hugh Susan John and Alwen

Please find copies of the following papers for the above meeting;

1 Current POL prosecution policy

2 Proposed Criminal Enforcement and Prosecution policy

3 Proposed Internal Protocol for criminal investigation and Enforcement
4 Code for Prosecutors(Public interest)

5 New code F

6 Proposed POL Criminal investigation and Enforcement Procedure
Regards

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

@) 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
SY

Post Office stories

& @postofficenews
w&
