POL00118132

POL00118132

Available Intelligence checks

Intelligence forms can be submitted under $29(3) of the Data Protection Act (DPA) 1998 (which covers
prevention/detection of crime or apprehension/prosecution of offenders).

All Security Team staff

Financial Investigators only

Equifax Credit check

(e-mail POL208 to Post Office Security)

Will identify links to addresses, associates, credit
card applications, bank payments, credit card
payments. No need for authorisation.

Vehicle check

(e-mail POL208 to Post Office Security)

Will identify vehicles owned by a_ suspect
(submit a form for known vehicles and also to an
address linked to a suspect).

Must be authorised by 3b grade or above.
Cannot be done retrospectively as an asset
search for POCA proceedings

Suspicious Activity Reports (SARS)

A SAR is a report of suspect money laundering
related activity, which is recorded on the
‘Elmer’ database and which provides general
intelligence, it is managed by SOCA, with
access by Fl’s only. Information received via
the SARS process is confidential and its origin
must not be made known.

JARD (Joint Asset Recovery Database)

Access by Financial Investigators (FI’s) only,
will identify suspects who are (or who have
been) subject of a previous money laundering
or confiscation investigation

Land Registry check

(e-mail POL208 to Post Office Security)

Will assist in confirming the owner of known
properties anywhere in England, Scotland, N
Ireland. Countersignature not required.

PN1 / CIT forms

(linked to Land Registry checks)

Will further assist in identifying unknown
property owned by a suspect anywhere in
England, Scotland, N Ireland. Only a Financial
Investigator can complete these forms

POL210 — Inland Revenue check

Will identify Tax returns, interest on investments
& provide a general financial overview of the
named person.

In the 1* instance this form must be

e-mailed to Post Office Security, who will log
request and forward to Senior Manager for
authority before processing.

PNC

(e-mail POL208 to Post Office Security)

Request for a check on individual for previous
convictions.

Must be authorised by 3b grade or above.

Internet

the largest repository of information in the
world and an excellent investigation tool
(remember it leaves a ‘footprint’)

Various search engines Google, MSN, Yahoo
(one example led to a significant recovery where
a previously unknown boating company was
identified and which was owned by the suspect,
which was found just by typing in the suspect’s
name !)

