POL00067037
POL00067037

From: Harry Bowyer

Sent: 19 October 2018 1.

To: ‘lucy.bremneri_____ GR j

Subject: FW: Post Office Group Litigation [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]
Lucy,

Martin has asked me to help with the query raised in the email chain below.

I have been in touch with Simon Clarke who has been dealing with this issue but has been
involved in a long trial in Northern Ireland and therefore slightly incommunicado.

He has considered the issue that you raise in relation to Charles McLachlan and states as
follows:

“T have again considered the expert witness statement of Charles McLachlan. Some time ago I was
called upon to review the case papers and transcripts in the trial of R v Seema Misra and thus I am
familiar with the evidence of the expert witnesses and the disclosure issues raised by the defence both
pre-trial and during the trial itself.

My view on the matter remain unchanged; Charles McLachlan’s statement consists of a series of
anecdotal assertions suggesting that there are issues with Horizon; unfortunately he provides no
direct example and no evidence in support of his conclusions save a short email from Gavin Jenkins
and dealing with the so-called Callander Square bug.

On the issue of disclosure, the defence in the case of Misra made repeated applications for disclosure
which, both in my view and in the opinion of the trial judge, amounted to little more that ‘fishing
expeditions’. At the commencement of the substantive trial the trial-Judge was again called upon to
rule in such an application and again he refused to direct further disclosure.

When I am asked the question: was Mrs Misra’s defence team provided with proper and adequate
disclosure at the time? I concluded in my earlier review that the answer was “Yes”. I further
concluded that, had we known then what we now know, we would have disclosed the Helen Rose
and Second Sight reports but, given that these came long after the event, my view on the issue of
disclosure at the time of the trial remains unchanged. “

Let me know if I can be of further assistance.

Best wishes

Harry

Harry Bowyer

Bart een
CartwrightKing

mmm SOLICITOR S mmm

Offices Nationwide
www.cartwrightking.co.uk

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE
This e-mail is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. If you have received

3678
POL00067037
POL00067037

it in error please notify us immediately by return email, do not copy it or its contents to anyone
else and delete it. T
Cartwright K
Cartwright Ki
Company

nk you for your cooperation.

authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority No: 630080.
e, Wilford Street, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, NG2 1AG.
tration No; 10143062 VAT Regi 08,

rantee that this e-mail and any virus-free, but you should please

‘On Behalf Of Lucy Nremner

Sent: 18 October 2018 14759"
To: Martin Smith
Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

This email, created by lucy.bremne:
decrypted o1

_jhas been securely delivered using Egress Switch and was
‘ober 18, 2018 2:59:35 PM+01:00..

Dear Martin,

I sent you an email yesterday asking if I could have a response to the below ASAP. I am following up on
switch as I'm unsure as to whether you received it.

If you could come back to me with an update asap that would be appreciated.
Kind regards,

Lucy

From: "Martin Smith
Sent: Monday, October 15, 2018 11:03 AM
Received: Thursday, ¢
To: "Lucy Bremner™ I
Subject: RE: Post Offi

Dear Lucy,

Thank you for your email. My colleague Simon Clarke will be able to assist with this and
has asked to see a copy of Mr. McLachlan’s statement in order that he may properly
respond.

Please could you forward a copy of it?

Many thanks,

Kind regards,

Martin Smith

GRO

3679
POL00067037
POL00067037

CartwrightKing

mmm SOLICITORS emu

Offices Nationwide
Peat House, 5 Stuart Street, Derby, DE1 2EQ
www.cartwrightking.co.uk

Nottinghamshire, NG2 1AG
3408

rus-free, but you should please

From: Lucy Bremne'
Sent: 12 October 2018 17:02
To: Martin Smith

Ce: Jonathan Gribben
Subject: Post Office Group Litigation [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Dear Martin,

By way of introduction, I am an Associate in the Commercial Disputes Team at Womble Bond Dickinson and I
am assisting Post Office with the Group Litigation.

We are in the process of responding to a witness statement by Charles McLachlan and in it he states the
following in relation to the Seema Misra case:

"I found it difficult to obtain all of the information and disclosure which I thought was necessary in order to
provide my opinion to the criminal court [...]"._ Could you, or someone in your team, let me have your
comments on whether this statement is correct or not? If you could provide examples of where Mr
McLachlan was not given information / disclosure and why and also examples where he was provided with
detailed information that would be helpful.

We have an extremely tight deadline in order to respond to the statement so I would be grateful if you could
provide me with comments during the course of Monday.

Kind regards,

Lucy

Lucy Bremner
Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

3680
POL00067037
POL00067037

womblebonddickinson.com
WOMBLE
BOND v in]
DICKINSON

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?
‘The informajion inthis. emma and.apy alachments is confidential and may be legally privieged and protected by la

9. is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not martin. smith”
please a Tey BTERiTE soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or”
copying of this communicatt ihents is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use personal data is in our Privacy

Policy on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP
accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before
‘opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number
0C317661. Our registered office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use
the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is
GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and
autonomous law firms providing services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate
legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond
Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see www.womblebonddickinson.conv/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

3681
