POL00297951
POL00297951

From: Parsons, Andrew(_
Sent: Thur 25/07/2013 7:
To: Rodric Williams!
Ce: Matthews, Gavin GRO
Subject: Brian Altman QC

6 AM (UTC)

Rodric

Sorry about the phone failures yesterday!

In short, Brian looks like the right man for the job. In my view he was very impressive.

He's clearly undertaken this type of exercise before and is very live to the political dimension.

Big question - is Brian's work private advice for POL or an independent assessment of POL's criminal law
position? One for us all to think about.

Short term - Brian is going to assist with the response to the CCRC. He may also give a preliminary view on the
CK review protocol.

Longer term - we need to draw up some terms of reference for his work. Gavin and I will have a first stab at this
and then circulate this to the team.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
Bond Dickinson LLP
Blackberry:

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in thi
this e-mail and any at
Unauthorised use, dissen

! and any attachments is confi

ly privil
lease notify andrew.

nly is authorised to access
and delete any copies.

ments, If'you are not rodrie. wil
nation, distribution, publication or copyir

s Son AS POssibl
y be unlawful

ication or attachments is prohibited and

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neith

given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle L
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of eq

gistered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our reg
1 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
alent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

mn Tyne,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
