POL00186387
POL00186387

From: Steve AllchornI
Sent: Fri 19/04/2013

To: Susan Cri “GRO, iLesley J
Sewell, °
Subject: RE: In Confidence - Second Sight Update - Bracknell
Susan

On the proviso that both Andy Jones and Liz conduct what has been asked of then in the agreed timescale I will be
looking to tie this off next week.

Asummarisation will then be sent to lan at Second Sight on 29 April at the latest.
Steve

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: 19 April 2013 14:22

To: Steve Allchorn; Lesley J Sewell

Subject: RE: In Confidence - Second Sight Update - Bracknell

Steve — thanks for the update, it is disappointing that this is taking so long, so it would be good if we can make sure
we make the next deadline, post the review of that additional information we will need to prepare a summary for
Second Sight and they may wish to interview people esp those on the test team.

Regards
Susan

From: Steve Allchorn

Sent: 19 April 2013 08:43

To: Lesley J Sewell; Susan Crichton

Subject: In Confidence - Second Sight Update - Bracknell
Importance: High

Lesley/Susan
Please find below an update regarding investigations into the Bracknell site. I shall follow this up with a further

update at the back-end of next week.

Establish any formal documentation relating to the operational set-up, data security protocols and the control
environment within the Bracknell site during 2008

Through Pete Newsome (Fujitsu) and the Fujitsu Security team I have received both the security policies as they
existed in 2008 and the Fujitsu user management policy for buildings and systems access. Peter has confirmed that
this is the only information they have on record relating to our enquiries. In effect this is an end-state to our
investigations into this area from a Fujitsu information supply perspective.

Peter Stanley (IT&C Architect) has previously confirmed that the IT&C Governance & Architecture function has no
documentation on record relating to the prior set-up and management of the POL testing area within Bracknell.

There are two final channel open to us for investigation.
POL00186387
POL00186387

The first is through establishing if any relevant documentation is held within the POL testing area itself. Given the
sensitivities in relation to the implications on the testing team of the overall investigation, I have asked Andy Jones
(Quality & Standards) to progress enquiries through this stream with care. Andy will provide me with an update
report w/e 26 April 2013.

The second is through our contracts team. I have asked Liz Tuddenham to look into any contract agreements we may
have put in place in the past with Fujitsu in regard to space allocation at the Bracknell site. Liz will feed back any
results also w/e 26 April 2013.

Establish any records of external visitors to the Bracknell site during the Summer of 2008

Pete Newsome has confirmed that visitors records at Bracknell are not retained dating back as far as 2008. There is no
further information that can be provided relating to this area of investigation.

Provide a ring-fence on all emails since 2008 for listed employees deemed as involved in Bracknell operations

CSC have still not physically provided us with the email ring-fencing information we have requested however we do
have confirmation from them the data collation has been completed. Mark Pearce is in contact with CSC and it is
expected that we will receive the required information early next week. The data will be held on a CD and retained
within the Information Security team as and when Second Sight decide that they have reached a point that they want
to investigate into the content. lan Henderson will be made aware of status today.

Investigate whether there were any known issues with Bureau de Change transactions during the Summer of 2008

The previous update provided for this area still stands in that the only related issue that can be established in 2008
regards duplicate remittance pouches for which there is a clear process for the Branch Manager to follow and which is
backed up on Horizon help.

This scenario incurs when a pouch is scanned into the system but then the Branch Manager recognises they have
made an error with regard to pouch content — e.g. they forgot to include a remittance summary etc. A second pouch
would then need to be used and scanned into the system — meaning that two pouches are logged. There is a reversal
process for the manager to instigate that takes the first pouch off of the system.

Steve Allchorn I IT & Change Lead CPMO Manager

@ 2” Fir, Central Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
RY

©

ey)

Y

@ Post Office stories

@postofficenews

POL00186387
POL00186387

