POL00031402
POL00031402

Message

From: Chris Aujard [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=CHRISTOPHER AA0452485-80B7-40D2-ADE7-6F 6FEAE19CC3F88]

Sent: 30/05/2014 07:49:06

To: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester) [gajamef.

cc: Rodric Williams [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Rodric Williamse9c114f4-b03f-4595-b082-ce89be5c79d47b]; Alwen Lyons
[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF 23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Alwen.lyons648ee5c4-f2a8-40e2-9f55-1b9b1e4f6d52]

Subject: RE: Project Zebra

James — three additional points:

1) We have discussed as some length the need to provide as much comfort as is possible in respect of the period
prior to 2010. For clarity, could you kindly confirm that you still propose to do this?

2) On the question of the audience for the document, this is principally the Board in the first instance; as discussed
we will however, want to be able to use any high level conclusions you may reach as a foundation for the
release of the Linklaters advice — at this stage we are not sure what form we would need your conclusions to be
expressed in {1 expect that they may need to repackaged and summarised, with the appropriate release letters
signed), but I did want to make sure you were fully aware of our intentions in this regard.

3} The proposed timing does not work at all for us. The board were expecting a readily digestible document
addressing the key matters that we have been discussing over the last few weeks last Friday, not next
Wednesday. Out of courtesy, I should let you know that I have spoken to Paula, our CEO, and she is now
minded to escalate the matter further within Deloitte.

Jam offsite at meetings all morning, but should be available by lunchtime. In the meantime Alwen and Rod are in the
loop.

Regards

Chris

From: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester) [mailto:gajame¢
Sent: 29 May 2014 18:37

To: Chris Aujard; Rodric Williams; Julie George

Cc: Whitton, Andrew J (UK - London); Noon, David A (UK - London); White, Ian (UK - Leeds); Tantam, Mark (UK -
London)

Subject: Project Zebra

CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Chris,

Further to our conversations today, I wanted to confirm the next steps we propose to take regarding Project Zebra.
These seek to create a shorter document for you (intended for Board circulation) which focusses on certain key (and
most relevant) aspects of our wider work to date.

This “Board Briefing” document will focus on the four questions we agreed by phone, being:
1. What comfort can be taken that Horizon only allows complete transactions (baskets) to be processed?
2. What comfort can be taken that the transactions completed in Horizon are ‘digitally sealed’, to protect their
integrity and make it evident if they have been tampered with?

POL-0028304
POL00031402
POL00031402

3. What comfort can be taken that Horizon’s Audit Store maintains and reports from a complete and unchanged
record of all sealed baskets?

4. What comfort can be taken that Horizon provides visibility to sub-postmasters of all centrally generated
transactions processed to their Branch ledgers?

For each of the above questions, we will:
e — List those relevant high level system design and process control features that we identified in documentation
provided to us;
Describe the facts relating to the extent and nature of the Assurance Work we have seen;
State what additional work could be undertaken to increase the level of comfort.

Our comments will be framed in the context and limitations of our work.

We estimate that this deliverable will take until close of play on Wednesday next week to produce and issue through our
review and signoff activities.

Please confirm that these points of focus are an accurate view of the next steps discussed this afternoon.
Thanks and regards
Gareth

Gareth James
Partner

Deloitte LLP.
Tel:
Mobile: i.

Data Analyties Website I Finance Analytios Website

UK Futures

http:/Avww.deloitte.co.uk/ukfutures

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0303675. Its registered office is 2, New Street
‘Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL and
its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient(s}, please (1) notify it.security.uk. } by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
Use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.

POL-0028304
