POL00192214
POL00192214

From: Richardson, Simoni
Sent: Wed 17/07/2013 7:

To: Susan Crichton!
Subject: Re: PRIVATE - For discusion
Susan

Having reflected myself, whilst I believe there is a danger of too many of us lawyers/cooks on this narrow point it's not a
significant addition unless you decide long term to have a firm looking over Cartwright King's shoulder. That may
become necessary if there is any criticism of those running the prosecutions (including counsel).

Of equal importance is making sure board members fully understand the range of issues and the limitations or
constraints upon POL/Legal. Gavin, Andy and I would be happy to accompany you, it's your call as to which combination
you consider will work best for you and the board member.

Regards

Simon

Simon Richardson
Partner

Bond Dickinson

From: Susan Crichton [mailt¢
Sent: Tuesday, July 16, 201.
To: Matthews, Gavin

Cc: Richardson, Simon
Subject: Re: PRIVATE - For discusion

Thanks for your note! You are correct - I need to think about this.

Susan

From: Matthews, Gavin [mailto_ GRO
Sent: Tuesday, July 16, 2013 05:24 PM
To: Susan Crichton

Cc: Richardson, Simon
Subject: PRIVATE - For discusion

Susan

I've just had a brief conversation with Simon before he disappeared into the tube so have caught up about Second
Sight.

Separately I received calls after sending the message below from both Rodric (from Portugal) and Hugh (from Ireland)

I won't recount the full details but Rodric suggested initially that instead of a criminal barrister POL may use DAC
Beachcroft. I said that was of course up to POL but I thought one more firm being involved in this matter might get
complicated and the advantage of a barrister was that they would be completely independent and have no pre
conceived ideas. Rodric thought that was sensible.

Hugh subsequently called me to say that he had spoken to DAC Beachcroft (Mary Lawrence) having spoken to you but
that I should continue to consider criminal silks who POL may want to use to oversee what Cartwright King are doing

I am just a bit concerned that there may be too many law firms involved looking at things through different lenses. Of
course it is up to you whom POL instructs but you may just want to reflect on this overnight.
POL00192214
POL00192214

I have copied in Simon for when he emerges from the underground system!
Happy to discuss at any time

Kind regards

Gavin

Gavin Matthews
Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

www.bonddickinson.co

From: Matthews, Gavin

Sent: 16 July 2013 15:48

To: ‘Susan Crichton’; Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Richardson, Simon; Hugh Flemington; Rodric Williams; Jarnail A Singh
Subject: RE: For discusion [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Susan

I know that you are with Simon and Andy today so I have taken an initial look at this for you. I agree with you that I
would expect the advice to me more prescriptive ie you need to say this in response.

I do also have concerns from a civil point of view over a couple of statements in the draft response. In particular
where it states;

"He has done so both to POL and, in expert witness statements and oral evidence, to the court. In particular he has:
attested to the presence of defect detection and rectification systems; the robustness of the prosecution audit trail;
and stated that, in his expert opinion, Horizon accurately records and processes all information submitted into the
system. The Second Sight Interim report demonstrates that this was not the case."

I consider this to be unhelpful given that the SS report found there to be no systemic problems with Horizon.

It shows the need for all POL letters (criminal and civil) to contain a consistent message - so that the right hand and
the left hand know what they are each doing.

1am nota criminal lawyer but I would query whether the CCRC have the power to review a case where the SPM
entered a plea of guilty in the magistrates’ court.
POL00192214
POL00192214

I would be happy to suggest some criminal barristers to take a look at this for you
Perhaps you could discuss this with Simon and Andy today if you get the chance.
Kind regards

Gavin

Gavin Matthews
Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

Blin

From: Susan Crichton [mailt
Sent: 16 July 2013 13:58
To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Richardson, Simon; Matthews, Gavin; Hugh Flemington; Rodric Williams; Jarnail A Singh
Subject: For discusion

Andy - we received a letter from the CRCC yesterday which I have asked Cartwright King to review..their advice feels
odd to me as if given on a take it or leave it basis and I am not comfortable that's particularly useful in this context.
Could we discuss, I am happy to go to another firm that specialises in Criminal law or a barrister, somehow it feels as
if there is a conflict here which I am not sure I understand.

Thanks

Susan Crichton I HR & Corporate Services Director

1* Floor, Central Wing, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

POL00192214
POL00192214

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential, y_be legally privileged and protected by law
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not susan.crichto } please notify ga

jonly is authorised to access
‘ POSIBIS and delete any copies
‘be unlawful

3 in.matt
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this comm

nication or attachments

Promibited aid

Any fil
which

-d to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or dam
sed by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening am

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent fo

and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC.
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term parte
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

7661. Ourn
refer toa member of

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and

lated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
