POL00136433
POL00136433

From: Alisdair CameronI

Sent: Fri 08/03/2019 3:45:47 PM (UTC)
To: Jane MacLeod{f
Subject: RE: GLO - Decision

As promised, this is my first go at how we manage next week. This is manageable if we manage it, so lets crack on in
the best traditions of PO, as I know this group will, reassuring any wobblers as we go.

Mark U as project manager overseeing. Comments and additions for all the blindingly obvious things I have missed to
him to set up sessions and workstreams and reporting. We have suggested Board call Tuesday. We need sessions on
Monday - we can postpone McKinseys, nothing urgent in that meeting.

Daily SGs: the people on the to list plus Amanda Jones if having her engaged would help Julie. We should ask Rob
Houghton if he wants to join. We will clearly need to add more legal resource and may well need some additional
operational leaders to own specific workstreams.

There are I think the following workstreams.

Legal
1. Understanding and reflecting back any factual errors in the judgement. Jane. By end Wednesday.
2. Ensuring we prepare effectively for appeal, making sure we do appeal at the right moments and can
announce that simultaneously with the judgment. Jane with QCs etc. Next week.
3. Understanding if there are any possible legal grounds to stop or otherwise hamper the critical elements of
the judgment from being handed down in a week’s time, with a focus on the ongoing operations of the business
and the control of cash. Jane. By Wednesday?
4. Completing the assessment of the judgment to understand what the full implications are. Rod, Andrew with
QCs. Tuesday?
5. Understanding the implications for the Horizon trial and helping the legal team to manage them as
effectively as possible. Rod, Andrew, Jane. Friday.

Operational
1. Lets assume we are working without the contractual protections that we have traditionally relied on from
Monday week. We will have to substantially pivot attention and resource. Increasing compliance (cash
declarations, balancing etc), managing new issues very transparently to settle nerves, setting up a resource
stream to capture, acknowledge and then respond to historical queries, identifying potential losses even faster
than we do today and providing far faster and better analysis to support any request for money back. Julie with
support from Amanda. Ongoing.
2. We need a new suspension process that can operate in the new world supported by warrants or whatever
we need to recover our funds in extremis. Legal, asap.
3. What is this going to do to new network openings and new contract signatories? Can we sign contracts as
stated today? What should our new contract be? Legal, asap.
4. Can we get SPMs to acknowledge their accountability for cash when we give it to them? Legal, asap.
5. What changes do we need to make to the branch accounts to make it acceptable? Legal, asap
6. How much will this end up costing us and how can we afford it? Legal plus Finance.

Communications — Mark and team, may need an owner for each line
POL00136433
POL00136433

1. Media plan which will need to be agreed with Government. What we say, who says it, who we say it to.
2. Plan for agents to settle and reassure — this is critical. Can the NFSP play a role, taking into account the
judge’s comments about them.

3. Plan for our people — with this and Paula leaving it would be easy for people to wobble.

Stakeholders need to be managed and reassured, with Comms owning the messages
1. Government. Mark, Al

. MPs and political parties Mark and team

. NFSP Debbie

. The Banks. Martin K

. Fujitsu. Rob

. Royal Mail. Mark S

. Bank of Ireland. Owen/CP.

NOQORPWHN

Other
1. Lets start stopping the nice to have stuff so we can focus on this. All.

From: Jane MacLeod
Sent: 08 March 2019 14:01
To: Paula

Mark
Julie Thomas

~iAlisdair Camerot
; Melanie Corfield <
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd {
Mark Underwood1

andrew.parsons ¢
Subject: GLO - Decision
Importance: High

All

We have the judgement and need to update you on findings. To this end please dial in to a call at 2.15 pm today on
the following number:

Jane

Dial-in numbers:

Freephone:
International Direct:
Participant passcode:
Chairperson passcode (Jane): 7

Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ
Mobile numbe

POL00136433
POL00136433
