POLO0006554
POL00006554

Message

From: Parsons, Andre\

on behalf of — Parsons, Andre\

Sent: 2 _ ..

To: . od
} Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: Fact File for review

Attachments: PART ONE - SS (AP comments).pdf

All
Please find attached my comments on the Part 1 report.

In general, the report broadly replicates the original factfile with a few additions and deletions. On the whole, these
changes are not, in my view, controversial.

However, SS have injected in a number of places their opinions on certain matters (highlighted in yellow in the
attached). Putting aside whether those opinions are correct or not, they should not be included in the Part 1 report:

«The Part 1 report was supposed to be a neutral factual statement — these opinions would be better presented in
the Thematic report.

«All the opinions are unsupported by either logical reasoning or evidence. Even if these opinions were set out in
the Thematic Report, SS need to properly justify these views otherwise they should not be permitted to advance
them in any form.

Of some concern is SS' approach as set out in para 1.1. They say that the Part 1 Report is designed to support their
thematic report. I understood the purpose of the report to be to assist the mediator and the parties at mediation. To my
mind, this highlights the difference in approach between POL and SS and closing this gap is important for moving cases
forward to mediation.

My only other thought is that SS' changes from the original factfile are fairly minimal and this cannot have taken more than
one day's work.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin

www.bonddickinson.com

From: David Olivert - GRO i
Sent: 29 April 2014 14:48

POL-0017648
POLO0006554
POL00006554

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Jessi ; Belinda Crowe; Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew; Andy Holt;
Sophie Bialaszewski; Carolyn.Lo

Subject: Fact File for review

All,

Attached is the Second Sight Fact file. From a quick initial review it appears to be a mix of facts which read similarly to
the Post Office document together with a some new content Eg:

“4.22. Despite this description of an apparently extensive support mechanism, feedback during the Complaint Review
process has indicated a lack of consistent, constructive advice being provided, especially from the Horizon Service Desk
and from the NBSC.”

We are due to meet to review this and any further reports (lan has indicated that we should receive M022) tomorrow.

D

David Oliver
Programme Manager
1 Ce id M

Jot HSI IOI III IO IODA IIIA IIIA IO AISI RIOD DI AAI AIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachm:
this

Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, pi

nly is authorised to access

nail and any attachments. If you are no ind delete any copies

unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage

iny attachment

which may be caused by software viruses and you should e:

out your own virus checks before open
Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

liability partnersh fered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our r

mn. We use the term partner to refer to

nes is open to inspect
3123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

POL-0017648
