Meeting: 9 October 2013
Attendees:
Team/Function

Legal

Financial Services Centre (FSC)

Security

Communications

Network

Information Technology & Change (IT&C)

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

POL00139707
POL00139707

Attendees

Rodric Williams (RW)

Jarnail Singh (JS)

Martin Smith of Cartwright King (CK)
Kayleigh Harding (KH)

Andy Winn (AW)

Andy Hayword (AH)

Ruth Barker (RB)
Gayle Peacock (GP)
Ann Allaker (AA)
Nick Beal (NB)

Steve Beddoe (SB)

Anne Allaker on behalf of Kendra Dickinson

(AA)
Previous issues identified and further action to be taken
Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps
Prestbury Discrepancy for £700.00, transaction failure — discrepancy

declared immediately. Helen to see if she can link transactions to
specific time. GP to report update in due course.

ATM Gluing Intelligence provided to Police. Banks forthcoming with
Case information. Individual to be arrested and charged. Update to be
forwarded after the call.

Recovery of lost money in negotiation.

RW to chase update.

Rhigos Branch I Angela met with SPM at Merthyr Tydfil. Not clear on outcome.
Branch investigated as in Nelson and Pontycymer. Case review
being carried out. To be kept open.

Post & Go No update.

Belfast Refresh I No update.

4A_27575708_1
POL00139707
POL00139707

Nelson Helen reviewed data provided by ARQ. Looking at records — no
unusual transactions. It appears cash declared and discrepancy
declared quickly. SPM not in branch when this is happening.
Assistant to be investigated.

Cheques £20k — normal business process. To be closed.

Pontycymer AA - trainer went out 08/10/13. 2 visits carried out. Appears to be

human error. Joint visit to be requested with SB team.

New Issues Identified

Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments

RW Legal Home phone migration from old supplier to new supplier —
teething problems — horizon element — disconnect between
terminals and backup. When postcode entered, message to call
helpline. Quickly resolved. NBSC — issues to be raised during call
even if it is not a horizon issue.
SB - daily reports issued with issues identified. Horizon system
stable at this time.

JS Legal No Issues

MS Legal No Issues
Issues need to be raised even if they are closed

AW FSC

Andy Hayword Security Audit shortage 20/09/13 £20K Manaccan Post Office — initial

enquiries. Investigations commenced. — Horizon blamed for
losses. Interview to be arranged.

2004 — Carluke Post Office — Police prosecution believed to have
happened. Blaming Horizon at the time. Elaine Doram SPM
passed away. Husband blaming Horizon and making noise
through Scottish Parliament. Email details to be forwarded. No
information due to time lapse. No records available. No further
enquiries at this stage.

MS - Police in Scotland investigate by handing file to current

4A_27575708_1

POL00139707
POL00139707

office. They may have papers in archive. Option to request copy

of file, review, and make objective comments based on
information in the papers. MS to take up with BTO (Scottish
Solicitors).

NB South Darenth branch audited — loss discovered — Branch in Kent,
SPM is based in Yorkshire. Audited and loss discovered. SPM
said he was unable to operate economically and he would resign.
He audited the branch himself and shut the branch for the day.
Emails sent to Ministers in Government stating he was unable to
operate economically. Temp in branch to calm situation. During
conversations SPM hinted Horizon may be the cause of the loss.
Suspended staff. Unclear whether any substance to allegations.

Ruth — SPM in Michael Fallon constituency
NB to forward emails

Stakeholder communication plan to be tightened up to ensure
information is captured. Only issues that are escalated are
recorded. GP to discuss with KD.

AA No issues

RB No issues

Action Points

Prestbury — GP to provide update once data has been reviewed.

ATM Gluing — RW to chase update.

Rhigos Branch — Case review to be carried out. GP to update further in due course.
Nelson — Assistant to be investigated. Update to be provided.

Pontycymer — AA to arrange joint visit with IT&C team and report back in due course.
Carluke Post Office —- MS to discuss matter with BTO.

South Darenth — NB to forward emails to GP. GP to discuss process for recording Horizon
complaints with KD of NBSC.

NOP ONS

4A_27575708_1 3
