POL00101629
POL00101629

Message

From: Mark R Davies _ GRO
on behalf of — Mark R Davies

Sent: 05/12/2014

To: Belinda Crowe!

Subject: Re: BBC News - Horizon

Hi

I called. I've just seen Nick W's latest email. I am tempted to offer an interview in which we simply say, in response to
questions:

“The BBC is asking us to break the confidentiality of a mediation scheme, the workings of which were agreed by all
parties. This is an intolerable position. We have gone over and above the responsibilities we have as a business. In two

and a half years there has been no evidence etc...."

If I stick to that line what is the problem with doing an interview? I appreciate you may think I am sliding but I can't sit
and take this garbage much more.

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone

On 5 Dec 2014, at 08:40, "Belinda Crowe’

k at some point soo about this and Monday?

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Thursday, December 04, 2014 05:02 PM
To: Belinda Crowe

Subject: Fwd: BBC News - Horizon

hi

Read the chain from bottom including the Nick Wallis call note. Sounds like MPs might do something as
a collective shortly. If that happens we need to think again about whether to agree to an interview - me,
not Paula. Otherwise it could end up back in Parliament.

I pretty much agree with Mel's view here, but we might need to be ready to change approach.

m

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobile.

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

POL-0101212
POL00101629
POL00101629

From: Melanie Corfield.
Date: 4 December 2014 14:

Mark R Davies
GRO

Subject: RE: BBC News - Horizon

Hi

Just had a chat with Belinda about this one. We are hoping that Nick Wallis will be given
the letter that Paula sent to JA but if he isn't we feel reluctant, on balance, to provide it
ourselves. This is really because, in view of the bigger picture - we should if possible
maintain our moral high ground re not speaking about the details within the scheme. I
do wonder however, if JA is intending to issue a response to Paula's letter to the BBC
without even showing them her letter!

On his recent blog Nick Wallis indicated that he was working on an “investigation” that
might be broadcast in January - we can assume it is Sparrow. He might already, as part
of that work, have interviews from people in the scheme or indeed other
subpostmasters with complaints (since he was trawling for these).

So there might well be some existing content in the bag that he can bring to life with the
new angle of {presumably} POL refusing to mediate some cases, even when Second
Sight recommend it.

Our current problem is of course that we do not know what JA's response (or JFSA's) to
Paula's letter will be. There will be a Working Group Face to Face on Monday as well as
your meeting Mark with Oliver Letwin. It might well be that until those are completed
we will remain in the dark about whether there will be any walkaways from the scheme
or JA making statement that he is now advising JFSA to move to litigation for example.

Belinda and I think that we should not change our stance to date for the time being
{even if this means taking another short “hit"). We can go back to Nick to re-iterate
previous points we have made about confidentiality of scheme, inappropriateness of
interview but offer statement along the lines pasted below? After all he is essentially
asking Paula to respond to something that hasn't even happened yet (ie the response to
her letter!} While Nick is still fishing around we need to avoid giving him anything
new? Happy to discuss. I am in a meeting this pm and I know you are involved in
another issue. I have to leave promptly tonight for a commitment but around in the
morning.

Mel

There has now been more than 2.5 years of investigations and
independent review which now includes the re-examination of the
majority of the individual complaints put forward. The fact that no
fault with the Horizon system has been found is welcome re-
assurance for the [x] people who work in our network and our [x]
customers.

Post Office has gone to great lengths to establish the facts. It
instigated an overall independent review as well as an impartially-
chaired scheme for the re-investigation of around 150 individual
cases, with funding for the complainants to engage professional
advisors to support them.

POL-0101212
The scheme is continuing and each and every one of the remaining
cases will be subject to the same rigorous approach of re-
investigation and independent review by forensic accountants
Second Sight.

[Post Office continues to act in good faith in responding to the
questioning of the integrity of the system which millions of people
rely on every day. But, just as it would be wholly wrong to fail to
respond to any evidence of flaws in that system, Post Office cannot
be expected to ignore clear evidence that directly contradicts
accusations made.]

From: Ruth X Barker

Sent: 04 December 2014 13:57
To: Mark R Davies

Cc: Melanie Corfield

Subject: FW: BBC News - Horizon

Hi
For info.

Mel's discussing our response with Belinda and we will feed back later. Re the matter of
the letter and whether we share this.

Ruth

From: Gabrielle O'Gara

Sent: 04 December 2014 13:24
To: Ruth X Barker

Subject: BBC News - Horizon

Ruth, Nick Wallis called regarding an interview with Paula on Horizon for BBC News/One
Show. They would like to do this tomorrow or over the weekend.

Basically, they have got wind of a letter that Paula sent to a number of MPs regarding
PO's position on the mediation system. The MPs are expected to release a response
over the coming days which will bring a large degree of information on scheme into the
public domain. He hasn't seen the letter but hopes to by the time the interview takes
place. The interview will question the integrity of the system and the claims of the spms
involved.

Gabrielle

POL00101629
POL00101629

POL-0101212
POL00101629
POL00101629

Gabrielle O'Gara I Post Office Press Office

V9HQ

POL-0101212
