Welsh Julie... fi
<Julie.Welsh€ GRO; To: “richard. p. bentoni
mail)" a
ujitsu.com> <richard.p.benton¢é-
ce:
05/05/2004 12:32 Subject:
Richard,

I have had a chat with Anne, she used the message store viewing to
investigate this. If you want copies of extracts for the particular
incorrect declarations please submit an ad hoc request requesting this
information. Hope this helps, see below:

POL00070568
POL00070568

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT

DATE

AND TIME By Anne Chambers at 26-feb-2004 15:16:00 Category 94 - Advice and

guidance given I have checked various things on the system. All the
internal

reconciliation checks are ok. Cheques are being handled correctly (except
for 10th Feb when the clerk forgot to cut off the report - but this didn't
cause a discrepancy). Cash declarations look ok, they usually use drawer id
11. Occasionally they have used a different drawer Id, this can lead to
amounts apparently doubling on the cash flow report, and should be avoided.
But again it will not cause a discrepancy. Checking the cash transactions
on

the system against the declarations shows that they are not working
particularly accurately (i.e. at the end of the day the cash they declare

in

the drawer is tens, hundreds or thousands of pounds astray from what has
been recorded on the system). It is possible that they are not accurately
recording all transactions on the system. There Is no evidence whatsoever
of

any system problem. I've mentioned this outlet to Julie Welsh (Customer
Services) who will try to get POL to follow it up, but in the meantime
please tell the PM that we have Investigated and the discrepancies are
caused by the difference between the transactions they have recorded on the
system and the cash they have declared, and are not being caused by the
software or hardware.

Julie Welsh
Service Delivery Manager HSH
Business Service Management, Post Office Account

FUJITSU SERVICES
Lovelace Road
Bracknell

Berks

RG12 8SN

C Internal: I GRO I

Tel:

file://C:\Documents%20and%20Settings\administrator\Local%2..

01/02/2005

wap ver even
