Mr. Alan Barrie
IT Director
Post Office Lid.
80 Old Street
London

EC1V OPP

8" April 2004
Dear Alan,

RE: Horizon Next Generation ~ Framework for moving forward

1am delighted that last week's presentation to the EC was succe:
have approval to proceed with the next st
to anew generation of Horizon.

ful and that we now
ze of developing a business case to m

This purpose of this letter is to confirm the nature and objectives of the various
activities which will be progressed during the next period.

Feasibility Project
A full feasibility study will be carried out with a view to:
o confirming the business and technical requirements for “Next
Generation”
© verifying, documenting and prici high level solution design
© producing a business case to satisfy Post Office, RMG and Fujitsu
requirements. NB this exercise should also identify any external
dependencies/hurdles which will need to be resolved (such as with
DTI, Rural subsidy negotiation, legal/contractual constraints, etc).
© validating the solution design and benchmarking pricing via a 3” party
(Gartner).

The study will be a joint project engaging Post Office IT and busines:
together with Fujitsu. The project is planed to commence on 20"
complete no fater than 31° July 04 and will be led for Fujitsu by Mike How.

A copy of the Project Initiation Document for the feasibility study prepared by
Paul Homan and Mike How is enclosed for your approval.

© Commercial Activities (Contract Preparation)
In addition to the Feasibility study, several strands of commercial work will
also be pursued. These include:
© confirmation of Intellectual Property terms associated with the
deliverables produced during the Feasibility project ~ to be agreed by
end April 04.
© production of a mutually acceptable Heads of Agreement to underpin
any formal renegotiation/extension to the Horizon contract. NB
Signing of the Heads is expected to be subject to approval of the
business cases developed during Feasibility. This is not expected to
happen until September 04.

POL00104615
POL00104615
© evaluation of alternative forms of contracting (such as Objective
Based Contracting) to better align any new Horizon service agreement
with Post Office's key business performance indicators. This will be a

These activ

equivalent to c£1.4M of revenu Asp prev iously offered, F jitsu ¥ vill cover its casts
ar this work directly on the assumption that Past Office’s [T and busines:
reflect a similar level of effort and commitment to the necessary activities. For the
avoidance of doubt, I do not see this Roadmap work affecting business as usual where
chargeable work will continue around future Releases and other investigative work.

Mike How is in the process of defining with Paul Homan the necessary Feasibility
study Governance structure, and required working groups, which are referred to in the
attached document but not as yet confirmed. In addition I am establishing
Fufitsn project team which will steer our overall engagement with Post Office from
now on through these current activities, past our respective business approval hurdles
and onwards to a new agreement. I will be largely supported in leading this
engagement by Kevin Spence.

the broader

i recommend that we meet to discuss the various hurdles that will need to be jumped
so that we jointly ensure that actions are placed to ensure our joint success. I shall
phone Karen to find a suitable slot in your dia

Yours sincere!

Liam Foley
Business Development Director
Post Office Account

Proje

ct Initiation Document ~ Feasibility Project

ec Mike Wells
Jan O'Driscoll
tan Lamb

{sent under separate cover to Paul Homan)

POL00104615
POL00104615
