POL00108052
POL00108052

Horizon MP Handling Plan

MP Categorisation
Jo Swinson, Postal Affairs Minister and lan Murray, Shadow Minister will be updated on the process
ona regular basis. Mark Davies, Communications Director has met with lan and correspondence will
continue with both.

1). 47 cases as part of the Second Sight Report

Any MP who has a case being reviewed will be sent a letter to explain the process and offered a
meeting (the team will look at party conferences as an opportunity to meet and will identify those
that have a branch opening / current account launch in their constituency)

Categories:

¢ 23 MPs that have referred 27 cases as part of the Second Sight Investigation

MPs that have a case being reviewed by second sight (the other 20 cases)

2). other cases

Cases outside of the Second Sight report will be monitored and handled on a case by case process.
As an MP raises a case we will monitor their activity and communicate (for new cases this
correspondence may be via James Arbuthnot ~ yet to be decided)

« Historical cases

© Current/live cases

e New cases

3). Monitoring (on-going)

Horizon commentary and correspondence will be monitored and cases / MP issues will be handled
on a case by case basis.

@ MPs expressing an interest / commenting in the media

MPs expressing an interest / commenting on social media

MPs expressing an interest / commenting in Parliament

© MPs correspondence (to the executive correspondence team)

4). Future cases
We need to be clear what the process is from now on in case we’re asked by MPs.

Timeline of Activity

Date Target Grou

9" July Statement in Parliament

22°4 July James Arbuthnot MP meeting to discuss JA and Second Sight
process moving forward.

24" July Workshop to discuss process with JA, SS,

JFSA and external lawyers.

July SSM notified of MPs who have referred a SSMs — monitor activity / flag
case or who have a case in their issues and opportunities
constituency being reviewed by Second
Sight.

July Email from JA explaining new process to e Newcases
MPs that raised a case after Jo’s statement
in Parliament.

July - August Letter from Mark D explaining the Second e@ MPs that have raised a case

POL00108052

POL00108052

Sight Process (including meeting to discuss
output of the case) — will also offer meeting

as part of the Second Sight
Investigation

Letter from Mark D notifying and explaining
the Second Sight Process — will also offer a
meeting

MPs that have a case being
reviewed by second sight

October

Second Sight report published (TBC)

TBC

October - January

Meeting with individual MP and SS to
discuss case review

MPs that have raised a case
as part of the Second Sight
Investigation

MPs that have a case being
reviewed by second sight

On-going

Briefing and assurance of Second Sight
Process (with offer to answer questions /
meet)

e¢ MPs expressing an interest
/ commenting in the media

e MPs expressing an interest
/ commenting on social
media

e MPs expressing an interest
/ commenting in
Parliament

MPs correspondence (to
the executive
correspondence team)

e Live cases — MP may not be
aware but is their
constituent

* Historical Cases

Any new cases raised will follow the reviewed process (as mentioned above).

Annex A: MP engagement to-date
e Including Jo Swinson, there are 37 MPs that have engaged with Horizon so far (excluding
Arbuthnot dinner)
o 21 Conservative
o 12 Labour
o 2 Democratic Unionist

o 1SNP

© 1 Lib Dem (Jo Swinson)
@ 19 MPs put a case forward
* 4MPs have had a case put forward by the Post Office
¢ 17 MPs asked questions when Jo made a statement (excluding lan Murray and Jo)

MPs who have put forward a case

NOUP WNP

James Arbuthnot (2), North East Hampshire, Conservative
Stephen Crabb, Preseli Pembrokeshire, Conservative
Jonathan Djanogly, Huntingdon, Conservative

Alan Duncan, Rutland and Melton, Conservative

George Freeman, Mid Norfolk, Conservative

Dai Havard (2), Merthyr Tydfil & Rhymney, Labour

Oliver Letwin, West Dorset, Conservative
8. Lord Jonathan, Woking, Conservative

9. Alan Meale, Mansfield, labour

10. George Osborne, Tatton, Conservative

11. Mike Wood, Batley and Spen, Labour

12. Andrew Tyrie, Chichester, Conservative

13. Mark Lazarowicz, Edinbrough North and Leith, Labour (co-op)
14. Greg Knight (2), East Yorkshire, Conservative

15. John Woodcock, Barrown and Furness, Labour (co-op)
16. Priti Patel, Witham, Conservative

17. Edward Leigh, Gainsborough, Conservative

18. Damien Hinds, East Hampshire, Conservative

19. Kevin Barron, Rother Valley, Labour

MPs who have a constituent involved in a case that the post office put forward
1. Stewart Jackson, Peterborough, Conservative

2. Andrew Bridgen, North West Leicestershire, Conservative

3. Brian Binley, Northampton South, Conservative

4. Nicholas Brown, Newcastle Upon Tyne East, Labour

James Arbuthnot Dinner on the 9" July attendees:

© James Arbuthnot (2), North East Hampshire, Conservative
© Oliver Letwin, West Dorset, Conservative

e Tessa Munt (not included elsewhere), Wells, Lib dems

Jo Swinson statement in Parliament
Government: Jo Swinson, Postal Affairs Minister, East Dunbartonshire, Lib dem
Shadow: lan Murray, Edinbrough South, Labour

Questions asked by:
@ Mike Wood (has a case) Batley and Spen, Labour

e Jonathon Djanogly (has a case), Huntingdon, Conservative

@ Kevan Jones, North Durham, Labour

*® Robin Walker, Worcester, Conservative

© Mike Weir, Angus, SNP

e Lord Jonanthon, Woking, Labour (has a case)

Russell Brown, Dumfries and Galloway, Labour

Andrew Bridgen (has a case), North West Leicestershire, Conservative
Huw Irranca-davies, Ogmore, Labour

David Mowat, Warrington South, Conservative

Cathy Jamieson, Kilmarnock and Loudoun, Labour

Philip Hollobone, Ketley, Conservative

David Simpson, Upper Bann, Democratic Unionist

Peter Bone, Wellingborough, Conservative

John Woodcock (has a case), Barrown and Furness, Labour (co-op)

¢ Jim Shannon, Strongford, Deomcratic Unionist

® Christopher Chope, Christchurch, Conservative

eeee

eee

POL00108052
POL00108052
