POL00448046
POL00448046

POST OFFICE JOB DESCRIPTION

Job Title Head of Training

Grade: 4

Post Reports to: Retail Engagement Director
Division: Retail

Business Unit: Retail Engagement

Budget Accountability:

Number of Direct / 4

Indirect Reports:

Location: Wood Street

Fit & Proper No

Requirements

Unique Position
Number:

Date of Job Evaluation

Purpose of the role

Lead and deliver an innovative approach to training of new and existing Postmasters. Design, deliver and
implement a centralized training delivery team.

Design and execute the delivery of internal processes relating to training of new Postmasters; in particular, drive
assurance measures to enable a full and complete human asset register (in essence understanding who works in
our Network), to ensure we are compliant with contracts that were agreed with 3rd party suppliers and meet
internal and external audit requirements.

Working cross functionally and collaboratively with senior stakeholders to deliver work-stream aims and
objectives, ensuring that training resources are effectively deployed against the critical success factors,
timescales, quality measures and overarching budget demands. Accordingly, the role requires a combination of
highly developed team leadership, along with the ability to drive stakeholder engagement and creatively lift the
training experience in order to nurture and maintain the postmaster of tomorrow.

The deliverables will be fundamental in the design and delivery of a streamlined approach to the training of
Postmasters, their teams and wider Post Office Ltd teams. This will include having the provision of dynamic
leadership of Regional Lead Training Managers, who will be the primary touch point of the new postmaster’s
training experience. In addition, the role will be fundamental in driving a revised, fit for purpose approach to
training, to ensure all new and existing postmasters have access to a modern training approach.

Version 1.0
POL00448046
POL00448046

Where does this role fit in within Post Office?

2
Cc
vo
ae
re)
bo 8
% oD
im
=a
o
£
ov
a

Principal accountabilities

Setting up the Training function, incorporating teams to review, design, and deliver training that meets our
Postmaster, GLO requirements, and teams to manage the scheduling, record keeping, evaluating and MI
reporting.

Lead on The Training Strategy, reviewing and introducing a Postmaster training overhaul — introducing a dynamic
training programme includes digital solutions, solutions to improve the reach e.g. mobile classrooms, video-link
classrooms, video tutorials.

Setting up and implementing the internal centralised Postmaster Training record database — this includes
capturing records of all New Postmaster initial and on-going operational training records.

Setting up and implementing an evaluation system — this includes designing the tools and methods to evaluate
training at all levels.

Reviewing and implementing change on the training phase for new Postmasters — dynamic scheduling, delivering
a professional consistent training suite both in the classroom and pre and post on-site go live.

Supporting the delivery of agreed business outcomes against KPI’s in support of Post Office strategy.

Develop strong cross-functional relationships to ensure that all parties are meeting their commitments to the
training function.

Lead on the design and delivery of a training accreditation scheme — ensuring all agent trainers are continually
meeting POLs agreed standards of training delivery.

Review all POL journey types and implement standardised field approach by working with the regional lead
training managers.

In accordance with the Post Office change governance model define and deliver an appropriate governance
structure that effectively controls the associated work-streams
POL00448046
POL00448046

Provide a control framework aligned with Change Management minimum standards (including documentation
and reporting) within which costs, benefits, risks, issues, standards, and quality can be measured and within
which project resource can coordinate their activities.

Ensure all supplier organisations are effectively engaged and managed to support project deliverables.
Responsible for ensuring compliance with any specific legislative, regulatory, or contractual requirements.

Knowledge, Experience and Skills
Highly developed leadership skills with the ability to challenge the status quo.
Experience or background from a training environment.

Excellent knowledge of Training related models, e.g. The Training Cycle and The Kirkpatrick Learning Evaluation
models enabling systematic approaches to the strategic delivery of learning and evaluation in POL agent teams.

A good network of external contacts in the Retail Industry to support research and ensure up to date systems,
practices and processes.

Project management skills — flexing between BAU and project activities and ensuring work is delivered to time
Very strong influencing skills, flexibility in style to enable effective interaction with differing groups of

stakeholders.

A good understanding of business strategy, policies, and operations, especially regarding operation of Local and
Main branches and the legal and contractual differential between the two models.

Strong change management skills, ability to work within a defined framework covering processes standards,
risk/issue/dependency management, change control and reporting.

High degree of analytical skills required to plan and manage resources and associated budgets.
Strong interpersonal and communication skills across a wide spectrum of internal and external senior
stakeholders

Ability to effectively manage conflict and broker acceptable solutions.

Ability to present effectively to all audience levels.

Ability to diversify and managing differing and varied workloads.

Excellent organisational and time management skills

Key Working Relationships

Who? When? To achieve what?
Commercial/Retail I weekly To design training packages to support
teams network initiatives and activity

