POL00269063
POL00269063

From: Alisdair Cameron

Sent: Thur 21/03/2019 9:57:23 AM (UTC)

To: ~~; Jane MacLeodI
Ce:

Subject:

Mark, gut feel we have down dialled too much on the “we are still changing” and it looks like we were just
saying that. I think the recognition that we need to change and will change needs to be at least as strong as
it was in the original statement to preserve it in the face of a move that appears contrary.

I would rather not comment on the strength of our defence. Not sure it is true or helpful.

I think we would like to say. “Advice from our existing and new legal advisors is that recusal is both justified
but also necessary to protect Post Offices.”

Ill be in by 10.30 but I am not happy as is. Thanks Al

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Finance & Operating Officer

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Mark R Davies!
Sent: 21 March 2019
To: Jane MacLeod <_
Cc: Mark Underwor
Melanie Corfield
Subject: Statement: legally privileged and strictly confidential
Importance: High

lisdair Cameron.
Patrick Bourke 4

All

As the application for recusal will be made this morning and likely to be public by lunchtime, we have
prepared the statement below with input from Portland and legal team.

I would Ike to send to the Board and BEIS/UKGI for information and we will also prepare [limited]
internal and stakeholder comms.

Are all content? Will have to send by 10 I think so apologies for short turnaround.

Mark
POL00269063
POL00269063

“We have reflected in great depth on the proceedings and detailed judgment from
the first trial and will continue to consider all options.

“As part of this, we have decided to make an application for the sitting Judge to
be recused from the ongoing and upcoming trials. We are acutely aware of the
significance of this application, but we have serious reservations about the
Judge’s ability to remain impartial in these proceedings.

“We firmly believe that this application is in the best interests of a stable and
sustainable Post Office network and the communities who rely on our services
every single day.

“We will continue to make operational and other improvements in the interests of
our customers and postmasters, including those raised by the judgment. The
applications we will be making [have made] reflects, however, our overall
confidence in the legal position relating to our defence of this group litigation.”
