POL00095521

POL00095521

» POLBO6(32b) - OPERATIONS FUNCTIONAL REPORT April 2006

CASH SERVICES

Track and. Trace :

The cash-in-transit track and trace system that provides a controlled electronic
receipting process and clear audit trail for the delivery and collection of notes, coin
and secure stock has been successfully deployed to all depots. The system is also
being used by the helpdesk in tracing missing pouches, and reports are available to
monitor and support customer quality of service. The:aim in‘the next quarter is to use
the system to drive forward improvements in.conformance.and quality of service.

Holdings and ONCH

This has been a hugely successful year in reducing overnight cash holdings both in
the retail network and, wholesale cash centre balances. The final outturn for the year
for retail was £471.8m average per night for the year against a target of £504.8m. A
further illustration of improvement in this area is the comparison against 2004/05
when the outturn for the year was .£556m. This has been achieved through
continuous and targeted cash management monitoring assisted further by stability in
branch business over the counter following the completion of benefit book migration.

Overnight cash holding in cash centres has also seen excellent performance out
turning at £66m against a target of £78m, this has been achieved within.the Bank.of
England Notes Circulation Scheme rules: for which no penalties have been ‘incurred.
Additionally there have been improvements in the management of wholesale coin
holdings, which have been reduced consistently over ‘the year.

Service Specification Project (SSP) :
The SSP has now reached a successful conclusion based on its original remit /
business case,

Over the last two years we have managed the.impact of changes in cash cycle
requirement within the network and aligned resources accordingly via revisions in
Cash in Transit units throughout the U.K:

Success include ~

e , National and local agreements to major change activity - unprecedented
change within CiT units .

. Introduction of 56 Cash in Transit revisions implemented over the two-year
period.

e Over achievement of targets that has‘delivered a staff reduction of 305 anda
vehicle reduction of 173. :

. A net benefit to the business of over £74M over the 5-year plan - including
ONCH impact. ,

. No loss of service due to industrial action as a result of revision activity.

° Maintenance:and overall.national improvement of Q of S to POL. Network.

Exiting the External Cash in Transit

The position currently is that.following guidance from group, work is ongoing, with the
CWU, to deliver a new vision for Cash Services which is'as follows: -

* We will return Cash Services external Cash-in-Transit work to profit during
07/08
POL00095521
POL00095521

¢ We will be. great cash-in-transit professionals offering good quality of service
to our customers

* We will serve profitable customers to ensure we are a viable and growing
player in the external cit market

e We will have a sustainable network which offers real job security and fair
reward to all employees

e We will, introduce a positive sea change in the Cash Services/CWU
relationship

Given the strategy of ‘playing these negotiations long’ there was always going to be a
point where pay would.enter these Exterrial Market consultations. We are at that
point now. One final meeting should see these agreements ratified and transferred
over to the pay negotiation team.

IT

Network Resilience - -

The software necessary to deploy an ISDN secondary network for c 2000 larger
branches and the GSM solution to limit the period of downtime for smaller branches
is now ready for implementation.

$90 Release .
This release, inter alia, transfers Bureau debit/ credit card transactions to the counter
from the stand alone device, introduces controls to ensure debit/credit Cards are
applied to. the correct transactions, introduces a generic out payments product that
will in the first instance.be used to’ re-engineer the Postal Order’ productiand
enhanced processes for the control of stocks of foreign currency. It also delivers a
plethora of change requests across a variety of existing capabilities.

The release continues to make good progress. There: have been a number of issues
in pilot but:these.have been quickly diagnosed and.resolved. The Bureau debit/credit *
card solution. is‘now live-in all on demand branches. Postal Orders'go to full pilot

next week having had a successful private pilot (employees and family).

On-Line availability
Work has been taking place to improve the availability to branches. This.joint

exercise between Operations Control, Fujistu, and BT is curreritly delivering the best
performance since Horizon was implemented.

COMMERCIAL I

Horizon Next. Generation

A business case for further interim cover of £4m was submitted to and approved by
the Investment committee. A paper has been produced for the RM Holdings Board at
the end of April requesting approval of HNG subject to a long term funding deal for
POL and requesting further release of interim funding (up to £25m) to cover the
period up to the end of 2006 to enable the programme to be. maintained to plan.

Analysis is underway with Group Tax to establish if there is scope to sell.some of
POL's capital losses to Fujitsu as part of the deal. Initial indications (including advice
from Slaughter & May):suggest that this will not be possible.
POLO00095521
POL00095521

EDS

Formal novation of Citibank’'s contract with EDS to JP Morgan, together with the
transfer of all the associated contracts between Citibank and card account customers
occurred on 3 March. As.a result JP Morgan take on all responsibility for fulfilment
that was done by Citibank.

A Request for Information (RFI) for a replacement for Card Account has been
prepared and will be circulated to interested parties next week. This will provide
information on what is available in the market to assist a response to a likely ITT from
Government later on this year.

Ric Francis
April 2006

