POL00313259

POL00313259
From: Rodric Williams[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RODRIC WILLIAMSE9C1 14F4-B03F-4595-B082-
CE89BE5C79D47B]
Sent: Wed 18/03/2015 3:15:12 PM (UTC)

To: Belinda Crowef’
Subject: Re: Horizon

Oops - the snow has frozen my brain!

I'll forward this to them.

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: Wednesday, March 18, 2015 03:44 PM
To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: Horizon

Any reason why this cannot be passed to Mel and Mark Davies? They need to know for the comms lines as we have
previously said that we are not aware that anyone has appealed.

Glad you are having a good time.

B

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 18 March 2015 14:17

To: Jane MacLeod

Cc: Jessica Madron; Belinda Crowe; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; 'Gavin.Matthews:
Subject: Re: Horizon

Thanks Jane - blue skies and spring snow in Chamonix so all's good thanks!

I'll go back to CCRC as per my email, adding that you and I will be the contacts going forward. I'll also have a think
about our protocol for responding to further s17 Notices (on which we could get Brian's input at our con).

Rod

From: Jane MacLeod
Sent: Wednesday, March 18, 2015 02:51 PM
To: Rodric Williams
POL00313259
POL00313259

atrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; 'Gavin.Matthewst_

ubject: RE: Horizon
Thanks Rod

I agree with your holding email back to CCRC and I agree we should meet them — if nothing else to show that we are
not being uncooperative. In the meantime it would be good to progress the discussions on risk.

Please note they have asked for ‘formal’ contact details as to where requests for information should be sent. I
suggest that you say that this is you & me.

I hope you are enjoying the skiing!

Jane

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 18 March 2015 13:13
To: Jane MacLeod

Cc: Jessica Madron; Belinda Crowe; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; 'Gavin.Matthew:
Subject: Fw: Horizon .

Jane - please see the email below from the CCRC. Two things of note:

1. CCRC want to meet; and
2. CCRC have now received applications from convicted postmasters.

lam trying to progress with BD/Brian Altman QC the discussion we had on Friday so that ideally we have a con early
next week which considers both how we get comfort over the safety of past prosecutions, and our further
engagement with the CCRC.

In the meantime, I propose responding to CCRC's email by acknowledging receipt, noting that I'm out of the office for
the rest of the week but that I have forwarded the email internally so that we can respond early next week (if that's
acceptable),

Do you agree?

Kind regards, Rod

From: StuartF [mailto:
Sent: Wednesday, March 18, 2015 0
To: Rodric Williams

Subject: Horizon

Hi Rodric

I trust this email finds you well.

I have a couple of things which I hope you can help me with.
POL00313259
POL00313259

Following discussions with Sally Berlin, the CCRC Director of Casework, we think that perhaps it may be useful to
arrange a meeting between CCRC and POL so that we can better establish the issues and clarify the level of CCRC
involvement. Is this something that you would be amenable to?

Secondly, we have now started to receive applications from individuals who may be affected by any Horizon issues.
As is standard practice, the Commission will send out a section 17 request to any prosecuting authority for information
and the preservation of material relating to an applicant. When dealing with CPS, we send both hard and electronic
copies. Do you have an appropriate email address for your legal department that we could use for these requests?

Many thanks
Frazer

Frazer Stuart

Legal Advisor to the Criminal Cases Review Commission
e GRO

w: http://www. justice.gov.uk/about/criminal-cases-review-commission

The Criminal Cases Review Commission
5 St Philip's Place

Birmingham

B3 2PW

JES IB ISIE IIIS IIS IIS III ISIS III III III III III III III II III III

The information contained in this e-mail and any files transmitted with it is
confidential and is intended for the use of the person(s) or entity named above.
If you are not the intended recipient of this communication, any disclosure,
copying, distribution, or any action taken in reliance on it is prohibited and

may be unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please
return it immediately to the sender by replying to it and then delete the
message from your computer.

We may monitor the content of e-mails sent and received via our network for the
purposes of ensuring compliance with policies and procedures.

Viruses: Although we have taken steps to ensure that this e-mail and attachments
are free from any virus we advise that in keeping with good computing practice
the recipient should ensure they are actually virus free.

The original of this email was scanned for viruses by the Government Secure Intranet virus scanning service
supplied by Vodafone in partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) This email
has been certified virus free.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
