POL00423468

POL00423468
Agenda
POST OFFICE LIMITED

Meeting: Audit, Risk & Compliance

Committee (ARC)
Date: 28 January 2020
Time: 09.30 - 12.00
Location: 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20

Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y

9AQ
Present: Other Attendees:

Carla Stent (Chair)

Jeff Smyth (Digital Technology Director, CIO FST &
Identity): Item 4

Ken McCall (SID)

Rob Wilkins (Portfolio Director): Item 4

Tom Cooper (NED, UKGI)

Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer): Items 4,
12.4

Zarin Patel (NED)

Andrew Goddard (Managing Director, Payzone): Item 5

Mark Dixon (Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance): Items 6,
7

Regular Attendees:

Dan Zinner (Chief Transformation Officer): Item 8

Tim Parker (Chairman, POL)

Sally Smith (MLRO): Item 9

Nick Read (CEO)
Alisdair Cameron (CFO)

Tim Armit (Business Continuity Manager): Item 10
Meredith Sharples (Director, Telecoms): Item 11.4

Ben Foat (General Counsel)

Andrew Paynter (Audit Partner, PwC)
Sarah Allen (Audit Senior Manager, PwC)

Observers:
Rebecca Barker (Head of IT & Digital Risk)

Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit)

Audrey Cahill (Risk Business Partner, Central Risk)

Mark Baldock (Head of Risk)

Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director)
David Parry (Senior Assistant Company Secretary)

Time Item Owner Action
09:30 1. Welcome & Conflicts of Interest Chair Noting
09:35 2. Update from Subsidaries: Chair
Post Office Management Services (ARC) Noting
09:40 3. Previous Meetings Chair
3.1. Minutes: 25 November 2019 Approval
3.2 Minutes: 25 November 2019 closed
session
3.3 Action List Noting & Input
3.4 Draft Risk and Compliance Noting
Committee Minutes 14 January 2019
09:45 4, PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update Jeff Smyth Discussion
4.1 PCI-DSS - verbal update Rob Wilkins
4.2 Cyber Security Update Tony
Jowett
10:00 5. Payzone Risk Report Andrew Noting
Goddard
10:15 6. Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy Mark Dixon Noting, Approval
10:25 7. Corporate Insurance Renewal Mark Dixon Ratify

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Ci

ompliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468

POL00423468
Agenda
10:30 8. Strategic Portfolio Office Change Control Dan Zinner Noting
Environment Update
10:40 9. Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) — Sally Smith Noting
Annual Report
11.00 10. Business Continuity Update Tim Armit Noting
11:10 11. Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance
and Internal Audit
11:10 11.1 Risk Report Mark Noting
Baldock
11:20 11.2 Compliance Report Jonathan Noting
Hill
11:30 11.3 Internal Audit Report Johann Noting
Appel
11.40 11.4 PSD2 Implementation - verbal update Meredith Noting
Sharples
11:50 12. Policies for Approval Approval
12.1 Cyber and Information Security Policy Tony
Jowett
11:55 13. Any other Business Chair

20f91

Next ARC Meeting: Tuesday, 24 March 2020 at 09.00 to 11.30 in 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20
Tab 2 Update from Subsidiaries

Post Office Limited

Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title:

Post Office Insurance ARC Update

Meeting Date:

28 January 2020

Author:

Ian Holloway, Director of Risk and Compliance, Post
Office Insurance

Sponsor:

Amanda Bowe, POI ARC Chair

Input Sought

Action Required:

Noting

Previous Governance
Oversight:

POI ARC November 2019

Executive Summary

This paper provides a concise update on relevant
POI matters for consideration by the POL ARC.

The report is relatively short as Post Office
Insurance (POI) ARC does not meet until 5 February

Context: 2020.
A further update on anything material emerging
from the February meeting will be provided in March
2020 to POL ARC.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

3 of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 2 Update from Subsidiaries

@

Questions asked & addressed

1. What are the key points considered within the POI Risk and Compliance meeting which the
POL Risk Committee should be aware of?

2. Quality of sales improvement - At the November ARC, a first line paper was presented
on the quality of sales within the branch network. Whilst some improvements have been
seen in overall sales quality as measured by videoed mystery shops, issues remain. These
issues are often simple issues such as not discussing the wider POI protection product range
or not asking smoking questions appropriately.

3. There is no evidence from downstream indicators such as complaints or claims declinature
that customers are achieving poor outcomes, but POI Management are clear that more work
is required to achieve appropriate sales quality. POI are making term assurance sales
introducer only and are withdrawing the Easylife product from branch sale. This leaves only
travel and Over 50s life as branch based offerings. These changes will be complete by 31
January 2020. Both of these products sell relatively poorly in branch and the lack of sales
volume inevitably contributes to overall quality issues. POI Management will also focus on
enhancing training and working on a clearer channel strategy for the branch network. It
will also look at the feasibility of directly controlling mystery shopping activity so it can
better focus work on areas of greatest concern.

4. Data breach - Data relating to 104 travel customers was inadvertently mailed to a
marketing agency without appropriate encryption. The data was not transferred elsewhere
and confirmation of the deletion of this email was confirmed. The staff member is currently
subject to a POL HR process. POI Management note the group-wide need to have a more
appropriate culture around data security. To this end it is increasing internal staff awareness
and training and is also working with the Group CISO on further tightening controls which
govern external data transmission.

5. Risk Management - SMCR implementation is now complete. The project came in on time
and under budget. POI continues to run off the TIF relationship in accordance with the
agreed run-off arrangement. Less than c.5,000 TIF policies are now remaining.

6. Vulnerable Customers - Work to create a clearer and more descriptive vulnerable
customer flag within our key trading systems is being scheduled as part of our change plan.
Timescales for this work should be agreed by the end of January.

7. GI Pricing - The POL ARC received a comprehensive update on emerging FCA thinking in
our update to the last Committee. POI will continue to review our approach as further FCA
policy emerges, as well as ensuring our current approach results in fair outcomes for
customers in line with our pricing policy. No further FCA output has been produced at this
stage and POI continues to maintain a watching brief.

Confidential

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 25 November 2019

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE OF POST OFFICE LIMITED HELD ON MONDAY 25
NOVEMBER 2019 AT 20 FINSBURY STREET, LONDON EC2Y 9AQ AT 16.00 PM

Present: Carla Stent
Tom Cooper
Ken McCall

In Attendance: Nick Read
Alisdair Cameron
Ben Foat
Andrew Paynter
Sarah Allen
Rosie Clifton
Johann Appel
Jenny Ellwood
Paul Beaumont

Tom Lee

David Parry
Edward Dutton
Shikha Hornsey
Tony Jowett
Amanda Jones
Cathy Mayor
Sally Smith

Chris Russell
Nigel Boardman (Observer)

Mark Baldock (Observer)
Hugo Sharpe (Observer)

Chair (CS)

Non-Executive Director (TC)

Senior Independent Director (KM)

Chief Executive Officer (NR)

Chief Finance and Operations Officer (AC)

General Counsel (BF)

Group Audit Partner, PwC (AP)

Group Audit Senior Manager, PwC (SA)

Group Audit Manager, PwC (RC)

Head of Internal Audit (JA)

Risk Director (JE)

Head of Financial Services Regulation and Compliance
(PB)

Head of Finance, Financial Accounting and Controls (TL)
Senior Assistant Company Secretary (DP)

Interim Managing Director PO Insurance (ED) (item 2)
Group Chief Information Officer (SH) (item 4)

Chief Information Security Officer (TJ) (item 4)

Retail Director (AJ) (item 7)

Finance Director, Retail (CM) (item 7)

Money Laundering Reporting Officer & Head of Financial
Crime (SS) (item 8) via telephone

Head of Data Protection and Information Rights & Data
(CR) (item 11)

Audit and Risk Assurance Committee Chair, BEIS (NB)
Head of Change Risk and Assurance (MB)

1A Audit Partner, Deloitte (HS)

Apologies: Tim Franklin

Action
1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest
1a The Directors declared that they had no new conflicts of interest in the matters to be

considered at the meeting in accordance with the requirements of section 177 of the
Companies Act 2006 and the Company's Articles of Association.

1.2 The Chair welcomed observers NB, MB and HS and advised that all papers were taken as
read.
2. Update from Subsidiaries

ED provided a quick overview of the key issues discussed at the recent Post Office Insurance
(POI) Audit and Risk Committee meeting of 19 November:

¢ Whilst overall sales quality had improved, simple issues remain such as not
discussing the wider POI protection product range. Management focus would be on
enhancing training and working on a clearer channel strategy for the branch

network.

© Over 50s insurance remains a key area of sales, however term assurance sales would
be reviewed due to compliance issues, and the Easylife insurance product would be
withdrawn for sale from 1 January 2020 due to poor sales.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 5 of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 25 November 2019

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

The Senior Manager and Certification Regime (SMCR) programme (effective 9
December 2019) is on track and a revised structure plan has been accepted by the
FCA.

¢ In line with best practice and following updated FCA guidance, it was agreed that
PO! would formally record customer vulnerabilities via a systems flag at the point of
sale.

© Being a current issue of industry debate, general insurance pricing was discussed
more formally at Board rather than ARC. POIs key influence on price was the
commission added to net premiums, which on average are well within accepted
limits. However, regulatory focus on limiting the commission that could be charged
to the policy meant a watching brief would remain. More sophisticated pricing
limits are to be considered.

The Board also noted that the regulator was considering a number of broad market
based actions (such as automatic renewals) to limit detriment to long standing
customers. This would be kept under review.

3. Minutes and Matters Arising

3:1. The minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee held on 23 September were
APPROVED and AUTHORISED for signature by the Chairman.

3.2 Progress with the completion of actions as shown on the action log was NOTED.

3.3 The draft minutes of the Risk and Compliance Committee held on 7 November 2019 were
NOTED.

4. Cyber Security Update

4a TJ reported that following completion of Deloitte’s recommendations, focus had been on

reducing the maturity gap between the current and target maturity - reduced by 54% since
the last Committee meeting. The project remained on track to be completed in March 2020
with an internal audit review of the work completed to date in April 2020.

42 The team had commenced a project to refresh the Cyber Strategy along with a data loss
prevention pilot. Initial findings from the pilot had identified a member of staff in POI,
sharing customer records non-maliciously as part of a group MBA project. It was noted that
personal details of the customers had been deleted.

43 TJ advised the member of staff involved had initially been suspended with the regulators
(ICO, FCA) informed of the breach, and subsequently given a final written warning. Group
members (those on the MBA project) had also confirmed they had deleted the data.

44 In view of the records impacted (c.19,000 customer records), KM believed the suspension
was too lenient and that a stronger message should be communicated to the business. Both
AC and NR noted the decision was made by PO! management, but recognised that future
tolerance levels could be reviewed.

45 The Committee also discussed joiners, movers and leavers. Whilst progress has been made
to introduce more rigorous procedures for employees, concern remains that consultants
who no longer worked for POL still have access to the POL emails and systems. A review
would be completed.

5. Contract Management

5.1 BF explained that contracts management within POL was poor and required improvement.
decentralised model would be introduced placing accountability on relationship managers
for the contracts journey/lifespan.

Committee-28/01/20

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliancs

POL00423468
POL00423468

Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 25 November 2019

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

5.2 The Committee agreed the approach was sensible, but raised a number of concerns:

Funding, both financial and cultural was required before the framework could be
implemented.

Accountability - who would be accountable for the Top SO contracts i.e. those that
had the greatest financial and strategic value. Surely it should be a GE member?

« A number of key contracts were missing from the Top 50 list, including the
shareholder agreement between BEIS and POL; POL’s funding agreement with the
Government and the FRES contract.

53 The Committee requested the following: Action:

1. That the top 50 list be reviewed and an update paper presented in March 2020. BF

2. That the full accountability matrix based on the RACI principles should be compiled and
presented to the Committee. It was discussed and agreed that this should be extended
to all functions (not just contract management). The Operational Risk team will assist
NR.

3. That the Auditors (both external and internal) provide any examples of best practice
that could be implemented.

MB/NR

PwC/

Deloitte

5.4 It was AGREED that AC would obtain funding for the contract management framework. Action:
AC

6. Designation as an Accountable Person (AP)

61 The Committee noted NR was POL’s AP responsible for the governance, decision making and
financial management of POL under the terms of Her Majesty's Treasury’s Managing Public
Monday. He would be called to give evidence to Parliament if summoned.

6.2 An annual update alongside the ARA would be produced to provide assurance to the
Committee and Shareholder that the AP’s responsibilities had been met.

7. Commercial Partner Contingency Paper (McColls)

7A AJ explained this was a follow up to September’s Committee discussion, where McColls had
been identified as a partner of concern i.e. at increased risk of financial instability. McColls
is a partner of considerable importance, with a current POL estate of 615 (+27 outreach)
branches serving 600,000 customers a week, generating £32m of POL income per annum.

72 CM advised that a business decision had been made not to subscribe to Thomson Reuters
information service, as the insight information provided would not impact/affect POL’s
mitigating actions should a partner cease to exist.

73 With support from insolvency specialists (KPMG), the team had developed a number of
scenario based events and POL’s mitigating actions where a commercial partner became
insolvent or went out of business. AJ advised that focus would be on re-opening branches
as soon as practically possible, however, where sites could not be re-opened, the site would
be secured and cash removed from the premises. Workshops are planned to test response
plans.

74 The Committee questioned:

1. Whether a subscription service should be taken with a credit agency/insurer to provide
insight information;

2. How POL could de-risk itself over the next three years. In view of the size of McColl’s
estate, KM questioned whether a strategic review to cap partner estates (to reduce the
risk and impact on POL) should be completed by the POL Board.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 7 of 91

Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 25 November 2019

75

8.1

8.2

8.3

8.4

8.5

8.6

8.7
8.8

8.9

8.10

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

In view of the Christmas trading period, the Committee AGREED an update paper should be Action:

presented in March (2020) to include results from planned test response workshop. AJ
Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit departments
Risk

JE presented an update on POL’s current risk profile with the following key risks discussed:

PCI Compliance;

© People;

© Payzone;

Brexit and the general election.
PCI Compliance

The project remains red due to the lack of progress, outstanding detailed plans and no
realistic alternate solutions available. Changes in senior management at Ingenico had also
delayed priority talks with the CEO. It was noted that members of the Committee had
discussed this subject in detail at a dedicated meeting.

People

JE advised that there is concern the corporate memory could be lost following the
introduction of the spans and layers work. It was noted that the RACI framework (referred
to in 5.3(2) above would assist in ensuring that responsibilities were understood and that
handover was effective.

Payzone

Good progress had been made in the development of Payzone’s risk management
framework, risk appetite statements and risk register. A dedicated POL business partner for
Payzone had been introduced.

Brexit and the general election.

Planning and regular meetings with BEIS for a ‘no deal’ exit continue. Depending upon
general election results, the Committee noted that POL may be required to change its mails
process between the UK and Northern Ireland, and that the new Government's position on
POL may change.

Archer: JE advised that an advisory review by Deloitte of the phase 1 of the Archer
development work was satisfactory.

Compliance
SS highlighted the following key compliance issues.

Text Relay
The team has responded to Ofcom’s requests for information and that the regulator
remained open to reaching a settlement rather than issuing a penalty.

Fit & Proper
As at 13 November 2019, 100 branches remained non-compliant (cf 186 in October) with 85
branches being de-registered from HMRC. The Committee noted and thanked the team for
the progress made.

External Threats — banking framework

Asa result of a spate of complex criminal banking deposit cases valued at £16m (where cash
deposited at POL branches is subsequently used for criminal activity), the Financial Crime

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 25 November 2019

8.11

8.13

8.14

8.15
8.16

8.17

8.18

9.2

10.

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

team visited 52 sites in London in October to raise awareness of the importance of
completing suspicious activity reports. (London was selected due to the majority of
incidents occurring in London.)

Branch feedback had been positive, but greater awareness and monitoring is required within
POL and POL’s partner banks.

Gambling Commission — vulnerable clients

SS noted the regulators stronger approach to organisations that had failed vulnerable
clients. In view of the change, a business decision had been made to withdraw a number of
National Lottery scratch-cards for sale. (Currently there are no limits on the number of
scratch-cards that can be sold to customers and no guidance issued to staff when dealing
with vulnerable customers.)

Internal Audit

JA reported good progress had been made with the delivery of the 2019/20 IA programme,
with 11 audits finalised since the last Committee meeting. Approval was sought, and given,
to postpone the Branch Cash Forecasting IA to the 2020/21 IA programme to allow for the
current re-engineering of the process and to embed new controls.

The following IA’s were discussed.
Data Analytics

The Committee noted AC’s comments that the report findings did not present a positive
image. Progress had been made with the appointment of a new head of data. (The work
relationships between the previous teams now disbanded had broken down; GE recognised
that MI, data governance required improvement.)

The Committee requested learnings be taken away.
Employee expenses

JA advised that a follow-up audit on Employee Expenses had found an improved control
environment (previously recorded as red in 2018/19). Remedial work had been completed
and a new Travel and Expenses policy published and communicated to staff.

Payzone Control Environment

JA reported the control environment within Finance and IT functions at Payzone was as a
whole mostly sound and fit for purpose. A separation project from the previous owners
remains on track.

There are no IA actions overdue ;and the Committee commended the teams on achieving
this.

Policies for Approval
The following policies were APPROVED:

© Change Management Policy — subject to the inclusion of POMs into the group policy.
* Personal Data Protection Policy.
© Risk Policy.

POL00423468
POL00423468

The Committee requested the Risk Appetite Statement be circulated to the Committee. Action:

JE
Pension Scheme Controls

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

9 of 91
Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 25 November 2019

10 of 91

10.1

11.

11.1

11.2

11.3

11.4

12.
12.1
12.2

12.5

12.6

13.
13.1
13.2
14.

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

It was noted that there had been no breaches to draw to the Committee’s attention.
UK Data Protection Act (including GDPR) Compliance Status Report

CR explained that whilst POL was not 100% compliant with GDPR, he was comfortable with
the current position noting POL was on par with/ahead of most organisations. There are
two areas for remediation being contract remediation (with 12 contracts considered high
risk) and the measurement and demonstration of on-going compliance.

Regarding compliance with the Data Protection Act 2018, the work had been split into two
phases, the first concentrating on the use of customer data (now completed) and the second
on updating administrative processes and controls.

Work on Phase 1 had been reviewed by PwC with no significant failings found and phase 2
was in transit and included contract remediation (as mentioned above).

He further advised that all incidents and breaches reported to the ICO had been found to be
in POL’s favour.

Post Office Limited Audit Strategy Memorandum (Year ending 29 March 2020)
AP presented an update on the POL audit for year ending 29 March 2020.

He remarked the audit risk was similar to last year but had two significant risks of Group
Litigation and Going Concern (to reflect the expiry of current shareholder funding in March
2021), and a number of elevated risks:

¢ Risk of management override of control;

¢ Fraud in revenue recognition;

« Impairment of intangible assets subject to amortisation;
¢ Impairment of fixed assets.

Overall materiality had been provisionally set at {1 { slightly higher than 2018/19 at
and that the Committee would be advised of any uncorrected misstatements in

excess of

The audit would be completed via a balanced robust approach: testing systems, transactions
and the control environment and also reviewing systems identified as critical for the revenue
business cycle (Horizon Online system and CFS).

POI and Payzone Bill Payments Limited are not significant components for the purposes of
the Group audit (but are separate legal entities subject to audit by PwC in parallel /
thereafter). However the PO! goodwill balance within POL is material and will be subject to
review as part of the POL Group audit. Gary Shaw (POI engagement leader) will provide
support in this regard. KPMG are the statutory auditors of the FRES joint venture and in
view of its materiality to POL's results, PwC will instruct KPMG to perform a full scope audit
of FRES as part of the POL Group audit.

He noted the fee proposal is under discussion and did not believe the Group Litigation
should affect the signing of the ARA.

ARC Meeting Dates 2020 — 2021

The Committee noted the meeting dates.

An additional meeting would be arranged in June 2020 to deal solely with the ARA.
AOB

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 25 November 2019

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING

Strictly Confidential

14.1 The Chair thanked JE for her contribution to ARC and POL and wished her well in her future
endeavours.

14.2 NB thanked the Chair and the Committee for the opportunity to observe the meeting, noting

that the complexity and breadth of topics that were discussed in an open, informative and
transparent manner.

14.2 There being no further business, the meeting was closed.

Actions from meeting

Minute Action Lead Due
Date
5.3 Contract Management Action: I March
The Committee requested the following: 2020
1. That the top 50 list be reviewed and an update paper BE
presented in March 2020.
2. That the full accountability matrix based on the RACI MB/NR
principles should be compiled and presented to the
Committee. It was discussed and agreed that this should
be extended to all functions (not just contract
management). The Operational Risk team will assist NR.
3. That the Auditors (both external and internal) provide Pw
any examples of best practice that could be I P@Oitte
implemented.
5.4 Contract Management Action:
It was AGREED that AC would obtain funding for the contract I AC
management framework.
75 Commercial Partner Contingency Paper (McColls) Action: I March
In view of the Christmas trading period, the Committee al ceed
AGREED an update paper should be presented in March
(2020) to include results from planned test response
workshop.
9.2 Policies for Approval Action: I ASAP
The Committee requested the Risk Appetite Statement be I JE
circulated to the Committee.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

11 of 91
Tab 3.2 Minutes of the Audit, Risk and

12 of 91

MINUTES OF A CLOSED MEETING OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE OF POST OFFICE LIMITED HELD ON

Compliance Committee closed session held on 25 Novemb'

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

MONDAY 25 NOVEMBER 2019 AT 20 FINSBURY STREET, LONDON EC2Y 9AQ AT 15.30 PM

Present:

Carla Stent Chair (CS)
Tom Cooper Non-Executive Director (TC)
Ken McCall Senior Independent Director (KM)

In Attendance: Nick Read Chief Executive Officer (NR)

Apologies:

12

13

14

i5

Alisdair Cameron Chief Finance and Operations Officer (AC)
Andrew Paynter Group Audit Partner, PwC (AP)

Shikha Hornsey Group Chief Information Officer (SH)
David Parry Senior Assistant Company Secretary (DP)

Tim Franklin

PCI-Dss

The Chair advised the purpose of the meeting was to discuss the Committee’s ongoing
frustration with PCl compliance and sought to understand what plans/solutions were in
place to meet compliance.

Following a meeting with Ingenico in October, SH had been provided with assurance that
POL was considered to be a high value client, and would be afforded their “Hypercare”
package.

SH believed Ingenico fully understood POL’s requirements and that the correct solution was
now being developed but remained concerned that the poor levels of communication
between POL and Ingenico continued to hinder progress. The new solution/proposal was
subject to increased costs and timelines for compliance, compliance was now projected for
Q1 2021 (original plan was for completion in Q1 2020) and costs for implementation had
increased by! a

Noting the above concerns, the Committee sought to understand the following:

1. Had CEO level talks taken place, as previously requested by the Committee?
No CEO level talks had not taken place due to senior management changes at Ingenico,
however NR recognised these must now be completed. Action: NR to arrange CEO level
meeting as soon as possible.

2. Are there any credible alternative providers who could provide the bespoke model POL
required?
There were no credible alternative providers for the combined activity that POL
undertakes although there are realistic standalone models that would be suitable for
POL but would not provide an integrated solution.

3. Should Ingenico be unable or unwilling to meet compliance, was a Plan B in place and
should internal resource be provided to enhance compliance?
Yes a plan B was in place, but SH had concerns with timeframes for completion. The use
of internal resource was an option under consideration and needs to be discussed in
more detail with Ingenico. Action: NR to discuss in the CEO to CEO meeting.

The Committee noted the project was in a critical phase. As there was no known credible
alternative integrated solution, a parliamentary question had been received on the status
of POL’s PCI compliance and the costs and timeframes for compliance had increased, POL
would be taking a significant risk accepting the new proposal.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Action

Action:
NR

NR
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 3.2 Minutes of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee closed session held on 25 November 2019

®
POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential
The Committee expressed real disappointment with the programme and the level of
engagement by Ingenico. After discussion, it was agreed that the CEO to CEO meeting was
critical to establishing the level of engagement and confidence around a final
implementation date, hopefully earlier than Q1 2021. Thereafter, careful communication of
the status would be required, internally and externally.
1.6 KM suggested that a one off contract (under English law) be drafted for the new proposal
with significant penalties for non-compliance. He queried whether the gesture of a goodwill
bonus would ensure compliance.
17 TM sought to understand whether IP rights could be purchased and by when.
2. Next Steps
21 Noting discretion was essential, the following was AGREED: Action:
1. NR to arrange CEO level talks with Ingenico as soon as possible. “
2. Plan B to be investigated further. SH
3. Consideration should be given to a goodwill bonus along with a separate contract
drafted under English law for the new proposal only. NR
4. NR to discuss timeframes, and use of internal resource in CEO to CEO talks. SH
5. Consideration to be given to the acquisition of IP rights.
2.2 There being no further business, the meeting was closed.
Actions from meeting
Minute Action Lead Due
Date
21 Noting discretion was essential, the following was AGREED: ASAP
1. NR to hold CEO level talks with Ingenico. ‘
2. Plan B to be investigated further. SH
3. Consideration should be given to a goodwill bonus along
with a separate contract drafted under English law for the
new proposal only.
4. NR to discuss timeframes, and use of internal resource in NR

CEO to CEO talks.
5. Consideration to be given to the acquisition of IP rights.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 13 of 91
164° bh

02/L0/g2-Ban!WUWIOD soueIIdWOD YS IPN - PAIL! BOWIO 1S0q

5. Contract Mana

Post Office Limited — Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Actions List

ement

Updated 21.01.20

POL00423468

POL00423468

ISI] suonoy €'¢ GeL

5.3

BF to review and present Top SO contracts
i.e, those with the greatest financial and
strategic value.

BF

March 2020 I Under review and on-train.

Open

5.3

MB/NR That the full accountability matrix
based on the RACI principles should be
compiled and presented to the Committee. It
was discussed and agreed that this should be
extended to all functions (not just contract
management). The Operational Risk team will
assist NR.

MB/NR

March 2020 I An updated matrix will be presented once NR confirms his new
management structure and accountabilities.

Open

5.3

Auditors to provide examples of best practice
for contracts mai inagement.

March 2020

Open

7. Commercial Partner Contingency Paper (McColls)

75

An update paper on how POL would de-risk
itself over the next 3 years. Whether a
strategic review to cap partner estates (to
reduce the risk and impact on POL) should be
completed by the POL Board.

March 2020

Open

TC to hold talks with his French counterparts I TC
to progress PCI compliance

6. Transformation Office Changes

02/LO/8z-9enIWIIOD BoUEIAWOD -g 4SIY PNY - PAIIWII B0NJO IS0d

1640 SL

POL00423468

POL00423468
a
&
Post Office Limited — Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Actions List '
Updated 21.01.20 2
6.5 Consider the prioritisation of the change Dz January To be included in January Board agenda. Open F4
portfolio at the POL Board 2020 &
6. Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report
6. (a) To provide regular updates on the complete I Nick Ongoing Ongoing until project close. Item included on ARC agenda. Open
fit and proper data to HMRC. Boden/
Sally Smith
7. Security Strate;
7. (a) To provide quarterly reports to the ARC Rob May 2019 Ongoing. Item included on ARC forward agenda. Open
showing how we were performing against theI Houghton
metrics agreed to implement the Security / Mick
Strategy once the deep dive with Deloitte hadI Mitchell
taken place.
9. Audit To consider a deep dive on Successfactors _I Exec Proposals for deep dives and the sequencing of these will be Open
Strategy given the cost of the system and its limited July 2019 brought to the May ARC meeting. Proposals will now be brought to
Memorandum I functionality. the July ARC meeting.

Tab 3.4 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 January 2019

Present: Alisdair Cameron (Chair) (AC) Chief Financial Officer
Nick Read Chief Executive Officer
Ben Foat (BF) General Counsel
Shikha Hornsey (SH) Group Chief Information Officer
Cathy Mayor (CM) Finance Director, Retail (deputising for Debbie Smith)
Stephen O'Reilly HR Director - Business Partnering & Recruitment
(deputising for Lisa Cherry)
Chrysanthy Pispinis (CP) Post Office Money Director (deputising for Owen
Woodley)
In Johann Appel (JA) Head of Internal Audit
Attendance:
Mark Baldock (MB) Head of Risk
Jonathan Hill (JH) Compliance Director
Tom Lee (TL) Head of Finance, Financial Accounting and Controls
David Parry (DP) Senior Assistant Company Secretary
Tony Jowett (TJ) Chief Information Security Officer (items 4, 5)
Meredith Sharples (MS) Director, Telecoms (items 6.15 -)
Barbara Brannon (BB) Procurement Director (item 7)
Mark Dixon (MD) Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance (item 8)
Dan Zinner (DZ) Chief Transformation Officer (item 9)
Sally Smith (SS) Money Laundering Reporting Officer and Head of
Financial Crime (Item 10)
Tim Armit (TA) Business Continuity Manager (item 11)
Apologies Lisa Cherry, Group HR Director; Shikha Hornsey, Group Chief Information Officer; Debbie Smith, Chief
Executive Retail; Owen Woodley, CE Financial Services & Telecoms;

1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest

1.1 AC opened the meeting and advised that papers would be taken as read.

1.2 The Directors declared that they had no new conflicts of interest in the matters to be considered at the
meeting in accordance with the requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's
Articles of Association.

2. Minutes and Action Lists

2.1 The minutes of the RCC meeting held 7 November were APPROVED.

2.2 Progress on completion of actions as shown on the action log was NOTED.

3. PCI-DSS Update

3.1 Due to illness, an update on PCI-DSS would be provided by SH to GE (General Executive) on Monday 20
January 2020.

4. Cyber Security

4.1 TJ provided an update on Cyber Security. He reported that currently POL performs routine testing for table
top incident response exercises, red team testing, penetration testing and vulnerability scanning. JA
confirmed that the internal audit found that good progress had been made in enhancing POL’s cyber
maturity with no real areas of concern for noting.

4.2 NR received confirmation that POL (and its subsidiaries) could be held to a ransomware attack as had

16 of 91

POST OFFICE LIMITED RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Minutes of a Risk and Compliance (“RCC”) meeting held at
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ
on 14 January 2020 at 14.00 pm

recently happened with Travelex. TJ advised that in this scenario, payment would not be made, and that
POL would look to bypass the attack and start again. Data was backed-up on a daily basis.

Strictly Confidential Page 10f4

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Actions
Tab 3.4 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance C

43

6.1

6.2

6.3

6.4

6.5

6.6

6.7

6.8
69

6.10

6.11

6.12

6.13
6.14

6.15

mmittee held on 14 January 2019

BF queried whether POL should be benchmarked against other government owned organisations and what
POL’s level of maturity compared was to these organisations. NR advised that as part of the Deloitte review
of cyber security, a decision had been made for POL to benchmark against Financial Services and Retail
organisations/institutions rather than government owned institutions. There were no plans to benchmark
against government institutions.

Policies for Approval - Cyber and Information Security Policy

The Policy was approved.

It was noted the policy was an amalgamation of the IT Security, Acceptable Use and the Document
Retention and Disposal policies. This was to avoid duplication, to provide one source of information, and
to align the policy with current cyber security needs.

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

Risk

The top risks of PCI, Retail Proposition, Group Litigation, IT Technology and Interruption, People, Business
Continuity, Payzone and Brexit were noted, with the following points discussed.

PCI Compliance - the project remained “Red” overall against current plan. Compliance was now expected
in Q1 2021 and plans and costs from Ingenico remained outstanding.

Retail Proposition — MB advised that some agents considered POL costly, complex and unattractive to join,
however it was noted recent increases in agent remuneration should improve branch sustainability.
Group Litigation — BF advised that the class action had closed, but that the litigation remained ongoing.
The risk remained post settlement.

Brexit — fortnightly meetings with BEIS continued. MB noted the process to process mails between the UK
and Northern Ireland post Brexit may need amending to allow for the completion of EU custom declaration
forms for post being sent from UK to Northern Ireland.

Compliance

PSD2 Implementation — PSD2 (Payment Services Directive 2) is an EU directive aimed at improving
consumer rights and enhancing online security which came into force in January 2018. Initial legal advice
received had advised that the directive did not apply to POL, however, subsequent legal advice countered
this claim.

The Committee queried the lack of urgency in making the necessary changes required, and questioned why
the regulator had not been informed of non-compliance. NR and AC requested that as a matter of urgency,
the regulator be informed (to avoid a repeat of the Text Relay Issue). BF advised a letter for Meredith
Sharples to be sent to the regulator yesterday had been approved by Legal.

A separate paper on PSD2 would be discussed later in the meeting.

Data Protection (review of cookie approach) — recent guidance from the Information Commissioners Office
clarified the management of cookies on the Internet and Applications which had identified that POL was
non-compliant. The Digital, Legal and Data Protection teams are working on solutions to mitigate this issue
and a paper is to be presented to the GE in January. BF requested that industry literature and third party
assurance be sought.

Contract Remediation — further analysis had identified 199 additional contracts that required remediation.
The programme is planned to conclude in July 2020. The Committee questioned who was accountable.
Video and Mystery Shopping — issues with video and mystery shopping remained for example the non-
disclosure of medical information and product information. In view of the lack of progress, AC proposed a
management decision is required on whether services should be withheld/withdrawn from branches until
compliance improves.

AC remarked that consideration was required on whether management time should be spent on improving
the first line of compliance and contracts management, and whether the second line sits within the
business. He noted either stronger business ownership is required or a stronger central function is
required.

Internal Audit

The following points were raised:

Good progress had been made with the audit plan for 2019/20 with three audit reviews finalised since the
last ARC meeting (25 November 2019), these being PCI Programme, Cyber Security and CFS Controls (Post
Back Office Transformation (BOT)). As at 6 January 2020, 47 actions remained open with three overdue -
FS Training, Purchase to Pay and Payzone Controls.

CM raised concern with the lack of bandwidth in Payzone and the poor second line of command.

Strictly Confidential Page 2 0f 4

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

17 of 91
Tab 3.4 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance C

18 of 91

6.16

6.17

6.18

7.2

73

74

75

76

8.2

8.3

8.4

9.1

9.2

9.3

10.
10.1

10.2

mmittee held on 14 January 2019

Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2) Implementation - Regulated by the FCA, MS reported PSD2 came into
effect in January 2018 for companies that bill customers who use premium rate call services. POL had
received conflicting legal advice (initially stating the regulation did not apply to POL, subsequently
challenged and found to apply) and advised that recent correspondence from the regulator to remind
companies of their obligations.

At present POL could not cap some of these bills, and whilst there was a distinct possibility of a penalty for
non-compliance, urgent work was underway with Fujitsu to find a solution.

The Committee sought assurance that there would be no repeat of the Text Relay issue (recognising this
would be a separate issue) and that the lack of urgency was a concerning. The letter prepared by BF
(advising of non-compliance) should be sent to the regulator today.

Supplier Contracts out of Governance

BB reported there had been 11 new non-compliant incidents since the last RCC meeting (7 Nove
valued at! iRRELEVANT/and noted that currently, there are 28 non-compliant incidents totalling I
over half (56%) in Retail. The following contracts in the pipeline were considered high-risk:
SSK funding - this is an {= lannual support contract that continues to non-compliantly roll over until
replacement and updated SSK machines are purchased.

Brands/RAPP - this is an ‘ontract extended to April 2020. A business strategy, funding and sourcing
plan needs agreement.

Media Planning — this is an { contract due to expire in April 2020. It was noted the preferred
Marketing option to complete an OJEU process is not achievable in the timeframe and a period of non-
compliance (6-7 months) would be required. AC questioned which forum would be best to make a decision.
Global Payments — this is an {=m icontract due to expire in May 2020. An extension would be required
for 12-24 months until a new provider could be found. A discussion on this was to be held at GE (January
2020).

The Chair reminded the Committee of POL’s obligation to adhere to the Public Contract Regulations 2015
and requested the requirement for tighter controls on contracts management be re-iterated in team
meetings.

Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

MD presented the latest tax update for the financial year 2018/19. Focus has been on embedding back
office transformation changes, integrating Payzone into the VAT group, and VAT reporting. Significant
progress has been made on improving controls around VAT and removing a number of manual controls
with automated controls.

Regarding employees considered to have more than one permanent place of work (mostly senior
employees, paragraphs 12 and 26 of the report), an underpayment of benefit-in-kind tax had been
identified, and it was possible the regulator could levy a penalty of upto 15% tax underpaid. This would be
kept under review and the contractual position of employees affected would appropriately changed. AC
recommended that MB liaise with SR and TL.

Regarding IR35 changes to the employment status of contractors, Deloitte was assisting with a review of
contractor status where it had been found that some contractors should have been listed as employees.
The regulator had been informed.

The Annual Tax Strategy was noted.

Transformation Office Changes

DZ reported that since the last update in September, financial controls had been established for CapEx and
Exception spend, with set limits tracked by Strategic Portfolio Office (SPO) which avoided spend over
approved limits occurring and the development of stronger governance controls.

A transformation team was now embedded into the role and weekly and monthly updates are provided to
GE and UKGI respectively.

He explained that work is required on “people understanding” in terms of communication, training,
induction and the conviction for change processes and governance, and that the SPO was currently working
with IA to define, develop and refine the current Change controls framework.

Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

SS explained that the annual report was a legal requirement to appraise senior staff of the effectiveness of
POL's key anti-Money Laundering and counter terrorist financing controls in place, and to make any
suggestions for improvement if required.

She advised there had been greater regulatory focus and scrutiny on money laundering and terrorist
financing, with a more proactive approach to supervision and the issuing of penalties by HMRC. It was

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 4

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Action:
MS
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 3.4 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance C

mmittee held on 14 January 2019

noted a new HMRC supervisor was expected in the early part of 2020 which may change the current
business relationship, and that the team had been expanded to meet increased workloads.

10.3 Keyareas of work for the department included Fit and Proper returns (which remained a challenge), Bureau
de Change residual risk, assurance activity for Payzone products and services and the review of high value
and high profile investigations relating to money laundering through Post Office counters. There had been
a significant improvement in mandatory training compliance in the Network.

10.4 She advised that whilst the framework for anti-money laundering and counter terrorism funding controls
was generally effective, greater focus was required on the completion and maintenance of Fit and Proper
returns, reviewing suspicious activity relating to banking deposits, and greater consideration towards
increased regulatory scrutiny and penalties. Attention was also required on ensuring key compliance
messages were understood and acted upon, and that the first line was aware of its responsibilities.

10.5 AC requested the paper provide examples of the actions POL had and would be undertaking to meet its
regulatory obligations over the next 12 months and that management consideration was required by
management on investing in a stronger compliance function or changing culture to ensure people
understood their obligations/responsibilities. The MLRO report for Post Office Management Limited was

noted.
10.6 AC requested BF, SS and JH talk to retail on enforcing three lines of defence and suggested BF attend a Action:
meeting with HMRC. BF, SS,JH

11. Business Continuity Update

11.1 TA presented the latest Business Continuity update. Whilst he was comfortable with the current position,
he noted there had been a number of unrelated serious IT issues before Christmas, possibly due to
departmental changes and poor change controls in place.

11.2 His concerns included a significant partner failure, what would happen to Horizon should it fall over, Fujitsu,
and the outcome from a full shut down and re-start test of Horizon. On-going work with product teams
and IT continued to ensure that systems are resilient.

12. _ Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda
The draft ARC agenda for 28 January was NOTED.

13. Any other Business
There was no other business.

Strictly Confidential Page 40f 4

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Committee-28/01/20 19 of 91

Tab 4 PCI-DSS (verbal update) and Cyber Security Update

Post Office Limited

Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title:

Cyber Security Strategy Update

Meeting Date:

28 January 2020

Author:

Tony Jowett, Chief Information Security Officer

Sponsor:

Shikha Hornsey, Group CIO

Input Sought

Action Required:
Noting

1. To note the status and plans regarding our
response to recent ransomware events

2. To note the status and plans regarding Cyber
testing

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Actions to report on 2. Above topics occurred at the
previous Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC) in
November 2019.

Executive Summary

The recent spate of ransomware attacks and the
specific attack on Travelex have posed questions
regarding the risk to us of such an event and our
ability to respond. This paper describes our recent
activity to reduce the likelihood and impact of such

Context: an attack on Post Office.
Cyber testing in all its guises is key to checking
cyber defences and identifying areas for
improvement. At the RCC in November a request
was made for an update in this area.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 4 PCI-DSS (verbal update) an:

Questions asked & addressed

1. How are we reducing the likelihood and impact of a ransomware attack?
2. What is the current status and plans regarding Cyber Security testing?

Report - Ransomware

3. Ransomware attacks aim to extort money from an organisation by encrypting data via
malware and then demanding a ransom to decrypt it. Ransomware attacks are often used
by terrorist and criminal organisations to raise funds for their other operations.

4. Infection usually occurs through phishing attacks or through rogue websites containing
malware which impersonate real ones.

5. Once the malware has infected a computer it can stay dormant until activated remotely
by the criminals. An organisation can therefore be infected months before the attack
becomes obvious if the initial entry is undetected.

6. Once activated ransomware rapidly encrypts the host computer and then reaches out to
all connections on the network to copy itself to other computers and start the encryption
and further copying process there. Such attacks therefore spread rapidly across entire
organisations if there is insufficient protection.

7. The impact of Ransomware attacks is usually severe as such encryption can prevent entire
organisations from functioning depending on how widespread the attack is. As an extreme
example, the 2017 Maersk Container Shipping attack stopped the entire operation from
working for two months costing them an estimated $120m in recovery costs, lost business
and brand damage. There are thought to be many other smaller-scale attacks that never
get reported.

8. Ransomware attacks can be difficult to recover from as, in addition to encrypting user
data, ransomware can encrypt system data such as databases and active directory (which
controls access to the system). Unless such data is kept in an off-line “cold” back up then
there may not be a clean copy to restore to as cloud-based copies may also be encrypted.

9. Details from the recent Travelex attack are scarce as it is still ongoing, but it is thought
to have occurred through infection through remote networking software. We have
checked our own defences against a similar attack and strengthened appropriately.

10. Given the invasive nature of Ransomware then the recommended policy is to have
defences aimed at all levels - Protect, Detect and Recover. Good overall cyber defences
across all cyber domains are needed. We have existing robust cyber defences but given
the recent increase of frequency and severity of such attacks we have increased our level
of alertness and we are seeking further assurance. Therefore, we have:

a. Contacted our Threat Intelligence partners Recorded Futures to reassure
ourselves that they are monitoring for any indicators that we are being targeted

b. Alerted our Verizon and in-house SOC to increase vigilance by looking for
indicators of infection

Confidential

ce Committee-28/01/20 21 of 91

Audit Risk & Complia

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 4 PCI-DSS (

bal update) an Security Update

@

c. Asked our IT operations team to ensure anti-virus software is up to date

d. Begun checking our off-line backup regime

e. Contacted the FRES CIO and CISO to ask that they assure us that their defences
are alert to Ransomware - we have so far received good verbal assurances
regarding their defences and await the completion of follow up actions

f. Confirmed that we have in our plans the guidance received from the National
Cyber Security Centre on how to defend against Ransomware

g. Contacted Deloitte, who have performed Ransomware recovery for several large
organisations (including Maersk and Norsk Hydro) to tap into their experience
of large-scale Ransomware recovery. We have asked that they scan our
internet-facing estate for any malware that may already be there but laying
dormant, assess our defences against current Ransomware attack types, and
develop a playbook for us to respond quickly and effectively to any such attack.
We expect that this work will start in late January and complete in six weeks.

11. An update on this activity will be provided at the next ARC.

Report — Cyber Testing

12. At the previous RCC an action was raised regarding the running of desktop incident
response testing. The response to this has been widened to cover all types of Cyber
testing.

13. Cyber testing provides the evidence that cyber defences are working well and helps
identification of gaps.

14. The following types of testing are in use within the Post Office:
a. Table-top incident response exercises
b. Red team testing
c. Routine penetration testing
d. Vulnerability scanning

15. Table-top exercises aim to simulate real-life incidents and involve all key personnel in IT
and Cyber operations although the scope can be widened. As the name suggests they
involve the walking through of an imaginary (but realistic) incident in a meeting room with
independent observation and facilitation. Such an exercise is planned for Q1 2020.

16. Red-team testing is invasive technical testing performed largely in secret by an external
organisation. As far as possible (without doing real damage) a red team will act as if they
are external attackers with a specific goal e.g., to gain access to GE email accounts. The
lessons learned from red team tests are highly valuable as they simulate real-life attacks.
Such a test was conducted in August 2019 and we are in the middle of conducting such a
test. Findings from this will be reported back at the next meeting.

17. Routine penetration testing is usually performed annually for operational systems or on
commissioning new systems into production as part of Change Excellence. The output
from Penetration tests enable vulnerable components to be patched and fixed before live
data is held by such systems.

Confidential

22 of 91 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 4 PCI-DSS (

bal update) an Security Update

@

18. Vulnerability scanning services routinely scan the perimeter and perimeter facing systems
and report on vulnerabilities in defences. These can be automated to run continuously
which, in a company that uses agile development, is essential to keeping track of new
issues to resolve. These services are part of the Cyber Strategy for 2020 onwards.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 23 of 91

Tab 5 Payzone Risk Report

@

POL00423468
POL00423468

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title:

Payzone Bill Payments Update

Meeting Date:

28 January 2020

Author:

Michelle Embrey, Quality and Risk Manager, Payzone

Sponsor:

Andrew Goddard, Managing Director, Payzone

Input Sought

Action Required:
Noting

To note the progress made with the Payzone risk
framework and the Payzone risk register.

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Executive Summary

Context:

This paper provides an update on the progress of
the risk framework and the latest risk register
position. The risk workplan has been created to
monitor and update the management team on
progress of the key activities. This includes the
progress being made to address the significant risks
and return to acceptable levels.

This report highlights the 5 significant risks (a risk

score of greater than 12) notably; the need to
consider GDPR requirement, the integration and
impact of Post Office standards within operations
and commercial areas, impact of Brexit, a terminal
communication issue affecting agent and customer
transactions, and the risk to forecast revenues
versus original acquisition forecasts. Each of these
risks have a plan to resolution by end FY 2019/20.
The progress of the risk framework from the
previous reporting period includes the following;
Payzone management team have reviewed the risk
register and agreed target risk scores with
mitigation plans and target dates in place and
develop a process flow chart detailing the correct
risk management process has been generated and
submitted to POL risk team for their review and
comments.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 5 Payzone Risk Report

@

Questions asked & addressed

. Status of the risk framework
2. What are the significant & emerging risks and what are we doing to
address these?
3. What additional activities are required to embed risk into ways of

working?
4. Conclusion

Report

5. Status of the Risk Framework

Work has been continuing to develop the risk management framework. The detail of which

is covered below:

a. Arisk management and incident process flow chart has been created and submitted
to POL risk team for review

b. The staged approach for the full integration of a risk framework is continuing. The
following stages have been completed:

(i) Stage one - review the residual risks from the original Panther RAID log
(ii) Stage two - review the risks raised during the risk workshop held in July
2019 for relevance and score
(iii) Stage three - review the risk register and assign target risk scores with
due dates

c. The risk appetite will be further developed with the intention to generate a risk
statement by March 2020.

d. Ameeting was held on October 16,2019 between Carla Stent and Andrew Goddard for
the purpose of discussing governance and risk management within Payzone Bill
Payments. As a result of this meeting and the points raised a risk work plan was
created that details the key activities highlighted, summarised below:

(i) Risk and governance oversight as a division of POL: Complete with PZBP.
providing reports to the POL risk team and are a column on the placemat

(ii) Risk appetite of the business: Ongoing - Statement scheduled for
completion March 2020

(iii) Material risks for Payzone: Ongoing task - The Risk register is in place
and risk reviews completed on a monthly basis

(iv) Parent company guarantee risk note: Ongoing - Complete integration of
POL and PZ bill payment teams in Q4 and agree approach to client tenders
to negate the requirements for parent guarantees

e. The purpose of this plan is to monitor and communicate the progress made on these
key activities including the significant risks as detailed in the significant risk register.
Mitigation and due dates have been assigned to significant risks to bring the residual
risk scores to acceptable levels

6. What are the significant & emerging risks and what are we doing to address
these?

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 25 of 91
Tab 5 Payzone Risk Report

POL00423468
POL00423468

a. Risk Changes
The following Tables 1 & 2 illustrate the classification of risks and issues and the
progress since the September PZBP Board. In Table 1, the total number of risks have
not changed and remain a total of 21, with 2 high risks actioned, 5 re-classified from

previously reported as blank, and 7 new risks added in the period.

Table 1

[Residual Risk Score

IRisk Category Blank

[all

Black
Swan

[customer & Gient
Financial

IT & Operational
Legal, Regulatory & Other
Requirements

People 1 1 1 1 4
[Grand Total 0 4 2 4 2 2 0 0 1 0 1 3 1 1 21
[Last Reporting Period 5 3 2 4 0 1 oO 0 1 1 2 1 0 1 21

In Table 2, the issues have remained relatively stable with a total reduction of 1 overall.

Table 2

Impact Rating
Risk Category
All

Grand Total

0

Financial

IT & Operational

Legal, Regulatory & Other

People

Customer & Client

Grand Total

Last Reporting Period

b. Significant Risks

w@/n/olojoInlo

The top Payzone Bill Payments risks as shown in Appendix 1 (in Reading Room) are:

i Terminal Communication Issue - Risk score 20 (5:4)
The urgency of implementing a solution to the device communication issue, highlighted
with the launch of British Gas impacts the performance of the network and customer
experience in store. An operational improvement plan is in place which focuses on three
actions to mitigate the risk. These consist of out bound calls to identify issues, sending
engineers where needed and software fix alongside a parallel evaluation of re-designing
the quantum gas card journey. The target date for returning this risk to acceptable levels
is 7 February 2020.

Confidential

26 of 91

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 5 Payzone Risk Report

@

ii. GDPR Requirements - Risk score 16 (4:4)
There is a need to re-assess the GDPR process requirements in conjunction with the Post
Office Data Protection Team. The reappraisal of this process will be conducted by 31%
January 2020 with an aim to create a process improvement document that details the
areas of weakness in the GDPR process and prioritise actions with deliverable target
dates. This risk has been given a high priority to mitigate and implement a process.

iii. I POL Policies and Operating Standards - Risk Score 16 (4:4)
The adoption and integration of the PO policies and operating standards is an area of
ongoing appraisal as the integration of the two businesses mature. The formulation and
agreement of a risk statement will assist in determining the extent and timelines for
completion of this work. A plan of integration will be created which will detail the extent
to which PZBP integrate the POL policies and operating standards. The risk statement
and the integration plan will be delivered by the March PZBPL board meeting, scheduled
for 26" March 2020.

iv. Forecast Revenues - Risk score 15 (5:3)
The risk to forecast revenues from under-performing against the original acquisition
business plan. The success in securing the British Gas exclusive contract and pipeline of
other key clients will mitigate this risk and factored into 2020/21 business plan.

v. Brexit - Risk Score 5 (5:1)
Brexit has been scored as a potential black swan event. The risk to the operation is low
based on an appraisal of suppliers and technology processes and the only risk relates to
the broader macro economic impact to the UK economy.

7. Conclusion

a. There is a total of 21 risks identified with 12 being low, 3 medium, 5 high and 1 black
swan. Of these risks there are 6 significant risks (risk score of 12 and above).

b. This report highlights the significant risks (a risk score of greater than 12), notably; a
terminal communication issue affecting agent and customer transactions, the risk to
forecast revenues from under-performing, re-assessing GDPR requirements, the
integration and impact of Post Office standards within operations and commercial areas,
and the impact of Brexit (see appendix 1). These risks have mitigations in place and a
risk workplan has been created to monitor and update the management team on
progress of the key activities. This includes the progress being made to address the
significant risks and return to acceptable levels.

Confidential

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 27 of 91

16 40 8Z

02/L0/g2-Ban!WUWIOD soueIIdWOD YS IPN - PAIL! BOWIO 1S0q

POL00423468

POL00423468

Appendix 1

Significant Risks

controls

Residual

Assigned To

LUkelihood
Residual Risk Sco

Progress Update

piozaio- ss quan eines deployed and now party ere Dull 3 nal cease wl be deploea
eth
sommuniaton sv. ooes ws [Obl 9 compete guint vasacons wit best POL -RW Threats cen etg or depeyet in he es wee on old ese
[fernénal communication issue. Does this 1. somer impact as they maybe unable to purchase energy Stability of service for 1st Jan exclusive serdce.
teat [pene sore wgenrequranentio foutneringac hempry wot rund treboot te eit as waist MN SRO
resote Reputatonal damage 2/12/19-a numberof addtional fixes ae planned for deployment, however, curenlyon hod to ensure
ably sere ws day coseqveoperaton et andi eves nex sence
tayo least‘ mid nun Rane deepen commune een oneness
aa
[pone ingen ar eng
pl oe notporatonct he Fgles and operating procedures oe creed 2601200
pane onenes in ue amanicand Ie yyiessmaybecone wtoiabein?Ocmeip wee exensne [erator tow Pane Patan dda fatats: sro caren wong orp hs atone queen POLO he
seme (LR sede mane? pen oO snare car wowteetec co Sete mictimmoctqaver: I o I 2 nication and spe of wor eque inedr ome tar tquremens. The expeced arhetahe eed
fn Finance termaybecame nected oth nplaned and {abe conmuniatedhyrOin stance.
enamter ane pert sowing_ be nae ar maybe nee de Jetecve and govern ough a tr Sees Agreement ee ees iicti clogaclodeplckev one ata
own manetvipose ainsi cos li opersont diana eh il Be exbred eee ve nlciemeriae ees pe eee
neimnnnal [11.08.19 Risk meeting update, Risk impact increased from 3to a 4 and likelihood also increased to 4 due to
Io redew proces and cea improve plan
ht: etnton sce dues ave bee ested, epdek nance Mocdue ae Belg delopeduith
IAbreach to GOPR could result in fr ri snd dissuasive f eat dail tod
ea could result fines proportionate and dissuasive fOr so im place inclu the data beach and information request processes are being developed in conjunction with the ol Data
sens [Meetsaneestoreasesine com lex inate corehasse‘onh es tape omnes on [antl msl indude ula ranateny fmauamene wenn aii
[Process requirements Iup to 2% of the organisations entire global turnover of the preceding fiscal I Michelle Embrey 19g.11.19.r: The focus on the MVP will be covering all the traceable functionalitymanually, to getitin quickly:
frees. omh ere Noha, IMapping inbound numbers and making them visible on the dialer, Blank form for Prospects on Remedy to
[apie anew monet une inplanetaona he hosp cont innemedy, Addon table
[iposion oes
it
J sam out toma sped beet sone of est 9120-6 now I, ileoes 182 ofthe Roe met
nee sigan at tfc , Isodned wih ems eapion ted 371439 bS net alae ormerng Meese wpa seal 7039
freon tm underperomanceat__IMergeoman ingacing KE wanacon.maeased I Pensa pe if Mono age wl ss dng tk meting.
sven: Prone gator cy ucton lunes rinataie in Milmepaag ne anveaatinaesogpanrorectecie I s I > conmerdat_9-ptig wth ses a negetng ens contac wi BG a.nd stb now
[ete catietsa nceseinagens anaes, Pee being ouetsu omer alens meted lon
mate jit) implement comprehensive, pro-active, communications [25/7/19-AG- Revenue now in tine with the plan, however, costs lines greater, Statement from AG to NS which
ogarie with ausene peitenesagig, reece poston ate ere upd eicaly ebsns antunderpatoming as ae Mat
ee owt dome GU maybereticed inte evetota no deal [we resto te operations ow based onan pata ofsuppien and wamsopyprcesses andthe ely tsk
wos fea aise nittland seme wise contact sf rutronm  frsaio: ae ocontac nrcha gang post reat pan
estopment cana CU natonas() tr saie neared inpatient ipa ateenen wi not UL
spent pacardin na mest ingot teeing ovens pte on beat rogesehanges tsa svanevee

Confidential

podey ysny Suozhed ¢ qeL
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 6 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

Post Office Limited
Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title: Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy
Meeting Date: 28 January 2020
Authors: Mark Dixon, Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance

Andy Jamieson, Tax Manager
Sponsor: Alisdair Cameron, Chief Financial Officer

Input Sought
Action Required:
Noting/ Decision

The ARC is asked to note the Tax Update and
approve the annual review of the Tax Strategy.

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Executive Summary

As a follow up to the paper presented to the Audit,
Risk and Compliance Committee in October 2018 this
Context: paper provides an update on tax, as well as on the
annual review of the POL tax strategy last published
in January 2019 (the “Tax Strategy”).

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 29 of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 6 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

1. What are the strategic tax challenges for POL?

2. What are the current key tax issues for POL?

3. What progress has been made around the changes to the tax team described in the last
update?

4. What other tax updates should the ARC be aware of?

5. What is the requirement for reviewing and updating the published tax strategy?

Questions asked & addressed

Report
What are the strategic tax challenges for POL?

Improving control around VAT

6. As reported in the last update the primary tax risk remains around VAT and, in particular,
ensuring that POL pays and claims the correct amount. This year we have focussed on:
embedding the Back Office Transformation (“BOT”) changes; integrating Payzone into the
VAT group; and our VAT reporting. This has allowed us to further improve controls around
VAT. We are compliant with HMRC’s current Making Tax Digital (“MTD”) requirements.

7. The BOT and MTD projects have allowed us to replace a number of manual controls with
automated controls. New BI tools have been developed to implement changes to the VAT
return preparation process, while also enhancing controls. HMRC’s MTD Initiative (see [38]
below), which includes a requirement to have “digital links” through the process, will also
provide an opportunity to enhance control. Further automation is also being introduced as
part of the Source to Settle procurement project. This will reduce some of the current risk
associated with tax coding of purchases across the business.

8. Asa result of the revised processes and controls some historical errors, which have occurred
over the last four years, have been identified and reported to HMRC. Out of total tax
throughput (i.e. VAT incurred and output tax payable) of over 31 over the period,
approximately was paid to HMRC relating to two main issues, however
approximately I IRRELEVANT was reclaimed from HMRC following improvements to existing

ns were reflected in the 2018/19 Annual Report and Accounts.

Protection of our VAT position

9. POL gains a VAT benefit from an agreement regarding the treatment of the income it
receives from Royal Mail Group (“RMG”). It is referred to as the “Stamp Solution”. The
treatment was agreed with HMRC and RMG at the time of separation. It allows POL to treat
the margin income received for the sale of stamps and stamp-related products as outside
the scope of VAT, rather than as subject to VAT. The saving can be calculated by calculating
the VAT that would be payable on the annual margin and then estim: he cost to RMG
if we were to charge it. In 2018/19 the margin for VAT purposes was RMG's VAT
recovery positon was around 50% and, therefore, the VAT saving wa

10. Changes to POL’s operations should be carefully considered to ensure that the Stamp
Solution is maintained. The legislation governing the treatment of vouchers (which stamps
fall under) was amended from January 2019. There was no direct impact from the change.

Confidential 2

0 of 91

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 6 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

Improving Control around Employment Taxes

Healthcare Trust

11. In 2018/19 POL paid certain additional sums into the Healthcare Trust (“HCT”) to fund
members’ costs in areas that were out of the scope of the cover of the policy. The
appropriate tax treatment was not applied to these payments. This resulted in an
underpayment of benefit-in-kind tax (“BiK”) and NI to HMRC covering four years. A
settlement payment of jreevtiwas made in January 2019. The change in scheme provider
to BUPA means that furt! sues of this nature should not occur.

Employees considered to have more than one permanent place of work

12. In 2019 we identified an issue whereby certain employees, who had been appointed on
home-based contracts, were required to work regularly at office locations. Where there is
a regular, permanent second place of work and the individual claims expenses for travel,
accommodation and subsistence, it is a taxable benefit-in-kind. HMRC deem the employee
to have more than one permanent place of work.

13. A payment in respect of tax was made for 18/19 as part of the normal annual settlement
process and we are currently reviewing whether there has been an underpayment in tax
for prior years. Fo 19 we calculated that there was an underpayment of Benefit-in-
kind (“BiK”) tax of } which was reported in the annual PAYE Settlement Agreement
(PSA) submission in October. We are in the process of reviewing the position back to 15/16
to correct any outstanding tax. It appears likely that similar amounts of tax may be due
and is possible that HMRC may levy a penalty of up to 15% of the tax underpaid. The
business will review the contractual position of affected individuals and make changes
where appropriate.

1R35 - employment status of contractors

14. IR35 introduced legislation to assess whether a contractor should be placed on the payroll
or whether they can invoice as a 3 party. As a public sector organisation we carry out
assessments, using HMRC’s on line tool when engaging contractors and were required to
do so from April 2017. HMRC recently introduced a revised on line assessment tool which
has indicated a different outcome around certain contractors’ employment status than when
the original tool was used. We are currently working with Deloitte and HMRC to evaluate
whether there are tax implications for us around this issue.

15.As a consequence of HMRC’s on-going review of employment status of our contractor
population we carried out a re-assessment of the position we have taken. Initial findings
indicate that in some cases we may have incorrectly applied HMRC’s tool, leading to
contractors being considered not to be employees when, in fact, they should have been.
Deloitte is supporting us in assessing the position and we await the outcome of HMRC’s
review. If we are found to have treated the employment status incorrectly we will be liable
to account for underpaid tax and NI, and HMRC may look to levy a penalty. We are working
towards identifying the materiality of the issue.

Deloitte review

16. Following the issues set out at paras 11 to 13 we engaged Deloitte in late 2019 to review
our employment tax governance and controls. Deloitte reported that, although most
processes are clear and formally documented, accountability for employment taxes was not

Confidential 3

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 31 of 91

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 6 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

adequately defined. They have recommended a formal governance framework is designed
and implemented across employment taxes. Currently the HR Reward & Benefits team,
the HRSC, the Agents Remuneration team and the Strategic Projects Office (SPO) own
different parts of the processes and the central Tax team supplies support, relying on 3rd
party advice for expert guidance. The Tax team will develop the governance framework
with support from Deloitte and the key stakeholders of the processes.

Understanding and Optimising Corporation Tax Losses

17. As at the 2017/18 tax year POL had accumulated tax losses o
that, once the 2018/19 tax computation has been finalised ani
losses carried forward of in excess o'

bmitted, POL will have

18. From April 2017 the tax loss carry forward that can be utilised is now restricted to an initial
‘of profits and then 50% of the profits above This means that POL will
now begin to pay corporation tax sooner than it would have done under the old loss rules.

19. Despite being increasingly profitable at an EBITDAS level, POL continues to create tax losses
whilst it incurs significant exceptional and transformational spend which is deductible for
tax purposes. We therefore do not anticipate paying corporation tax in the very near future.

20. However, given the changes to the tax loss rules and the impact that tax may now have on
project decisions it is important that we can now project future creation and utilisation of
losses. We have therefore built a tax model to calculate our future position. The model
allows us to understand the impact of business decisions on our tax position.

What are the current key tax issues for POL?

VAT Treatment of Post Bill Payment Processing Income

21. In the October 2018 update we made the ARC aware of certain potential changes to the
VAT treatment of commissions on bill payments.

22. Our bill payments business provides POL with approx. I lof commission income
per year. About 90% of this relates to “post-pay”, where the customer makes a payment
after receiving their bill, for which commission is VAT exempt. The rest relates to “pre-
payments” for which commissions are standard rated. Our largest clients for “post-pay”
are Santander and AllPay and together they represent about 50% of the income.

23. In 2017, following a VAT tribunal case involving PayPoint, HMRC queried whether we should
apply the standard rate of VAT on all commissions.

24. We have been involved in on-going discussions with HMRC and also significant clients, such
as Santander and Allpay. Allpay’s exemption was removed by HMRC and an appeal
rejected. Santander continue to prefer exemption to be applied to our services, but are
prepared to accept VAT being levied.

25. In October, after review by Santander, we sent a letter to HMRC seeking the maintenance
of the VAT exemption. We believe HMRC will reject this approach. We await a response.

26. Additionally when we acquired Payzone in October 2018 it was confirmed that its business
operations were structured in a very similar manner to that of PayPoint, which would be
highly likely to lead to HMRC arguing that VAT was applicable to its post bill payment

Confidential 4

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 6 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

services. For Post Office group of companies it would not be practical to have a single
service being treated differently for VAT purposes for POL and Payzone.

27. Although there are a number of complexities in this area, a review of the impact of applying
a standard rate on all commissions showed that it would benefit POL by approx. }
additional VAT recovery per annum because of the partial exemption method that we use.
This would be a recurring benefit driven by a higher VAT recovery rate.

What progress has been made around the changes to the tax team described in the
last update?

28. HMRC's have previously indicated that, based on the size and complexity of the business,
POL's tax team was under-resourced. In April 2019 we recruited a second full-time team
member to support the tax manager particularly in the corporation tax area.

29. We continue to take specialist advice where appropriate, notably from KPMG and Deloitte.
What other tax related issues should the ARC be made aware of?

Governance and Tax controls

30. HMRC’s governance report from 2016 is being updated and we expect it to be issued in
February 2020. The 2016 report highlighted a lack of documented process around tax and
tax risks reporting. In intervening period new procedures, which have had HMRC oversight,
have been introduced to embed tax policy and understanding of tax risk in the business.

31. The tax controls developed are reported monthly through PwC's ‘TrAction’ tool with
supporting documentation provided. Quarterly Tax issues reports are circulated to senior
staff, including the CFO, Head of Legal Services and the Group HR Director.

32. New process guides have been written documenting all VAT return processes and
supporting review guides to evidence that checks have been carried out. A new VAT
reconciliation process had been developed and new general ledger accounts created to
provide a clearer audit trail. These processes have brought about the identification of the
historical errors highlighted above.

33. HMRC have confirmed during their VAT reviews over the last 18 months they are satisfied
with the improvements and controls made by the tax team.

HMRC Business Risk Review +

34. In late 2019 HMRC introduced its new, business tax rating regime. HMRC has set out
more guidance and shared expected standards in order to achieve each rating category.
POL group was rated ‘non-low risk’ in 2018. It is expected that this rating will continue,
albeit being rebadged as ‘moderate’. This is mainly due to our size and complexity,
although over time the Tax team’s aim is for POL to be rated to low risk through further
automation, checking, controls and education.

HMRC VAT Audit

35. Phase 2 of HMRC’s audit to examine accounts receivable processes was completed in June
2019. They were satisfied with the information presented and the integrity of reporting.
HMRC are continuing to carry out audits across different areas of tax processes.

Confidential 5

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 33 of 91

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 6 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

Making Tax Digital

36. Making Tax Digital is a key part of the government’s strategy to make it easier for
individuals and businesses to get their tax right and keep on top of their affairs. HMRC’s
stated ambition is to become one of the most ‘digitally advanced tax administrations in the
world, modernising the tax system to make it more effective, efficient and to ease
compliance’. The initial phase, started on 1 October 2019 for POL. This introduced a
mandatory requirement to upload VAT return information digitally to HMRC’s new portal.

37. POL purchased software from PWC to facilitate this process. We submitted our first MTD
compliant VAT return in October 2019.

38. From 1 April 2020, with a 12-month “soft-landing” phase, there is an additional requirement
to have information in the VAT returns ‘digitally linked’ before the transfer to HMRC. This
aspect is more complex, requiring a review of POL’s systems to establish their compliance
with HMRC’s requirements. A project has commenced by the tax team to determine POL’s
position and to make recommendations for the correct investment.

39. Based on the actions of tax authorities in other jurisdictions it is expected HMRC will require
further business data to be shared via the portal in the future, with an expectation that
supporting VAT return information, such as AP and AR data will be accessible by HMRC.

40. VAT is the first tax to be reported digitally to HMRC. Once HMRC is confident that the
system provides the requisite data and ease of access for both taxpayers and HMRC further
taxes will be required to be reported digitally. In 2019 HMRC announced a delay to the
introduction of digital corporation tax reporting, which was due from April 2020, there is no
official revised introduction date, but it has been confirmed to be not before April 2021.

Brexit

41. We do not anticipate a significant tax impact from Brexit as our business is predominantly
UK based. There may, however, be an impact for some of our suppliers where they have
cross border supply chains and work has been carried out by colleagues to gain reassurance
in this area. This could lead to an increase in costs of procuring goods if Customs duty
becomes due. It is likely that businesses would seek to pass on increased costs.

Tax Strategy - Annual Review

42. Following the approval of the draft POL Tax Strategy by ARC in November 2017 it was made
available publicly on the website in January 2018, highlighted internally in ONE Focus and
a copy sent to HMRC. The revised Strategy will be republished after approval.

43. HMRC requires an annual review and updates to a Tax strategy where appropriate. The
Tax team has reviewed the Strategy and made minor amendments around dating of the
document and legislative references based on HMRC’s recommendations. This ensures it
remains fit for purpose and reflects our position.

44. The revised Tax Strategy is set out in Appendix 1.

Confidential 6

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 6 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

Appendix 1 — Post Office Group Tax Strategy

This publication sets out the tax strategy of Post Office Limited and its UK subsidiary
undertakings (referred to hereafter as the “Group” or “Post Office”) for the financial year
2020/21, and in making this strategy available the UK Group is fulfilling its responsibilities
under the Finance Act 2016, Chapter 24, Schedule 19, Part 2, Paragraphs 16 & 17.

This tax strategy applies to UK taxes applicable to the Post Office and its affiliated entities
both in the UK and overseas. The document is ultimately owned by the Board of Directors of
Post Office Limited (“the Board”).

The tax strategy is reviewed annually, updated as appropriate and approved by the Board
each January to cover the next financial year. The Board, along with assistance from the
Group Finance teams, take ultimate responsibility for setting, monitoring and amending the
strategy as required.

In summary, the Post Office is committed to:
¢ following all applicable laws and regulations relating to its tax activities;

* continuing to have an open and honest relationship with HM Revenue & Customs driven
by collaboration and integrity; and

¢ applying diligence and care in our tax management, and ensuring that our tax
governance is appropriate.

How the Post Office manages its tax risks

The Group’s on-going approach to UK tax risk management and governance is based on the
principles of reasonable care and materiality. The Post Office maintains on-going application
of tax governance, including frequent risk metric assessments and the review of applications
of strong internal control procedures, in order to substantially reduce tax risk to materially
acceptable levels.

As part of this governance, the Post Office has identified tax risks, which are maintained
internally on risk registers, with their materiality being assessed based on a corporate risk
matrix. The matrix then records the potential impact, subject to two contributory factors, the
exposure if the tax risk crystallises and the relative likelihood of the risk crystallising.

A detailed log of these risk reviews is maintained monthly. A summary report is then
presented with significant / material issues to the Chief Financial Officer for his consideration,
further discussion at Board level and with HM Revenue & Customs should the issue merit
engagement of the tax authorities. Where decisions are deemed to be complex, or have an
element of uncertainty assistance from third parties may be sought to aid the Post Office’s
decision-making process.

Tax planning

Given that the Post Office is owned by the British Government's Department for Business,
Energy & Industrial Strategy, it understands the importance of its transparent business
operations.

Confidential 7

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 35 of 91

Tab 6 Tax Updat

POL00423468
POL00423468

1 Annual Tax Strategy

@

36 of 91

The Post Office will not engage in artificial transactions the sole purpose of which is to reduce
UK tax. As well as the above the Post Office will not engage in tax efficiencies if the
underlying commercial objectives do not support the Group’s position, or if the arrangements
impact upon the Post Office’s reputation, brand, corporate and social responsibilities, or
future working relationships with HM Revenue & Customs.

Approach towards dealings with HMRC

The Post Office have always been and remain committed to maintaining integrity and
transparency when dealing with HMRC. The Post Office underlines these principles by
agreeing to:

« Accurately disclose all information required in correspondence and returns, and
efficiently respond to communications as and when required. Where additional work is
required, such as in the event of a disagreement, we will look to resolve this in the
most professional and efficient way possible.

« Be open and transparent about decision-making, governance and tax planning, firstly
by ensuring that it is liaising directly with our dedicated HMRC team and secondly by
publishing our tax strategy easily accessible within the public domain.

« Ensure all interactions with HMRC are conducted in an open, collaborative and
professional manner.

Signed

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Financial Officer and Senior Accounting Officer
(Updated January 2020)

Confidential 8

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

Tab 7 Corporate Insurance Renewal

Post Office Limited

Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title:

Insurance Renewal 2019 - Ratification of Spend

Meeting Date:

28 January 2020

Author:

Mark Dixon, Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance

Sponsor:

Alisdair Cameron, Chief Financial Officer

Input Sought

Action Required:
Noting/ Decision

The ARC is asked to ratify the spend in connection
with the 2019 Insurance Renewal.

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Executive Summary

Context:

As a follow up to the paper presented to the Audit,
Risk and Compliance Committee in September 2019
and email exchange in December 2019 approving the
spend, this paper sets out the final insurance renewal
spend for 2019 and seeks formal ratification for that
spend.

POL00423468
POL00423468

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

37 of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 7 Corporate Insurance Reni

@

Report

1. The business has a series of insurance policies which were due for renewal on 1 November
2019.

2. At its meeting on 23 September 2019 the ARC approved the 2019 Insurance Renewal.
the basis of a Paper submitted by Mark Dixon. The amount approved by the ARC was

3. At the meeting deteriorating conditions in the crime market and the uncertainty around final
premium amounts were discussed. Unfortunately the market continued to be very tough
and the final premiums settled on were higher than anticipated in September. The premium
increases seen were a reflection of the market in general and are not specific to Post Office.
It is believed that actions that the team has taken over the last couple of years to build
relationships with insurers in this market have in fact helped mitigate the impacts to a
degree.

4. In an email on 2 December 2020 members were asked to approve spend of up to
IPT and the additional spend on Cyber to increase the limit from
Approval was subsequently received for the higher spend level by

email.

5. We are therefore seeking your formal approval to ratify the final spend for the 2019

Insurance Renewal which was i IRRELEVANT I (excluding IPT and the incremental Cyber) per
the table below.

crime *
Cyber (current limit)
Dao

Combined Liability
Motor

POL PI

POMS PI

POBI

Terrorism

PA Travel

‘Sub-total (exc! additional Cyber)
Cyber (increased limit)

Total I '

“Allpromiums exclude UK insurance Premium Taxa

* Based on 1 month extension on existing terms and 11 months on reneval terms

Confidential 2

38 of 91 Post Office Lit Sommittee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

Tab 8 Strategic Portfolio Office Change Control Environment Update

Post Office Limited

Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title:

Strategic Portfolio Office Change Control
Environment Update

Meeting Date:

28 January 2020

Author:

Dan Zinner, Chief Transformation Officer

Sponsor:

Nick Read, CEO

Input Sought:

Action Required:
Noting

For noting

Previous Governance
Oversight:

September 2019 ARC paper on “Transformation
Office Changes”;

November 2019 Investment Committee approved
changes on ToR & reporting process

Executive Summary

Context:

Following on from ARC paper “Transformation Office
Changes” paper dated 23 September, ARC has
requested: “A further update on the change control
environment would be presented to the ARC in
January 2020.” In the past 4 months, several
changes have been identified and implemented,
while at the same time the Change environment is
embedding and implementing further changes to
increase control, mitigate risk and manage change.
This paper provides a high-level update and draws
attention to the areas of needed improvement which
are currently being worked on. No decisions are
required.

Internal

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

39 of 91
POL00423468

POL00423468

Tab 8 Strategic Portfolio Office Change Control Environment Update

@

40 of 91

Questions asked & addressed

1. What specific controls are in place to manage and gain value for money in change spend?

2. What new controls have been identified and implemented since the last Change ARC

update, and what are still to be implemented?

3. I What is the role of the business in change ownership and accountability?

Report

What specific controls are in place to manage and gain value for money in change spend?

4. In terms of Finance controls, all CapEx and Exception spend (WBS codes) have limits set
by central Strategic Portfolio Office (SPO) Governance in a central tracking database.
Thus, no spend over approved limits can occur. The approved limits are feed daily to the
central finance teams (Project MasterData Controller) to feed into SAP so that no invoices
over approved spends can be automatically paid. In addition, reports are sent as spend
levels come close to 100%. The SPO Governance team will not add additional spend until
approved by the appropriate Governance Forum as set by the ToRs for each forum,

including Board noting/approval for total spend over £5m.

5. While project teams indicate total project spend, Governance forums mostly approve
spend in phases or tranches to limit overspend. Projects must come back through the
appropriate Governance forum for additional funding (i.e., “draw down”) to continue the
project, which is not always guaranteed. In the past it was “assumed” by projects that
they had their total budgets “ring-fenced” and this is no longer the case. Governance
forums are also empowered to challenge spend requests and have granted less than

project requests.

6. In addition, new project finance processes have been put in place that require all projects

to re-forecast spend and benefits on a monthly basis only through Anaplan, as the

one

source of truth. This enables the SPO to continually re-prioritise and challenge project
spend while ensuring that projects actively manage their spend and forecasts. Automatic
links have been put in place between Anaplan and Service Now (SNOW, the central Change

master database) to ensure only one forecast exists.

7. In terms of value for money, external contractors have commented that rates that

POL

pay for certain services are higher than observed for private sector companies. However,
it is noted that the nature of the Post Office requires specific costs, e.g., historic IT
contracts or OJEU requirements. Thus, it is difficult to compare with other private

companies. Rather value for money measures should be viewed in terms of standard

ROI

measures. The FP&A team are working with Change to embed these into Anaplan to
include this in future Portfolio metrics of success. However, some projects will not have

an ROI, e.g., compliance or regulatory programmes, legal costs, etc.

Internal

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 8 Strategic Portfolio Office Change Control Environment Update

@

What new controls have been identified and implemented since the last Change ARC update,
and what are still to be implemented?

8. In September 2019, the Chief Transformation Officer set out a plan to upgrade the Change
function. This was based on initial observations and the need to:
a. place capable and competent resources on appropriately configured on teams;
b. increase organisational clarity and accountability;
c. raise the quality of support and challenge earlier in the process;
d. increase the frequency of portfolio oversight with new routines, rhythms and
reports to speed up issue identification;
e. broaden stakeholder understanding of, and conviction for, how ‘Change works’
at the Post Office to make the process more efficient, and;
f. assist with GE to role model and embed a consistent way of working to
improve the quality of planning and control
Progress against this plan, which was laid out in 3 focus areas (People; Process;
Perception), has been described in Appendix 1.

9. In terms of controls, much progress has been made by the central SPO team to: highlight
standards; actively manage and churn underperforming individuals; manage our
contractors and costs; raise the quality of challenge in Governance forums; update ToRs
and the Change Excellence Framework; and have one central repository (SNOW) for
project information — a single source of truth.

10. In addition, the SPO now reports weekly and monthly on projects across a variety of
measures (see reading room for examples). These reports give the SPO additional
opportunities, as a control measure, to frequently review project data, data quality,
progress and scope. The reports create a purpose to investigate specific projects in
specific areas: finance, delivery, risk, etc. However, more work could be done to create
triggers for additional ad-hoc non-gate reviews by Finance or IT to increase accountability
for overspend or delays.

11. IA will highlight the improvement opportunities of current controls in their next review of
Change; however, the CTO believes more work can be done to standardise Project
Assurance. Currently, project assurance is completed in an ad-hoc manner based on
opinions or requests. While this can continue to optimise our limited resources, the SPO
are working on creating clear, internal triggers and tolerances for project assurance
reviews (risk, health check, delivery assurance). Moreover, the SPO needs to work on
identifying ways to institutionalise project “lessons learnt,” given the amount of people
change within the Post Office and the Change community. Post Implementation Reviews
are codified and searchable but Change currently relies on institutional knowledge to
highlight past lessons. A working draft of Change Assurance controls can be found in the
reading room.

12. While more can be done to create additional controls, improvement is also needed in
“people understanding”: communications, training, induction, conviction for Change
processes and governance. The significant work in creating the Change Excellence
Framework needs to be leveraged. The CTO believes this will be a continual process to
communicate to current and induct new POL colleagues. In addition, the new “Change

Internal

ce Committee-28/01/20 41 of 91

Audit Risk & Complia

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 8 Strategic Portfolio Office Change Control Environment Update

@

42 of 91

People” team will start using the developed Competency Framework to assess our current
Change resources and continually raise the bar on resource quality.

13. It is the intent of the CTO to draw a line in the sand on the requirement for data quality
and completeness in the Change community into the central SNOW repository by the end
of the financial year. This target ensures that assurance and oversight can happen in an
effective and efficient manner in FY20. To enable this, the SPO team need to complete
standards, create assurance triggers, process changes to job descriptions for Portfolio
PMOs (so that there is clear accountability) and create additional reporting mechanisms
to monitor data quality and completeness. A reduced portfolio of projects will also assist
to create focus.

What is the role of the business in change ownership and accountability?

14. The role and relationship of Change and the business (i.e., Finance, IT, commercial areas,
etc) has not changed. At the moment the role of Change is to support the business in
developing the method to deliver change objectives and then deliver according to the
agreed plan. However, ownership and accountabilities are not universally understood or
agreed. So, in line with the 3" focus area of the CTO’s original plan (Perception), more
focus is required on raising the level of ownership and accountability through:
communication, standardisation, controls and behavioural changes.

15. Within Change, understanding of accountabilities and quality of assurance between the 1‘

and 2" line also has room for improvement which is a result of the new roles within
Change. This should also improve with time, especially as we reduce projects.

Stakeholder Implications

16. Given the Change function supports all areas of the business, continuous improvements
in controls and actions to increase accountability understanding will affect all stakeholders.
This continued focus will be in 2 groups: 1) the Change Community through training,
weekly “drop in clinics”, performance management, quarterly “Town Hall” group sessions
and monthly Q&A sessions); and 2) POL Senior Leaders through one on one direct
interactions with Change leaders (SPO, CTO and Portfolio Leads). The SPO will continue
to developed and communicate RACI’s, monitor and control incorrect accountabilities and
role model appropriate ones.

Next Steps & Timelines

17. At the moment, the SPO is working with IA to define, develop and refine the current Change
controls framework. Change continues to request support from IA to ensure Change
controls are aligned with IT controls

18. At the same time, the CTO and SPO continue to improve controls identified in this paper
and look forward to the February IA audit of Change to identify further areas of
improvement.

Internal

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 8 Strategic Portfolio Office Change Control Environment Update

Appendix 1

In September 2019, CTO’s short term identified plan was to embed Change processes and ways
of working through consistency, clarification and communication. The plan emphasised the
immediate need to focus on the Change community first by increasing understanding on how
to consistently manage and resource a project for delivery (and thus implicitly not focus on
“strategy”). The plan sought to embed the former COO’s original changes (centralised Change
organisation and Change Excellence), while raising the quality of management and challenge
and simplifying changes to further engage the overall business on Change. The plan includes
a focus on People, Process and Perception.

The table below is the CTO’s self-assessement of progress made so far. It notes that good
progress has been made in the “Process” section, but much more is needed in the “Perception”

section.

[CTO FY19 Focus Areas l Progress to Date Work to continue

‘Structure fit for purpose Change 3 in SPO responsible for all skills pool resources Review all current project teams, starting with
‘teams (PM, PMO, BA) IGold/Plat, to ensure they are properly structured

Increase capable and affordable
‘change resources

é contractors down from 62% YoY;
s=xfday contractor cost, down 56% YoY

After portfolio focus (post-PSG), move to more FTC
affordable resources

‘Communicate value of the
‘centralised Change support team

Full SPO team, clear JDs, communicated to
Change & Business; structured Pls

value of full SPO team

Further consolidate Portfolios while demonstrating

Process

(Operationalise Change routines and 2 monthly cycles of "Change heartbeart™ focus _ increase SNOW data quality and ad-hoc assurance
ihythms lareas with data in SNOW; weekly dashboards _reviews and triggers; additional dashboard context
Embed the Governance process and Increased transparancy, issue raising, and Earlier interventions into projects to scope better and
tools questioning of cases speed up governance process, link to strategy

‘Actively manage Change (resolving
issues, making decisions, creating
‘transparency and prioritising)

©CCCe CBG

‘Monthly project forecasting and 3x/month cross- Stronger finance accountability earlier through

portfolio collaboration meetings to highlight
Programme risks, dependencies

increased Change collaboration; further dependencies
identfication

‘overall change vision and journey

Perception ©)

Foster understanding, conviction and

alignment on how POL “does (B® Adthoc training on SNOW/Change; monthly _ IMore formalised training on Change Excellence for
change” Change community "All Hands" update sessions _ Skills Group resources

Bring management along on the I Leverage weekly and monthly reporting to bring

‘Ad-hoc reviews of change progress outside of IC_GE/SLP closer into Change activity

‘Communicate the wider Change
story

No progress so far

Part of wider PSG story, communication on Change
ways of working to support PSG

Internal

Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

43 of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

Post Office Limited
Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title: Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annual Report
Meeting Date: I 28 January 2020

Sally Smith, Money Laundering Reporting Officer &
Head of Financial Crime

Sponsor: Ben Foat, General Counsel

Author:

Input Sought
Action To review the annual report and conclusions
Required: ensuring Post Office’s compliance with its regulatory
Discussion obligations under the Money Laundering

Regulations, and endorse the recommendations.

Previous
Governance N/A
Oversight:

Executive Summary

The Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs) require
that the Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO)
produces an annual report to appraise senior
management on the effectiveness of key Anti-Money
Context: Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing
(AML/CTF) controls, and make appropriate
recommendations for improving the management of
risks, priorities and resources, if appropriate.

ENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 1

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

Questions asked & addressed

1. Is Post Office complying with the requirements of the regulation?

2. What are the key AML and CTF risks within Post Office Ltd and are there any
significant gaps or weaknesses in the Post Office’s compliance with its regulatory
obligations under the Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs)?

3. What are the key activities that need to be undertaken to address these gaps

Report

4. The annual report is attached and covers the key reportable regulatory
responsibilities under the MLRs. Appendices referred to in the report are in the
reading room.

Financial Impact

5. Post Offic Not received any regulatory penalties since 2017/2018 when HMRC
fined us for regulatory breaches in relation to Travel Money. We have
however seen increasing scrutiny by regulators in the UK, which seems to reflect the
guidance in the Fin; I Action Taskforce Mutual Evaluation Review published at the
end of 2018 and f fines have been levied by UK regulators in
Additionally, HMRC annual registration fees have increased significantly from
in 2018 to i in 2019, which together with the cost of complying with Fit
Proper requirements and transaction monitoring and assurance, represents a
significant cost to the business.

Risk Assessment, Mitigations & Legal Implications

6. Products and services provided by Post Office are broadly in line with the risk
appetites set by the Board although there has been a significant increase in money
laundering via the Banking Framework services. Other than these services there
has been an improvement in residual risk over the last 12 months.

Conclusions & Recommendations

7. The regulatory environment continues to pose a challenge, with increased regulatory
and legislative focus on money laundering and terrorist financing. Following the
2018 FATF UK Mutual Evaluation review, there is evidence of increasing focus by
regulators, and readiness to exercise monetary penalties, as evidenced by the Office
of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI) and the FCA. We have also seen a
more pro-active approach to supervision by HMRC (funded by the significant
increase in registration fees from 1st May 2019) and an increase in the volume and
scale of penalties issued by them. This indicates that should HMRC identify that Post
Office has failed to comply with money laundering regulations, penalties will be more
egregious than historically, as well as being made public. It is therefore important
that Post Office’s commitment to comply with all aspects of regulatory requirements
remains high on the agenda. Regular reporting by MLRO through RCC and ARC,
and sponsorship of required actions by GE.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 P }

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20 45 of 91

Audit Risk & Complia

Tab 9 Money

46 of 91

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

8. The Supranational Risk Assessment issued on 2019 highlights that cash remains the
number one choice for criminals to money launder, and this has been borne out by
the increase in suspicious activity that has been identified through the year relating
to Banking Framework cash deposits over Post Office counters

9. Political uncertainty delayed publication of the UK legislation relating to the Fifth
Money Laundering Directive, but this was laid before Parliament on 20" December
2019 and implemented on 10" January 2020. The legislation is still under review,
but Post Office impacts are limited:

e Further emphasis has been placed on risk assessment - particularly prior to
the implementation of new products, services or technology

« Giftcard limits were reduced from £400 to £120 to meet the new regulations

e The regulations have not specifically covered Politically Exposed Person, and
the status for Post Office executives is being checked.

Full de-brief to be included in March RCC and ARC Compliance reports

10.The establishment of the National Economic Crime Centre (NECC) in October 2018,
has seen an increased focus in activity, and this is borne out by the increased
workloads we have seen responding to subject requests, which have doubled year
on year. A number of the cases under review relate to cash-based criminal activity
with a predominance in human trafficking, organised immigration crime, modern
slavery and sexual exploitation.

11.The HMRC supervisor who has overseen Post Office regulated activity since 2015 is
retiring in June 2020, and therefore Post Office will have a new supervisor during
the early part of 2020, which may bring changes to HMRC regulatory oversight and
activity. We are also aware that HMRC are considering a further review of their
registration fee structure, although as yet, there has been no guidance on this.

12.Further work has been undertaken to resolve data issues with the Bureau de Change
monitoring solution and assessment and oversight of the product continues to
mature. The increased volumes of investigations and SARs evidences the
improvement in controls since the HMRC audit in 2016 and subsequent penalties.
The new premises registration reporting tool was delivered by DCoE in 2019 and has
improved the accuracy of registration data. However, more work is required to
generate the HMRC reports in the correct format and remove manual manipulation.
Customer Due Diligence, PEPS and Sanctions checks for Bureau de Change are
currently assessed to be adequate.

13.The agent Fit & Proper data requirements have continued to be a significant
challenge for Post Office, and data gaps and challenges in providing accurate
monthly reporting to HMRC remain due to the disparate systems that store the
information. Significant effort was required to meet the extended deadline of
September to complete the data submission to HMRC, although ultimately only 85
premises were deregistered, albeit further data discrepancies were then identified.
Data integrity issues have continued and until the new data system is designed, built
and delivered (scheduled for April 2020) this will cause ongoing issues that put Post
Office at risk of regulatory scrutiny. Additionally, due to the high number of
structural changes within Post Office over the last 12 months, it has proven difficult
to keep the direct employee Fit & Proper tests up to date with HMRC, and the

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 a

Post Office Lit

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

business is giving insufficient review of regulatory oversight responsibilities when
changing reporting lines and/or roles, which must be addressed moving forward.
Meetings have been set up between the MLRO and HR to tighten controls

14.Following increasing workloads over the previous two years, two additional financial
crime roles were created and recruited into Financial Crime Compliance during 2019,
and this has ensured that enhancements could be made to Bureau de Change
transaction monitoring and investigation, the back log of risk assessment work
brought up to date and more focus given to industry and regulatory horizon scanning
to ensure that Post Office is adequately protected. The team has also absorbed the
continued increase in investigations (up 40% compared to 2018) and SARs (up 35%
compared to 2018), although if this trend continues, this will not be sustainable.
There is limited, if any, automation that can be introduced to cover these tasks.
Workloads and resourcing implications will be monitored by the MLRO
during 2020

15. The Bureau de Change residual risk continues to improve as increased controls
and improvements to transaction monitoring are implemented. Risk Assessments for
Post Office Insurance have fallen behind due to product managers failing to complete
Product Information Packs/respond to queries in a timely manner and this has been
highlighted to the POMS ARC. First line compliance with Post Office financial crime
policies is of concern. Further work will be undertaken by Compliance in 2020
to improve first line management awareness of the policy minimum control
requirements that are their responsibility.

16.Work has commenced to undertake assurance activity in respect of Payzone
products and services. There is currently a lack of documented policies and
procedures to support this area of the business, but it is planned that the initial
assessment and assurance activity will be concluded by the 2019/20 financial year
end.

17. There have been a number of high value and high profile investigation cases
relating to money laundered through Post Office counters via accounts held by banks
operating within the Banking Framework. This has resulted in significant interest and
focus by various law enforcement organisations culminating in the establishment of
Project Admiralty by the NECC with key stakeholders to address the risks and issues.
Up to P8 2019/20, there have been investigations and SARs relating to c.92m of
cash deposits. The business, particularly Product Management, must ensure
that adequate focus and support is given to industry, NECC and Post Office
initiatives to address the migration of cash placement risks to Post Office
as banks close, including following through on the actions recommended in
the Banking Framework risk assessment.

18.Overall, there has been a significant improvement to mandatory training compliance
in the Network, brought about by the roll out of SmartID and training controls.
Training and awareness remains a key control for AML/CTF and challenges remain:

e Whilst all Horizon users now complete the training and test, it is evident from
branch visits by Compliance that the key messages are not landing, and branches
are sometimes failing to question transactions or report suspicions, either because
they lack confidence, or because they do not understand how to apply the training.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 4

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 AT of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

With the current method of delivery of training via Horizon, there is limited scope
to improve the content.

¢ Compliance will continue to work with the Area Management team and
the NFSP to identify different ways to deliver key messages.

¢ Compliance are looking to design and deliver animations as part of the
annual AML/CTF training in May to help land key messages, but as these
cannot be incorporated into Horizon, alternative access will be
investigated for the Network.

¢ There are still challenges with back office staff completing training within the
required deadlines. Financial Crime Compliance will continue to monitor
and chase.

19.In summary, the framework of AML/CTF controls is generally effective and Post
Office is meeting its regulatory requirements under the MLRs. However, there are
key areas where focus needs to be maintained to ensure this continues, particularly
in relation to:

¢ The completion, maintenance and timely and accurate provision to HMRC of agent
Fit & Proper data, and ensuring that HMRC direct employee checks are kept up to
date

e The substantial increase in suspicious activity relating to Banking Framework cash
deposits

e Increasing regulatory scrutiny and penalties
20.Additionally, attention needs to be given to ensure that:

e Key training messages have been understood and are acted upon by Horizon users
and given the limitations of providing training over Horizon, alternative methods
will need to be identified

e First line are aware of their responsibilities to maintain policy minimum control
standards

e Increasing workloads from core regulatory activity (Bureau de Change transaction
monitoring, SARs and investigations) can be maintained.

Key Recommendations:

Activity Responsibility Completion
date
Continual focus on first line accountabilities e.g. All Senior Ongoing

policy minimum control standards, ensuring product Management
and service risk assessment, integrity of F&P data
and records

Review 5MLD impacts MLRO End Jan 20*
Completion of premises registration reports DCoE End March 20
Delivery of F&P data system to reduce errors F&P Project Team End April 20
Implement F&P assurance across impacted business Compliance Q1 2020/21
areas
Raise awareness of policy requirements to first line Business Senior Throughout 2020
Management &
Compliance
CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 S

48 of 91 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20
POL00423468

POL00423468
Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report
Initial financial crime assessment of Payzone Compliance End March 20
Initial implementation of financial crime controls in Product End March 20
Payzone
Reduction of laundering risks in Banking Framework Product & MLRO. Throughout 2020

via work with NECC, Banking Framework partners,
and law enforcement
Product to produce initial proposals to provide Product & Q1 2020/21
Compliance with improved MI to ensure appropriate Compliance
balance of commercial considerations against
regulatory risks

Enhance AML training and awareness MLRO, L&D, June 2020
Network
CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 6

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 49 of 91
Tab 9 Money

0 of 91

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

The Annual Report of the Money Laundering
Reporting Officer for the Post Office Limited for

POL00423468
POL00423468

the period 1% January 2019 - 315* December 2019

Table of Contents
A. Purpose and Scope of Report
B. Background
C. Governance Framework
D. Operation and Effectiveness of the Control Framework
i. Senior management oversight
ii. Staff awareness and training
iii. I Risk assessment, policies, controls and procedures
iv. New products and services
v. High risk products and services
vi. Customer due diligence requirements
vii. I Reporting suspicious activity
viii. Record keeping
ix. I Premises Registration
x. Fit & Proper tests
E. Incidents and Investigations
F. External Threats/Landscape
i. Business areas
ii. The 4" Money Laundering Directive
iii. IThe 5 Money Laundering Directive
iv. The Criminal Finances Act 2017
v. The Policing and Crime Act 2017
vi. Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce
G. Conclusions and Recommendations
Appendix A: Post Office Insurance annual MLRO report
Appendix B: Product and Service Risk Assessment Summary
Appendix C: Summary of UK Enforcement Action
Appendix D: Product and Service Risk Exceptions

Appendix E: Report on duties of Nominated Officer - Suspicious Activity Report

Summary

A. Purpose and Scope of Report

1. The Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs) require that the Money Laundering
Reporting Officer (MLRO) produces an annual report to appraise senior
management on the effectiveness of key Anti-Money Laundering and Counter
Terrorist Financing (AML/CTF) controls, and make appropriate recommendations
for improving the management of risks and priorities, and resources if appropriate.

2. HMRC is the regulator responsible for supervising Post Office Limited compliance
with MLR requirements. Their oversight relates to Post Office Limited Money
Service Business (MSB) activity, specifically, the provision of Bureau de Change.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

3. The MLRs and the 2017 National Risk Assessment clearly identify a requirement
for organisations to adopt a risk-based approach to prevent money laundering and
terrorist financing. Risk assessment must be documented and evidence the
decisions that senior management have made in the context of the particular risks
facing the business.

4. The Post Office Insurance business is subject to a separate MLRO annual
report in September each year, and can be found in Appendix A.

B. Background

5. The MLRO and the Financial Crime Compliance team are responsible for financial
crime policies, assurance and AML/CTF risk assessment of products and services
(see Section D and Appendix B).

6. Bureau de Change is the only product that Post Office is directly regulated for,
although POL is required, both contractually and under the MLRs, to have in place
and comply with policies, controls and procedures to mitigate and manage
effectively the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing for all the products
and services it offers through third party or white label solutions and joint venture
arrangements (e.g. MoneyGram, Banking Framework Services, Post Office Money
products, Gift Cards etc.). The most significant impact of financial crime for Post
Office continues to be reputational damage. Negative media attention following
an incident of financial crime has potential for loss of consumer and client
confidence in the product/service, consequential devaluation of brand values and
possible impact on Government commitment which is vital to support Post Office.

7. Post Office have not received any regulatory penalties since 2017/2018.when,
HMRC fined us in respect of premises registration errors, and} !RRELEVANT;
for regulatory breaches in relation to oversight and risk assessment “OF Travel
Money (this latter fine being halved due to co-operation and progress during the
audit). We have however seen increasing scrutiny by regulators in the UK, which
seems to reflect the guidance in the Financi n Taskforce Mutual Evaluation
Review published at the end of 2018 and of fines have been levied on
firms by UK regulators in 2019.(see Appei summary of UK enforcement
action)

8. Training and awareness continues to be a key control for Post Office and the
introduction of training controls with Smart ID has ensured all Horizon users
complete annual training. There continues to be evidence however, that the key
training messages are not being applied consistently (see para 23)

9. The new requirements relating to Fit & Proper tests for agents under the 2017
MLRs have required extensive work, and Post Office was granted a 3 month
extension by HMRC to complete the agent data gathering exercise. Work to
complete this and implement BAU processes continues to be an area of focus (see
paras 60-61).

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 8

Post Office Lit

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 51 of 91

POL00423468

POL00423468

undering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

C. Governance - those responsible for anti-money

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

laundering systems and controls, and the structure
within which they operate

Ben Foat is the GE member and officer appointed to be responsible for overseeing
compliance with the MLRs.

Sally Smith is both the MLRO and a member of the Post Office Compliance
leadership team. She is located in Finsbury Dials, Moorgate, London, where Post
Office Group is situated. The MLRO takes ultimate responsibility for compliance
with the MLRs, the provision of training and awareness within Post Office, the
design and implementation of internal anti-money laundering policy, systems and
procedures, and advising on how to proceed once an internal report and/or
Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) has been made

Under the direction of the MLRO, Compliance is responsible for assessing and
assuring Post Office Limited’s exposure to financial crime. This includes

e setting policies and standards relating to financial crime, assessing and
assuring AML/CTF risks across Post Office;

* ensuring that risks are properly reflected in Risk & Controls Matrices (RACMs);
e ensuring appropriate disclosure of SARs to the National Crime Agency (NCA);
e liaising with third parties regarding investigations; and

e ensuring information is appropriately disclosed to clients or third parties.

Through the Financial Crime Compliance team, the MLRO has oversight of AML/CTF
investigations, non-conformance by branches or individuals and risk assessment
of products and services at a granular level.

During 2019 regular reports have been provided to the Risk & Compliance
Committee (RCC) and the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) covering
AML/CTF controls, the outcomes of risk assessment work, HMRC supervisory
activity, changes to legislation and industry issues.

Due to increasing regulatory supervision and workloads two additional financial
crime roles were created and recruited at the beginning of the 2019/20 financial
year. This has ensured that a backlog of risk assessment work has been brought
up to date, and enhanced Bureau de Change transaction monitoring and suspicious
activity investigation capability has been implemented.

Other than for Bureau de Change, financial crime MI reporting within Post Office
is still not sufficiently granular at product level to aid transparency and decision
making. Product specific monthly MI on the work undertaken by Financial Crime
Compliance is being developed and shared with the relevant product teams, with
monthly MI currently provided to the Travel Money Product Director. Consistency
of information and analysis capability for other products and services (especially
Banking Framework) makes it harder to appropriately balance commercial
considerations against regulatory risks. Compliance will work with business teams
to provide Compliance with improved MI, with the aim of producing initial
proposals by Q1 2020/21.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 9

Post Office Lit

Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Compliane
POL00423468

POL00423468

undering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

D. Operation and Effectiveness of Control Framework
i. Senior management oversight
17. See Section C above for summary of governance and oversight.

18. HMRC fit and Proper tests must be performed on all external Board Directors, GE,
the MLRO and impacted employee roles as per HMRC requirements and Post Office
policy.

19. However, recent structural changes across the business have been implemented
without being effectively impact assessed to ensure that appropriate tests are
completed for those roles overseeing regulated activity, and removed from HMRC
records where individuals move to non-designated roles or leaving the business.

ii. Staff awareness and training

20. Provision of staff awareness and training is a key control for Post Office, and annual
training was updated to cover issues and incidents that had arisen in the previous
12 months. All staff are required to complete AML/CTF training:
e For back office staff this must be completed within 30 days of joining and
annually
e For customer facing staff this must be completed before they have access to
Horizon and annually

21. Monitoring of training completion levels for back office staff is undertaken by HR
Directors, and those staff who do not complete mandatory compliance training are
dealt with via conduct with potential removal of annual bonus payment. Training
completion is subject to quarterly assurance checks by Compliance. During 2019,
there have been a number of times when functional areas have been chased as
completion rates have been below 95%.

22. Annual training was completed between 3" and 29'" May 2019. Training for Horizon
users was the first compliance module to be completed after the full roll out of
SmartID and training controls and at 7pm on 28" May 2019, 74% of branches
were fully compliant, and 88.3% of individuals. We therefore extended the Horizon
user deadline until 3 June 2019, by which time 93% of all users were compliant.
By the 5th June, 92.4% of branches were fully compliant and 97% of individuals.

23. The number of failed test attempts, and low volume of SARs received continues to
be of concern. Although SARs volumes are up year on year, a number of recent
investigations have highlighted that SARs are not being submitted by Horizon
users, and therefore key messages in the training are not being understood and/or
acted on and work will be undertaken in 2020 to enhance awareness.

24. Following a number of high value banking deposit cases, the Financial Crime
Compliance team, accompanied by two Area Managers, a Security Operations
Manager and the London NFSP Executive member visited c.50 East London
branches on Friday 25" October 2019 to raise awareness of criminal activity and
the importance of raising SARs. Key learnings from these visits will inform further
training and awareness across the network on AML issues. We are working with
the Area Managers and NFSP to identify communication and awareness
opportunities and developing animations to accompany the 2020 annual training
which can also be used throughout the year to reinforce key messages.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 10

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Compliane

53 of 91
25.

iii.
26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

POL00423468

POL00423468

ndering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

51 branch and business awareness communications on AML, Financial Crime and
SAR reporting have been delivered in 2019. Over the last 12 months, we have
tried to link communications to media reports of modern slavery, human trafficking
and county lines drug dealing to try and help individuals to understand the link
between criminal activity and their responsibilities.

Risk assessment, policies, controls and procedures

The Group takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and
consequently has!

e Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited
circumstances where there are significant conflicting imperatives between
conformance and commercial practicality

e  Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues
e  Averse risk appetite for ligation in relation to Financial Services matters

e Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation
from business’ conduct standards for financial crime to occur within any part of
the organisation

«¢  Averse risk appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by our staff.

The Group acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive
controls have been implemented a product or transaction may still sit outside the
agreed Risk Appetite. During 2019, there were 4 risk exceptions relating to
financial crime. Three remain open but are relatively low risk and on track to close
in 2020 (see Appendix D for details).

Product and service risk assessment has continued throughout 2019 with all new
products and services assessed before go live. The new resource appointed in
June 2019 has helped clear the backlog of assessments and improvements are
being made to make this process more efficient and effective. (see Appendix B for
details).

Product risk assessments for Post Office Insurance have been delayed in 2019,
due to non-completion of the Product Information Packs by product managers.
Additionally a new product (Gadget Insurance) did not follow the normal approval
process, and therefore was not risk assessed before it went live in accordance with
Post Office policy. These issues were reported to the Post Office Insurance ARC
via their separate MLRO report in September 2019. Of 8 Post Office Insurance
products, 6 have been assessed and 2 (Bike and Pet insurance) remain to be
assessed and are overdue.

Policies relating to Financial Crime overall and AML/CTF specifically, have been
updated and were approved at the September 2019 Audit and Risk Committee,
and published on the Intranet via a One Communication.

Both first and second line management have responsibility to ensure that the
controls in place work as intended, and the Financial Crime team undertake
quarterly assurance checks against the minimum control standards. During 2020,

1 The Risk appetite was agreed by the Post Office Board January 2015

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 11

Post Office Lit

Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Compliane
Tab 9 Money

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

32.

33.

iv. D
34,

35.

36.

37.

v. Hi
38.

further work will be undertaken to enhance this activity and provide enhanced
assurance to Post Office senior management and Board.

We review, investigate and report all instances of non-conformance with AML
policies and processes, ensuring corrective action is taken by relevant business
owners.

Processes within Compliance are robust and up to date, however processes and
policies across the business to support these are less mature and continue to
require improvement.

evelopment of new products

All new products and services have been subject to financial crime risk assessment.
Following the acquisition of Payzone in October 2018, a Master Services Agreement
between Post Office and Payzone has now been agreed, and a financial crime
compliance review has commenced with a data gathering exercise. A number of
key policies and processes do not appear to have been documented or
implemented, but the assessment and action plan is expected to be drafted before
the end of the 2019/20 financial year.

The Banking team is exploring cash automation and self-service devices.
Compliance has supported the project and liaised with key banking stakeholders
to identify potential risks and control requirements. The Banking team are looking
to pilot self-service devices at 4 Post Office locations early 2020.

Compliance has supported the Retailer Point of Sale (RPoS) project which enables
Postmasters to sell a selected range of Post Office products on their retail terminal.
This service is currently deployed at 3 pilot locations with mobile phone top-ups,
bill payments and Camelot products. In 2019, there was a change in strategy and
the proposition is now also aimed at non-Post Office locations and work is ongoing
with the project team to identify any financial crime risks and implement effective
controls, as these locations will not have access to Horizon Online Help or any
Horizon communications.

There have been no significant products or services launched during 2019 which
have changed the regulatory risk landscape for Post Office.

igh risk products and services

Post Office branch pre-order and on-demand Bureau de Change represents the
highest direct risk for Post Office in terms of AML/CTF and regulatory compliance.
Oversight and monitoring enhancements in 2019 include:

The use of Dynamics case management by Financial Crime Compliance has been
further matured over the last 12 months and has supported more granular
operational MI. This has enabled monthly MI Dashboard on monitoring,
investigation and SAR activity to be provided to the Travel team.

A Business Objects specialist reviewed and tested the initial monitoring reports
that were created. Improvements were made to speed up and streamline
reports to improve efficiency.

In branch (on demand and pre order) Terms and Conditions have been approved
and published on the Internet by the Travel Money Team, enabling Financial

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 12

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

55 of 91
Tab 9 Money

56 of 91

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

39.

40.

Crime Compliance to write directly to customers who breach the £10k over 90
days threshold.

The Bureau de Change Credence universe has not yet delivered all of the
functionality required. Accenture has rectified the majority of outstanding issues
which were identified on delivery in June 2018 and these have been tested and
put into production by the Data Centre of Excellence team (DCoE). There is still
an outstanding issue relating to Sanctions whereby customer information is not
being pulled through into AML Credence for on-demand transactions that decline
due to a Sanction match. It was understood that this was going to be resolved as
part of the fixes that Accenture have delivered, however, the DCoE team who were
managing these changes did not raise this issue as they believed it had already
been resolved. As the customer information is not showing on AML Credence, an
interim process has been agreed with DCoE that they will provide the missing
information when a match is identified. A Change Request has been raised with
Accenture to resolve the issue. It should be noted however, that, as reported in
2018, the Credence universe and Business Objects solution delivered is not a
transaction monitoring tool, and each report type has to be run and worked
separately, which can cause customer or branch review duplication.

Other products that are high risk include:

Banking cash deposits - We have seen a rise in cash deposits from Partner
Banks via Post Office counters as more customers become aware of the services
and more bank branches close. All banks have implemented tighter controls
around cash deposits and particularly via third parties and we have seen a
migration of suspected money laundering of cash via our branches, a number
of which have been undertaken by third parties and money-mules. Over the last
12 months there has been a significant rise in investigations and SARs relating
to cash deposit services (see para 67).

Due to the rise in concerns about cash laundering via the Banking Framework
Services (BFS), Post Office sought legal advice from Pinsent Mason regarding
Post Office’s regulatory position under the BFS agreement. They advised that
although the Partner Bank has regulatory responsibility for conducting Know
Your Customer (KYC) checks and transaction monitoring, the migration of cash
deposits to Post Office represents a material risk terms of:

o Potential regulatory scrutiny of Post Office and the partner banks, whether
that is HMRC, FCA or other; and

o Material reputational risk to Post Office brand if any action is taken by
regulators or any criminal proceedings are brought for breach of the MLRs.
If it is reported that Post Office has facilitated money laundering or terrorist
financing, this level of negative publicity or regulatory scrutiny would be
severe to Post Office given its social purpose within the UK communities and
being solely owned by the Government.

In August 2019 the UK Financial Intelligence Unit (UKFIU) conducted a review
of cash deposits via Post Office, calling out the increase in the number of SARs
received by the NCA, the increase in banking services at Post Office providing
criminals with more opportunities to place the proceeds of crime into the

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 13

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

Tab 9 Money

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

financial system, and the lack of visibility Post Office has over the Partner Bank's
customer meaning that SARs lack detail that would assist Law Enforcement. The
UKFIU notes that there are clear indications of money laundering at some Post
Office branches through the cash deposit services provided under the Banking
Framework Services agreement.

In July/August 2019, we identified 2 cases totalling c.£22m and HMRC presented
these cases to the Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce (JMLIT),
highlighting evidence that cash derived from criminal activity is being placed
over Post Office counters. This appears to be highly organised crime using
money mules and couriers, with funds deposited being immediately transferred
to crypto currency. Following these cases and discussions between the MLRO
and the NECC and the Pro-Active Taskforce of the Economic Crime Directorate
at City of London Police, Project Admiralty has been established by the
Operational Planning Coordination and Development (OPCD) team within the
NECC and a working group has been established with the aim of obtaining a full
and rounded picture of the threat from the banks in the banking agreement, the
extent of their exposure, and the degree of involvement in any operational
deployments.

The first meeting was held on 23' October 2019 attended by representatives
from Barclays, RBS, HSBC, Santander, Lloyds, Post Office, HMRC, the Pro-Active
Taskforce at the Economic Crime Directorate and members of the NECC The
aims of the project. Attendees were asked to produce more granular
information from their systems but all banks stated that the funds identified in
Post Office SARs relating to the large scale cases are generally immediately
transferred to crypto-currency, and some to FinTechs. The crime groups
identified to date have been African and Asian.

Following the initial meeting, the Financial Crime team hosted bank
representatives in the Post Office Model Office to demonstrate how banking
transactions are processed and the challenges the Post Office faces. A further
Project Admiralty meeting took place on 6" December at which bank
representatives shared findings from their internal review, however, some were
experiencing data mining issues and were unable to provide sufficient
granularity. Some banks raised concerns about inter-bank sharing of customer
data and each bank has been asked to evaluate their position and provide an
update at the next meeting on 29" January.

Analysis completed by the NECC relating to SARs submitted, containing the term
‘Post Office’ and ‘cash’, has identified a steady increase since January 2019. In
October 2019, there were c.160% more SARs submitted when compared to
January 2019, clearly indicating that banks and Post Office are identifying more
instances of money laundering over Post Office counters. The NECC are
continuing to monitor this and will update Post Office accordingly.

The Financial Crime Risk Assessment of the BFS was completed and issued to
the Banking team in November 2019 and has identified that there are control
gaps exposing Post Office to regulatory, financial and reputational risks. An

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 14

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

57 of 91
Tab 9 Money

58 of 91

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

action plan will be formulated to ensure that there are appropriate policies and
procedures in place (in either Post Office or the banks) to enable Post Office to
mitigate this risk and be able to demonstrate a robust response to any legal or
regulatory action. The Banking team is setting up a working group and steering
group to drive required actions.

e In addition to the work of the NECC and JMLIT, Compliance has briefed all the
BFS banks on the current issues via the SCGC, and it has been agreed to set up
a working group with appropriate representatives from the banks in January
2020 to help mitigate the risks.

* MoneyGram - As a near real time money transmission service, MoneyGram
remains high risk for laundering and scams and there is significant training and
awareness activity to help front line staff identify issues. In 2018, the US
Department of Justice (DOJ) agreed to extend a Deferred Prosecution
Agreement (DPA) against MoneyGram International Inc. due to significant
weaknesses in their anti-fraud and anti-money laundering programme in 2012.
As a result of this MoneyGram have implemented further controls to detect and
prevent fraud over Post Office locations, which will ensure no Post Office location
is in breach of their DPA.

eGift Cards - Due to the anonymous nature of the product, we continue to see
criminal activity which is addressed through training and awareness activity.
There are planned product changes due in January 2020 to comply with the Fifth
Money Laundering Directive, please refer to section 74.

« National Lottery & Scratchcards - Whilst these products could be used for money
laundering purposes, this is seen as unlikely as it relies on obtaining a winning
ticket. A key risk is failure in duty of care to customers if the product is
purchased by vulnerable customers, or large volumes are purchased by an
individual which may constitute excessive play. In 2019, the £10 scratchcard
was withdrawn and there have been communications to the Network regarding
vulnerable customers. This issue will be re-visited as part of the action plan to
address the annual risk assessment by the Financial Crime team, which has
been issued to the product team to assess materiality and propose any remedial
actions. A meeting with the product team is planned for January 2020.
Additionally, gaps in stock reconciliation for activated and non-activated
scratchcards which could lead to theft or loss have been identified and escalated
to the product team.

vi. Customer due diligence

Post Office Limited is required to undertake customer due diligence for directly
regulated activity (e.g. Bureau de Change) when:
« Establishing a business relationship, or
e Carrying out an occasional transaction with a customer of €15,000 or more, or
« Money laundering or terrorist financing is suspected

For Bureau de Change, the following controls are in place:
e Horizon restricts single or multiple transactions in the same basket to £10,000
(well below the €15,000 occasional transaction limit).

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 15

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

e Staff training and Horizon prompts advise that no business transactions should
be undertaken and that customers should not transact more than £10,000 in
any 90 day period.

« Customer details and ID are taken for all transactions of £1,000 and above, and
for all transactions settled by card payment. Monitoring is undertaken to identify
linked transactions for the same customer in a 90 day period and corrective
action is taken as required. (See para 65 re. Bureau de Change investigations)

«As part of Post Office’s risk based approach, all transactions of £2000 and over
are subject to a real time eKYC, PEPs and Sanctions check, with real time
declines of eKYC failures and Sanctions matches.

«Staff are trained to decline transactions and complete a SAR if they suspect
money laundering or terrorist financing.

43. PEP matches are monitored post transaction with corrective action taken if
necessary. In January 2019, a confirmed match was identified for an MP who
purchased c.15k Euros from the House of Commons Post Office. This was raised
to the MLRO and the branch were informed to advise all customers of the £10k
over 90 day threshold particularly for transactions over £5k. No further issues have
been identified.

44. For over £2k transactions, where there is a potential match on a Sanction list the
transaction will be declined in real time. Over the last year, there have been 5
potential sanctions matches which have resulted in further investigation. Following
review, none of these potential matches are the actual sanctioned individuals and
therefore not reported to the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI).

45. From April 2019 to P8 YTD, we have prevented 24 customers from breaching the
£10k over 90 day Bureau de Change threshold through monitoring activity,
totalling £138,200.

46. For all other products and services, Post Office Limited is not directly responsible
for customer due diligence, however, there are some contractual obligations where
Post Office undertakes part of customer due diligence on behalf of the third party
client or supplier. For example, where Post Office acts as agent for MoneyGram,
we must comply with their policies and processes in relation to recording customer
data and identification details. As part of product and service risk assessment
work undertaken for these products and services, the requirement for customer
due diligence, PEPs and Sanctions checks is considered, and where appropriate,
work is undertaken with the product manager to ensure the right controls are in
place.

vii. Reporting suspicious activity

47. All SARs are reviewed and, where appropriate, disclosed by Financial Crime
Compliance under oversight by the MLRO. SARs received relating to third party
clients are shared with them so that they can conduct an investigation against
their own KYC and transaction records.

48. We continue to see more instances of Cash & Valuables in Transit (CViT) drivers
raising SARs in 2019 due to the volume of cash they are collecting, and by Cash
Centres in relation to Scottish & Irish notes, and in 2019 we have developed a
specific SAR form to aid Supply Chain staff to report suspicious activity.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 16

Post Office Lit Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 59 of 91

Tab 9 Money

60 of 91

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

49.

50.

51.

53.

54.

55.

56.

When reviewing network SARs, the team analyse the reports to determine whether
to communicate the highlighted concerns to the targeted areas or the entire
network (e.g. high value deposits, scams for vulnerable customers, customers
transacting Bureau at multiple branches).

Overall the volume of SARs received is up from on average 240 per month in
2018/19 to 326 per month in 2019/20. This is an increase of c.35% and is mainly
as a result of SARs identified from the new Bureau de Change monitoring reports.
See Appendix E: Report on duties of nominated officer for additional information
An additional Financial Crime Manager achieved accredited Financial Investigator
Officer (FIO) status during the year. Under s.378 of the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002, an FIO may exercise powers under the Act, and more specifically can receive
SARs which have been disclosed to the NCA by reporters other than Post Office,
where a subject has a potential connection with Post Office. There are now 2
accredited FIO’s within Financial Crime Compliance and there has been an increase
in review, investigation and response with 67 SARs disclosed by the NCA, in
comparison to 34 in 2018.

. Record keeping

All record keeping relating to AML/CTF is electronic (all paper SARs and paperwork
are scanned and saved electronically) and filed within a restricted access folders.

All reports, risk assessments and supporting documents are filed in the AML
Sharepoint site, and a log is maintained to ensure annual review and sign-off.
For Bureau de Change, the new AML Credence universe maintains all branch on-
demand and pre-order Bureau de Change transactions and this is retained for 5
years

Financial Crime Compliance investigation cases are managed and recorded via
Microsoft Dynamics and maintained confidentially from other Dynamics users in
the Post Office.

Court Orders & Data Protection Act requests - In 2019, we provided 1 witness
statement to the Police and received 15 Data Protection Act requests from Law
Enforcement and regulatory bodies relating to fraud and money laundering. 4 of
the 15 Data Protection requests received were raised due to investigations
highlighted and carried out by the team. In 2018, there were 7 Data Protection
Act request and 4 witness statements.

ix. Premises Registration

57.

58.

During 2019, new reporting was built, tested and delivered by the DCoE for
fortnightly submission of data to HMRC for premises registration. Data to generate
the HMRC reports is now taken from the source Master Data Management system
and this has removed previous reporting errors. Currently the data is manually
transferred into the HMRC reporting templates, but we have discussed some data
changes with HMRC and DCoE are expected to deliver reporting in the correct
HMRC format early 2020, removing the need for manual work.

On 4" April 2019 HMRC increased branch registration fees from I
annum with effect from 1st May 2019 meaning our annual registration fee for 1‘

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 17

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

Tab 9 Money

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

June 2019 was increase and leaving no time for
Post Office to consider the option of removing the service from branches to reduce
the financial impact. Corporate Affairs engaged with BEIS, HMT & HMRC, but no
extension could be accommodated, and the fee was paid in full. As part of the fee
increase the HMRC Fit & Proper test fee for direct employees and Board members
also increased from although this is still a one-off fee. Corporate
Affairs has since been approached by HMT as it wishes to undertake a further fee
review and has indicated that it wants to meet with Post Office to discuss, prior to
the consultation, but we are still awaiting this approach.

x. Fit & Proper Test Requirements

59.

CONFI

There have continued to be significant challenges with the Fit & Proper project with
considerable oversight and support required by Compliance:

In February 2019, following further issues delivering the project, there was
another change to the project team, with a new Project Manager and Project
Management Officer being appointed. This brought better focus and pace to the
project.

Due to early data request errors and delays in writing to agents to collate data,
we engaged with HMRC to ask to extend the deadline for the provision of all
agent data from June 2019 to September 2019, to enable Post Office to
complete the data capture with agents. This was approved by our regulatory
supervisor.

Following extensive follow-up activity and support from the Area Managers in
contacting non-compliant agents, branches for which no complete F&P
declaration had been received had their ability to transact Bureau de Change
and MoneyGram removed on 6" September and 13" September 2019 - 760
branches (445 then 315) were impacted in total. These branches were then
given a further 60 days to return their documentation before we de-registered
their premises with HMRC.

In the week commencing 18'* November 2019, 85 branch premises were de-
registered with HMRC and the steering group approved that any de-registered
Agents who subsequently seek to be reinstated, must pay the HMRC registration
fee to be re-registered before the transactions are enabled.

All Commercial Partner data capture and declarations are complete.

The master data (c. 13k rows of data) continues to be maintained manually on
a spreadsheet and there are still a number of gaps in existing processes to
ensure that data capture is accurate and optimised.

When pulling the full agent data against registered premises to send to HMRC
for the November monthly submission, it was identified that there were still 625
individuals with missing NINO, DOB, or both. Some of this agent data was held
in other systems and could be rectified, however, it was identified that c. 213
agents had never been contacted and therefore had not returned their up to
date data and declaration. The data was subsequently rechecked and 193 of
these branches had contracts that started in 2019, therefore checks and data
capture would have been covered as part of the on-boarding process and the
data available in other systems. The remaining 20 branches were made up of

IDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 18

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

61 of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

17 sole traders with either partial or full information collected and 3 others
where no information had been collected.

« Letters were sent to these 213 agents on 9" December and it is hoped to close
these remaining gaps by January. Our regulatory supervisor has been advised
and in the meantime, we will continue to send full agent data lists to HMRC each
month to evidence the progress being made. As at 16" December, 181 data
anomalies remained, but when preparing data for the December submission it
was identified that there were 210 missing NINO and DOB’s which appears to
be caused by incomplete data being captured by Agent Services. A meeting is
planned for January to improve processes.

e Approval for a Fit and Proper outline solution and high level design has been
given by the Enterprise Architecture Group, and in November the Portfolio
Review Board (PRB) approved the system in principle and the cost to build it,
but have asked the project team for further clarification on the on-going run
costs, and a further submission is being made to the PRB 21% January 2020.

«This new system should resolve a number of the current data integrity issues,
but it is likely that there will continue to be issues each month until then.

e It is anticipated that the new system for generating annual declarations,
capturing data and generating the required reporting both for Post Office
internal governance and HMRC agent data provision will be built and delivered
by 20" April 2020. The first set of annual re-declarations to the first cohort of
agents will then be sent end April/early May, with further monthly cohorts
scheduled to ensure that all agents are contacted to re-declare annually.

60. Further work will be required throughout 2020 to complete the agent Fit & Proper
project and transfer to BAU activity, along with appropriate compliance assurance
oversight. This will need to be completed and implemented before the annual
registration in June 2020.

61. Following HMRC undertaking 50 agents to test Fit & Proper data in October 2018,
we wrote to HMRC in March 2019 setting out our legal view in relation to the F&P
requirements for Officers in Charge/Agent Branch Managers (a requirement that
would have given rise to significant additional cost). HMRC confirmed that POL
does not need to extend F&P requirements to OIC level, however, it has reserved
the right to review the position regarding staff undertaking branch management
roles as part of any future compliance activity and if it deems, in specific instances,
they are within the scope of the relevant guidance, POL will need to submit their
details as part of the agent list.

E. Investigations and Incidents

62. There have been 451 investigations up to P8 2019/20 (an average of 56 per
month), this is compared to 433 for the whole of 2018/19 (an average of 36 per
month). As detailed in the table below, the level of Bureau de Change
investigations has already surpassed the number of investigations during 2018/19.
This annual increase is expected to continue and accelerate as we implement
additional Bureau de Change monitoring reports. Data on operational work

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 19

62 of 91 Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia
POL00423468

POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

63.

64.

65.

provided to the Travel team will help monitor and determine if further system
changes or controls are required in Horizon to reduce manual investigation activity.

Banking investigation volumes to P8 are on par with the total seen for the whole
of 2017/18, but are also more complex as they have involved multiple branches
and bank customers. Each case therefore has taken far longer to work, with access
required to several systems to piece together the connections to enable banks and
law enforcement to take action.

The graph below shows the investigations undertaken in 2018/19 and up to P8
2019/20 and is split out by the high risk products:

Investigations by product type

400

350
300
250
200
150
100
50
oo =

Gift Cards Bureau MoneyGram Banking Other

2018/19 2019/20 YTD

Bureau de Change (volume and value of branch transactions 2018/2019!
retevant!, and to P8 2019/20 ! & [i

Whilst the overall volume and value of transactions is down year on year, to P8
YTD 2019/20 there have been 387 Bureau de Change investigations relating to
branch non-conformance, money laundering and confirmed card fraud

The introduction of the new AML Credence universe and Business Objects has
led to an increase in the identification of potential vulnerable customers
purchasing currency. Over a two month period, a customer purchased in excess
of £15k in branch and also attempted to place a pre-order transaction for further
currency. After intervention by the team, the pre-order was refused and banking
protocol initiated. Information provided by law enforcement advised that the
customer did not really understand what they were buying the currency for, but
believed it was for a timeshare. Another example was a customer who
purchased c£44k in just over a month. Open sources research completed and
information provided by the branches confirmed that the customer was deaf.
This individual was reported as potentially vulnerable to law enforcement and
the transactions subsequently stopped.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 20

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

63 of 91
POL00423468

POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

66.

67.

As a result of branch non-conformance up to P8 2019/20, 15 branches have
been raised to Contract Advisors to take contractual action

Following the implementation of Microsoft Dynamics 365, the team is now able
to record what mitigation has been undertaken for each case. Volumes to P8&
2019/20 are as follows:

« 1044 Branch phone calls
* 73 text blasts
« 15 Memoviews

Compliance has established a relationship with the Risk Director at WHSmith
who has requested that any serious concerns/breaches relating to WHSmith
branches are escalated directly to him and he will ensure remediation activity is
undertaken

MoneyGram (volume and value 18/19: send transaction: f IRRELEVANT I receive
t ci Volum id_vali

4, receive transactions

to P8 19/20: send transactions

The team continues to meet monthly with the MoneyGram compliance team to
review issues, but generally, the number of issues relating to MoneyGram have
reduced significantly due to the new controls MoneyGram implemented in 2017.

During the current year, the network report that vulnerable customers are
sending money to Guinea and India. Trends have been identified as fraudsters
pose as Microsoft, or request vulnerable customers to send funds in relation to
PPI. All reports have been escalated to MoneyGram through our fortnightly SAR
update.

MoneyGram transaction monitoring has identified 75 potential branch non-
conformance issues up to P8 2019/20. This has resulted in MoneyGram
conducting a review at each branch, either in person or over the phone, to
discuss the failings and provide further training. Prior to each review, Financial
Crime Compliance has completed a check of each branch to confirm whether
any other concerns exist.

Banking Framework Services Cash Deposits - Up to P8 2019/20, there have been
42 investigations relating to partner banks, of which, 40 relate to suspicious high
volume/value sits. The total amount linked to these cases is
compared to c. across 47 investigations during 2018/19 up to P8.

Over the last year, we have identified a rising number of high value and complex
cases relating to business banking deposits which have been referred to Law
Enforcement and the relevant banks. As a result, HMRC has presented 3 cases
arising from SARs submitted by Post Office totallin I, to the UK’s Joint
Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce.

The cases below are examples of high-level investigations the Financial Crime
team has managed. These have been identified from intelligence received by
Compliance and SARs raised by branches, cash centre staff, area sales managers
and third parties:

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 21

64 of 91

ce Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

Tab 9 Money

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

e A partner bank raised concerns regarding several cards that were being used
to deposit high values of cash at two branches located in East London. Following
review, high value cash deposits were identified into multiple different bank
accounts, totalling c.£15.2m from December 2018 to June 2019. These
transactions took place at 52 Post Office branches although the individuals
predominantly targeted East London locations. Financial Crime Compliance
visited one branch that had been significantly impacted to provide awareness
and education. All information has been disclosed to Law Enforcement along
with CCTV footage.

During June 2019, HMRC advised us about a business customer depositing high
values and volumes of cash,. Analysis was completed on deposits made on the
2 cards provided by HMRC which identified a number of potentially linked
transactions made into multiple other bank accounts across a number of Post
Office branches in the Bradford and Manchester area. The total linked was
c.£2.5 m. The main branches were contacted advising them to capture customer
details and ID. CCTV was captured and shared with Law Enforcement.

Following a SAR raised by the network, high value cash deposits were identified
onto multiple banks cards totalling c.£20.9 million from June to November 2019,
that appeared to be linked. The individual deposit values ranged from £80 to
£16k. These transactions took place at 267 different Post Office branches, with
the majority of branches located within the M25 (predominantly East London).
We liaised with a number of branches to capture further customer information.
CCTV was reviewed which identified 6 potential subjects. All information has
been disclosed to Law Enforcement, however, activity remains ongoing.

Supply Chain raised concerns that a branch had recently increased its cash
collections. It was identified that high value cash deposits were being processed
onto twelve cards issued by multiple banks. A total of c.£10.5m was deposited
over 7 months at 13 branches. Details were shared with the banks who then
conducted a review of the accounts and details of our investigation were shared
with HMRC. The main branch targeted by this group was visited by Financial
Crime Compliance and advised that future transactions must be declined unless
the customers were able to provide personal ID to confirm their identity.

8. One4All Gift Cards (GVS) - A report containing the total remuneration paid for gift

card sales broken down by branch over a 12-month rolling period is received and
reviewed by the Financial Crime team on a monthly basis. One branch was
identified due to a spike in gift card sales during July 2019 (August 2018 to June
2019 - the branch average monthly sales value was £67, but in July 2019, £44k
of gift cards sold). Following a conversation with the branch, it was identified that
all cards were for a single individual who had said they recently sold their business
and were purchasing the cards as a gift for all company employees. On referral to
GVS, they advised that the gift cards remained inactive with their full balances
remaining. Following further conversations with the branch, the agent advised that
in order to facilitate the large order, the customer transferred the funds to the
agents own account via bank transfer and he purchased the gift cards using his
own debit card. The agent explained that he did contact NBSC who did not advise
that this was unacceptable. This information has been confirmed with NBSC and
the agent has been made aware that this is a breach of the sales process and must

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 22

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

65 of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

not be repeated. This was also escalated to the Head of NBSC to implement further
training to call handlers

69. Card Fraud over Post Office counters - Between 1° January 2019 to 15" November
2019 there were 2122 fraudulent transactions processed to the value of
£228,519.64; with the majority of transactions over £100 relating to Gift Card
purchases. Card fraud has declined compared to last year, where there were 3,009
transactions totalling £425,635.35. YTD there have been no Card Scheme
breaches.

70. The volume of JMLIT s.7? requests received and worked by Financial Crime
Compliance to P8 2019/20 has remained consistent with last year, however, the
volume of subjects (individuals) requiring checks has doubled:

e s.7's requests received - 87 (95 during previous year up to P8)

e Number of searchable subjects included in the requests - 1060 (566 during
previous year up to P8)

e Number of subjects identified in Post Office data - 36 (41 during previous
year up to P8)

¢ Following the recent terror incident at London Bridge on 29/11/2019,
Financial Crime Compliance remained on 24/7 call to support urgent
requests from the National Terrorist Financial Investigation Unit. No links to
the Post Office were identified from checks completed.

e The chart below shows the underlying issues relating to each request for
information received from JMLIT:

2 Under section 7 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013, the NCA is empowered to request information for the purposes of
exercising any NCA function, responses to these data requests are a key activity for JMLIT members.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 23

ce Committee-28/01/20

66 of 91 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Complia
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 9 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

JMLIT - s.7 Requests

Cyber Crime, 5
Human Trafficking, 8

0G, 4

legal Trade, 9
Fraud / Money
Laundering, 15
Tax Evasion, 3

Child Sexual Abuse and
Exploitation, 1

Organised Immigration
Crime, 10

Terrorist Financing, 8

Trade/Market Based
Money Laundering, 15 Bribery & Corruption, 9

F. External Threats/Landscape
i. Business areas

71. There have been no significant changes to the Post Office regulatory landscape
during 2019 as a result of changes in the Post Office.

ii. Fifth Anti Money Laundering Directive

72. Post Office submitted a response on 10th June 2019 to the HMT consultation on
the transposition of 5th Money Laundering Directive (SMLD) into UK law. The
following concerns/clarification requests were raised:

¢ the inclusion in the UK Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) definition of “Board
members of for-profit enterprises in which the state has an ownership of 50%
of more, or where reasonably available information points to the state having
control over the activities of the enterprise”, which would bring Post Office Board
members into scope for PEP due diligence in their personal financial dealings.

e the extension of the regulatory definition of ‘officer’ to ‘managers’, and that this
should be ‘senior managers’ to align with the FCAs Senior Manager Regime

e whether customer due diligence is required as a distributor of third party
manufacturing pre-paid cards

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 24

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 67 of 91
Tab 9 Money

68 of 91

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

73.

74,

e we are also asked that the Government recognised the GOV.UK Verify scheme
under the provisions for electronic customer identification

Due to delays in Brexit and the General Election, no draft legislation for the 5MLD
has yet been published. With an implementation deadline of 10" January 2020, it
is suspected that the legislation will either be published as a final version on or
around 10" January or it will be delayed. The legislation will need to be reviewed
to check for Post Office impacts, and the outcome of this review will be reported
to the subsequent Post Office RCC and ARC.

In readiness for the reduced limit for anonymous prepaid cards under 5MLD, GVS
are reducing the maximum load limit on One4All Gift cards from £400 to £120
from the 10" January 2020.

iii. Supranational Risk Assessment

75.

In July 2019 a Supranational Risk Assessment of money laundering and terrorist
financing activities affecting the internal market and relating to cross-border
activities was conducted by the Commission to the European Parliament and The
Council. The report highlights that cash remains the number one choice for
criminals to money launder, as well as cash like assets. It also highlighted
vulnerabilities in all sectors such as criminals obtaining employment within
organisations, new technologies assisting criminals to create better counterfeit
documentation, insufficient information sharing between public and private
sectors, insufficient compliance resource and awareness, and risks emerging from
FinTech products.

iv. Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI) Penalty

76.

77.

In June 2019, OFSI published a penalty noticed imposed on Travelex (UK) Ltd for
a bureau de change transaction. A penalty of £10,000 was issued due to a single
transaction of £204 breaching the EU Egypt financial sanctions regime. This was
in addition to a £5,000 penalty for Raphaels Bank in relation to the same
transaction issued in January 2019. These fines demonstrate OFSI’s readiness to
exercise its civil monetary penalties wherever it is deemed appropriate, and not
just on large cases/values.

Post Office currently undertakes Sanction screening for all on-demand and pre-
order Bureau de Change transactions over £2,000 as part of an electronic Know
Your Customer (eKYC) check. We also undertake ad-hoc checks as part of
investigations. To date Post Office has never had a Sanctions match, and the risk
is deemed low.

v. HMRC compliance and registration penalties

78.

In 2019, HMRC announced a record fine of £7.8m against Touma Foreign Exchange
Ltd, for Money Laundering Regulations breaches between June 2017 and
September 2018. This included failures within its Fit & Proper (F&P) tests, risk
assessments, policies, controls and staff training. This highlights the pro-active
approach HMRC are taking to tackle money laundering and regulatory non-
compliance, and the potential public penalties possibly imposed. This approach
indicates that should Post Office fail to comply with money laundering regulations,
we would incur a penalty much greater than our previous fines under the 2007

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 2s

Post Office Lit Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

Tab 9 Money

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

MLRs which totalled c.£1.1m, additionally under the 2017 MLR’s these fines are
now made public, prior to any appeal process.

v. Other regulatory developments:

79.

80.

81.

82.

83.

The Foreign & Commonwealth Office published guidance in July 2019 explaining
how the UK would implement sanctions if the UK leaves the EU without a deal. The
UK would implement UN sanctions in UK Domestic law after the UK leaves the EU,
as required by international law. If there was no deal, then the UK would carry
over all EU sanctions at the time of departure. The government will implement
sanctions regimes through new legislation, in the form of regulations, made under
the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (the Sanctions Act). Any
sanctions that the UK did not address will continue as retained law under the EU
withdrawal Act 2018, ensuring there are no gaps. UK will publish the names of
sanctioned persons or organisations, and regulations would be published as normal
alongside guidance

The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has shared draft guidance on digital identity
(digital ID) for public consultation. This guidance is to clarify how digital ID systems
can be used for customer due diligence (CDD). The draft guidance intends to help
governments, financial institutions and other relevant entities apply a risk-based
approach to the use of digital ID for CDD. Guidance is intended to assist
governments, regulated entities and other relevant stakeholders determine how
digital ID systems can be used to conduct certain elements of customer due
diligence (CDD) under FATF Recommendation 10.

Conclusions and Recommendations

The regulatory environment continues to pose a challenge, with increased
regulatory and legislative focus on money laundering and terrorist financing.
Following the 2018 FATF UK Mutual Evaluation review, there is evidence of
increasing focus by regulators, and readiness to exercise monetary penalties, as
evidenced by OFSI and the FCA. We have also seen a more pro-active approach
to supervision by HMRC (funded by the significant increase in registration fees
from 1%t May 2019) and an increase in the volume and scale of penalties issued by
them. This indicates that should HMRC identify that Post Office has failed to comply
with money laundering regulations, penalties will be more egregious than
historically, as well as being made public. It is therefore important that Post
Office’s commitment to comply with all aspects of regulatory requirements remains
high on the agenda.

The Supranational Risk Assessment issued on 2019 highlights that cash remains
the number one choice for criminals to money launder, and this has been borne
out by the increase in suspicious activity that has been identified through the year
relating to Banking Framework cash deposits over Post Office counters

Political uncertainty has delayed publication of the draft UK legislation relating to
the 5MLD, but it is still expected that this will be enacted by 10" January 2020,
and therefore the final content and Post Office impacts are unlikely to be known
and assessed until after publication, including the likely impacts of Politically
Exposed Person status for Post Office executives.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 26

Post Office Lit

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

69 of 91
Tab 9 Money

84.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

The establishment of the NECC in October 2018, has seen an increased focus in
activity, and this is borne out by the increased workloads we have seen responding
to subject requests, which have doubled year on year. A number of the cases
under review relate to cash-based criminal activity with a predominance in human
trafficking, organised immigration crime, modern slavery and sexual exploitation.

The HMRC supervisor who has overseen Post Office regulated activity since 2015
is retiring in June 2020, and therefore Post Office will have a new supervisor during
the early part of 2020, which may bring changes to HMRC regulatory oversight
and activity. We are also aware that HMRC are considering a further review of
their registration fee structure, although as yet, there has been no guidance on
this.

Further work has been undertaken to resolve data issues with the Bureau de
Change monitoring solution and assessment and oversight of the product
continues to mature. The increased volumes of investigations and SARs evidences
the improvement in controls since the HMRC audit in 2016 and subsequent
penalties. The new premises registration reporting tool was delivered by DCoE in
2019 and has improved the accuracy of registration data, however, some further
work is required to generate the HMRC reports in the correct format and remove
manual manipulation. Customer Due Diligence, PEPS and Sanctions checks for
Bureau de Change are currently assessed to be adequate.

The agent Fit & Proper data requirements have continued to be a significant
challenge for Post Office, and data gaps and challenges remain in providing
accurate monthly reporting to HMRC due to the disparate systems that store the
information. Significant effort was required to meet the extended deadline of
September to complete the data gaps, although ultimately only 85 premises were
deregistered, albeit further data discrepancies were then identified. Data issues
are likely to continue until the new data system is designed, built and delivered in
2020. Additionally, due to the high number of structural changes within Post Office
over the last 12 months, it has proven difficult to keep the direct employee Fit &
Proper tests up to date with HMRC, and the business is giving insufficient review
of regulatory oversight responsibilities when changing reporting lines and/or roles,
which must be addressed moving forward.

Following increasing workloads over the previous two years, two additional
financial crime roles were created and recruited into Financial Crime Compliance
during 2019.This has ensured that enhancements could be made to Bureau de
Change transaction monitoring and investigations, and the back log of risk
assessment work has been brought up to date. This has also meant that more
focus can be given to industry and regulatory horizon scanning to ensure that Post
Office is adequately protected. The team have also absorbed the continued
increase in investigations (up 40% compared to 2018) and SARs (up 35%
compared to 2018), although if this trend continues, this will not be sustainable,
and there is limited, if any, automation that can be introduced to cover these tasks.

Products and services provided by Post Office are broadly in line with the risk
appetites set by the Board and, with the exception of the Banking Framework
services, there has been an improvement in residual risk over the last 12 months.
The Bureau de Change residual risk continues to improve as increased controls

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 27

70 of 91

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia
Tab 9 Money

POL00423468

POL00423468

Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

90.

91.

92.

and improvements to transaction monitoring are implemented. Risk Assessments
for Post Office Insurance have fallen behind due to product managers failing to
complete Product Information Packs/respond to queries in a timely manner and
this has been highlighted to the POI ARC. First line compliance with Post Office
policies is of concern and further work will be undertaken in 2020 to improve first
line management awareness of the policy minimum control requirements that are
their responsibility.

Work has commenced to undertake assurance activity in respect of Payzone
products and services. There is currently a lack of documented policies and
procedures to support this area of the business, but it is hoped that this activity
this will be concluded by the 2019/20 financial year end.

There have been a number of high value and high profile investigation cases
relating to money laundered through Post Office counters via accounts held by
banks operating within the Banking Framework. As a result there has been
significant interest and focus by various law enforcement organisations
culminating in the establishment of Project Admiralty by the NECC with key
stakeholders to address the risks and issues. Up to P8 2019/20, Financial Crime
Compliance have investigated and raised SARs relating to c. £92m of cash
deposits. Product Management and Compliance must ensure that adequate focus
and support is given to industry, NECC and Post Office initiatives to address the
migration of cash placement risks to Post Office as banks close, including following
through on the actions recommended in the Banking Framework risk assessment.

Whilst overall, there has been a significant improvement to mandatory training
compliance in the Network, brought about by the roll out of SmartID and training
controls, training and awareness remains a key control for AML/CTF and challenges
remain:

e Whilst all Horizon users now complete the training and test, it is evident from
branch visits by Financial Crime Compliance that the key messages are not
landing, and branches are sometimes failing to question transactions or report
suspicions, either because they lack confidence, or because they do not
understand how to apply the training. With the current method of delivery of
training via Horizon, there is limited scope to improve the content, and Financial
Crime Compliance will continue to work with the Area Management team and
the NFSP to identify different ways to deliver key messages.

e We are looking to design and deliver animations as part of the annual AML/CTF
training in May to help land key messages, but as these cannot be incorporated
into Horizon, alternative access will be needed for the Network

e There are still challenges with back office staff completing training within the
required deadlines, and this continues to be monitored and chased by Financial
Crime Compliance.

CONFIDENTIAL POL ARC MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 28

Post Office Lit Committee-28/01/20

Audit Risk & Complia

71 of 91
POL00423468

POL00423468
Tab 10 Business Continuity Update
Post Office Limited
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Report
Title: Business Continuity and Resilience Update
Meeting Date: 28" January 2020
Author: Tim Armit, Business Continuity Manager
. Jeff Smyth, Digital Technology Director, CIO FST &
=ponsny: Identity
Input Sought
Action Required: i
Discussion Noting
Previous Governance I f p
Oversight: Risk and Compliance Committee, January 2020
Executive Summary
Business continuity solutions and levels of resilience
continue to increase across all operational areas of
Post Office.
Solutions have all been tested and proven to meet
business requirements.
Response, escalation and incident management
teams and plans are in place and fully functional.
People, facilities, IT and supply chain are the main
areas of risk and each has been considered and 10
Context: mitigated where possible.
IT issues have increased over December but with
minimal impact on customers and income.
GLO and RMG industrial action have both led to
increased levels of readiness.
Key Risks:
The business response to a complete Horizon failure
The sudden loss of a Retail Partner
The loss of the Telco datacentre

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 10 Business Continuity Update

@

1. Docurrent levels of resilience and continuity plans in place meet Post Office requirements?

Questions asked & addressed

2. Are there key business continuity risks the Post Office is exposed to?

Report

3. Do current levels of resilience and continuity plans in place meet Post Office
requirements?

Yes, the current approach to resilience and continuity ensure that Post Office can respond to
major incidents in a timely and controlled manner.

Physical relocation solutions for Chesterfield, Bristol, Bolton and London are in place with
Sungard and these have all been tested and proven to work.

Incident response and escalation methods are in place for all levels of incident. A new sub
team to respond to branch incidents has been stood up and proven which links into the Business
Protection team (BPT). The IT incident response team and its links to the BPT are proven and
known by all involved.

A new strategy and tool was deployed in December. This is the Post Office on Wheels which
enables an entire branch with all services and technology to be delivered with 24 hours to any
location. It is simply plugged in, connected to the internet and made live. This has been
deployed live in December. The concept was first considered in September 2019 and
implemented in December 2019. The Post Office now has a solution, which for the first time in
its history, can mitigate the sudden loss of a branch (due to fire, flood etc) or a key retail
partner.

Grapevine, a third party security supplier to Post Office, has in place a system to send texts
and other forms of communication to every branch, office and members of staff if other
communications systems are not operational or it is out of working hours. This has been proven
to work and has been used in December during the Verizon datacentre failure incident.

The incidents across December which impacted administration offices, call centres, SSK’s, the
ability for customers to use card payments, ATM’s and Moneygram and access to the vault at
Hemel were all unrelated and had almost no impact on customers or income. The Verizon data
centre which stopped all operations in every administrative office did not affect branches or
customers (there were no customer complaints or comments on levels of service). Whilst
there was some frustration in card payments failing, many worked on the second attempt and
or customers could withdraw cash to pay, this again led to no noticeable service impact or
customer complaints. This pattern continued across the other incidents.

The Resilience manager is working with IT on the root cause analysis of the plethora of
incidents; as the link between increased volumes of business and incidents in December
correspondingly increases the level of risk to service.

The planning for a response to the GLO ruling and to the threat of RMG industrial action was
inclusive of contingency responses. The RMG planning exposed a number of risks to Post Office
operations which will require further consideration, particularly to the amount of Post Offices
RMG planned to collect from and the number of daily collections, both of which had significantly
reduced from the planning levels in 2017. The industrial action has now been called off.

2
Confidential

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 73 of 91

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 10 Business Continuity Update

@

4. Are there key continuity risks the Post Office is exposed to?

Yes, there is no coordinated strategy for the large scale failure of the Horizon system; this risk
was identified in late 2018 and work was completed across all products and business areas.
Manual operations are not possible for many products and due to increased Regulatory changes
some strategies can no longer be considered in the Banking area. There are no standing
instructions in branches as to what is expected of them and currently if Horizon fails most
branches would close and remain close until it is restored. The four key pillars of operations:

e POCA - emergency cash payments can be made to customers but this would be at the
Post Office’s risk and would be noted on paper for later reconciliation.

e Payment - Customers would be directed to other local payment systems.

e Banking - Cheques could be accepted but not processed until the system is restored,
customers would be informed of this and can choose not to use Post Office.

e Mails - ongoing discussion with RMG as to what scale of offer could be made. Stamps
can be sold for cash but no special services could be offered currently.

These operations are then measured against branch accessibility to determine priority
branches.

Any ongoing operation would be paper based and the Post Office would be at risk on every
transaction and would have to ensure Post Masters understood where the risk lay, with Post
Office not them. This increases the risk of mistakes and fraud.

Ongoing work with product teams and IT on alternative solutions continues. The key is to
ensure the systems are fully resilient in design with automatic fail over and uninterrupted
service.

There is a key risk of the sudden loss of a Retail Partner. Work has been undertaken to identify
how a response would be managed and what strategies could be used to mitigate such a loss.
In the worst case scenario over 600 branches may close their doors to customers. Whilst the
plans utilise every effort to re-open these branches with differing strategies it is agreed that
approximately 80 branches would need to be opened within 2 days to serve POCA and
vulnerable customers, where no alternative branch or service exists. To mitigate this the Post
Office on Wheels has been developed and there is a commitment to build 100 of these devices
by April 2020. These solutions will enable a branch to be opened within 48 hours in local church
halls, or town halls etc and for service to vulnerable customer to be maintained. All other
branches are within an acceptable distance of another branch to provide service.

The datacentre supporting back office processes of the Telecommunication business within Post
Office has no planned recovery capability. The contract contains no disaster recovery provision
meaning if the datacentre is lost Fujitsu post event would attempt to source replacement
hardware to build an environment in an unspecified time with no known costs for doing this. A
new supplier will be brought in for this contract but this could be over a year away.

5. None directly but will need additional budget to mediate risks.

6. None Directly

Confidential

74 of 91

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 10 Business Continuity Update

@

7. Resilience and continuity uniquely covers every aspect of infrastructure, operations and

leadership as well as external supply chain, as such it liaises and supports stakeholders in
all areas.

Stakeholder Implications

8. Not Applicable

Next Steps & Timelines

9. Focus on Horizon resilience levels and continue to develop alternative working practices.

10. Support IT in reviewing root cause analysis and ensuring operational mitigations continue
to meet business needs.

11. Escalate the Post Office on wheels solution.

Confidential

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 75 of 91
POL00423468

POL00423468
Tab 10 Business Continuity Update
Appendix 1
None included.
5

Confidential

76 of 91 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit

Post Office Limited
Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee

Report
Title: Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Report
Meeting Date: 28 January 2020
Mark Baldock: Head of Risk
Author: Jonathan Hill: Director, Compliance

Johann Appel: Head of Internal Audit
Al Cameron: Chief Financial Officer
Ben Foat: General Counsel

Sponsor:

Input Sought

Action Required: Noting

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Executive Summary

The paper provides an update on key and emerging
Context: risks, compliance matters and an update on the latest
internal audit position.
1. The committee is asked to:
¢ note the current key enterprise risks
e note Central Risk are undertaking a review of
all active/emerging enterprise (and key
operational) risks. This will be presented to
GE in February with a re-baselined position
reflected in RCC/ARC paper in March 2020.
e note the key intermediate/business risks
¢ note the emerging enterprise risk around End
of Life components
¢ note the latest position on Brexit
¢ note the latest position on the
Questions asked and implementation of the Post Office’s
addressed: Governance, Risk & Compliance tool (Archer)
e note the status of the Change Portfolio and
its current top portfolio risks and key delivery
challenges
2. note the Compliance update with particular focus
on the conclusion of Ofcom’s Text Relay
investigation, PSD2 & Telecoms, the current
approach to meeting the new Cookies
requirements and the progress made on
Contract Remediation
3. note the progress being made with delivery of the
Internal Audit programme and completion of
audit actions

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 77 of 91
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk,

>mpliance and Internal Audit

Risk

What are the key enterprise risks and what is the business doing to address

these?

1 The Post Office currently have 13 active enterprise risks. A complete list is provided at
Appendix 1. Central Risk are now undertaking a review (and potential refresh of all
active/emerging enterprise (and key operational) risks which will be presented to GE for
discussion and approval in February. This re-baselined position will be reflected in the
RCC/ARC paper in March 2020. In the meantime based on their current RAG scores, the
key enterprise risks facing the business are Payment Card Industry Security Standards
(PCIDSS) (4:4), Retail proposition (5:3), Brexit (4:3) and Group Litigation (5:3).

What are the key Intermediate (Business) Risks and what is the business

doing to address these?

Business Continuity

2 During the last quarter of 2019, there were a number of incidents that impacted the
business operations, namely outages around SSKs, VPN and Bol transactions. Although
these incidents were remediated, they were outside of service standards. Root cause
analysis is underway to ensure future resilience. Work is planned to review the level of
business reliance and the robustness of contingency plans in place. An associated
business risk will be articulated as needed.

Payzone Risk Management Framework/Workplan

3 Payzone continue to work towards the development of a wider Risk Management
Framework. The management team have reviewed the risk register and agreed target
risk scores with mitigation plans and target dates in place. A process flow chart detailing
the correct risk management processes has been generated and submitted to the POL
Central Risk team for further review. A risk workplan has been created to monitor and
update the management team on progress on key risks and activities, including progress
to address significant risks and return to acceptable levels. We consider the following
risk should be noted by RCC.

Current
Score using
Payzone I/L

Current
Score using
POL I/L

Risk Mitigation Plan
Following the on-boarding of a dedicated contractor,

The urgency in deploying a I cignificant progress has been made on defining the

permanent fix for an existing

78 of 91

terminal pairing issue (between
devices E200 and T103) affecting
agent and customer transactions
may increase with on boarding of
high profile clients. If agents are
unable to carry out the transactions
there will be significant impact to
customers, particularly vulnerable.

issues (mainly around Terminal pairing and WiFi
connection). A number of additional fixes are
planned for deployment, however, currently on hold
to ensure stability of service whilst in 5 day
consecutive operation test and in readiness for 1st
Jan exclusive service. Unlikely to release before mid-
January. Plan to be developed to communicate to
retailers on resolution process for pairing issue in
order to reduce the impact to the helpdesk.

What are the emerging risks faced in the short and medium term and what

is being done to address these?

4 Anemerging IT risk (4:3) has been identified around a potential number of hardware
and software components managed by our various 3rd party suppliers which may be
‘end of life’. IT are assessing these components to determine their actual status and will
upload the baselined position into Service Now to allow for proactive configuration

management.

Confidential

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Ris pliance and Internal Audit

@

5 We will be undertaking a deep-dive on this risk (along with confirming the current
underlying IT business/intermediate risks) as part of an IT risk workshop in early
February 2020. The outputs of this work will be a baselined suite of IT risks which will
be uploaded into Archer as part of the wider deployment of the GRC tool.

What is the latest position on Brexit?

6 The Conservative party secured an 80 seat parliamentary majority as a result of the
December 2019 General Election. At this point the Withdrawal (Agreement) Bill (WAB)
is expected to complete its UK and EU Parliamentary ratification in January 2020
allowing the UK to leave the EU on 31 January 2020.

7 UK Whitehall Departments are now turning their attention to preparing for the UK-EU
Free-Trade Agreement (FTA) negotiations. The objectives, scope and sequencing for
these negotiations still need to be finalised on both the UK and EU sides. The nature of
the FTA negotiations (and their impact on Post Office) will be significantly influenced by
the timeframe.

8 We advised RCC/ARC in November 2019 that, as drafted, the WAB regards Northern
Ireland as part of the EU Customs Union. If unamended during the FTA negotiations this
may require RMG/Post Office to adjust their current GB and NI mail process to allow for
the completion of EU custom declaration forms for post being sent from the UK to NI.
There may be need for changes to Horizon to cater for multiple VAT rates (as NI
may need to align with the Eire, rather than UK).

What is the latest position on the implementation of the Post Office’s

Governance, Risk & Compliance tool (Archer)?

9 The Central Risk team have embarked on implementing Archer (an industry standard
GRC tool) to enhance the efficiency of our risk management. We have successfully
designed, built and achieved a technical go-live for the Archer Phase 1 solution allowing
exclusive deployment to the Central Risk team. Immediate next steps are for us to
quality assure and then upload all Post Office enterprise risks into Archer. This will be
followed by cleansing and uploading all Post Office business and local level risks to the
system. We are currently working on a comprehensive Archer deployment plan with the
intention of commencing from February 2020 with an aspiration to complete by June
2020. In parallel, by end of January 2020, we will have put in place a GRC corporate
governance body to oversee the Post Office’s GRC Strategy and supporting framework
as well as the design and delivery of Post Office wide GRC processes.

What is the status of the Change Portfolio, including top risks and key

delivery challenges?

10 The overall status of the portfolio remains Amber. The temporary ‘pause’ on new
funding requests has now ceased. Prioritisation and increased scrutiny of spend and
benefits has increased confidence we will remain within 2019-20 budget. Progress
continues across gold/platinum projects with 1 project closed and 2 projects completing
successful implementations in P8. The portfolio has seen a slight increase in the number
of gold and platinum projects reporting an overall RED rating for the Risk RAGs. This has
resulted in the portfolio risk RAG status being upgraded to Amber which, in turn, has
contributed to the portfolio status remaining at Amber.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 79 of 91
Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk,

80 of 91

POL00423468
POL00423468

>mpliance and Internal Audit

@

11 There has been a decrease in the number of gold and platinum projects reporting an
overall Red RAG status from 7 to 5. 3 projects remain RED from November (PCI; IDS
Digital Identity; Digitising Mails). The 6 Red RAG projects are:

. PCI Compliance (Cost, Risk and Overall Red RAG): Ingenico costs are £1.5m in
excess of what was expected as a result of changes made to the technical solution.
Final commercial agreements with Fujitsu/Ingenico, Computacenter and Vocalink
under review by vendor management, legal and delivery teams.

. IDS Digital Identity (Cost, Benefits, Delivery, Risk and Overall Red RAG): The
primary supplier is not able to deliver the requirements. Discussions underway on
options for a way forward. Investigations underway to find another supplier.

. Digitising Mails (Cost, Benefits, Delivery, Risk and Overall Red RAG): Reporting Red
as spend is on hold while business evaluates various delivery options.

. POCa replacement bid (Risk Red RAG): Risk of reputational damage through the
choice of DWP’s replacement solution (a paper voucher service). Post Office is not
supporting this solution as vulnerable customers could be left without easy access
to legacy POCa balances as the voucher service will not allow balances to be
transferred.

. Legal Entity Optimisation (Delivery & Overall Red RAG): LEO scope is focused on
putting in place appropriate governance. Underlying work including Route to
Dividend, Articles of Association (AoA) and Framework Documentation agreed.
Formal PO, POI Board and Payzone Boards will take place between January and
March 2020. A Change Request will be progressed to reflect new timescales
bringing project back to green.

. Parcel shop (Cost & Overall Red RAG): Red due to funding and scope not being fully
aligned as the project made changes out of governance. A change request for
retrospective approval is progressing.

12 Appendix 3 provides a summary of the current key ‘Platinum and Gold’ change
programmes and their current reporting status.

Compliance

Text Relay

13 Ofcom has sent us an “S96 Notice” of our breach of the General Conditions in relation to
Text Relay. This is a formal step in the investigation, which was expected. The notice is
based on Ofcom’s Statement of Facts sent earlier in December. Ofcom had the potential
to fine Post Office up to £11.4M but this was unlikely. More probably the fine was expected
to be between £200K and £1.5M. Following representations from Post Office Telecoms
and Compliance Ofcom has opted to penalise us £175K (£250K including a further 30%
discount for early settlement).

14 Early settlement was only possible if we accepted liability for the text relay failing,
accepted the fine and waived rights to any further defence by 19th December, which had
to be made by a statutory director. We had no dispute with Ofcom’s Statement of Facts
and as a result agreed to Ofcom's decision in a letter from Alisdair Cameron, dated 18"
December 2019.

15 We have requested that all individual names (in Post Office and Fujitsu) names are
redacted along with commercial sensitive data, in line with Ofcom’s request on
confidentiality.

16 Ofcom has now published a summary of its findings and the fine on its website. We have
had limited media enquiries to date, which Group Communications are managing.

4
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit

@

PSD2 & Telecoms (there will be a verbal update at the Committee meeting)

17 As discussed at the July 2018 RCC and ARC, the Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2)
came into force for electronic communications firms in January 2018. Telecoms firms had
the option to apply to the FCA for a full payment institution licence or opt for an exemption,
agreeing not to charge customers over a certain amount for premium rate services. The
latter requires an annual independent audit to confirm compliance.

18 Legal guidance on PSD2 relevance to Post Office Telecoms was varied but it was confirmed
in February 2019 that Post Office Telecoms does need to meet the regulations and the
Telecoms team was advised it needed to implement the changes. It has been reviewing
options and working with its partners/suppliers to make the necessary operational
changes and register an exemption with the FCA.

19 On 14" January 2020 we notified the FCA that we will be applying for an exemption and
that we are developing remedial actions to reimburse impacted customers and implement
a technical billing solution. The FCA may seek further information from us on our remedial
plans and also seek to impose a penalty given the PSD2 regulations required an ECE to
be in place from January 2018. However, to date, the FCA has not fined any firm on this
matter. We believe that there are a number of firms in the industry that are not applying
the regulations, hence the FCA’s 23" December 2019 reminder to the industry of the PSD2
obligations.

Post Office use of Cookies on Internet and Apps

20 Recent updated guidance from the Information Commissioners Office has clarified the
management of cookies. There has also been relevant case law handed down (Planet49
fined approx. £4M for non-compliance) from the Court of Justice of the European Union.

21 Post Office’s current position is non-compliant with both the guidance and case law.
However, it is similar to the approach being adopted by many in the UK. MIT, UCL and
Aarhus University have conducted a joint study into the use of cookies, analysing cookie
management platforms used by the UK’s top 10,000 websites. Their research has found
that only 11.8% of the sites have met the minimal regulatory requirements and, of those
that do, under 13% made the “reject all” option accessible through the same number or
fewer clicks as the “accept all” option’.

22 The Digital, Legal and Data Protection teams are working on solutions to be taken forward
for consideration and approval. These will be presented to the GE in January. It should be
noted that all solutions could have a significant impact on our data analytics and marketing
activities (potential impact could be as high as a loss of 93% of permissions granted).

Contract Remediation (GDPR)

23 Work has commenced on the Contracts Remediation programme as outlined previously.
The outstanding contracts have been considered, categorised and prioritised against
streamlined criteria with focus on risk to personal data.

24 Considerable progress has been made, with nearly all contracts being sent “deemed
consent” letters either as a means of closing down contracts where the counterparty has
not responded to date, to close non-material agreements where no contact had so far
been made or to initiate contact with Material/High Risk contracts that need action. The

+ Source: BBC News article 15.01.2020

Confidential

Post Office Limit ce Committee-28/01/20 81 of 91

Audit Risk & Complia

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit

@

last category of contracts will be followed up directly by the team to resolve, alongside
those already in remediation.

25 The programme is scheduled to conclude by end June 2020.

Payzone BPUK:

26 = = Aninitial review of Payzone Bill Payment UK against the provisions of GDPR was completed
in early December 2019.

27 The report shows that there is considerable work that needs to be completed in the New
Year. However, from a data protection perspective the biggest risk relates to the personal
data held on their employees and not that of customers.

28 The DP team will be working with PZBP UK to introduce the necessary changes and
updates in Q4.

Freedom of Information

29 Since the ruling was handed down in the GLO case we have received 2 Freedom of
Information requests linked to the case, one from a known individual and linked to the
trial.

30 Prior to any information being disclosed as part of our statutory obligations responses are
being verified by Legal, Retail and Comms to ensure they are consistent with what may
have been released previously.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) update

31 Following completion of the Anti-Corruption Government Supplier questionnaire, there
was a recommendation that Post Office should publicly disclose its charitable
contributions, sponsorships and political contributions. We are currently working with the
Corporate Responsibility team to identify the best channels to communicate this, although
we state in our Annual Report (Directors Report section) that the business does not make
political contributions.

32 In the lead up to Christmas, communications have been sent out to remind colleagues
that all gifts and hospitality must be reported via the online tool.

33 Gifts & Hospitality reporting and approval levels are currently being reviewed and 11
benchmarked against industry best practice, and the new reporting and approval portal is
currently being tested and finalised, with rollout anticipated in Q4.

Whistleblowing Update

34 Due to the number of reports received recently from Agent assistants, we are currently
working with the Communications team to identify ways to raise awareness of the
importance of whistleblowing to our agents and ensure they understand that
whistleblowers are protected by law to stop them being treated unfairly or losing their job
because they "blew the whistle”.

35 Expolink Europe Ltd currently provide our Whistleblowing Speak Up service, however, the
contract has expired. During the contract renewal discussions, Expolink were acquired by
Navex Global Ltd, and they advised that they are not prepared to sign a novation in
relation to Expolink, but would migrate Post Office onto a contract with Navex Global. It
has been agreed internally, supported by Legal, and with the supplier to proceed with the
new contract, which would see Post Office migrated onto a new platform with additional
services. This is expected to be completed by financial year end.

Confidential

82 of 91

Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit

@

Fit & Proper update
36 See separate MLRO report

Regulatory updates

37 See separate MLRO report
External Threats

38 See separate MLRO report

Supply Chain Compliance

39 One site audit was completed in November, with 5 Improvement Needs identified, and an
audit score of 11, which is on par with the audit last year and no repeat findings. No site
audits have been undertaken in December.

Mystery Shops

40 Following the finalisation of the Purpose, Strategy & Growth work, the Product Teams and
Network will review the approach to FS sales in the network, addressing the on-going
compliance conformance challenges.

41 Key issues identified continue to relate to Travel Insurance (non-disclosure of medical
information and product information) and Life Insurance (not introducing the whole
range). There have been no Bol savings red shops in the last 2 months.

42 Athematic review was completed for Travel Insurance in November to better understand
the issues using targeted scenarios. The results show the same issues as in previous
shops. Changes have been made to simplify the questions used in Q4 to further
understand the results and confirmation of the current mystery shop results.

43 Project Phoenix is due to launch mid-March 2020 with branches offering the same levels
of cover as available online. This should enable branches to complete more sales and offer
better customer outcomes. Post Office Conduct Compliance is working with POI product
and Compliance and Post Office L&D function to create training materials. Face to face
meetings with the Network Field teams are planned for Q4 to help understanding of the
changes, including the sale process.

Video Mystery shop for Customer Relationship Managers

44 Results for Life Insurance in October and November continued to show the same issues
with 6 out of 35 videos graded red. POI is currently undertaking a review of its sales
strategy through the branch network. One of the key changes will be the removal of the
Easy Life product from the CRM Tablets from 31% January. No reds were reported for
Savings video mystery shops in October or November.

Capital One Credit Cards

45 Capital One appears very risk averse for a small planned pilot on network lead generation.
We have prepared and shared a customer detriment risk assessment and are working with
its compliance team to help it understand how the Network works and how this activity is
managed.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 83 of 91

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit

@

46 There is only one new combined policy being updated in this cycle combining Information
Security, Cyber and Access.

47 Further to the challenge issued at the last ARC it has been confirmed that Group Policies
do apply to POI unless for a specific regulatory reason POI is required to have separate
policies. Even then it should follow the direction and group approach as far as possible.
e.g., POI would be expected by the FCA to have its own separate risk policy and risk
appetite, but this should be managed within group risk expectations and processes.

48 It has been agreed the Group Change Policy (approved at the last ARC) does apply group
wide and POI is not excluded from the policy, a small update reflecting this will be put in
place.

49 During 2019 with the temporary benefit of a Policy Manager we begun the work of
rationalising the policy set from 125 policies to around 30 and ensuring that out of date
policies were reviewed and approved. The current focus with the resources available is to
work with policy owners in getting them to ensure policies are reviewed on time in the
appropriate template.

Confidential

Committee-28/01/20

84 of 91 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliancs
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit

@

Internal Audit
Progress against plan

1.

Delivery of the 2019/20 programme is making good progress, having finalised four
audits since the November ARC meeting (3 POL and 1 POI).

Current delivery status is as follows:

POL Internal Audit Plan POI Internal Audit Plan
Status -Total Audits = 28 “? Status -Total Audits = 6

28

<<

O

= Completed = Reporting
= Fieldwork = Planning = Completed = Planning
Not Started

[IPOL ARC approved baseline plan for 2019/20 (18 core internal control reviews & 10 change assurance reviews).
Details of the audit plan status are included in the reading room (Appendix 4).
Ip ARC approved baseline plan for 2019/20 (5 internal control reviews & 1 change assurance review).

Internal Audit reviews in progress and planned

3. The following reviews are in progress or being planned for delivery in Q4:
Post Office Ltd
Review Status Timing
1__I Telco Billing Process Reporting 04/11 - 25/11
2 HIH (Change) Reporting 25/11 - 13/12
3 Branch Banking Framework Fieldwork 08/01 - 24/01
4 Accounts Receivable Fieldwork 13/01 - 31/01
5 Investment Funding Controls follow-up _I Fieldwork 20/01 - 07/02
6 Data Privacy Fieldwork 13/01 - 07/02
7 Supply Chain (CViT) Planning Feb
8 Agent On-boarding Not started Feb
9 Vetting / Fit & Proper Not started Feb
10 SPO Controls (Phase 2) Not started Feb
a. Effectiveness of Compliance Function Not started March
12__I FS Branch Sales Not started March
13 Savings Accounts (Sales) Not started March
Post Office Insurance
14 Revenue Recognition Planning Feb
15 MI Platform Planning March
9
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 85 of 91
Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, C:

jance and Internal Audit

@

POL00423468
POL00423468

Internal Audit reviews completed
4. Since the November ARC meeting we have finalised the following 4 reviews:

« PCI Programme

e Cyber Security Follow-up
« CFS Controls (Post BOT)
.

Third Party Overs:

ight (POI)

5. Our findings and observations from these reviews are summarised below, with the full
reports available in the reading room.

PCI Programme (Programme Assurance) (Ref. 2019/20-13)

Needs Significant Improvement

Sponsor:
Shikha Hornsey

Audit actions:
2

3
1
6

The PCI Programme was launched in November 2018 to regain
compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.
The programme is now in its 3rd iteration, having developed from a
purely technical solution to update the Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE)
in the existing PIN Pads to a more holistic solution (per its most recent
business case) that also addresses retail payments and the Banking
Framework processes.

The objective of this review was to assess the operating effectiveness
of programme setup and delivery activities.

While good work has been done since June 2019 in managing the
programme activities and in driving a more holistic approach towards
compliance, the programme carries a significant residual risk to Post
Office's ability to achieve compliance. There is also a remaining inherent
risk of non-compliance as a result of the late shift of compliance position
and the scale and complexity of the remediation work that is now
needed. The programme has been impacted by challenging
relationships with third parties (most notably Fujitsu and Ingenico) as
well as significant changes in Post Office leadership (having had 5
different sponsors in the current financial year).

Whilst the full detail costs of the solution, including run costs are not
yet agreed, the current forecasted spend exceeds the approved funding
by £1.5m, with £880k of additional running costs and timeline to regain
PCI compliance potentially being extended to end of Q1 2021.

We highlight the following key issues that are within the control of the

programme to address:

« — Insufficient committed resources to support programme delivery;

« Incomplete assessment of PAN data across Post Office;

« Inability to fully demonstrate that the PCI guidelines were followed
on the current proposed remediation.

Management Comment provided by Shikha Hornse\

The PCI Programme has bee!
it is receiving much more foci

solution may roll out early i

n re-prioritised to become one of the Post Office’s major initiatives. As such
us, as well as more resources, to ensure that the Post Office’s PCI compliant

solution will be ready for deployment in December 2020. However, as the Christmas shopping period
is typically the busiest time of year, it is expected that the actual software deployment of the compliant

in the first quarter of 2021 due to the Christmas freeze. All effort is being

made to shorten that time line wherever possible in order to target a December 2020 compliance date.

Confidential

86 of 91 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

10
POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit

Cyber Security Follow-up (Ref. 2019/20-17)

A comprehensive Cyber Security maturity assessment was undertaken
by Deloitte between December 2018 and May 2019. The review covered
34 capabilities across four domains and concluded that Post Office has
made significant progress in developing its IT and Information Security
capabilities. However, maturity scores were found to be below the
Needs Improvement average for the Retail sector, FS sector and Post Office’s target
maturity. Deloitte made 224 recommendations to close these maturity
gaps, which are implemented through 10 overarching actions. The
objective of this follow-up review was to assess the progress made to
track and implement the actions required to achieve target maturity,

y,

Sponsor:
Shikha Hornsey

Audit actions: ahead of a second comprehensive review due in 2020.
0 Significant work has been undertaken since the Deloitte review to
3 enhance the control environment and we believe that the agreed
1 approach to remediation will result in maturity levels consistent with the
current targets. Completion of remedial actions is currently at 60%,
4 which is slightly behind schedule (65%), but in itself no cause for

concern. However, we have highlighted some control weaknesses,
which if not addressed, may prevent the business from achieving the
maturity targets set for Cyber Security by March 2020.

Management Comment provided by Tony Jowett (CISO)

“I agree that good progress has been made towards enhancing Post Office’s cyber maturity.
We accept the findings and actions detailed in the report and will address them within the
agreed timescales.”

CFS Controls Post BOT (Ref. 2019/20-16)

The objective of this internal audit was to assess the design and
operating effectiveness of the Financial Reporting Controls that changed
when processes migrated from POLSAP to CFS. The audit covered 77
controls across 7 processes.

It is our view that the emphasis placed upon this work by Finance
Needs Improvement continues to ensure that the business maintains a good level of control
over its financial reporting activities. The training and guidance
provided by the Financial Controls Team in the run-up to BOT has paid

y,

Sponsor: Al Cameron

Audit actions: dividends and has contributed to a considerable improvement in the
0 standard of controls being operated. We conclude that the control
6 activities in this area are effective, although largely manual in nature.
2 The audit identified some opportunities for improvement, which will
further strengthen the controls.
z

Management Comment
“As always, we welcome the input from internal audit and the report is a fair reflection of the status of

the new post BOT controls. I’m pleased with the progress made in this area and the significant
improvements made to the control environment as a result of the hard work during BOT. The findings
are not concerning in nature, however they will be acted on swiftly to ensure the framework is robust
and controls are operating effectively. Additionally we'll continue to strive towards developing a more
automated (less manual) controls environment.” (Tom Lee - Financial Controller)

“We appreciate the review as this is never an area where we will be complacent.” (Al Cameron - CFO)

11
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 87 of 91
Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit

@

POL00423468
POL00423468

88 of 91

POI: Third Party Oversight (Ref. 2019/20-04)

Post Office Insurance has introduced a well-designed framework, clear
policies and prescribed processes to effectively govern, monitor and
manage third parties. The experiences leading to the termination of

Satisfactory

Sponsor: Ed Dutton
Audit actions:

contract with a key provider, Travel Insurance Facilities (TIF), mid-
2019 have informed the approach and there is a clear emphasis on
alignment with POI brand values.

We noted that the intra-group services agreement with POL (MSA) is
not currently covered by the framework and we recommend that such
agreements be brought within the process.

0 Overall, third party oversight within POI has been rated satisfactory to

1 reflect that, although the activity is not yet mature, no significant

3 design or operating weaknesses were found, and it is on track to
Total 4 become embedded in BAU.

Management Comment provided by Russell Tavi

ener

we can offer support and experience.”

Status of Audit Actions

“We found this audit to be probing and challenging and accurately reflects the positive progress that
has been made to enhance our supplier management approach.

The findings are reasonable and will be used to further improve the level of rigor POI now enforces
within the selection and management of our supply chain. We also believe that this audit provides
compelling evidence how PO Group could implement SRM in an efficient but effective manner, for which

6. Audit actions are generally being completed on time. The movement and ageing of audit
actions are shown in the table below.

Audit Action Status (POL):
Open actions at last ARC
Less: Actions closed in period
Add: New actions in period
Total open actions

7. The following two actions are curren

Ageing:
75 Open (not yet due) 54
43 Overdue (<60 days) 2
24 Overdue (>60 days) ie}
56 Total open actions 56

tly overdue (less than 30 days):

[Description of audit finding and Priority

[Action Owners and Status Update

IFS Training (Branch Sales) (GE owner: Owen Woodley; Due date 31/12/2019)

P2 - There is no high-level document setting
jout the approach to FS branch sales training.

IFS training policy.

Action: Coordinate a cross functional effort to
(develop, position and maintain an appropriatedelay. The action has been reallocated and is

Owner: Elizabeth Garside (prev. Ross Hunter)
Progress has been made although the departure
pf the initial action owner has resulted in a

scheduled for completion by 31 Jan 2020.

[Purchase to Pay (GE owner: Al Cameron; Due date 31/12/2019)

IP2 - Segregation of duties is not enforced in
(CFS for Accenture support users. Specifically,
\11 users were able to raise and approve
requisitions and modify master data.

Action: Management will investigate what
steps can be taken by Post Office to monitor
Accenture access to CFS. This could
potentially be addressed by Accenture
sharing the Authorisation Object and
[Transactions Report currently being tested in
[the development environment.

(Owner: Joy Lennon

(Action is progressing. Accenture roles have
been reviewed to tighten access to CFS and it is
likely that changes to master data or
ransactions raised by Accenture staff will be
picked up as part of normal monitoring process.
However, more robust monitoring mechanisms
still need to be implemented — appropriate
solution is being discussed with Accenture, who
have indicated this will be completed by 31 Jan
2020.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit

it Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

12
POL00423468
POL00423468

pliance and Internal Audit

@

Tab 11 Consolidated Report from Ris

Appendix?

Central Risk

Appendix 1: RCC Post Office Enterprise Risks

Appendix 2: RCC Risk Heatmap and supporting comments
Appendix 3: RCC Change Portfolio

Internal Audit

Appendix 4: Internal audit plan
Appendix 5: CFS Controls (Post BOT)
Appendix 6: PCI Programme
Appendix 7: Cyber Security Follow-up

Compliance

Appendix 8: Compliance Dashboard (Nov 2019)

Appendix 9: Compliance Dashboard Summary of Trends (Nov 2019)
Appendix 10: FS Regulatory calendar

Appendix 11: Telecoms Regulatory calendar

? Appendices are accessible in the CoSec ‘Reading Room’
13
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 89 of 91
Tab 12 Policies for Approval - Policies in Reading Room

Post Office Limited

Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Report

Cyber and Information Security Policy Summary

Title: Paper

Meeting Date: 28" January 2020

Author: Hazel Freeman (IT Security Business Partner) 7
Ehtsham Ali (Head of Cyber Security Compliance)

Sponsor: Shikha Hornsey (Chief Information Officer)

Input Sought

Action Required:
Noted

Recommend for Approval by the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Previous versions of the policy have been presented
to the Risk and Compliance Committee.

Executive Summary

Context:

This paper provides a summary of changes that
have been made to the information and cyber
security policies below as part of their annual review
process for the Committee to consider

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20

POL00423468
POL00423468

POL00423468
POL00423468

Tab 12 Policies for Approval - Policies in Reading Room

@

1. Which policies were updated in this annual cycle review?
2. I What updates were included and why?

Questions asked & addressed

Report
Which policies were updated in this annual cycle review?

3. In this review cycle 1 policy has been revised pending approval and 3 have been
deprecated and merged.

Policy Last Reviewed I Updates

Cyber and Information Security I December 20018 I Covered in the paper below.

IT Security May 2018 Deprecated and merged into Cyber
and Information Security Policy.

Acceptable Use September 2018 I Deprecated and merged into Cyber
and Information Security Policy.

Document Retention and March 2018 Deprecated and merged into Cyber

Disposal and Information Security Policy.

What updates were included and why?

4. The changes made are:

a. Consolidated the top level Cyber and Information Security policies into one,
simplifying where staff need to go, to get the business intent on cyber and
information security.

b. The policy suite is supplemented with Cyber and Information Security standards
which cover the measurable controls.

c. Minimum control section has been updated to incorporate controls from the
current IT Security, Acceptable Use and Document Retention and Disposal
Policies.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-28/01/20 91 of 91
