Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information

8.11 Casework Management and
PSO Products and Services

Version 1.0 Final
June 2011

Review Date: June 2013

Ray Pratt
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Security

Mobex i
Mobile i G RO

POL00104888
POL00104888
Contents

Key Accountabilities

1. Purpose

2. Introductions

3. Allocation of SIMSWMS events and creation of
investigations

4. The Quality Assessment process.

5. Prosecution Decision-Making Process.

6. PSO Products and Services.

7. Production of case file labels.

8. Distribution of Directed Surveillance (RIPA)
Applications.

9. Management of Prosecution Decisions.

10. Issuing Simple Cautions.

11. Obtaining and Serving Summonses in England and Wales.
12. Obtaining Previous Convictions of Suspect Offenders
in England and Wales.

13. Obtaining Previous Convictions of Witnesses in
England and Wales.

14. Witness Management in England & Wales.

15. Warrant Cases in England and Wales.

16. Police Liaison Files - progressing Arrest Cases.
17. Notification of Prosecution Outcomes.

18. Case Closure.

19. Processing Non-Police Agency (NPA) Forms in England
and Wales.

20. Management of Award and Recognition Process.

21. Case File Storage Retrieval, Archiving & Disposal.
22. Tape Management - Audio Master and Video

23. Audio Tape, Video Tape and DVD Copying.

24. Requisitioning and Distribution of Stationery
Supplies.

25. Recording and Provision of Management Information.
26. Provision of Typing Services.

27. Administration of the SIMSWMS System.

28. Administration of the Work Time Management System
(WIMS) .

29. Management of the Non Offender Reports (NOR) system.
30. Colour Printing.

31. Disposal of Articles which have been forensically
examined.

32. Recovery of Losses to Royal Mail from Employee
Pension Funds.

Change Control

Glossary

Royal Mail 2011 Casework Management and PSO Products and Services (08.11) ~ RM V1.0 ~ Page 2

POL00104888
POL00104888

© ONYNYHN UuuHe® ee ew

©0200 DR

10
10
11

11
11
12
12
12
12
13

14
15
Key Accountabilities

POL00104888
POL00104888

Who is
accountable?

What do I have to IWhen do I have

do?

to do this?

How do I do
this?

All members
of Royal Mail
Security

Ensure you comply I Ongoing

with these
procedures

As detailed
within these
procedures

© Royal Mail 201

ck Managenent: and PSO Products

nd Services (08.11) ~ RM V1.0 -
POL00104888
POL00104888

Casework Management and PSO Products and Services

1. Purpose

1.1 The aim of this document is to provide Investigators within Royal
Mail Security with clear

understanding in relation to the Casework Management and the
Prosecution Support Office (PSO)

products and services.

2. Introductions

2.1 The role of the Casework Manager (CWM) is very much an advisory one
in relation to investigation procedures and ensuring adherence to
standards. There are two main areas into which the work of the CWM
can be categorised, as follows;
2.1.1The Quality Assessment process - Section 4
2.1.2 Prosecution Decision Making Process - Section 5

2.2 In addition, these Procedures and Standards identify and detail the
products and services offered by the PSO.

3. Allocation of SIMSWMS events and creation of investigations

3.1 All new Security Information Management System Workflow Management
System (SIMSWMS) events are allocated to the appropriate
Investigation Team Manager (ITM) for the postcode area in which the
event/incident is believed to have occurred. Upon receipt of a new
SIMSWMS event, the PSO team will assess the event against the Trigger
Point document in order to decide how the event should be dealt with.

3.2 If there is insufficient information contained in the event details
or the event does not meet any of the trigger points, the event is
allocated to the appropriate ITM for ‘information only’. If further
action is to be taken and information exists to justify an
investigation being created, the event must be transferred back to
the relevant Casework Account in SIMSWMS, requesting the creation of
an investigation and detailing the reason(s) why an investigation is
to be conducted. Similarly, if it is believed that an event may be
linked to an existing project, the event must also be returned to the
appropriate Casework Account in SIMSWMS for linking by the PSO team.

3.3 If a new event meets the trigger points, the PSO team creates a
project and an investigation, the latter of which is transferred to
the relevant ITM for enquiries to be undertaken. The project is held
in the relevant Casework Team account in SIMSWMS. The investigation
is transferred to the ITM with guidance notes and a recommendation on
timescales for completion in the form of an investigation category.
All upgrades from events to investigations will only be carried out
by the PSO team.

3.4 Upon completion of an investigation, the SIMSWMS investigation is
transferred to the appropriate Casework Account in SIMSWMS where it
is checked against the hard copy file prior to closure of both the
investigation and its associated project by the PSO team. All
projects and investigations are only to be closed by the PSO team.

janagement and PSO Products and Serv:

(08.11) = RM V1.0 ~ Page 4 of 15

© Royal Mail 2011 Cas
POL00104888
POL00104888

4. The Quality Assessment process

4.1

Upon first submission of a suspect offender case file to the PSO, the
case file will be reviewed and assessed by a CWM in order to ensure
that both the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE) and Royal
Mail Security Procedures and Standards have been adhered to
throughout the investigation and that the case is worthy of the
attention and advice of the Royal Mail Group Ltd Criminal Law Team
(CLT).

The CWM will assess both the investigation and the case file in terms
of quality, technique, method/process and standards. Each of these
is assessed using a generic assessment document which contains
appropriate feedback on the case, which is sent to the line manager
of the Investigator who conducted the case, in order that any issues
or areas of concern arising from the investigation may be addressed.

5. Prosecution Decision-Making process

5.1

Having reviewed and assessed an investigation file, the CWM will
decide whether or not the information contained within the file and
the evidence obtained at that stage of the investigation are
sufficient to consider pursuing a prosecution against the suspect.

If it is considered that the prosecution of the suspect is clearly
not in the public interest, or there is insufficient evidence to
support any prosecution, the case file will be closed and filed by
the PSO team, once agreement has been obtained from the Business Unit
Decision Maker (BUDM).

If the case file is deemed to contain sufficient information and
evidence, the CWM will enclose a memo in the file and (in England and
Wales) forward it to CLT for their advice on the likelihood of a
successful prosecution taking place or, if more appropriate, the
administration of a Simple Caution. In the case of Scotland, the CWM
will enclose a memo in the file advising that a file be prepared for
presentation to the Procurator Fiscal (PF) who will decide whether or
not to pursue a prosecution against the suspect. Similarly, in the
case of Northern Ireland, the CWM will enclose a memo in the file
advising that the evidence be prepared and presented to the Police
Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) for their consideration as to
whether or not any action should be taken against the suspect, once
agreement has been obtained from the BUDM.

6. PSO Products and Services

6.1

The core services and products provided by the PSO are listed in the
contents above and a brief outline of each now follows.

7. Production of case file labels

7.1

Once a project and investigation have been created on SIMSWMS, the
PSO team will produce a case file label, which details all of the
necessary information required on the front of the case file. The
label will be retained within the PSO until the hard copy case file
is submitted by the Investigator in the case. The PSO maintain a
database of all project labels that have been created and this
database is central to the overall management of case files,
including both offender files and non offender files. This includes
the management of outstanding case files.

© Royal Mail 2011 Cas

nt and PSO Products and Services (08.11) ~ RM V1.0

POL00104888
POL00104888

8. Distribution of Directed Surveillance applications

8.1

The PSO team are responsible for the collation and distribution of
all initial Directed Surveillance applications. Having received the
initial application the PSO team will distribute the application to
one of the nominated Authorising Officers, to ensure a balanced
workload for each officer.

9. Management of Prosecution Decisions

9.1

9.2

England and Wales. Once a CWM has read and assessed an investigation
file, the CWM will make a decision as to whether or not there is
sufficient information in the file for CLT to advise on the
likelihood of a successful prosecution taking place. If it is
believed that there is sufficient information contained within the
file, the case will be allocated to a PSO Administrator who will send
it to the CLT for advice, whilst also forwarding the appropriate copy
reports to the designated BUDM.

9.1.1 Upon receipt of advice from CLT, the PSO Administrator will
forward a copy of the advice to the BUDM and maintain contact
with him/her in order to establish their decision on whether or
not to prosecute/administer a Simple Caution. On receipt of
the BUDM’s decision, the PSO Administrator will copy the
prosecution/Simple Caution decision to CLT and the
Investigator. In the event that the BUDM disagrees with CLT
advice, the PSO Administrator will forward any correspondence
from the BUDM to both the Investigator and CLT for
consideration as to the way forward.

9.1.2Where the advice of CLT is not to prosecute nor administer a
Simple Caution and the BUDM is in agreement, the PSO
Administrator will advise the Investigator of the decision and
the PSO Administrator will also send a letter to the suspect
offender advising them that Royal Mail will not be taking any
legal action against them. Any outcomes from resultant Conduct
Code cases will be obtained by the PSO Administrator dealing
with the case.

9.1.3Upon receipt of advice from CLT where a recommendation and
subsequent decision is made to prosecute in English and Welsh
cases the PSO team will commence the prosecution by way of
arranging a Court date, obtaining the Arrest-Summons reference
number by sending the Non Police Agency (NPA) forms NPAO1 and
02 to the police and serving summonses. The case file is
retained at the PSO so that all information required for the
PSO team to progress the prosecution through the Court system
is on hand. If the Investigator specifically requests it, the
case file will be returned to the Investigator, otherwise the
file will normally be retained in the PSO at all times.

9.1.4The PSO team will provide support in progressing cases and
preparing them for Court as described in the subsequent
products. However, it is the responsibility of the
Investigator to provide any further evidence as may be
requested in CLT’s instructions. In the event that further
evidence or information is required, the file will be returned
to the Investigator for the additional documentation to be
associated with the file, with a request that the file be
returned to the PSO once this has been done.

Scotland. The Investigator must submit the hard copy case file to the
PSO and send all relevant documents electronically to a CWM within

(08.11) = RM V1.0 ~ Page 6 of 15

© Royal Mail 2011 Cas janagement. and PSO Products and Serv:
POL00104888
POL00104888

three working weeks. Any delay in submission should be explained in

the report. Once the hard copy case file is received by the PSO, the

CWM will check all of the documents for accuracy and highlight any

errors or omissions in an e-mail to the Investigator. The

Investigator should amend as requested and resubmit within one

working week. Once the CWM has read and assessed an investigation

file, the CWM will make a decision as to whether or not there is
sufficient information in the file to consider bringing the matter to
the attention of the PF for consideration of a prosecution taking
place and prepare and enclose a memo in the case file accordingly.

The PSO Administration staff will obtain the prosecution authority

from the designated BUDM.

9.2.1 The PSO Administrator inputs the information from the documents
onto the Specialist Reporting Agency (SRA) Website and applies
for a Criminal History System (CHS) number. Upon receipt of
the CHS number from the Police, it is submitted to the PF in
order that a PF number may be generated. Upon receipt of the
PF number, the PSO Administrator electronically submits the
statements of witnesses onto the SRA Website. The Investigator
is then advised of both the CHS and PF numbers. The
Investigator retains all productions until requested by the PF.

9.2.2Where the advice of the CWM is not to prosecute and the BUDM is
in agreement, the PSO Administrator will advise the
Investigator of the decision and the PSO Administrator will
also send a letter to the suspect offender advising them that
Royal Mail will not be taking any legal action against them.
Any outcomes from resultant Conduct Code cases will be obtained
by the PSO Administrator dealing with the case.

9.3 Northern Ireland. Once a CWM has read and assessed an investigation
file, the CWM will make a decision as to whether or not there is
sufficient information in the file to consider bringing the matter to
the attention of the PSNI for consideration of a prosecution taking
place. The PSO will also obtain the prosecution authority from the
designated BUDM or appropriate business unit authority. If it is
believed that there is sufficient information contained within the
file and the evidence is such that there is the likelihood of a
successful prosecution taking place, the CWM will enclose a memo in
the file advising the Investigator to present the evidence to the
PSNI.
9.3.1Having taken whatever action they deem appropriate, the Police
may administer a Caution, charge the suspect or decide that no
further action should be taken. If the suspect is charged, the
Northern Ireland court process is pursued and the Royal Mail
Investigators have no input into this unless the suspect pleads
not guilty, in which case the Investigators may be required as
witnesses.

9.3.2Where the advice of the CWM is not to prosecute nor administer
a Simple Caution and the BUDM is in agreement, the PSO
Administrator will advise the Investigator of the decision and
the PSO Administrator will also send a letter to the suspect
offender advising them that Royal Mail will not be taking any
legal action against them. Any outcomes from resultant Conduct
Code cases will be obtained by the PSO Administrator dealing
with the case.

10. Issuing Simple Cautions

10.1 Simple Cautions can be issued in respect of the following three
groups of individuals:

© Royal Mail 2011 Cas janagement. and PSO Products and Services (08.11) ~ RM V1.0 ~ Pag
POL00104888
POL00104888

10.1.1 Adults in England or Wales
10.1.2 Juveniles in England or Wales
10.1.3 Adults/juveniles in Northern Ireland

10.2 In a case where the CLT has advised a Simple Caution as the most
appropriate course of action to take, an Investigator in both England
and Wales can administer the caution if the person being cautioned is
an adult. In the case of a juvenile in England or Wales, the
Investigator must liaise with the local Police Force, as only a
police officer can administer a Simple Caution to a juvenile.
Similarly, only a police officer can administer a Simple Caution to
either an adult or juvenile in Northern Ireland and this is done
solely at the discretion of the police.

10.3 In groups 1 and 3 above the PSO Administrator will return the case
file to the Investigator to administer/arrange administration of the
Simple Caution. In the case of an adult in England or Wales, the PSO
Administrator will e-mail a prepared Simple Caution form to the
Investigator for it to be issued. Once the caution has been issued,
it should be returned to the PSO to process the NPA reporting forms
(completed by the Investigator - England and Wales only) and to
capture the relevant information within Royal Mail. Scotland does not
have a system of Formal/Simple Cautioning as such, although the
Procurator Fiscal can issue warnings as opposed to prosecuting an
offender. The PSO team have no input into this.

11. Obtaining and serving summonses in England and Wales

11.1 Upon notification of a prosecution taking place, the PSO team will
make contact with the relevant Magistrates’ Court to set a date for
the suspect's first appearance at court. Summonses are also applied
for. Upon receipt of the summonses the PSO will serve the summonses
by way of posting them to the suspect offender using the Royal Mail
Special Delivery service.

11.2 Investigators do not have to take part in the summonsing process
unless the summonses cannot be served for any reason, e.g. suspect
offender fails to collect the Special Delivery item from the delivery
office after a P739 card has been left at the address. If the
suspect has failed to collect the summonses from the delivery office
after one week of posting, the PSO Administrator will contact

the Investigator and ask him/her to collect the Special
Delivery item from the delivery office in order

that he/she can then attempt to serve the summonses contained
within it by hand. A further copy of the summonses will be sent to
the Investigator. The Investigator must sign the second copy of the
summonses and return it to the PSO once he/she has served the
original summonses. The PSO will then forward the signed copy of the
summonses on to the Magistrates’ Court as confirmation of service and
copy the same to CLT.

12. Obtaining previous convictions of suspect offenders in England and
Wales.
12.1 Having advised a prosecution, CLT usually request that a background

check is conducted into the criminal history of the suspect offender.
The PSO team will conduct a background check once the summonses have

janagement and PSO Products and Serv:

© Royal Mail 2011 Cas (08.11) ~ RM V1.0 ~ Page @ of 15
POL00104888
POL00104888

been served on the suspect. Forms NPAQ1 and 02 are sent to the
Criminal Intelligence Team (CIT) at Battersea by the PSO team. The
CIT returns a “Prosecutor Print” of the suspect’s previous
convictions to the PSO. The results are copied to CLT.

12.2 This check is in addition to the initial check that the Investigator
conducts at the time he identifies the suspect and is carried out to
ensure that any offences that the suspect may have committed between
being identified as a suspect and being summonsed to attend court are
highlighted.

13. Obtaining previous convictions of witnesses in England and Wales

13.1 The PSO Administrators will conduct background checks for all
witnesses in all prosecution cases where CLT has advised that the
suspect has entered a ‘not guilty’ plea. The PSO Administrators will
complete form GS202 in respect of every witness and send the form to
the CIT for processing. This ensures that every witness is checked
and that the checks are conducted in a timely manner. The results of
the checks will be copied to CLT. Investigation Team members should
continue to complete a Self Disclosure Form GS006b. The Intelligence
Team only accept requests for background checks on witnesses from PSO
Administrators.

14. Witness management in England and Wales

14.1 The PSO team maintain a database detailing all witnesses in cases
being prosecuted by CLT and liaise with them as necessary, for
example, advising changes to trial dates, obtaining dates to avoid,
or that they are no longer required as a witness. Sensitive witnesses
will be handled in consultation with the Investigator. The PSO team
will, on request, provide witnesses with advice on completing
Expenses Claim forms and upon the conclusion of a prosecution, the
PSO Team Manager processes any witness expense forms for payment,
having usually received the forms from the Investigator. The
Investigator is responsible for making arrangements with the
witnesses to ensure that they attend court.

15. Warrant cases in England and Wales

15.1 The PSO team take over the management of prosecution cases where
bench warrants have been issued. This involves the PSO retaining the
case file for reference purposes and the SIMSWMS investigation being
transferred to Warrants account in SIMSWMS.

15.2 One month after the warrant was issued, a PSO Administrator will
contact the Investigator by e-mail and request an update on the
situation. The same process will be followed every three months
after the warrant was issued. If, after twelve months, the suspect
has still not been arrested, the case file will be placed into the
‘Wanted Cabinet’ until such time that the suspect offender is
apprehended. This is to comply with the instructions from CLT.

16. Police liaison files - progressing arrest cases

16.1 Upon request by the Investigator, the PSO team will take over the
management of prosecution case files where an authority other than
Royal Mail Group is conducting the prosecution. In circumstances
whereby a suspect has been arrested and charged with an offence by
the Police, the PSO team will request that the Investigator submit

janagement. and PSO Products and Services (08.11) - RM V1.0 ~ Page 9 of 15

© Royal Mail 2011 Cas

POL00104888
POL00104888

the case file to the PSO. The case file will contain a full offender
report and hold contact details of any police officers involved in
the case and the prosecuting authority contact details. The PSO team
will contact the courts on a regular basis, as and when necessary, to
receive updates on the progression and ultimately the outcome of the
prosecution.

17. Notification of prosecution outcomes

17.1 In England and Wales when the CLT are prosecuting they notify
Investigators and the PSO of the outcome of prosecutions. The PSO
will use the information to complete form NPAQ3 and notify the police
of the outcome of a prosecution. The GS111 Case Closure form will be
sent to the Investigator by the PSO for any outstanding issues to be
reported and for all case closure aspects to be dealt with.

17.2 In all other cases where another prosecuting agency is conducting the
prosecution, it is normally the PSO team’s responsibility to obtain
the outcome of the prosecution, as soon as the outcome is known.
Other prosecuting agencies include the Crown Prosecution Service
(CPS), the PF and the Public Prosecution Service (PPS). In the past,
each of these agencies has proved to be notoriously difficult to
obtain information from, although recently the process with the PF
has improved with the introduction of an electronic reporting
process. The PSO actively seek results for Scottish cases by
contacting the PF by letter, however this does not include police led
cases.

18. Case closure

18.1 When all aspects of an investigation have been concluded, regardless
of whether or not a prosecution has taken place, the Investigator
must complete form GS111 that is then authorised by the ITM. Form
GS111 is not required for non Royal Mail led cases. By completing
this form the Investigator is confirming that all aspects of the case
have been finalised. The closure form should be completed by the
Investigator at the same time as he/she updates and transfers the
SIMSWMS Investigation to the relevant Casework Team account for
closure. The PSO team will ensure that all relevant management
information relating to the investigation is updated.

19. Processing NPA forms in England and Wales

19.1 Following every PACE interview where it is possible that a
prosecution may be pursued by Royal Mail, it is the responsibility of
the Investigator to complete form NPAOQ1 and enclose it within the
case file upon first submission of the file to the PSO. For clarity
purposes, it is suggested that the NPAO1 form is typed by the
Investigator. It is the responsibility of the PSO team to complete
forms NPAQ2 and 03 at the relevant stages in the prosecution. The
PSO team will ensure all relevant information is captured within
Royal Mail and that all necessary detail is included on the forms
prior to sending them to the relevant Police Force for recording of
offender details and prosecution outcomes on the Police National
Computer (PNC) .

20. Management of award and recognition process

20.1 The PSO Team Manager manages and processes requests made under the
Royal Mail Award and Recognition scheme. Upon receipt of the

cos (08.11)

© Royal Mail 2011 Casework Management and PSO Products and Se:
POL00104888

POL00104888

necessary authorised documentation, the award/recognition request
will be recorded and processed by the PSO Team Manager. For awards
to be made to members of the public/external sources, a cheque for
payment of the award will be requested from the Finance section at
Chesterfield. However, in the case of Royal Mail employees, the
cheque for payment, or gift vouchers in lieu of a cheque, must be
raised by the Human Resources team at Sheffield due to income-tax
implications. Upon receipt of the cheque or gift vouchers, the PSO
Team Manager will send the cheque or vouchers to the Investigator to
arrange for presentation to the person who is to be awarded, as
deemed appropriate.

21. Case file storage retrieval, archiving & disposal

21.1 Upon completion of a case, the files are archived. The files are
stored in the order in which they are to be destroyed. Records are
kept which detail the files that have been archived, when they were
archived and when they are due to be destroyed. Upon request, a case
file can be retrieved at any time with ease using the recording
system in place. The PSO team will arrange retrieval and despatch
the file as requested. In order to have a file retrieved, the person
requesting retrieval must send an e-mail to the PSO, detailing the
project reference number of the file he/she wishes to be retrieved.

21.2 When a case file is time expired and due to be destroyed, the PSO
Team will remove it from the archives and arrange its destruction by
an approved external contractor. Prior to destruction, the case file
contents will be checked to ensure that everything is destroyed in
the correct manner.

22. Tape management — Audio Master and Video

22.1 It is the responsibility of the Investigator to submit audio Master
Tapes to the PSO for storage. Each Master Tape sent for storage must
be accompanied by a completed form GS023. The PSO team will ensure
that all information on the form is recorded correctly before the
tape is securely stored. If, for any reason, a Master Tape needs to
be retrieved from storage, a request must be made by e-mail to the
PSO. Before returning the tape to the Investigator the PSO Team will
ensure that the tape seal is intact and that the details agree with
the original form GS023.

22.2 The PSO team will provide continuity statements as necessary. If,
following retrieval, the tape is no longer required, it can be
returned to the PSO for further storage using the same process used
when the tape was initially submitted. The PSO will arrange
destruction of the tape once the retention period has expired.

22.3 Similarly, upon request, the PSO will store and arrange destruction
of any audio working tapes and videotapes used in the process of an
investigation. Any audio working tapes or video tapes that remain in
case files when the files are ready to be archived will be removed
from the files and destroyed by the PSO. A contracted preferred
supplier undertakes controlled and supervised destruction.

23. Audio Tape, Video Tape and DVD copying

23.1 The PSO has the facility to copy audio tapes, video tapes and DVD's
upon request. Copies can be made from tape to tape (audio and video),

cos (08.11)

© Royal Mail 2011 Casework Management and PSO Products and Se:
POL00104888
POL00104888

tape to disc, disc to tape and disc to disc. Edited highlights can
also be provided by the PSO. Copying from discs is dependent upon the
original recording format of the DVR system. Anyone wishing to have a
tape or disc copied must send it to the PSO, along with form GS307,
using the Special Delivery service and specify how many copies of the
tape or disc they require and to where the tapes must be returned.
The PSO team will return the original tape or disc and copies at the
earliest opportunity using the Special Delivery service. Continuity
statements can be provided upon request relating to this service.
Full details on this process can be found in Appendix 2 to P & S Doc
6.1 Securing Digital and VHS Tape CCTV Images for Evidential
Purposes.

24. Requisitioning and distribution of stationery supplies

24.1 The PSO retains a stock of specialist and general stationery
supplies, which they will supply to Investigation Team members upon
request. The following supplies are available:

24.1.1 Pocket notebooks.

24.1.2 Observation logbooks.

24.1.3 Case file jackets.

24.1.4 Urgent Today labels.

24.1.5 Appendix envelopes.

24.1.6 Audio cassette tapes.

24.1.7 Equipment logs.

24.1.8 Master Tape seals.

24.1.9 Exhibit bags (large and small).

24.1.10 Exhibit books.

24.1.11 Steel Marking Dies for coin.

24.1.12 Clear polythene bags for enclosing audio tapes in
case files.

24.1.13 Covers of “amazon.co.uk, blockbuster.co.uk,
LOVEFiLM.com and PLAY.com” postal

packets.
24.1.14 General stationery supplies.

24.1.15 Photocopying paper (supplied direct to the requestor).

25. Recording and provision of management information

25.1 The PSO team maintain a range of databases which are used for the
purpose of recording information relating to all suspect offenders
that have been interviewed and the action taken following the
interview, including prosecution by all prosecuting authorities,
administration of a Simple Caution or conduct only. Information from
these databases is used to produce monthly management reports for the
Royal Mail Security Management Team and other ad-hoc reports as and
when required by other parties, for example, the Freedom Of
Information Act Team.

26. Provision of typing services

26.1 The preparation of taped transcripts has been outsourced to an
external company, “The Essential Secretary”. The use of this service
is available when transcripts have been requested by CLT, or for ‘no
comment’ interviews.

26.2 Requests by CLT. Following a request from the CLT for a tape
transcript, the PSO will obtain from the Investigator a copy of the
working tape/s and a completed form GS108 and send them to the

© Royal Mail 2011 Casework Management and PSO Pe
POL00104888
POL00104888

external supplier by Special Delivery. The completed tape transcript
will be returned by e-mail to the PSO who will forward it to the
Investigator by the next working day to check and amend as necessary.

26.3 Request by Investigators. In exceptional circumstances there will be
a facility for Investigators to request the preparation of taped
transcripts, e.g. due to significant operational commitments or
complex inquiries. Requests of this type must be made in the first
instance to the relevant Head of Investigations. If it is agreed that
a transcript should be prepared the Investigator must complete form
GS108 and send it with copies of the working tape/s by Special
Delivery to the PSO. The completed transcript will be returned to
the PSO by e-mail and forwarded to the Investigator for checking and
inclusion in the case file. It is stressed that, in order to keep
costs to a minimum, requests from Investigators will only be
considered where absolute justification is provided.

27. Administration of the SIMSWMS system

27.1 In addition to the activities described in the contents section of
this document, the PSO team perform monthly audits on the SIMSWMS
system to ensure that the information is current and accurate. The
SIMSWMS system is checked against the Non Offender Reports (NOR)
system and the labels database to identify any outstanding case
files. All outstanding case files are reported to the relevant Heads
of Investigation on a monthly basis as part of the monthly management
information pack. Investigators must not under any circumstances
either create or complete their own projects and investigations.
These tasks are the sole responsibility of the PSO team. The PSO team
can advise on the day to day operation of the SIMSWMS system.

28. Administration of the Work Time Management System (WTMS)

28.1 The PSO team collate all WIMS submissions from Investigators on a
weekly basis and the submissions are added to the main WIMS database.
The WIMS submissions must be e-mailed to the PSO using the RMLS_WTMS
address and they must be received in the PSO by the Tuesday of the
week after the week to which they refer. The PSO team provide this
information to CLT to identify the investigation costs for each
investigation when the case goes to court, in order to apply for
costs from the court along with any claims for compensation. The WTMS
information is presented in chronological order with a breakdown of
activities and costs, in order for the courts to understand how the
overall costs figure has been calculated.

29. Management of the Non Offender Reports (NOR) system

29.1 The PSO team monitor and administer the Non Offender Reports (NOR)
system and collate both the electronic NOR submissions and the hard
copy NOR case files submitted by Investigators. Once both NOR
submissions have been received in the PSO and the investigation has
been transferred to the relative Casework Account for closure by the
Investigator, the PSO team will close the case officially. NOR files
where the electronic NOR or the hard copy file are missing will
appear on the outstanding NOR file monthly report until all elements
have been completed and submitted to the PSO. Where the SIMSWMS
investigation has been returned to the relevant Casework Account

© Royal Mail 2011 Casework Management and PSO Products and Services (08.11) ~ RM V1.0 - Page 12 of 15
POL00104888

POL00104888

without the corresponding electronic and hard copy NOR the
investigation will be returned to the Investigator for completion.

30. Colour printing

30.1 The PSO team will print colour photographs on behalf of Investigators
that have been taken during an investigation. Investigators should
email the photographs to the PSO team using their team address
SD_Prosecution Office and ensure that the project number and the
words ‘Colour Printing’ appear in the subject field. The PSO team
will return four copies of each photograph by return for insertion
into the case file by the Investigator. This number of colour copies
are required by CLT to support a prosecution.

31. Disposal of articles which have been forensically examined

31.1 Any articles that have been forensically examined using the ninhydrin
process must be disposed of correctly and not disposed of with normal
office waste. All such articles can be hazardous to health and must
be disposed of correctly by an approved method. When the articles are
to be disposed of following an investigation, Investigators must seal
the articles in sealed plastic bags and forward them to the PSO team
under double cover, with the inner cover clearly marked “Chemically
treated articles for disposal - Do not open”. The PSO team will
arrange for an approved contractor to collect the submitted articles
and dispose of them in line with current Health and Safety
legislation.

32. Recovery of losses to Royal Mail from employee pension funds

32.1 The PSO team liaise with the Pension Fund Trustees in order to
recover any financial losses to Royal Mail, identified during a
criminal enquiry, from the employee’s pension fund. The losses
eligible for recovery from pension funds are direct losses to the
business, for example compensation payments and consequential losses
to the business. The cost of an investigation will be claimed
directly from the suspect offender and not from their pension fund.
The collective losses must be over the current £50 threshold to be
eligible for recovery and the recovery is subject to there being
sufficient funds in the employee’s pension fund.

© Royal Mail 2011 Casework Managenent and PSO Products and Services (08.11) ~ RM V1.0 - Page 14 of 15
Change Control

POL00104888
POL00104888

Draft

1.0

Ray Pratt

Peter S Smith

June 2011

Internal

Ti

Date

Security

Ray Pratt

June 2011

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via vi
Security Sharepoint

June 2011

Documentation History

v.l

Final

June

June

Document Change History

v1

Document Produced

Glossary

Meaning

yal Mail 2011 Casework Management and

SO Products and se

s (08.11) - RM

5 of 18
POL00104888
POL00104888

PsO Prosecution Support Office

CWM Casework Manager

SIMSWMS Security Information Management System Workflow
Management System

I™ Investigation Team Manager

PACE Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984

CLT Criminal Law Team

BUDM Business Unit Decision Maker

PF Procurator Fiscal

PSNI Police Service of Northern Ireland

NPA Non-Police Agency

SRA Specialist Reporting Agency

CHS Criminal History System

cit Criminal Intelligence Team

CPS Crown Prosecution Service

PPS Public Prosecution Service

PNC Police National Computer

WIMS Work Time Management System

NOR Non Offender Report

Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Peter S Smith
Royal Mail Security
6A Eccleston Street
LONDON

swWil 9LT

E-mail “peter.s.smith”

Royal Wail 2011 Casework Management and PSO Products and Services (08.11) - RM V1.0 ~ Page 16 of 15
