POL00055844
POL00055844

Page 1 of 3

From: { Jon behalf of Jamail A Singh
Sent: 26 November 2010 16:28

To: "Charlotte Knight’

Subject: RE: Case of Susan Rudkin

Dear Ms Knight,

Thank you for your E-Mail. This is an issue for the Court.
Regards.
Jarnail Singh

Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

From: Cherote Kright {laa

Sent: 26 November 2010 16:18
To: Jarnail A Singh

Ce: ‘sarah.warrington’

Subject: RE: Case of Susan Rudkin
Importance: High

Dear Mr Singh

I acknowledge receipt of your e-mail below stating that the
Prosecution does not get involved at enforcement stage.

can you please confirm whether or not you would agree to an
administrative adjournment. If a hearing goes ahead can you
confirm whether a representative from the Prosecution will be in
attendance?

Can you please also confirm the position of Post Office Ltd in
respect of the Interim SubPostmaster and their marketing of the
business.

Many thanks

Charlotte Knight

Solicitor

Richard Nelson LLP

Priory Court, 1 Derby Road, Nottingham, NG9 2TA

* Emai-
charlotteknight_
Office switchboar
Direct dial:

Sa
Emergency out of hours: 7

*

7

p.co.uk

Lawyers specialising in resolving business, professional and
regulatory disputes

Offices in London, Nottingham, Manchester, Birmingham, Cardiff
and Bristol

This message and any files transmitted with it is intended for
the addressee only and may contain information that is
confidential and/or legally privileged. Unauthorised use is
strictly prohibited and may be unlawful. If you are not the
addressee, you should not read, copy, disclose or otherwise use
this message, including any accompanying image or attachment,
except for the purpose of delivery to the addressee.

26/11/2010

POL-0052323
POL00055844
POL00055844

Page 2 of 3

We make every effort to keep our IT facility free from viruses but cannot protect
items transmitted over unsecured external networks. Consequently, you should verity
that this item is virus-free on receipt as we can take no responsibility for any
direct or indirect effects of a computer virus or similar that might be transferred
by way of this message or attachments.

Richard Nelson LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership, Number 0C357136, and is
regulated by the Solicitors' Regulation Authority

From: Marilyn Benjamin (maj)t: : i com] On Behalf Of Jarnail A
Singh

Sent: 26 November 2010 16:03

To: Charlotte Knight

Subject: RE: Case of Susan Rudkin

Charlotte,
Thank you for your E-Mails.

The prosecution does not get involved at the enforcement stage. You therefore need to
contact Birmingham Magistrates Court direct concerning this matter.

Jarnail singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

From: Charlotte Knight [mi
Sent: 26 November 2010 15:28

To: Jarnail A Singh

Ce: Marilyn Benjamin; ‘sarah.warringtcr is michael
rudkin'

Subject: Case of Susan Rudkin

Importance: High

to

To All Concerned Parties

Please find attached the Taylor Property Services Valuation. The version sent on my
previous e-mail does not bring up the document properly. Apologies.

Please also note that I will be serving the application upon the Case Progression
Unit at Birmingham Magistrates’ Court today.

Kind regards

Charlotte Knight

Solicitor

Richard Nelson LLP

Priory Court, 1 Derby Road, Nottingham, NG9 2TA

* Email: ;
charlotteknight,
Office switchboard
Direct dia

* Emergency out of hours: Qa
7 :
*

‘aii

CIp.co.uk
Lawyers specialising in resolving business, professional and regulatory disputes

Offices in London, Nottingham, Manchester, Birmingham, Cardiff and Bristol

26/11/2010

POL-0052323
POL00055844
POL00055844

Page 3 of 3

This message and any files transmitted with it is intended for the addressee only and
may contain information that is confidential and/or legally privileged. Unauthorised
use is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful. If you are not the addressee, you
should not read, copy, disclose or otherwise use this message, including any
accompanying image or attachment, except for the purpose of delivery to the
addressee.

We make every effort to keep our IT facility free from viruses but cannot protect
items transmitted over unsecured external networks. Consequently, you should verify
that this item is virus-free on receipt as we can take no responsibility for any
direct or indirect effects of a computer virus or similar that might be transferred
by way of this message or attachments.

Richard Nelson LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership, Number 0C357136, and is
regulated by the Solicitors’ Regulation Authority.

(See attached file: C.htm) (See attached file: Taylors Property Services
Valuation.pdf)

FARIS SEE IIE ICO EI IIE ITCH ITO TI IIS ISO Royal Mail
Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number 4136203 registered
office 3rd Flcor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ This email and any
attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the
contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact
the sender and then delete this email from your system.

err Tererr tres Terr r ee neer Serr rs errr rrers Serr rrreetrrrrererrrr rarer

(See attached file: C.htm)

26/11/2010

POL-0052323
