POL00091401
POL00091401

Message

From: Rodric Williams! GRO 3

Sent: 22/08/2015 10:54:25

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd .. _j; Ward, Alexandra
Subject: O'Dell Mediation - Panorama "Whistle-blower"

Attachments: image001.png; 150817 - Post Office false prosecution claims - BBC 1 Panorama - wc3844.doc

Angela, Lex,

If “remote access” and the Fujitsu whistle-blower are raised in the O’Dell mediation, my response would include the
following:

1. O'Dell’s Actions
- Starting Point — she falsified the accounts which covered up how losses may have occurred.
- Her complaint:
ois based on the suspicion that losses were caused by the pin-pad and/or stamp accounting;
© did not raise any suggestion that “remote access” by Fujitsu is responsible for the losses;
o did not, when investigated through the Scheme, identify anything to suggest that losses were caused by
external influence.
- Raising “remote access” now can only be viewed as opportunistic and speculative, but ultimately
unsubstantiated and baseless.
- Nb. alleging transactions were deliberately entered by a third party so as to generate a loss for which a PMR
would be held liable is essentially an allegation of fraud. If raised in court proceedings, it would need to be
backed up by reference to specific evidence, not generalised speculation.

2. Richard Roll’s Creditability
- Mr Roll’s creditability can be seriously challenged:
o. He has not worked for Fujitsu since 2004, ie he has been doing other things for the past 11 years;
©. He has not even worked in IT since 2004 (his Linkedin profile says he was a park ranger/mature student
from 2004 to 2008, and a podiatrist from 2008);
o. To the best of FJ’s current understanding, he did not work on branch accounting aspects of Horizon;
o He did not work at FJ over the period when O’Dell experienced her losses.

3. Richard Roll’s Statements
- Mr Roll’s statements are:
© accepted in that Horizon, like any computer system, experiences errors (we have never said otherwise);
© not accepted by Fujitsu insofar as they relate to the ability to manipulate transactions as recorded by a
branch;
© ultimately speculative and not supported by any evidence.

4. Post Office Not Given Right of Reply in Panorama

- Despite repeated request, BBC did not identify for Post Office (or Fujitsu) the identity of the “whistle-blower” or
the content of his contribution prior to broadcast.

- This deprived Post Office of its right of reply and meant Panorama was misleading.

Lex — I set out below extracts from various sources which address the “remote access” issue and Richard Roll’s
contribution to the Panorama programme in case you need more context.

Good luck on Monday. I am in the office all day so please call if I can help in any way.

Kind regards, Rod

POL-0090423
POL00091401
POL00091401

PRE-BROADCAST ALLEGATION AND RESPONSE TO BBC

Allegation: 'We have interviewed a former employee at Fujitsu, who worked in "third line support" for the Horizon
system. He says it was possible to remotely access data held on branch terminals and to amend that data. He also
alleges that system errors were more widespread than has previously been reported."

We have explained in detail the circumstances whereby a balancing transaction can be added. It has happened once
since Horizon OnLine, during its pilot, and with the full knowledge of the postmaster. In relation to system errors, as
stated before, no system is infallible. However, you have not provided any actual evidence to demonstrate that any
system error has resulted in a miscarriage of justice. To the extent that you believe that you have any actual evidence to
substantiate this serious allegation, we would ask that you disclose it. If you are proposing to make this allegation,
please consider that some 70,000 people have continued to use this system every day throughout the period of Second
Sight's investigation without major incident, processing six million transactions everyday: if there were systemic
problems with branch accounting, it is reasonable to expect them to have been more widely experienced across the Post
Office network than the 136 individual complaints considered by Second Sight, which arose over a more than 10 year
period during which there were some 500,000 Horizon users (i.e. the complaints come from 0.0003% of users).
However, if you have actual evidence of the Horizon system causing losses, it is very important that you produce it: the
system is relied upon by millions of customers and thousands of small businesses. Any unsubstantiated allegation that
the system is deficient is a serious allegation that would be extremely harmful to our business.

FORMAL “FOR BROADCAST” STATEMENT

Account discrepancies could be caused by faults in the Horizon system - We have never said that Horizon is perfect, no

computer system is. However, over the course of our investigations, we have demonstrated that it works as it should
and is robust and effective in dealing with the six million transactions that some 78,000 users put through the system
every day for people up and down the country. At no point in Second Sight’s investigations did it identify that a branch
was held responsible for a loss that was caused by a fault in the Horizon system.

Remote Access - Neither Post Office nor Fujitsu can edit the transactions as recorded by branches. Post Office can
correct errors in and/or update a branch's accounts by inputting a new transaction (not editing or removing any
previous transactions). However, this is shown transparently in the branch transaction records. There is no evidence
that any branch transaction data was inappropriately accessed from a remote access point.

BROADCAST TRANSCRIPT REFERENCES (full transcript attached)

Richard Roll, Fujitsu computer technician: There are a lot of errors, a lot of glitches coming through.
JS: There were errors with the system?
RR: There are errors with the system.

JS: The Horizon system is run by computer giant, Fujitsu. It won't talk about the system, because it doesn’t comment on
the specifics of customer contracts. But now, for the first time, a former insider has agreed to speak out. He says,
‘Errors on Horizon were far more widespread than have ever been reported’.

RR: The office was located in Bracknell. We were on the sixth floor, which is pretty secure. By the time you got in there,
it was Fort Knox. There was a large team employed there, 30 or so of us and we were all full-time, and we were all
pretty busy. So there were a lot of errors, a lot of glitches coming through.

JS: There were errors in the system?

RR: There were errors with the system.

JS: Some people have been ruined financially. People have gone to prison. Is it possible that suffering could have been
caused because there are problems in the Horizon system?

POL-0090423
POL00091401
POL00091401

RR: Yes, it is possible.

JS: So a team of computer technicians was dealing with Horizon errors, some of which he says, could create false
losses. He also says financial records were sometimes changed remotely without the postmaster knowing. That is
something the Post Office has always said, “Simply can't happen.”

RR: We went in through the backdoor and made changes. Sometimes you would be putting several lines of code in at a
time. If we hadn’t done that then the counters would have stopped working.

JS: So what the Post Office are saying is untrue.

RR: From my perspective, yes.

“LEGAL” CHALLENGE TO BBC (not yet sent)

It is also notable that the Programme contains a contribution from Richard Rolls as an alleged “whistleblower”. Despite
repeated requests to be told the identity of the various contributors, our client was not notified of Mr Rolls’ identity,
simply that there was a former Fujitsu employee who was a “whistleblower” who had worked with Fujitsu “prior to
2010”. \t was therefore surprising that no attempt was made in the Programme to conceal Mr Rolls’ identity or
appearance. Evidently his identity was not a secret. There is therefore no justification for the BBC to refuse to disclose
his identity, contrary to paragraph 6.4.1 of the BBC Editorial Guidelines.

If Post Office had been provided with details of Mr Rolls’ identity, it would have been in a position to comment on Mr
Rolls’ capability to provide evidence on these matters. Indeed, it is notable that Mr Rolls left Fujitsu’s employment and,
indeed, ceased working in IT in 2004, before [any/many] of the reported losses were recorded by the postmasters
featured in the Programme. It is difficult to understand how he can therefore opine on the operational status of the
Horizon system at a time when he was no longer employed by Fujitsu, nor even working in the IT sector. No reference
was made in the Programme to these limitations with regard to Mr Rolls’ experience of the Horizon system. To the
contrary, his contribution was presented in such a way as to suggest that it was contemporaneous with the events being
addressed in the Programme. Moreover, the Panorama team themselves declined the offer by Post Office of a
demonstration of the Horizon system on the basis that the manner in which the system operated today is irrelevant to
the issue of how it operated at the time of the purported losses. It is difficult to understand therefore why the BBC
considers that evidence of how the system operated prior to the purported losses is relevant either. To present Mr Rolls’
contribution in such a manner that suggested that he had first-hand experience of the Horizon system at the relevant
time is therefore highly misleading for viewers and unfair on Post Office.

Mr Sweeney further asks Mr Rolls the highly leading question: “It is possible that suffering could have been caused
because there are problems in the Horizon system?”. Mr Rolls states that this is possible. However, again, no evidence is
presented by Mr Rolls or during the Programme to suggest that any problem with the Horizon system has resulted in a
loss for which any postmaster was prosecuted. Nonetheless, the manner in which Mr Rolls’ contribution is presented is
intended to mislead viewers into believing that he has a greater degree of knowledge of individual cases than is
accurate.

FUJITSU’s POSITION — REMOTE ACCESS

Horizon pre- 2010

The system was subject to independent audits, industry accreditations, security checks etc. (just as now)

The investigations we have done of course cover pre 2010 and there is no evidence of remote tampering

Encryption, digital seals and security that has to meet independent audit and other standards were deployed

It was a ‘dial up’ system (encrypted) and Fujitsu application software specialists could access the system remotely,
as you would expect them to be able to do as part of any standard IT support function, but the system does not allow
remote agents to manipulate branch transactions. These remote agents perform tasks like examining diagnostic
information not transmitted to the central servers and modifying application functionality on behalf of the
subpostmaster that is not part of the standard interface e.g. forcing the counter to re-download its personality and

product set data.

POL-0090423
POL00091401
POL00091401

Remote agents could not ‘work’ the terminals as there was no functionality for this
Every access was logged and so there is an auditable footprint where records are still within the retention period
Security measures for IDs and passwords prevent anyone being able to ‘pretend’ to be someone else
It is therefore incorrect to suggest that the system pre 2010 enabled remote access that could be used to manipulate
transactions at a branch.

The key points are:

- There is no evidence of tampering in any of the cases examined — this allegation has been exhaustively examined
for three years. This is quite apart from the stringent independent audits and continual checks that always been in place
which provides further assurance for our position.

- Horizon contains no money and never has - it records and balances transactions. It is therefore difficult to
understand why anyone would want to manipulate any transactions, even if they could, which anyway they could

not. Cash is held in Post Offices under the responsibility of postmasters or staff

- The evidence that Horizon worked as it should to record and balance transactions is, in our opinion,
overwhelming. Where specific allegations have been made the system has stood up to scrutiny and the data provided
as part of the investigations of any such specific allegations has consistently demonstrated that remote access did not
and could not have had any part to play in the account discrepancies and lost monies.

FUJITSU’s POSITION — RICHARD ROLL

This is what FJ has recalled about Richard Roll (bearing in mind it has been 11 years since he worked there):
- Worked in SSC 3/4" line support on the 6" Floor for a couple of years in the early 2000s for a couple of years
- Worked on estate management not accountancy side (i.e. putting in codes etc for various and numerous
reasons - updating, maintaining etc - but nothing to do with branch transactions)

- Left Fujitsu on good terms as he had become disillusioned with IT to become a chiropractor [sic] in the Bracknell
area

“ Rodric Williams
Solicitor, Corporate Services

Post Office Ltd
ry Street, London EC2Y 9AQ

POL-0090423
