eed

ee

a

POL00104618
POL00104618

Phil Ashiey To: Mandy Talbotied GRO I Biddy

I Wyles/el GRO i
26/08/2008 16:08 . Gil Maithews/eh

cc
Subject: Fw: Comm’s to branches =

Mandy/Biddy,
Not sure if you are the right people to contact regarding this.

Basically, we recently suffered a software gifich within the Horizon system which resulted In various
over/under payments (both actual and virtual) to certain (but definitely not ail} PO Branches.

We are trying to come up with suitable wording to use in explaining these over/under payments and
how we intend on correcting them, and were wondering if you are the right legal peopie to run this past
first ?

The proposed wording is in Andy Winn's original email at the bottorn of this chain.

fam in meetings for most of tomorrow and Thursday, but would !ike to have a chat with one or both of
you at some aint Thursday or Friday of this week to explain the original problem in more detail and
see if the proposed wording is OK

If you are nat the right people to run this past, could you give me some idea as to who I should be
contacting for legal advise on the proposed comm's below?

regards

Phil

Branch IT Advisor
Branch IT Services
Service Delivery

ane

To: Andrew Winn
Phil Ashley

Andy

Thanks for the information, Phil Ashley is now leading on this. We had a meeting yesterday and
discussed getting legal involved but didn't have any names, so this will really help.

Thanks

Shaun Sélleu, rl.

Shaun P White . i th
Post Office Lid bw by Bate (70a:
Service Delivery IT Services Mi Mr »

Branch IT Advisor

Dearne House We
Corton Wood Drive

Brampton

873 OUF
POL00104618
POL00104618

GRO

Andrew Winn
Andrew Winn Tp: Shaun P White/e/POSTOFFIC i
J
15/080 ec
Subject: Fw: Coms to branches - legal clearanc:
Shaun

We are not planning to send anything but guess lega! could comment on conversations.

Andy
~~~» Forwarded by Andrew Winn/e/POSTOFFICE on 15/08/2008 09:08 ~--—-

GRO.

Rod ismay To: Andrew Winr/ei
44/08/2008 2 ce
Subject: Re: Coms to branches - legal clearance? I}

Hi Andy - before anyone sends any comms anywhere please can you get confirmation that Mandy

Talbot / Biddy Wyles in Legal have seen and are OK with proposed wording.
Thanks, Rod
Andrew Winn
Andrew Winn To: Shaun P Whi
06/08/2008 09:28 ce: <gill matthews
<martin knights .
<richard.p.b
<philashi ny
ismay/ef
Subject’ Comes to BranchasL]
Shaun

I think we stil do not have clear sign up around who will be communicated to. My understanding is

that the bi s only wants to contact branches who have reported the discrepancy or whe have
suffered financial loss by making good an inflated amount. Multiple Partners will also need to be f
contacted due to the nature of haw debts are recovered. Communication will also be by phone as
opposed to writing.

This accepts the risk that other branches may raise this issue with POL at a later date.

in terms of communication script I would have thought something on the lines of-

Singleton make good loss - “Your branch received a software change te Horizon, This has caused a
stock unit discrepancy to be calculated incorrectly and as a result you have made good a loss of £....
whereas the correct loss/gain should have been £....

Post Office Ltd need to compensate you for your loss end will send you a cheque for the above
amount. Can I confirm the required name on cheque (not POL) and the address to which it should
be sent. why wwe, Ww awhacd

The software error has been corrected and our IT supplier assure us there is no further impact upon
your branch."

Singleton make good gain (where helpline has been contacted) - “Your branch received a software
change to Horizon. This has caused a stock unit discrepancy to be calculated incorrectly and as a
result you have made good a gain of £.... whereas the correct loss/gain should have been £....
POL00104618

POL00104618

I Post Office Ltd do not intend to attempt to recover this gain.

The software error has been corrected and our IT supplier assure us there is no further impact upon
your branch.”

Singleton settle centrally (where helpline has been contacted) ~ “Your branch received a software
change to Horizon. This has caused a stock unit discrepancy to be calculated incorrectly and as a
result you have settied centrally a loss/gain of £.... whereas the correct loss/gain should have been

Post Office Ltd will adjust your customer statement to reflect the correct figure of £......
The software error has been corrected and our IT supplier assure us there is no further impact upon

your branch.”

Multiple partner - “Your (name) branch received a software change to Horizon. This has caused a
stock unit discrepancy to be calculated incorrectly and as a result you have assigned to nominee a
loss/gain of £.... whereas the correct loss/gain should have been £....

Post Office Ltd need to correct this loss/gain. Your statement will be adjusted to reflect this.

The software error has been corrected and our IT supplier assure us there is no further impact upon
your branch.*

There is no communication planned for Crown Offices .
I think we should aim to keep this as short and sweet as possible.

Cheers

I GRO

