POST OFFICE

AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE

Compliance Report

Author: Jonathan Hill

Sponsor: Jane Macleod

Executive Summary

Context

POL00423423
POL00423423

PAGE 1 OF 7

Meeting date: 29 January 2019

This paper provides an update on the regulatory and compliance matters in respect of
Post Office’s financial services and telecoms businesses, financial crime and information
protection and assurance.

Questions this paper addresses

e What are the key compliance issues and what is the business doing to address these?

e What is the forward-looking regulatory agenda?
e What are the key policy updates in the period?

Status Update

Sector

Current
Assessment

Previous
Assessment

Comment/Action

Financial Services
Compliance and
Conduct Risk

Insurance Distribution Directive
delivered compliantly in last period,
VMS scores in tolerance.

Telco Compliance

Was trending in the right direction
following confirmation we
implemented new general conditions
on time. However PO need to
assess Ofcom’s reaction to our
text relay notification on 7 Jan.
See below

IPA have some issues with resourcing,

Information through sickness and lack’ of
protection filled/approved positions within the
Assurance team. Currently stretched but still in
control.
There are significant challenges to
meet the June 2019 deadline to
AML/CTE provide complete agent Fit and Proper

to HMRC. There are still outstanding
issues with the bureau de change
transaction monitoring system

Whistleblowing

No material issues reported and a
satisfactory audit rating has been
given to controls over the
Whistleblowing process.

POL00423423
POL00423423

Minor non-conformances re Gifts &

Anti-Bribery and Hospitality reporting continue to be

Corruption identified.

Alternative format literature is still to
Vulnerable A 5
Customers be resolved for in branch materials:

expected completion Mar 19

19 improvement needs from 6 audits
in the 3 months to Dec. No material
issues-satisfactory overall

Supply Chain
Compliance

Red-Material items of concern that require focussed remediation plans to ensure we
remain in appetite

Amber-Some items of concern that could breach appetite if they crystallise or are
unmanaged

Green- Broadly within appetite

Input Sought

The Committee is requested to note this paper
POL00423423
POL00423423

Report

Key issues
1 Telco Compliance

2 Text relay

3 Post Office is required to abide by Ofcom’s General Conditions; one such
condition (in existence since 2014) is associated with providing Text Relay
services (this is a voice to text / text to voice service for customer with
hearing / speech impediments). Post Office is obliged to discount calls for
customers using this service, to compensate them for the longer duration it
takes to complete this type of call

4 Originally it was not possible to identify Text Relay calls in the TalkTalk data
provided to Post Office; consequently, Text Relay customers were charged
at standard prices. In Q3 2016, TalkTalk provided a service that enabled
the identification of Text Relay calls. Post Office solution for this service
went live on the 29th November 2018 and Post Office has decided to provide
Text Relay calls free of charge - rather than at a discount price - since.

5 In June 2018, there were 17 customers negatively impacted from a financial
perspective, to a total of £83 (there were 53 customers affected in total,
though most of them did not incur additional expense as the calls were
within their bundles). Post Office is planning to credit back impacted
customers where it is possible to identify them.

6 Following discussion with legal, compliance and external advice, it_was
advised to self-report the issue to Ofcom and notify them of the correction
that occurred on 29 November 2018. Due to the length of time Post Office
have known about the issue and that it impacts vulnerable customers this
is likely to result in an investigation, a potential fine (of between £200k to
£400k) and possible negative press as Ofcom will want to use this to act as
a deterrent against other Communication Providers. Post Office notified
Ofcom on 7 January.

7 Complaints

8 Ofcom complaints for Post Office Home Phone are at their lowest levels
(seeing us land in the middle of Ofcom’s league table). We expect to appear
in the broadband complaints table in January with similar mid-range
complaint levels.

9 Early Termination Charges

10 Under Ofcom’s enforcement programme into early termination charges (“ETC”),
Ofcom have written to “remind Post Office Ltd of its obligations under these
conditions and to ensure it is taking all necessary steps to ensure compliance with
them”.

11 They state that having reviewed the ETC information available on our website,
they are concerned with the transparency of certain elements of our ETCs. Ofcom
have asked for a response, setting out our position and explaining what steps we
have taken, or plan to take, to ensure compliance with Conditions C1.2 and
C1.3. Post Office are currently in the process of updating the website to improve
our transparency and will respond in line with this. We understand that other
communication providers have received similar letters.

POL00423423
POL00423423

12 Information Protection Assurance

13 PCI DSS

14 Audit and Risk Committee approved our approach to achieving re-
certification on the 30 October 2018. The roll-out plan covers our 11,500
branch estate (27,000 pin-pads) with a view to completing late 2019/early
2020. Once the technical changes have been implemented, we shall
commence a PCI certification audit with our QSA to assess the controls
and provide a Report of Compliance.

15 Having communicated the status of our PCI compliance we are working
with our partners and clients in keeping them informed of our progress
and addressing any questions they have. Working with our suppliers and
QSA to attain a revised view of the progress made by our suppliers in
remediating findings from the audit. This will form part of the prioritised
approach document.

16 We had an extraordinary compliance meeting with our Banking Partners to
explain the latest position with the Post Office Deputy CIO. The Banking
Partners have subsequently asked for future updates to be given at our
regular banking partner Security Governance Compliance Committee.

17 Incidents

18 Post Office Insurance (Pol) had an incident in September involving the
disclosure of limited personal data (mainly email addresses) to another
Post Office Travel Insurance customer which was reported (to ICO and
FCA). A formal investigation into this incident was conducted and a report
issued, with actions taken by Pol and its contact centre provider
(WebHelp).

19 In November, two identical incidents were reported to the ICO relating to
marketing emails that were sent without permission, one for Pol (47,000
individuals), that was also reported to the FCA, and one for Post Office
Limited (9,000 individuals). An error was made by Post Office Ltd’s supplier
(Code) when mapping a file (from Bank of Ireland) that meant permissions
given for postal marketing were mapped to the email marketing field. The
permissions were corrected and processes put in place to ensure that any
manual feeds handled in future are properly tested. No other manual feeds
are received.

20 Resourcing

21 Within the Data Protection Team, the DP Officer is off sick, and the new
team member is only starting on 14 Jan 2019. Additionally IPA are
waiting for finance approval of a new role to support the One Trust
application —- crucial for ensuring compliance with the TH Data Protection
Act 2018.

22 Within the Compliance team, recruitment of the new compliance manager
has been slow (lack of candidates). Interviews have now taken place, plus
the resignation of the other member means the team will be stretched until
both roles are filled. This impacts the ability to aid the business on their
PCI-DSS journey.
POL00423423
POL00423423

23 Financial Crime

24 Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations - See separate annual
MLRO report.

25 Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) update - Annual ABC training
completion is at 97%. Some non-conformances continue and a ‘seasonal’
gifts and hospitality One Comm was published in November, with
reminders relating to correct reporting requirements.

26 Whistleblowing update - No material issues to report. There is an audit
action relating to increased communications and awareness, and a new
plan of activity will be developed over the coming months.

27 Regulatory updates - See separate annual MLRO report.

28 External threats - We continue to see external attacks in relation to iTune
and Giftcard scams against vulnerable customers and _ branch
communications have been issued as a reminder of the red flags to look
out for.

29 Internal threats - All products and services have been reviewed for
vulnerabilities exposed following an internal fraud identified in 2018
involving the bulk purchase of Postal Orders which was being abused. This
facility has been withdrawn for all clients bar BoI, which is being migrated
to ‘Payout’ to replace Postal Orders. This fraud MO could not be replicated
in relation to other products and services that Post Office provides in the
branch network.

30 Supply Chain Compliance - Six audits completed in the three months to
December. 19 Improvement Needs identified with a combined audit score
of 35, averaging 3 Improvement Needs and an audit score of 6, which
current the rolling average for all Supply Chain sites putting them in the
Satisfactory category for both measures. No significant or recurring issues
over the period

31 Vulnerable Customers

32 We have made considerable progress on many of the items on the
vulnerable customer action plan. We have also set up a defined Post Office
Group to co-ordinate our actions (Vulnerable Customer Action Group). A
plan is in place to ensure that alternative format literature for in branch
brochures (eg braille, large print, audio) is resolved for FS&T products,
expected to be in place March 2019. Fortunately we have not received any
complaints in this area so far.

What is the general forward-looking regulatory agenda?

POL00423423
POL00423423

33 Citizens’ Advice (CA) Super Complaint to Competition and Markets
Authority (CMA) relating to the ‘loyalty penalty’

34 Citizens Advice raised concerns in November 2018 about long term customers
paying more for goods and services, which it refers to as ‘the loyalty penalty’.
Citizens Advice had identified five key markets where it has concerns about the
loyalty penalty, mortgages, cash savings, insurance, broadband and mobile.

35 Excluding mobile, all of these services are offered through Post Office channels.
The CMA in December strongly supported the CA complaint and is pursuing
actions via the different regulators. To a large extent this is already supporting
the direction of travel of Ofcom and FCA who are following a more interventionist
agenda in their regulatory approach to the ‘loyalty penalty’ including price
controls.

36 There are obvious strategic pricing decisions to be made together with our
business partners as a result of forthcoming legislation. We are monitoring the
position closely. As the various consultation papers are issued we will be working
with Post Office Money/Post Office Insurance and the Telco teams to understand
in more detail the likely requirements and our business response.

37 Telecoms Regulation

38 The amount of telecoms regulation is still set to increase. Next FY sees the
introduction of end of contract notifications and annual reminders to those who
are out of contract. This new regulation should help facilitate churn in the market
but following the super complaint Ofcom have now announced a specific focus on
pricing differentials and protecting the elderly with any remedies likely to have a
significant impact on our business.

39 Q4 will see the major telecoms providers introduce automatic compensation and
adhere to a new broadband speeds code of practice. Post Office is still in
discussions with Fujitsu. about the possibility of introducing automatic
compensation and being able to comply with the broadband speeds code of
practice. These rules are voluntary so any impact will be commercial.
POL00423423

POL00423423
Post Office Telecoms Regulatory Calendar
FebigJ4"-Mara9 ‘May 19 Autumn 2019. a
jars esa AROCOM Mara intatueats _ 58829 ofcamzaconsult May20 WLR year
Meeting with information ©MESiNtO Ofcomto pubsch Spring 2019 to ECNandOCN on replacement New format withdrawal
‘Ofcomte, requestdue °C ew ECNand — Ofcomtoset implemented SYStEMStObEIM peauiation from CSQreport commences
‘out BCMR place spring 2021, Dee20

OCN regs

show

complaints End of 2018 objectives eis eee
improvement I Ofcomtoset out
" nd initial proposals Mer 19 csqto be ‘Mar 20 Electronic

- i for regulation Broadband published (old systems to be AILOCNs to
“coe : spencseomes a in place to be sent

score varying by ™ format)

into effect report data

geography

peerenae Post Office still to
request SSS I temoade .

(a crperysanecauty EO tet Cerieeomcmn® OO CestCom tomer nneZUCaE Carter BU AR Wisden keel Aen cerg Azer Compe

Post Office Financial Services Regulatory Calendar

donot need i
_ evaluate II Forms part chollenger sarees PO responded to Impoct will be pled
: ofthe ae 018 ape) be
with POL I) regulatory ‘for hard Brexit) consultation bechorged on
debate on legislation will cross FS unauthorised
m= updote to reflect telecoms ewoit overdrafts for
regulation HM Treasury gvtresponse current
‘takeover Goce
eerie

Assurance Activity

35. Financial Services -Bol
36. We have been working with the BoI monitoring team to improve the value we get

from their reviews and to adapt a more thematic approach to monitoring that focuses
on root causes and to support us all improve. These reviews will rely on more pre work

and assessing materials prior to undertaking field work.
7
POL00423423
POL00423423

37. The first example of the new approach is a review early this year on’ Post Office
Management, Governance and Oversight of Multiple Operators *.

38. The objective of the review is to: provide assurance that POL is managing the
regulatory compliance and conduct risk inherent in its multiple network effectively; and
identify any deficiencies which may result in poor customer outcomes. Retail Network
has been working together with PO Compliance to provide the pre-review materials.

Key Policy Updates

Please refer to the Information Security Policies Annual Review Paper

Jonathan Hill
Compliance Director
January 2019
