POL00044803

POL00044803
a
a
POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
POLTD/0809/0126
OFFENCE: Audit Shortage — Cash Loss £27,811. 98
Name: Julian WILSON
Rank: Sub-Postmaster Identification Code: 1
Office: Astwood Bank SPOB FAD Code 346/246
Age: 59 Date of Birth: r
Service: S5years 10 Months Date Service Commenced: 07/11/2002
Personnel Printout: At Appendix: C
Nat Ins No:
Home Address:
Suspended/Contract for 11/09/2008 on the authority of Glen Chester Contracts Manager.
Services Suspended:
To be prosecuted by: Royal Mail Group (including Post Office Ltd)
Designated Prosecution Dave Pardoe, Senior Security Manager Fraud Strand
Authority:
Discipline Manager: Glen Chester Contract & Services Manager.

Corporate Security Criminal Law Team

This case concerns an audit shortage of £27,811.98 discovered at the Astwood Bank Post Office
onthe 11 September 2008 by Mr David Patrick, Mr Kevin Watkins & Mrs Faith Lavender Post
Office Ltd Auditors.

On arrival at the Post Office they introduced themselves to the Postmaster Mr Julian Wilson and
explained that they were there to conduct an audit on behalf of Post Office Ltd. Mr Wilson
allowed them access to the secure area and immediately informed them that there would be a
shortage in the cash of around £27,000. He explained to them that it was due to an accumulation
of shortages he had experienced at the Post Office over the last 5 years or so. He explained he had
been inflating the cash on hand figures to show that the office accounts would balance weekly
and more recently on the monthly Trading Period.

Upon confirmation of the shortage by the auditor the Postmaster was advised that he was

precautionary suspended on the authority of Mr Glen Chester Post Office Contracts Manager
pending further investigation. I was also contacted at this time and I asked the auditors to obtain

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
POL00044803
POL00044803

a
POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL

asigned statement confirming these facts from the Postmaster and an Event Log Balancing
printout from the Horizon Computer System that covered the period 1* August 2008 to 11
September 2008. A copy of the signed statement and Horizon printout can now be found
associated at Appendix “B”.

I spoke to Mr Wilson and informed him that I would need to conduct an interview with him and
explained to him his Legal Rights and the Post Office Friend Rule. Mr Wilson advised me that he
would be requiring both these rights and he gave me the name and contact details of his Solicitor
at Astwood Law. He said he would also use his Post Office Federation Representative Mrs Donna
Evans as his Post Office Friend. It was at this point that I contacted a Mr Graham Clarke and made
arrangements for the interview to be conducted at his offices of Astwood Law Solicitors on
Monday 15" September 2008 at 14.30 hours

I can now confirm that prior to the interview on the 11" September 2008, a
colleague Mr Graham Brander I attended the home address of Mr Wilson a
I and conducted a voluntary search of both his premises and vehicle. I can
‘confirm that three entries were made on the Search Record of the items seized and these items

have subsequently now been copied with the originals now returned to Mr Wilson. Copies of the

Search Records can now be found associated at Appendix “B”. The search commenced at 11.11

hours and concluded at 12.08 hours

The Post Office is located in a small urban area near Redditch, Birmingham. Mr Wilson employed
assistants at the Post Office and a copy of the Postmaster and Assistant's details held are now
associated at Appendix “C’”.

Following the completion of the searches Mr Brander and I later made our way to Astwood Law
Solicitors Offices. Prior to commencement of the interview I gave a disclosure to Mr Wilson's Legal
Representative Mr Clarke. It was at this stage that we became aware that Mr Clarke was not a
Solicitor who specialised in Criminal Law but Mr Wilson confirmed that he was aware of this fact.
but still wished Mr Clarke to represent him.

Prior to the interview I explained to Mr Wilson how the tape machine worked and why two tapes
were used. At 15.07 hours, along with Mr Brander I commenced a tape-recorded interview with Mr
Wilson in accordance with the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 Codes of Practice. Following
the general introductions Mr Wilson was cautioned and I completed the GS001at 15.08 hours and
a copy of this is now associated at Appendix “B”. The GS003 Post Office Friend form was
completed at 15.13 hours and a copy of this is now associated at Appendix “C’”.

The interview comprised of two tapes, reference no's 50313 and 50314 and concluded at 16.33
hours. I have now prepared a summary of these tapes, copies of which can be found at pages 5 to
25 of this file.

The Master Tapes are secured at my office in Poole, whilst the working copies are associated at
Appendix “B”.

During the interview Mr Wilson did not admit to theft or misuse of the Post Office money but did
admit to False Accounting over the last 5 years due to losses he had been experiencing. He denied
he had used any of the money to credit his bank account or pay his mortgage or to pay suppliers.
He as shown various Trading Statements available to me from 1 " April 2007 to 20" August
2008 and he confirmed that they all showed false cash figures. These Trading Statements have
been associated now at Appendix “B”. Mr Wilson explained how this had been common practice

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
POL00044803
POL00044803

=

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
for the past 5 years or so. He was asked if he had considered theft by his employees given the fact
it appeared the shortages were a regular occurrence with no explanation or corresponding errors
ever appearing apparent. He said he had not believed this to be the case.

The period of offending in this case could not be fully established other than Mr Wilson admitted
he thought it would have been over 5 years between 2003 and September 2008.

Following the interview, I asked Mr Wilson a number of questions for the sole purpose of
completing NPA 01 and CS033 (Antecedents) forms. Copies of the NPA 01 and CS033 forms can
be found at Appendix C. A copy of my notebook in respect of the interview on the 1 5”
September 2008 can now be found at Appendix “B”.

I do not envisage any difficulties in obtaining statements in this case, should they subsequently
be needed. Likewise, I have no reason to question the reliability of any potential witness. All
envisaged enquiries have now been conducted in respect of this case.

A copy of the final Audit Report produced by Mr David Patrick is now associated at Appendix “B”

The loss known to Post Office Ltd is £27,811.98, and I can confirm that this full amount is still
outstanding at this stage.

I contacted Mr Ged Harbinson the Post Office Ltd Financial Investigation Manager in respect of
this case, due to the amount involved and the Financial Investigator in this case is now Mr Graham
Ward. Mr Wilson explained how he would wish to repay the Post Office the full amount of money
missing but was not in a position to do so at that stage. He informed me he would be looking to
sell his business and he would then be in a position to repay the Post Office at that point.

All original exhibits in this case are currently retained at my office in Poole.

Electronic copies of this report and the tape summaries have been sent to the Post Office Ltd
Casework Team along with the discipline report.

There did not appear to be any further failings in security, procedures or product integrity that
directly affect this case.

These papers are now forwarded to you for sight and advice on the sufficiency of the evidence as
to whether criminal charges should be brought against Mr Wilson.

As this was a Stakeholder Notification case the appropriate form was e-mailed at the outset anda
copy is associated at Appendix’C’.

Please feel free to contact me should you require any further information or clarification on any
of the points raised in this report.

Gary Thomas
Fraud Advisor

2 December 2008

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
