POL00122771
POL00122771

Security Investigations Manager’s Data Handling Process — Fujitsu Horizon Data Request

When information from Horizon required supporting conduct of criminal investigations and

prosecutions as per the Conduct of Criminal Investigations Policy:

1.

10.

i.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

a request for information is sent to Fujitsu via the Case Work Team. The request is emailed
to the Post Office Security email inbox (Case Work Team’s email) by the Security Manager
(SM) from a Post Office email address.

The request is contained in an MS Word document, which is protected using password.
The password is email to the Case Work Team in a separate email.

When encrypted CD’s are received from the Casework Team, they are sent to the SM by
Special Delivery Mail. The password is emailed to the SM.

When the SM receives the Disc and email with the password information required for
evidence is downloaded to on to the SM’s laptop. Extracts maybe printed off for use during
an interview. This extract would be placed in Appendix ‘B’ (evidence Appendix) in the Case
files (“Green Jackets” (GJ)). Printing of the full data maybe required for a trial.

Encrypted CD is retained by the investigator manager and stored in their locked personal
pedestals, which they only have keys for.

Passwords are not written down or kept with the CDs.

The GJ (Case File) are then sent including Appendix B — Contains evidence (**possibly
encrypted / not full credit card information from the CD**)

GJ Sent back to the Case Work Team by RMG Special Delivery tracked.
Email is sent to Casework Team confirming despatch.
Require acknowledgment of receipt via email to the relevant SM.

GJ is then sent to the Lawyers Cartwright King by the Case Work team.

Lawyers will review evidence and may take copy of the evidence, which may contain CC info.

If decision is made to prosecute, the file (GJ) copied (copies retained) and the original is sent
back to the Case Work Team.

Casework team then send it to Post Office Head of Security to review and decide to whether
to proceed to prosecution.

The GJ, is then sent back to Case Work Team. Will log the decision to whether prosecute or
not.
19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

Copies

POL00122771

POL00122771

. The GJ is then sent back to the Investigation Manager. To review advice from Lawyers and
the Post Office Head of Security.

If decision not to prosecute — then Investigation manager complete closure form and sends
file (GJ) back to Case work team for archiving. ARQ database will updated to reflect the
decision.

If decision to prosecute then SM will retain GJ until the whole process is completed which
could be months or years. CD will be retained by the SM in their pedestal until completion or
sent for storage to Chesterfield Exhibit Store. (Process attached)

If the case results in conviction, sentence being imposed — the CD is retained for minimum 6

months or the length of the sentence, whichever is Breater. (Chris Knight), Responsible.) CD
is retained in exist Exhibit store in Chesterfield - this is separate to the Archive. **At present
CD remains with GJ. Exhibit Process should be used going forward**

Once the process is complete the CD is sent back to the Case Work (CW) Team to be
destroyed. CD send back to Casework Team as soon as possible. Exhibit Process should be
used.

The Green Jackets are archived for 3 years for non-conviction cases and 5 years for cases
resulting in prosecutions. GJ

of Files Retained by Lawyers

26. Evidence shared with defence lawyers in advance and 9 copies of file shared with the court.
