POL00242940
POL00242940

From: Paula Vennells{,
Sent: Fri 01/07/2016
To: Tom Wechsler[:

Subject: Fwd: Criminal Investigation Opene:

Tom, could you look into this for me?

I'd like you to first of all, suspend any previous Sparrow views.

Then

1) read the trial transcript referred to in the blog - this seems to be at the root of the prosecution of our team -
see 3) below.

2) check out the name of the barrister. TM says Stephen Mason. If it's Stephen Mayson, I know him personally,
which may or may not be helpful.

3) brief me on the prosecution of PO prosecution team - this is the first I've heard?

4) PO prosecuted Seema Misra for theft so we could use the Proceeds of Crime Act - how does this link to 3)?

You would expect me to say this and I will: if we find we are in the wrong, I'm prepared to apologise and to deal
with what ever necessary. I want the complete truth.

Thanks,

Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Tim McCormack <
Date: 1 July 2016 at 08

Dear Sir

As you will be aware by now, the police have opened a criminal
investigation into matters surrounding the prosecution of Seema Misra by
POL in October 2010. I am assisting them with their enquiries and have
been interviewed by them as well as supplying them with relevant
documentary evidence. If they have not already I am sure they will be in
touch soon.

In order to assist them I am reviewing my correspondence with POL and
have come across emails sent by your team to me in relation to emails sent
POL00242940

POL00242940

by me to Ms Vennells in connection with an error in Horizon dated
November 2015, to which I do not appear to have responded.

On the 19th November I received an email containing an image of a letter
from your Mr Rodric Williams. In it he asks for 'something more
substantive’. I draw your attention to communications you subsequently
received from the CWU regarding the same error as well as my blog post
published on 10th November 2015 which goes into great detail of the very
same error.

https://problemswithpol.wordpress.com/2015/11/10/the-error-in-horizon/

I also draw your attention to further emails I sent to Tim Parker and Paula
Vennells under the Freedom of Information act asking them to reveal details
of the Known Error Logs in January that should have contained details of
the fix to be applied in connection with this error. These requests were
acknowledged but I was refused access to that information.

Let me be clear why I requested that information. Unless the email from
ATOS to Ms Baker was completely disingenuous, and if so that would be
extremely damning in its own right, the contents show that Fujitsu/ATOS
completely misunderstood the error that was reported to them, made no
attempt at all to establish the real cause of it and provided a fix for
something that had not caused the error in the first place. If Fujitsu and
ATOS (whose PO team I believe consist mainly of ex POL employees) are
behaving like this now in 2015/16 it is entirely likely that they were
behaving like this in 2010 when Ms Misra was placed on trial. It is, and
would be, substantial new evidence which you yourselves declare in your
letter to me that you have a duty to disclose to the defence even
subsequently to a prosecution being brought.

With the police now involved and my evidence to them having being
considered by two leading barristers to be reliable, one of which, Mr
Stephen Mason, was responsible for the publication of the transcript of the
trial of Ms Seema Misra, I would urge you to now consider the contents of
the blog I wrote yesterday.
https://problemswithpol.wordpress.com/2016/06/30/what-are-you-waiting-for-paula/

I find it utterly appalling that Post Office Ltd seek to prolong the suffering of
a woman who very clearly did not commit the crime she was accused and
convicted of. You have the opportunity to contact the CCRC straight away
on this matter and ensure Ms Misra suffers no longer than she has to. I
urge you to do so today. At the moment I am prepared to consider
incompetence as the rational behind these contemptible failings of POL to
understand that Horizon is capable of producing intermittent errors that
result in huge paper losses at subpostmaster branches. Any subsequent
delay will make me consider the far more serious matter of conspiracy.
POL00242940
POL00242940

The ongoing police investigation will take time. The CCRC has already sat
on this case for a year now. Seema Misra deserves justice today.

I look forward to hearing from you without delay.
Kind regards

Tim McCormack

@jusmasel2015
