POL00139720
POL00139720

Meeting: 6 November 2013

Attendees:
Team/Function Attendees
Legal Rodric Williams (RW)
Jarnail Singh (JS)
Andrew Bolc of Cartwright King (AB)
Rebecca Butler (RB)
Andy Parsons (AP)
Financial Services Centre (FSC) Andy Winn (AW)
Security Dave Posnett (DP)
Communications N/A
Network Anne Allaker (AA)
Nick Beal (NB)
Gayle Peacock (GP)
Shirley Hailstones (SH)
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Jeff Burke (JB)
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) Kendra Dickinson (KD)

Belinda Crow (BC)

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps

Prestbury Looked at transaction information, appears only gone through
once. No issues with Horizon error. Debt made good, continue to

investigate but should be closed next week.

ATM Gluing No update on suspect, other than been bailed until approx.
Case January.

Transpired that not visited two Welsh branches.
Also, Sandy Park Road

e ATM Software download failed;

4A_27720988_1 1
POL00139720
POL00139720

e Bank of Ireland currently looking into matter;

e Issue on ATM Forum;

e Keep issue open as software / branch accounting related;
« Togo on Action Log.

Rhigos Branch

No update — on-going investigations currently being conducted.

Post & Go

Steve sent report to Roger, looks to be operational practices
rather than equipment issues.

Belfast Refresh

Rodric received an update from the project team — no further
update until the end of the year. Need to ensure that when migrate
from old servers to new server to keep integrity.

Nelson

Steve visited branch with Kath. SPM satisfied not horizon issues
and happy with full explanation. FSA extensive support confirmed
operational practice issues not balancing problems within Horizon.

Continue with security investigations and decide what to do with
the £17K debt (next trading period is next week).

Pontycymer

Agreed SPM relief to be provided for two weeks from 18"
November. Also going to be supported by FSA, similar to Nelson.

Martin Griffiths

Agreed to leave for Angela to pick this issue up. Rodric to see if

we can close this issue down.

Stock
reconciliation

Weaknesses highlighted in report. Scoping with Op team for a
100% check as at the moment only check 10%. Issue around how
stock audited and not Horizon. Report matching data sets, which
is a gap that POL need to close and have been aware of since
2008.

Discrepancies raise a concern about cash which could lead to
potential issues —-keep on action log.

Carluke Post
Office

Predicted to come into mediation scheme. Still await update from

Police regarding papers obtained.

Lake Post
Office

Rodric Williams in process of looking at draft letter, which will go
out this week.

4A_27720988_1
POL00139720
POL00139720

New Issues Identified

Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments.

AW FSC Unknown Branch Discrepancy — Shows item for '£200 - unpaid
cheques’. Not seen this before, trying to work out where entry has
come from as it appears to be a historic/inherited entry from
another SPM in 2009. AW believe it may be a NS! product /
cheque bounced. AW to provide an update next week.

JB IT&C No issues
AP and RB Legal No issues
JS Legal No issues
RW Legal No issues
NB Network No issues.

Fleckney — NB chasing to ascertain what has gone on and
updates. KD chased a couple of times. NB concerned that under
investigations for 3 and % years. KD to escalate to Steve Beddow
if no further response.

AB of CK Legal No issues
KD NBSC No issues
GP Network No issues
AA Network No issues

Horizon desk call logs — Anne to discuss with Andy on info for all
cases.

4A_27720988_1 3
POL00139720
POL00139720

DP

Security

No issues

Action Points

Prestbury — look to close next week.
ATM gluing case — Include Sandy Park matter as a separate item on the Action Log.
Nelson — Continue with security investigations and decide what to do with the £17K debt.

Martin Griffiths — Rodric to see if issue can be closed.

Carluke Post Office - Cartwright King to update further in due course (when update from Police

received).

Lake Post Office - RW to review letter and get response out this week.
Unknown Branch Discrepancy - AW to provide an update re £200 "unpaid cheque" entry.

Fleckney — KD to escalate to Steve Beddow if no response.

Horizon desk call logs — Anne to discuss with Andy W on info for all cases.

4A_27720988_1
