Page 1

POL00039965
POL00039965

Post Office Ltd Financial Investigation Policy

PURPOSE

‘This policy describes the role of the Financial Investigation Unit In mitigating losses and recovering Post Office funds within the

functions of the Post Otfice Ltd Fraud Team.

INTRODUCTION

‘The Financial Investigation Team sits within the overall Fraud Strand and its mission statement is:

“To mitigate the threat of fraud against Post Ofice Ltd. In order

protect iis People, Customers, Assets, Brand and Reputation’,

POLICY AIMS.
34
© Provide ettective support to the investigation team, casework management team, Post Otfice Finance team and Criminal
Law Team in order to recover Post Office funds and mitigate losses.
© Atall times to adhere to UK and EU legislation and corporate governance to ensure best practise is being adopted.
© Ensure that the powers conferred under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 are used appropriately by each Financial
Investigator during the course of any enquiry.
© Allfinancial investigations to be conducted with absolute impariality and proportionality.
© Maximise efficient use of limited resources by ensuring good communication and collaboration with all relevant partes.
. t Post Office Ltd's brand and reputation.
© Develop policies to provide succession planning for the unit to ensure an effective working team at all times.
4 STRUCTURE
The Financial Investigation Unit comprises of one team leader who is also an Accredited Financial Investigator and two further
Accredited Financial Investigators.
5. PRINCIPLES
© The Financial investigation Team to fully support and interact with its stakeholders and partners.
© The Team will ensure that all stakeholders and customers are fully informed with all necessary developments.
‘© All enquiries to be conducted within the due processes available and with the necessary consideration given to
corporate policies,
Version 1 May 2010
Date 4° May 2010
Page 2

POL00039965
POL00039965

PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS

Framework

The Financial Investigation Team adopts a structured approach to the key areas in which it is concemed, namely money laundering

and confiscation.

© Identity at the earliest opportunity which type of financial investigation will be pursued.

© Adhere to the rules concerning the Human Rights Act 1998, Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, Data Protection

Act 1998, Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 and the Criminal Procedures and Investigations Act 1996,

© Ensure that all investigations are recorded correctly and in a timely manner.

© Only use the powers available under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 appropriately, such as.

1. Applications for Production Orders

2. Applications for Restraint Orders

3. Applications for Account Monitoring Orders

4. Applications for Customer information Orders,

5. Cash Selzures

Version 1

Date

MONITORING
Representatives from the National Policing Improvement Agency constantly monitor the work conducted by the Financial

Investigation Unit.

May 2010
4° May 2010

