POL00448120
POL00448120

CTO2038 July 2023 SECTION 1 Useful information V4.0

Useful information

Transaction advice, stock queries & stock
Branch Support Centre rem discrepancies, Smart ID, balancing and
discrepancy support

Horizon technical help, PIN Pad faults,

FT Hap printer issues, Paystation, AEI

Alarm Issues, faults, verify engineer, report
Grapevine suspicious activity, faults with scales and
safes (Safetell and Insafe)

Cash Management Cash Centre Open from 08:30 to 17:00

Discrepancy - cash remittance ‘I If you have not received what is stated on
your delivery note

Discrepancy - currency remittance

For postmasters to use after a traumatic

24/7 dedicated helpline incident at work — leaflet MISC1701 can
also be ordered via Horizon
The APS Group (Passport forms G RO Order via Horizon. Use this number to
supplier) report delayed, missing or damaged items
. . 09:00 - 17:00 Monday to Friday
His Mi 's Pi rt Offi
is Majesty's Passport Office 09:00 - 13:00 Saturday
ATM Helpdesk (Diebold Nixdorf) Faults and queries about ATM

For customer queries or complaints that you

Post Office customer helpline can'thelp them with

DWP National Benefit Fraud

Hotline If you suspect benefit fraud, call this number

For customers’ queries about DVLA services

DVLA ciistomer enquiries that you can't help them with

HR Service Centre Queries about pay, recruitment.

For Post Office use only; not to be given out

MoneyGram to customers

Data Protection Email i A
Queries about data protection

Information rights Customers can email I} GRO

his telephone list is not exhaustive. Go to Horizon Help for a full, up-to-date list. 1

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
on behalf of 2 and for the purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000079

POL00448120
POL00448120

SECTION 1 Useful information V4.0 CTO2038 July 2023

Useful information

This guide provides you with operational instructions for the day to day activities involved in running your
branch.

Strategic Partners: If your Post Office branch is located in a Strategic Partner store, such as WHSmith,
Tesco, Co-Op, Blakemore etc, in addition to the Post Office processes and procedures, you should also
follow all the processes and procedures issued by your company.

Self-registration for training

Self registration is available for all Branch Managers,
Postmasters and assistants. Scan the barcode opposite to
access the ‘Registering for Online Training - Branch Guide’.
Here you will find links and instructions for:

« Registering for a classroom course

* Accessing Online Training Resources

* Registering for the Post Office Online Learning Site

Horizon Help

For information about all our products and services at the
touch of a button, you can use Horizon Help. Horizon
You can select ‘Help’ from any Horizon screen. If you select J se
‘Help’ whilst you're in a transaction it will take you to the
product relevant pages (e.g. if you are processing a postal
transaction, press ‘Help’ and you will see the help pages for
postal services).

If you select ‘Help’ from the Horizon Home screen, you can =z og
select ‘F7’ for the help pages, or choose a number of options o ay

from the home page, including:

«Branch Focus «Telephone list

«IT Self Help » Compliance workbooks
« Stock codes » Weekly activity
Memoview

Urgent operational messages will appear as ‘memoviews’

and will pop up on Horizon. They will also appear in Branch

Hub:

» To view previous memoviews on Horizon, from the Back
Office Home screen select ‘View Memo List’

» Memoview is also available on Branch Hub. Log in and
select the ‘Memoview' tile

ieee ery

n ‘ I» The Qualtrics XM mobile app is
Qualtrics CX (Customer Experience) XM 1 available on Apple Store or Google
Play

1

1

Qualtrics is a customer feedback tool that you can access to 1
© The Qualtrics portal can be accessed }
1

1

4

help you manage and improve your customer experience.
Your Area Manager can request an account for you. Once
registered, you can access your reports via the mobile app
or on your laptop or computer.

on. your laptop or computer at

GRO

focument are fice INTERNAL. Dis
ice and for the purpose intended, is not permitted!

The conter ent to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000079_0001

19, copying, d 9 the information contained within this
POL00448120
POL00448120

CTO2038 July 2023 SECTION 1 Useful information V4.0

Useful information

Branch Hub
You can access Branch Hub from your computer, tablet or . secs eweenees
smart phone. I Remember: Anyone with a Smart ID can I
Note: For branches, including Strategic Partners, who do I Sign up to Branch Hub. The Branch Hub I
not or cannot access Branch Hub whilst in branch, please 1 app is available on the App store and 1
continue to use Horizon. 1 Google Play 1
Branch Huh ft b-brawser, please visit ' '
GRO t Google Play [i
You can use this site to help you run your branch day today, ! i

such as ordering cash and stock, checking planned orders
and amending your branch opening hours.

Training and support on Branch Hub

Select the ‘Training’ tile on the Branch Hub homepage to 1

access training materials, including:

» Operational Training Guide =» = Work aids Training
» How-To videos «Travel Toolkit
* Distance learning packs © Mails toolkit Access all your branch training and

Visit the Branch Operational Training catalogue via the learning here

‘Training’ tile for a full list of Post Office training resources
and where they are available.

Branch Performance feature on Branch Hub

The Branch Performance feature on Branch Hub gives you ehtutemance
access to a range of information and data, so you can: 4

« Track your weekly product and service sales data hide
« View your weekly remuneration = ry

To find the feature, sign in to Branch Hub and select the = ==>
“Your Performance Updates’ tile. The feature is exclusively

available for Branch Managers, but you can give individual
staff members access if you wish.

Digital presence on Branch Hub
The Digital Presence Toolkit is available on Branch Hub, to [O} G
help you create or expand, your online presence. To find the

toolkit, sign in to Branch Hub, select the ‘Help and Support’
tile and then ‘Digital Presence’. The toolkit covers:

* Social media » Local Marketing ' Branch Hub is regularly updating the site !
» Google Business Profile =» Qualtrics ! with new ways to help you run your
The toolkit provides access to a range of guides, tutorials 1 branch efmiciently and conveniently. You

and case studies which will help you make customers aware 1 $2" bry eee shagestions for
of the services you offer in your branch. fp oranich Mu via & Ule‘onthe homepage.

The contents of this document a
on behalf of 2 and for the f

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000079_0002

sd Post Office INTERNAL. Di
2 intended, is net permit

9, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

SECTION 1 Useful information V4.0

Useful information

Marketing support tools

Campaign materials and leaflets are regularly updated, in
advance of new promotional activity and product updates.

You can check on current and upcoming campaign materials
on Branch Hub via the ‘Your marketing tools’ tile. Marketing
support tools available include:

View branch display instructions

© Choose your materials for upcoming campaigns
» Marketing POS allocation tool

» Order personalised bespoke marketing materials

» Download animated campaign posters for digital
screens

Stock ordering

Stock ordering, where possible should be done using Branch
Hub. For branches that are not able to, value and non-value
stock can be ordered on Horizon:

» From the Horizon ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Licences
and Government’

* Select ‘Compliance’, then ‘Stock Ordering’

* Select ‘Create Stock Order’

«Then, either select ‘Secure Stock’ for value stock items,
or ‘Transaction Stock’ for stationery items, such as till
rolls, postage labels and ink

Note: For orders placed on Horizon, stock order codes can

be found on Horizon Help, select F5 Stock Ordering Codes

Customer Referrals

When a customer has a genuine interest in a financial services

product, all branches can complete a customer referral

on Horizon.

» From the Horizon ‘Home Screen’ select
‘Customer Referrals’

* Select the product the customer has a genuine interest
in and follow the on-screen prompts — Horizon will let
you know if a field is required or optional

«All customers who provide a mobile number will
instantly receive a text message verification

« All customers who provide an email address will
receive an email with a link to the relevant Post Office
product website

» Remind the customer to enter your ‘branch response
code’, also known as a ‘Branch Code’ or ‘FAD Code’

POL00448120
POL00448120

CTO2038 July 2023

Display
instruc

' Top tip: Scan this code to be taken
directly to the stock ordering screen
on Horizon

9826935100403

i

I
L

introducing financial services to
customers can be found in Section 18 5

when they apply online 1 Financial Services Products. 1

iS SSS ees Sal

The conte jocument are Post Office INTERNAL 9, copying, d 1 information contained within this document to any thi 3t working
on behalf o ce and forthe purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000079_0003
