POL00116181
POL00116181

From: Martin Edwards!
Sent: Wed 09/10/2013 9:17:38 PM (UTC)
To: Paula Vennells._

Subject: HPBB legal options

Hi Paula - I spoke to Martin G earlier today about your question below. Legal (Rodric) have now drafted a letter
to Fujitsu threatening contractual action - but Martin's plan is not to actually send it yet but instead use it as
leverage in a meeting which he and Lesley have with Fujitsu executives on Thursday or Friday to push them to
take the call centre recovery plan more seriously. Sounds like a sensible approach to me at this stage. I think
you've got a 121 with him tomorrow so perhaps something to pick up then.

Martin

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive

On 9 Oct 2013, at 08:03, "Paula Vennells" wrote:

Thx Martin.

Nothing more on this but it prompted me to ask you to check in with Martin George to see if he
has followed up with Hugh on contract review, legal letter or other such re the telephony issues.

We could go direct to Hugh but I would like MG to own the process and outcome if poss.

Could you follow up?
Thx P

Sent from my iPhone

On 8 Oct 2013, at 19:04, "Martin Edwards"

Hi Paula
Some quick background briefing ahead of your lunch with Simon tomorrow.

GC recruitment process
Fay spoke with Simon today about the recruitment process, covering the following points:

e — she explained that we have an interim starting next Monday;
e — she also explained that she would be briefing our recruitment agency on Thursday
for the permanent appointment;
e further to his offer to you of assistance, she said that we would appreciate his help
in three specific areas:
1) updating the job description, in particular checking that it is current with
the market;
POL00116181
POL00116181

2) using his networks to identify potential candidates for the job; and
3) any suggestions on how we can inject appropriate legal expertise into the
interview/selection process — i.e. while you and Fay can test the
candidates’ overall leadership/management/commercial/interpersonal
skills, does Simon have any ideas on who could help test their specific legal
capabilities/expertise? (It probably wouldn’t be appropriate for Simon or
someone else from BD to perform this role, given the client relationship).
e — Simon said he would like to discuss with you what type of candidate profile you
have in mind, to help inform point number 2 above.
e — Simon and Fay will speak again following your discussion with him and ahead of
the meeting with the agency.

Wider relationship with BD

I discussed with Hugh whether there were any particular issues you should be aware of or
raise with Simon related to the wider work they are doing with us. In short, no — generally
the relationship is working well and BD are providing high quality support. They are
particularly involved in Project Sparrow as you know (I thought Andy Parsons was very
good today on the compensation policy. If there’s time you might want to ask Simon for his
thoughts on this issue). I probably wouldn’t mention the hiccup around the due diligence
on Sir Anthony Hooper — without Susan around to confirm it’s not clear exactly what
support they were asked to provide ahead of the interview (i.e. the blame might partly be
with us if we didn’t ask them to do a thorough pre-vetting). They are also heavily involved
in NT strategy work and potential agreements with the Fed, where again they are providing
high quality support.

Obviously there is a strategic question for us about the balance between in-house and
external legal advice — while the support from BD is good, is it value for money, can we
reduce costs? But probably not a question to discuss with Simon given his likely bias.
Let me know if you need anything more ahead of the lunch.

Thanks,

Martin

Martin Edwards I Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive

GRO. I

postoffice.co.uk
@postofficenews
<image002.png>

