POL00448378
POL00448378

From: Jane Davies
Sent: Tue 02/05/2023 6:57:32 AM (UTC)

To: Elliot Jacobs
Tidswellf

Cc:
Subject: Re: Racism and employment practices

Dear Saf and Elliot,

We have all been disturbed by this feedback, it’s shocking and it needs to be appropriately investigated and dealt

with. We are taking action, but as Ben’s suggests, we should all get on a call so we can update and agree
appropriate steps.

( ! pologies for not updating you on this. Your points are well made, please be assured that going
forward you will included /updated.

Regards,
Jane

Jane Davies

Group Chief People Officer
People Team
Finsbury ; insbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ
postoffice.co.uk

From: Elliot Jacobs!
Sent: Monday, May 1, 20236
To: Benjamin Tidswell?~

Ben Foat

ubject: Re: Racism and employment practices
Anything that can being positive change has my full support.

Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Benjamin Tidswell i
Sent: Monday, May 1, 202:
To: Elliot Jacobs
Ben Foat

Nick Read +
‘acism and employment practices
Thanks Saf and Elliot.

I think there are a number of strands here:

POL00448378
POL00448378

- there is highly disturbing evidence from the Inquiry about historical racism.

- there is a question about hiring practices to ensure POL is alert to rehiring people who have a history at POL,
whether relating to racism, approach to shortfalls, approach to criminal prosecutions or otherwise. This was
discussed briefly at the board and clearly needs further discussion.

- there is the important need to ensure we have a business today in which racism is not tolerated at any level.
The report from Elliot about recent incidents is very concerning.

I think the first item is mainly one for Ben and the Inquiry team (copying Ben). The second is presumably a joint
Ben/Jane issue. The third is I suspect primarily a point for Jane, though I suspect Nick will have some strong
views (copying Nick as well).

It may be that a call with Ben, Jane, Saf, Elliot and me might be a useful way forward?

Best wishes

Ben

Sent from my iPad

On 1 May 2023, at 17:31, Elliot JacobsiSS~*~<“*«é‘~S ROS

Jane,

I would add that I don't believe this is exclusive the IT helpdesk.

I have had recent reports from an Asian colleague in my business who complained to me at the
way he was "talked down to" by the team member on the helpdesk that handles TC queries.
When he challenged the TC and claimed it was inaccurate and asked to organise a visit for me to
the cash centre to see the evidence, he claims he was repeatedly obstructed and told to accept
the TC.

I would add, having visited the cash centre and watched the CCTV he was 100% correct - despite
the claim by POL that the matter had been reviewed by a supervisor.

On many levels, this is extremely worrying.

Elliot

From: Saf ismail
Sent: Monday, M:

“I Benjamin Tidswell

acism and employment practices
Dear Jane,

Hope all is well, I am writing to express my deep concerns about recent issues regarding
racism and employment practices at our company.

Firstly, I was deeply troubled to learn from recent articles that racism has been identified
within our business. As the D&l board member, I am particularly concerned that I was
not informed of these issues until a PM brought them to my attention. I believe that we

POL00448378
POL00448378

must address these issues head-on and ensure that our company is a welcoming and
inclusive environment for all employees.

Additionally, I am concerned that the board’s enquiry report did not mention
employment practices such as the rehiring of staff members or mentioned the racist
language used at our IT help desk. We must be transparent and open in addressing any
issues that arise, and correct any procedural business points at the enquiry to show we
are serious about moving forward.
(https://www.computerweekly.com/news/365532063/IT-worker-evidence-reveals-a-
toxic-Post-Office-IT-helpdesk-that-discriminated-against-subpostmasters)

I would like to know what steps we have taken to investigate the individuals responsible
for the racist "I've got another Patel" comments.

Is racism taken seriously or not by POL? If yes then why was this not mentioned in the
board report?

lam deeply concerned also about recent decisions made regarding staff being rehired.
Based on my past experiences, I believe that these decisions were not appropriate and
that the staff recruiting may have been aware of their previous connections with POL.
Rehiring staff members who have previously worked at the company does not align with
the cultural reset that we are striving to achieve.

What are we doing to address this and will there be any retrospective decisions
regarding individuals rehired?

I urge the business to reconsider these decisions and take the necessary steps to address
racism and show what has been done to address this issue. We must ensure that our
Postmasters are being treated fairly and with respect, and create a positive work
environment for all employees. It is critical that we put our Postmasters first and take all
necessary steps to create a welcoming and inclusive work environment.

Thank you for your attention to these important matters and I am happy to discuss these

further.

Regards

Saf Ismail
Non-Executive Director
Post Office Ltd

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

