POL00448897
POL00448897

From:

To: Jacob Howell-Jone:
Carterf

Subject: FW: Tim Parker 04/09

_.i Melanie

This email is from an external sender.

Subject: Tim Parke

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening attachments.
When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Tim Parker 04/09

>Push on quickly with Franchising..DMB’s Drive cost reduction harder and

>further in the centre, simply not sustainable on £1billion sales. Are less, better colleagues the way to go ? Currently too
much duplication and a lack of prioritisation.

>Cash management needs greater attention. Particularly working capital. Overhead costs too high. Too much money
required for change activity. Too many asks of the Board for cash and no real transparency on how it is being managed.
>Lack of operational rigour, routine and process within the centre. Not helped by poor data. Agreed that centralising
control in the short term was realistic. Control of spend, projects, resource and capital allocation, prioritisation and
execution. Used example of not managing the array of consultants, interims, who are operating within the business. The
need for accountability and consequence management.

>Finsbury Dials not sustainable. Have a corp office in London, but move Sother colleagues out.

>Look at the businesses we are in...focus on those where scale is

>achievable - top 4/5 player, but not where you have 1% market share...eg, Telcoms Address the Royal Mail
negotiations...there is no business without it. Get the A team involved. Important to secure this for the long term. Not
going to be as easy as we think...

>Automate and drive efficiency into the franchise operation. Manage more effectively and simplify. This is our core
business...focus upon it. Cash...automate and simplify.

>Surely there is an opportunity to be market leader in identity...

Manufacture AND distribute where possible...verify and identity has broader potential.. eg, operate/sell overseas, other
countries...

>Resolve the post office litigation situation quickly...and put it behind us and move on. Not the huge PR risk that BEIS
believe it to be.

>Future: Mutuality, give a share in the business to post masters, combine again with RM. No other country had the post
office separated from mails...possibility to List or sell the business.

>Mckinsey are expensive... but not adverse to using them

>People: Not convinced by RM and Identity leaders given how critical they are.

Debbie not close enough to the detail, the numbers...unclear on her long term role, yet she has driven energy into the
network, field team dev, support of contact centres, attempts to get training on line...Need to look carefully at the
franchise proposition and the cost base to ensure becoming a postmaster remains attractive. Do we really understand
the numbers and what the operating model really costs ? Agent pay/package etc...

>Expects me to build and manage GE as a team...attract, retain, motivate. Different style and approach from Paula’s bi-
lateral way. Believes Al could add value, but not precious on the need to keep him. Thinks Owen is good. Try again to
retain Mo. Not convinced by Mark Davies and Foat is probably too junior.

>Service apartment

Sent from my iPhone
POL00448897
POL00448897

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 100 Wood Street, London,
EC2V 7ER.

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our
website at https://url.uk.m.mimecastprotect.com/s/hX82C J6OnuyO9PDuVfOuyjEG6?domain=postoffice.co.uk”
