POL00308946
POL00308946

From: Mark R Davies[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MARK R DAVIESA80D7269-659B-41D0-9C80-
68D9DE4FA7C5D38]

Sent: Wed 17/12/2014 9:45:56 PM (UTC)

To: Alwen Lyons{-
Nicholas
George[i
Lesley J
Chris Aujard;
Gavin LambertI

Subject: Sparrow
Dear all
I wanted to update you on developments with Sparrow.

A parliamentary debate was held today, led by James Arbuthnot MP. This was a 90 minute debate in Westminster Hall,
which is one of the debating chambers in Parliament. Around 20 MPs attended the debate.

The format meant that Mr Arbuthnot led the debate by setting out his concerns around the case of his constituent, Jo
Hamilton, and his frustrations with our approach to the Mediation Scheme. He was extremely strong in his criticism of the
business. He called for a Government inquiry but did not say anything we had not otherwise anticipated.

Around 10 of the MPs present then made short speeches, all extremely critical of Post Office. lan Murray, the Labour
shadow postal services minister spoke for 10 minutes. He was sympathetic to the points raised by other MPs.

Our minister, Jo Swinson, responded in the 10 minutes allowed for a government response and made some important
points in our defence.

I will send a full transcript tomorrow.

There has been very limited media pick up this evening though clearly we are monitoring the position carefully. The BBC.
One Show, as expected, featured the issue in a five minute segment. This did not spring any surprises and featured our
position and lines.

There has not been any media follow up at the time of writing and there is limited activity on social media.

We have made our own film about the issue today and will be editing for potential use later in the week through our
channels. This is aimed at setting out in more detail the background to the issue and our response. We will make a call
tomorrow on next steps, depending on how widely the issue is featured in the media. NBSC is briefed should we receive
calls from postmasters.

I hope this is helpful. Please don't hesitate to ask any questions.

Best wishes

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone
