POL00088953
POL00088953

Angela Van-Den Bogerd _

From: Simon Drinkwater

Sent: 12 January 2015 09:32

To: Sue Richardson; Sandra McBride; Jackie Newton; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Craig Tuthill;
Anne Allaker; sarah.malone; Drew Mcbride; Kendra Dickinson; Amanda K Stevens

Ce: Natalie Liff; Chris J Gilding; Tim Gordon-Pounder

Subject: Your Input Is Needed; Final Draft - Balancing Guide

Attachments: Quick Guide to Balancing V1.0 Draft.doc

Hi everyone,

Natalie Lif, FSA, has worked on producing a quick guide to balancing for Postmasters who have a loss or gain, (see
attached). This has been produced because there doesn’t seem to be a clear process to follow in the event of a
misbalance. Our Field Team and Branch Support tend to use their own experience to help a Postmaster find a cash or
stock discrepancy.

The brief given to Natalie was to make it as easy to use as possible. What we would like to do now is to produce a ‘how
to’ video with Amanda’s team where we can refer to this document. Before we go any further, please would you all
have a look and let us know;

e If you think there is a need for this?

e If you think the content is accurate?

© Ifyou think there is something that we should add, (please be mindful that we would like to keep it on two
sides of A4)?

e If you think it is clear and easy to follow?

Please let me have your comments by 16" Jan.

Regards
Simon

Simon Drinkwater I Business Transformation

simon.drinkwatet,

/

From: Natalie Liff
Sent: 08 January 2015 14:23

To: Simon Drinkwater

Ce: Chris J Gilding; Tim Gordon-Pounder
Subject: Final Draft - Balancing Guide

Hi Simon,
POL00088953
POL00088953

Stock with Horizon

A Quick Guide to Balancing - Reconciling your Cas!

Complete “End of Day” activities
- Back Office lF14], Reports [F1] Counter Daily [21]
- Back Office [F14] Reports [F1] Cheques [42] (if applicable)
- If you require more detail, refer to hand out 11/4 Daily Despatch, which can be found on

subspaceonline.

Count your stock items and check your totals against the balance snapshot.
- Back Office [F14] Stock Balancing [F3] Balance Snapshot [41]
To reconcile:
- If any of the stock items are showing LESS on the snapshot compared with what you have
physically counted on the counter, REVERSE the difference. Back Office [F14] Reversals New [21]
- If any of the stock items are showing MORE on the snapshot compared with what you have
physically counted on the counter, SELL the difference. Serve Customer /F14/ sell by product
and settle transaction to cash.

Declare your postage stamps (1p to £5) and compare the figure with balance snapshot
- Back Office [F14] Stock Balancing [F3] Declare Stamps [22]
- If the declaration shows a discrepancy, physically recount all postage stamps.
- The amount of stamps declared will automatically replace the Horizon system figure when the
balance report has been completed for that stock unit.

Declare foreign currency
- Back Office [F14] Stock Balancing [F3] Declare Currency [24]

Declare cash and check variance
- Back Office [F14] Stock Balancing [F3] Declare Cash [21]
- If there’s a discrepancy, please read “Troubleshooting” on page 2 before continuing with the
balance.

Preview balance report, check figures and rollover the system

- Back Office [F14] Stock Balancing [F3] Balance Report [42]

- The Balance Period (BP) is usually weekly (however, a BP can take place as often as a
Postmaster wants to complete one.)

- The Trading Period (TP) must be completed monthly, following the calendar for your trading
group (branches are assigned a trading group from A to D and a TP is completed every 4 to 5
weeks ~ there are 12 TPs per year.)

- If you are unsure when your TP is due, check “Branch TP Number”. Back Office /F14] Branch TP

Number [41]

When you have rolled your office into a new TP:
- Sign Trading Statement. Sack Office /F14) Office Balancing [F4]
- Print Suspense Account. Back Office /F14] Reports [F1] Office Weekly [F3]
- Print Postage Label Report. Back Office /F14] Reports [F1], Office Weekly! [F3]

If you require more detail on how to balance, please refer to handout 11/5 Branch Trading, which
can be found on subspaceonline.

Quick Guide to Balancing V1.0 Draft 1
POL00088953
POL00088953

This is the final draft — just need to know where on subspaceonline the handouts will be for the postmaster’s to find.
Tim has kindly tidied up the presentation for me via Lync as I missed a couple of things.

Once you're ok with it Simon, I’ll save to PDF as V1.0.

Thanks, Nat

Natalie Liff I Field Support Advisor

Post Office Ltd, 4" Floor, 120 Bark Street, Bolton, BL1 2AX

POL00088953

POL00088953
®
Agenda
Date: Monday January 12" 2015
Location: Room 111
148 Old Street
London EC1V 9HQ
I
Attendees Sandra McBride I
Sue Richardson I
Simon Drinkwater I
Blossom Dolan I
Natalie Liff I
Nick Simmonds I
Jackie Newton I
Guests Angela Van Den Bogerd
Apologies N/A
Item: Lead Timing:
Scene setting and overview of the day Jackie / All 10.30 - 10.45
e Day 2 Walk through & Key document sign off All 10.45 - 12.00
e Day 1 Walk through & key document sign off All 12.00, - 13.15
LUNCH Not provided 13.15- 13.45
¢ Day 3 Draft outline plan including pre day content All 13.45 - 14.15
learning plan
© Classroom content plan Day 3 All 14.15 - 14.45 I
¢ Train the trainer draft requirement plan All 14.45 15.00 I
¢ Classroom follow up documentation plan All 15.00- 15.15
AOB- Review and Close All 15,15- 15..30

*Please note any items not fully completed will have to be picked up via conference call this
week to ensure the go live deadline remains on track.

—_@] —

www. postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540, Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ.
Post Office and the Post Office lago are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.
Event:
Dates:
Venue:
Address:

Meeting room:

Arrival:

Meeting start:
Meeting end:

POL00088953
POL00088953

SLT teamtalk

Tuesday 13 January

Royal Statistical Society

12 Errol Street, London, EC1Y 8LX (entrance on Lamb’s Buildings)

Lecture Theatre

13.45
14.00 prompt
16.00

Please note there will be no tea and coffee served before or during the meeting.
Water will be available in the room.

Dress code:

Business

Nearest tubes: Moorgate, Old Street, Liverpool Street and Barbican

Maps:

A: 148 Old St, EC1V 9HQ
B: RSS, 12 Errol Street, EC1Y 8LX
Approx. 5 minute walk

Bavarian Beerhouse
td Sweet

cp ESOSTLUKeSs,

om

aie

28 idican cene:»

a Market
anbivat

p20

aati

os,

Moorgate =e

te

o
cust

py Aid

‘London Liverpool Street = " ute’? m2
- Q
Liverpool street . %
‘f Finshury
e batten Coun Tower
sgh
ges Duttern Court
OT tock
pies (2 Virgin Active Moorgate I
Block F I
yea (i) phumnbes I

Keplan Financial

h
(ar -
A) ee

City YMCA London

Walker Crips GIOUP g5

Herald Howse
The College

tose

POL00088953
POL00088953

Day3

Timings and themes:
Introduction - Key messages -Customer Experience -
08:50? Customer Service
Recap — Quiz / Questions
What Financial Services do we do?
Whats a related conversation
Introduction to related conversation
09:15 DLP
Practicals
International Parcelforce
Transcash
Business Banking
(include/weave in a transaction paying by cheque)

09:45

Travel
Travel Insurance
Travellers Cheques — overview and practical
Credit Card
10.45 (Include / weave in a transaction paying by cheque)
Security Considerations
Open Plan vs Fortress

Session 3 Car Tax
Send home those who don’t need car tax or passports

Session 4 Passports
Check and Send

Summary to day

POL00088953
POL00088953

Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

Post Office Day Training Overview

To accompany the new online training modules, this is day one, for all staff serving in Post Offices, with the focus on becoming familiar with
the practical aspects of serving our customers using the Horizon system and other tools. We will aim to give delegates confidence through a
hands-on experience, and giving feedback on how well they are interacting with their customer.

We are also weaving into this days training: Understanding the Customer’s point of view

Compliance

Skiing downhill

Understanding effective communication

Open Questions

Sales Conversations

Practical sessions on Inland Mails, Travel, & international Mails

Practical examples of Cash withdrawal, (POCA & debit card) & Bill Payment
Mail Segregation

Timings and themes: While trying to avoid information overload!

Introduction - Key messages -Customer Experience -

08:50 Customer Service
10:30 Break
Ready to Serve - Inland Mails (1st set of practicals, simple

10.45 to start)
12:45 : Lunch

Travel Services (2nd set of practicals, including sales
13:30 conversations)
14:45 Break
15:00 International Mails (3rd set of practicals) - End of Day
16:50 Finish

Page 1
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

Time Topic Objective Delivery Resources

08:40 I Delegates Arrive I Ready to start at 8:50. I Welcome, show delegates where the toilets are etc. Room Set Up,
Less interruption for Posters,
working branch Projector etc

08:50 I Introduction Set Context and “Good morning everyone. You are all very welcome to this Opening Slide
boundaries for the day I important part of your training to serve our customers at the Post

Office. Please remember the information we are covering is also

available online. Today we want to concentrate on the practical

elements that cannot be replicated online and ensuring everyone

understands what they need to do, how they need to do it, and

where necessary, the reasons behind why we do what we do.” We

will be giving you some information, checking what you have learnt

online, and also serving customers when they come in.

Domestics (no smoking in or near Post Office building, Fire Slide domestics,
Exits/Meeting Point/Tests, Break times, Mobile Phones, Etiquette Flip Chart (if
of learning in a live Post Office if relevant. AOB/questions to be room for it),
captured on Post-its. Post-its.

09:10 To get to know each Trainer to answer the questions first. Give them your name, where I Getting to know
other and remove you’re from, followed by the role and the branches you support. each other Slide
personal barriers Then give a positive response to How you feel about working in the

Post Office, and then finally your favourite food. This will set the
tone for the delegates to follow.

Page 2

POL00088953
POL00088953
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

09:20

Objectives

To create an
understanding of the
shared goals for the
day. Ensure all
delegates understand
both what we will
cover, and also what
we won't. The reason
we won't is because if
we include what an
individual wants, we
will need to exclude
something that
everybody needs.

© Tobe confident serving our customers in our key product
areas of Mails and Travel Services.

e To understand the Customer's Experience in the Post Office,
in order to deliver consistently excellent Customer Service.

e To be proficient with the Horizon System for key
transactions.

e Togain an understanding about why compliance is
important.

e To develop an understanding of the What, the How and the
Why we do what we do.

“By way of an introduction to how we do things in the Post Office
here is a film which introduces our promise”

Click on picture to start video — Note to trainer — ensure hyperlinks
work on your laptop prior to first training.

Slide Today’s
Objectives

Page 3
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

09:35

Post Office
Values

Delegates to
understand how and
why we do what we do.

Introduce the values of Care Challenge Commit. Ask: Who do we
care for? (Customers, Colleagues, Ourselves) What do we Care
about? (Doing the best we can). Care is the cornerstone of our
business. It means valuing people and their time; making it
personal; listening and understanding; being guided by our
conscience and expertise; and keeping our word. In short, it means
doing right by people, whether they’re our customers, colleagues
or partners. This is what sets us apart and gives us our competitive
edge.

Who/where/what do we challenge? (Ourselves to do our best, our
colleagues to meet the highest standards, the business to be the
best it can be). Challenge conventions, challenge complexity,
challenge competitors, challenge on behalf of our customers,
challenge each other, challenge yourself. We’ve been passed the
baton of this great institution. It’s up to every one of us to drive it
forward and create change for a successful future.

What do you understand by Commit? We don’t just work for the
Post Office, we’re part of it and we’re all responsible for its
commercial success. The road ahead is exciting, but not easy.

If each and every one of us invests all our energy, creativity and
passion we can achieve amazing things. Are you in?

Post Office
Values Slide

Page 4
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

Homework

To add a personal
understanding of our
values

“In order for each of us to embed the values in our behaviour ona
day to day basis, it’s important that we are clear on what the
values mean to us as individuals. So I am going to give youa
handout now, for you to complete on your own, and bring back to
the training tomorrow. It allows you to write your own personal
definition of each value. There are no wrong answers so please
spend a few minutes on this later on. Feel free to discuss it with
members of your family to get different views if it helps you get
clarity for yourself.

Values Handout

09:45

Your Post Office
Journey

Recap On-line learning

Confirm online training completed, including compliance
workbooks and P250 Vetting packs completed.

Slide Your post
Office Journey

Page S
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

To focus on the positive
things they have learnt
rather than a quiz
which might highlight
what they haven't
learnt or forgotten.

Ask: What did you learn? Keep it light, and have teaser questions
ready to draw out learnings from all delegates. E.G. Were you
surprised at the range of products and services we offer? What
products/services do we do that you didn't know about? What are
the different options for sending a parcel in the UK? Describe what
Dangerous Goods are? What have you used the Post Office for? If
you were going on holiday, what could you go into the Post Office
for? What else? If you were stuck serving a customer, where could
you go for help?

Remember, there is a lot of information to learn about all the
products and services we provide at the Post office. All your Online
training is available to recap, and you will have a trainer with you
for two weeks when you start to cover the unique situation of your
Post Office. There are other numerous sources of information and
support, and we will be covering those in the two days you are
here.

09:50

Recognising the
uniqueness of
the Post Office

What do Customers value about the Post Office? Trust - Customer
Service - Our place in every community

Slide The Post
Office

Page 6
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

09:55

Recognising the
business
landscape

What choices do customers have in each of our product areas?
Guide delegates through each of the areas and ensure a number of
answers for each. Get them to recognise that there aren't black
and white answers for everything. e.g. Different situations in
different branches. Note to Trainer: If you have a flipchart, you
could write each of the product areas on the flip and get the
delegates to call out the answers which you write down, increasing
the interactivity of the training.

Slide: We are in
a competitive
business

How do you feel when you don't have a choice? Recognise that's
how some people feel when coming into the Post Office? Some
may feel disempowered, disenchanted, others may feel grateful

How do you choose which supermarket to go to? Or which bank?
We recognise that many/most of our products can be bought from
a variety of suppliers, so we have focused on creating great value
for money products, delivered with the highest levels of customer
service.

Page 7
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

10:05

Customer
Service

To raise awareness of
Customer Service and
the impact it has on
buying decisions

Depending on your number of delegates you may want to put
them into two groups. “You have been given 15 well known brands
and also 3 x cards containing either the word "WOW" "OK FOR
NOW" & "OW". Position each Brand under one of the cards based
on the consensus you reach as a group based on the overall
Customer Experience you believe the Brand offers. As a group you
have 7 minutes to decide which column to place each brand.”

Slide Brands
Exercise,
Laminated
game cards

Open up a discussion why they have chosen to put who where,
starting with the well-known names before coming on to the Post
Office. There are no right answers, all opinions are valid, but need
to recognise how people feel affects how & who they shop with.

“As a business we know that we need to offer great products, at
good value, with excellent customer service — on a consistent
basis”

Consistent
Customer
Service

Show slide with key elements that can be replicated across every
post office in the country. Relate this to mystery shopping and
Voice of the Customer and explain briefly the two programmes and
how we use them to ensure high standards in what we do across
10,500 branches and 55,000 people. Ask delegates what they think
each part means and what they can do to meet the criteria for
each point.

Slide Consistent
Customer
Service

Page 8
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

What do you The key message in this slide is that it is easy to get complacent Slide: What do
want for your and lazy — it’s easy to assume that we know what customers want. I you want for
customers? And if you have a queue building up sometimes we assume rather I your

than be certain, and could cost us. How does a customer go from customers?

satisfied to dissatisfied? (Circumstances beyond our control. Eg.
“I'd like this letter to go first class” “ok, that’s 62p please” and the
letter doesn’t arrive the next day. To make them delighted when
they ask: ““I’d like this letter to go first class” Check: “Would you
like it to arrive tomorrow? We can send it Royal Mail Special
Delivery Guaranteed, which is a tracked and signed for service,
guaranteeing delivery before 1 o’clock tomorrow for £6.40. Would
you like this service? Then if the customer asks how quickly the
first class will get there and you respond: “93% of 1* Class mail
arrives next day, but it’s not guaranteed” It’s now up to the
customer to choose whether to take the risk with the lower priced
service, or to choose the guaranteed service. This puts the decision
making where it should be — with the customer, and empowering
customers leads to them being delighted. Of course, as experts in
mail, we can advise, particularly if the customer tells you what the
consequences would be of non-delivery.

Page 9
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

“If I showed you an envelope or packet is there anyone in the
world who could tell you exactly what's inside it? (apart from the
sender of course! And Superman!)”

“What does a millionaire look like?”

We need to be asking questions and not assuming. That is the only
way we will be able to ensure the customer has the right product.

“How do you know if someone’s circumstances have changed?”

10:15

Post Office
Standards

Minimum Service Standards — ask delegates if they can remember
the Minimum Service Standards, and then reveal them.

Slide Post office
Standards

WHY is this important to the customer? Consistency

What does it mean to you? Extra Income

Page 10
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

10:20

Understand the 3
elements of
communication

Link the quality of Customer Experience to the quality of our
communication and introduce the 3 V's. Visual, Vocal and Verbal.
Explain Visual is what we take in through our eyes Verbal and vocal
through our ears, verbal are the words we use and vocal is the
tone, the way we say it. Give examples (Visual is Body language —
demonstrate poor body language and ask them “What is my body
language saying to you?” Mention eye contact and smile as key
elements of body language in the visual space.) To Demonstrate
vocal click to next slide —I DIDN’T SAY SHE STOLE THE WATCH and
make the statement a number of times, emphasising a different
word each time, showing that when you do the meaning changes.
and demonstrate that if there isn't alignment, we believe the tone
or the body language over the words. Note to trainer: If you have
room on the walls, you can put up the 3V’s poster and I DIDN’T SAY
SHE STOLE THE WATCH poster and refer to them to

Slide The
Power of

Communication.

—1 DIDN’T SAY SHE STOLE THE WATCH and make the statement a
number of times, emphasising a different word each time, showing
that when you do the meaning changes. and demonstrate that if
there isn't alignment, we believe the tone or the body language
over the words. That doesn’t mean that words aren’t important.
They really are, and to demonstrate we have a video to show you

Slide: I DIDN’T
SAY SHE STOLE
THE WATCH

10:25

Power of Words

Show Power of Words Video

Slide power of
Words, Video,

Projector

10:30

Break

Page 11
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

10:45 I Ready to Serve I Introduce Horizon and I Introduce them to the Horizon Terminal, Scales, Credit Card Slide Tools of
ready to start the Machine, Barcode Reader, Stock, Date Stamp and explain the the Trade
practical session. importance and function of each.

Ask delegates to log in using class log in and attach to BB stock.

Mail Services The biggest part of our business, over 50% of customers come in Slide Mail
for mails and it contributes around 40% of our income as a Services
business.

We will go through what we have to consider in order to deliver
excellent customer service, and how we deliver it practically,
focusing on what we say, how we say it and what we do physically.

10:55 I Points to Testing the delegates Go through each of the points, using ‘Advent Calendar’ style poster I Advent

consider knowledge from the with starbursts, facilitating discussion to its relevance and Calendar Poster

online modules. importance. Poster words include: Destination, Size, Weight, with Starbursts.
Value, Speed, and Contents? (If you are delivering in a training Or Slide Inland
room that doesn’t have space for the poster, use the slide: Inland Mails
mails considerations Considerations

Page 12
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

Different Mails
Services

Cover off the different
services and
understand the what
they offer and which
might be appropriate
for the customer

We have quite a few different services we can offer our customers,
designed to meet different requirements and offering the best
value we can. Show Guaranteed Slide, ask delegates to tell you
what the services are, go through the choices and tell delegates
that Horizon will guide you through the choices. Show Confirmed
Slide and guide delegates through as before, and again for
standard services.

3 Slides: Inland
Mails —
Guaranteed
Services,
Confirmed
Services &
Standard
Services

Page 13
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

11:00

Practical Mail
Work

To put into practice
what the delegates
learned online.

Pair up delegates so that one is the customer (A) and one is the
server (B). Swap pair around with each scenario so that both get
experience of being server and served, so see things from both
points of view. Intersperse with a scenario where you are the
customer and all delegates are serving (to see if they are aware of
last post time later on)

Practical Tool
Kit (Laminated
Customer cards,
Paper Parcels,
POCA & Debit
Cards)

If there is an odd number of delegates, make one group work as a
3, with the 3rd giving feedback OR trainer to pair up with someone.

Go through different scenarios on Scenarios Sheet. Ensure you
cover at least first four scenarios, more if possible, but stick to
timings. Each scenario has a number of questions that the server
may ask, with the answers filled in. If the server asks you any other
questions, please role play. Customers — please remember your job
is to support the learning of the server, who will return the favour
in a moment. After the role play, debrief 'Customer' first, how was
the experience for them? How did they feel? Encourage honest
answers, not 'nice' answers, recognising we are learners, and we
can all learn from the mistakes, and that there is a lot to learn and
practise. Then debrief 'server' how was it for them? Keep it light,
we are going to do many practicals, and repetition will drive the
learning.

Page 14
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

As you go through different scenarios bring in different points,
ensuring accuracy, ensuring the customer gets the service that's
appropriate, Skiing Downhill, Dangerous Goods, Sizing, Mail
Segregation, Weight (How often should you check your scales?)
Packaging, what packaging is ok, and what isn't? The quality of the
conversation, the words used, the tone, the greeting, the smile, the
eye contact, (don't get involved with Horizon at the expense of
your relationship with the customer). Where do you put the
envelope“=arcel when transaction completed? Are we feeling

cared for or sold to?

11:55 I Home Shopping I To understand in what I Recap on Home Shopping returns and then complete Practicals 9
Returns ways Home Shopping is I so everyone has a go in role play mode.
different to standard
mail services.
Stress that this process is only used for items with the labels
shown, and that freepost items just require a COP.
12:15 I Parcelforce To recognise the Recap on Parcelforce services and complete Practical POD 08-07 Slide
Services differences in Royal

Mail and Parcelforce
Services and when each
would be appropriate

PFWW Express 24 and POD 08-08 PFWW Express 48 Consignment

Parcelforce,

Note Parcelforce items do not require postage labels, and that
customers should be handed T&C leaflet and sign horizon receipt
to confirm they understood them. If branch does not have a daily

Page 15
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

collection, they should phone Parcelforce to arrange collection
once taking an item.

If the customer needs global express, tell them the nearest branch
that does it.

12:30 I Questions Keeping delegates Cover off any relevant questions written on Post-its.
questions answered at
the appropriate time

12:45 I Lunch

Page 16
POL00088953

POL00088953
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64
13:30 I TravelServices I Introduce the Bureau Ask the questions on the slide teasing out the differences for Slide Travel
de Change, the services I example in a customer wanting holiday spending money and a Services
and the benefits to the I business trip. Discuss the different branch propositions - some only
customer and ourselves I pre-order, others having several currencies. Explain all branches
can buy back currency from customers with a Post Office receipt.
13:40 Introducing related Practical exercise — Do first scenario. Reference the BETTER Practical Tool
conversations amount which we should offer first and again, Ski Downhill! Kit (Laminated
Reference the Ski Downhill poster. Ensure that they still offer the Customer cards)
other services if appropriate, or if too late let the customer know of I Poster
the service and it’s benefits for next time.
13:50 I Travel Money Introduce the benefits I Ask if anyone has ever lost money when abroad or had it stolen? Slide: Travel
Card to the customer and to I What was the impact on them? (Note: Trainer to have story ready I Money card
us. in case the delegates don't) How did they feel? Would they have plus

liked to have a safe way to take money abroad? Then bring up the
slide. Go through the features and benefits.

Accepted in 32million locations in 210 countries
Control your holiday spending

Peace of mind over carrying cash

Zero charges on purchases saves you money
Protection if lost or stolen

Ask if anyone has one? Do they have the App? (Trainer could have
the App on their phone to demonstrate).

Page 17
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

Holiday Stats

To see the width of
coverage, and also to
energise post lunch.

Take a blank sheet of paper, and write numbers 1 to 10 down the
left hand side. Now fill in the last 10 places you went to on your
holidays. Include UK holidays. Then check to see how many places
they could have used a TMC.

57% of Holidays taken by Brits are in this country (£ Sterling TMC)
Of the holidays taken abroad 64% are to Euro countries (Top 4
Spain, France, Italy & Ireland) 5% are to the USA, and approx 6% to
the other countries that we have TMC's for Australian and NZ $ or
countries that take USS like Brazil or many Caribbean countries.
(Source: International Passenger Survey, Office for National
Statistics)

we maximise our
business opportunities.

What else might I To ensure our Ask: What other travel services might customers need when they
a customer customers have all they I travel abroad? Ask what are the benefits of Travel Insurance? The
need? need for their trip, and

Foreign and Commonwealth Office reports that 24% of
holidaymakers in 2012 were uninsured, a large proportion of which
were 15-24 year olds, the group most likely to indulge in
adventurous behaviour whilst on holiday. Men were less likely to
take out insurance and 16% of travellers were under the
assumption that the UK government would pay for any treatment
abroad. When you consider that 3,793 Brits were hospitalised
during their holiday in 2011/12, it makes you realise just what a
risk some tourists are taking, and how important Travel Insurance
is, and what good value it is.

Page 18
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

Ask: Who is the largest independent travel insurance provider?
(The Post Office of course!)

14:00

Practicals: Do at least 2 more travel scenarios. Reference the
BETTER amount which we should offer first and again, Ski

Downhill! Reference the poster. Ensure that they still offer the
other services if appropriate, or if too late let the customer know of
the service and it’s benefits for next time.

Practical Tool
Kit (Laminated
Customer cards)

Ensure you discuss the benefits and features of the Post Office
Credit Card(s), The Passport Check and Send service, and travellers
Cheques. Reference the online training and the DLPs which they
can use to learn all the information. Advise delegates to ensure
that their branch codes are on literature so that they get the
remuneration they deserve.

Remind delegates that ‘Delighting' customers is about going that
extra mile, ensuring that they have what they might need for their
trip. It will also mean that we earn more money, which is a great
example of win-win!)

14:30

Moneygram

To understand what it
is and what customers
might use it.

What is MoneyGram? A way to send money abroad safely. What
are the benefits to the customer? Speed — Typically arrives within
10 minutes. What are the alternatives? Many competitors such as
Western Union.

Slide
MoneyGram

What do we have to be aware of with MoneyGram transactions?
We need ID plus proof of address as MoneyGram is open to fraud.
Explain money laundering implications. How long do we retain

Page 19
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

completed MoneyGram forms? 5 Years. How do we find the
country codes? Via Horizon Help. How many of our branches is it
available in? All, that’s over 10,500 branches. How can customers
pay? Cash only. What is the maximum amount we can accept?
£1,000 in Locals, £5,000 in Mains, . For good customer
service, what would you do if a customer wants to send £2,000?

Complete MoneyGram Send practical no. ??. Note the service is
cash only so get the money before you start the transaction. (What
could you do if they don’t have cash on them?)

MoneyGram
Practical Send
Form

{if time allows MoneyGram Receive practical no. ?? can be
completed)

MoneyGram
Practical
Receive Form

14:45 I Questions Keeping delegates Cover off any relevant questions written on Post-its
questions answered at
the appropriate time

15:00 I Break

Cover up ‘Advent Calendar’ poster with starbursts during break

Page 20
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

15:15

International
Mails

To understand the
main differences to
consider between
inland and
international mail.

As we did before with Inland Mails, go through what we have to
consider in order to deliver excellent customer service, and how
we deliver it practically, focusing on what we say, how we say it
and what we do physically.

Slide
International
Mail Services or
poster

What is different with the International Mails? What else do we
need to consider? Go through the slide, which brings up the same
elements as for Inland mails, but this time highlights in red the
extra considerations when posting abroad. Explain that the service
is delivered by two carriers, Royal Mail (or Parcelforce) and then
the carrier in the other country. So we have had to create
agreements with hundreds of other countries with different levels
of sophistication and infrastructure. Which is why there are
different country anomalies. Because they are imposed by the
other country. But the easiest way to deal with the differences is
to let Horizon guide you through. The first question it asks you is
Where's it going? And then will offer you the appropriate service
and guidance for that country,

International
Mail
Considerations
Slide

15:20

Go through different scenarios on International Mail Scenarios
Sheet Nos ??-??. Debrief 'Customer' first, how was the experience
for them? How did they feel? Encourage honest answers, not ‘nice’
answers, recognising we are learners, and we can all learn from the
mistakes, and that there is a lot to learn and practise. Then debrief
‘server’ how was it for them? Keep it light and encouraging.

Practical Tool
Kit (Laminated
Customer cards,
Paper Parcels,
POCA & Debit
Cards)

Page 21
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

As you go through different scenarios bring in different points, as
you did earlier ensuring accuracy, ensuring the customer gets the
service that's appropriate, Skiing Downhill, Dangerous Goods,
Sizing, Mail Segregation, Weight (How often should you check your
scales?) Packaging, what packaging is ok, and what isn't? The
quality of the conversation, the words used, the tone, the greeting,
the smile, the eye contact, (don't get involved with Horizon at the
expense of your relationship with the customer) Are we feeling
cared for or sold to?

And also bring in ‘Related Conversations’ in the International Mails
area? How can we identify opportunities? What are the effective
questions?

Page 22
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

15:45

Who Am I
Game?

To illustrate the
effectiveness of Open
Questions

“We are now going to play a game to demonstrate the
effectiveness of different types of questions" Explain the difference
between closed and open questions - One usually gets a one word
answer mainly yes or no, the other gives a lot more information. “I
will pretend to be a celebrity, and you need to guess who I am by
asking questions" Split them into two groups if more than 4
delegates and be a different celeb for each group. Choose a
celebrity that you can answer questions about (Tip: Don't use any
celebrity with a single name or you could be caught out!) You can
ask me 5 closed questions (or maybe 1 minute of closed questions).
If they ask you an open question, just respond, that's not a closed
question. After they have been asked and hopefully not established
who the celebrity is, offer them 4 more questions, 2 closed and 2
open, in any order to establish who you are. They then should ask
good open questions like What are you famous for? And you can
give them lots of info which will lead to the answer. They may ask
“What's your Name" which is a valid open question and you can
answer it.

The key to the game is learning that a series of closed questions
feels like a bit of an interrogation, whereas open questions feel
friendly and that you are interested in them.

16:00

What are good open questions we can ask to establish any related
opportunities?

Page 23
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

Possibilities: Who are you sending this to? How else do you stay in
touch? (Where could these lead to?)

5 W's Poster or
slide

What others?

Allow them to come up with suggestions.

16:15 I Recap Embed learning Practical scenarios - Trainer as customer to each delegate in turn, if
time and if appropriate, including one Special Delivery past the cut
off time.
16:50 I End of Day learn End of Day How do you finish the day in your shop? Slide End of Day
Routines
What we do are: Daily reports, in order to run checks and send off
with the postman. Practise this
Cash Declaration, for your information and also to allow us to
allocate future cash requirements. Practise this
Priority Mail Despatch, and Standard Mail Despatch. If time go
through what's involved, or tell them that the on-site trainer will
cover this.
Handouts & Collect contact details Delegates to provide an email address for us to send a zip file with I Delegate
Guides the relevant hand outs and guides. If missing contact details, Attendance
ensure you have got them by this point. Sheet Family
Tree of Support
Contact

Page 24
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

Numbers

Page 25
Post Office Day Trainer’s Notes V0.64

POL00088953
POL00088953

17:05 I Questions Keeping delegates Cover off any relevant questions written on Post-its
questions answered at
the appropriate time
Close How are you feeling? Ready to give it a go? Reminder to do Values
homework and bring in tomorrow
I look forward to supporting you tomorrow, safe journey home
17:20 I Finish

Page 26
POL00088953
POL00088953

Postmaster Essentials Day Trainer’s Notes VO0.73

Postmasters Essentials Day Training Overview

This second day builds on the first day and covers a recap of day 1 learning, learning about the responsibilities around running the business
successfully, together with lots of practise practicals, both of customer transactions and the management tasks such as balancing, cash

management etc. We will aim to give delegates confidence through a hands-on experience, and giving feedback on how well they are
interacting with their customer and each other.

We are also weaving into this days training: Everything from yesterday, plus:
Raising the bar on the quality of conversations
Where to access support appropriately
Management Information
Prospecting
Security
Practical exercises of balancing etc.

Timings and themes: While trying to avoid information overload!
08:50 Objectives — Recap of yesterday - Practicals
10:30 Break
Post office Bigger Picture — Running a successful business
10.45 (customer service, maximising income) Practicals
12:45 Lunch
13:30 Cash Management — Remittances - Practicals
14:45, Break
Balancing — Losses/gains — TA’s/TC’s — Trading Period -
15:00 Practicals
16:50 Finish

Page 1

POL00088953

POL00088953
Postmaster Essentials Day Trainer’s Notes V0.73
Time Topic Objective Delivery Resources
08:40 I Delegates Arrive Ready to start at 8:50. I Welcome, show delegates where the toilets are etc. Room Set Up,
Less interruption for Projector
working branch
08:50 I Introduction Set Context and

boundaries for the day

Today is a recap of what was covered yesterday. We will then look
at how to run a successful business and also to look at the
responsibilities particularly around the amount of cash you will be
looking after.

Please remember the information we are covering is also available
online. Today we want to concentrate on the practical elements
that cannot be replicated online and ensuring everyone
understands what they need to do, how they need to do it, and
where necessary, the reasons behind why we do what we do.

Slide: Welcome

Housekeeping

Keep delegates safe

Domestics (no smoking in or near Post Office building, Fire
Exits/Meeting Point/Tests, Break times, Mobile Phones, Etiquette
of learning in a live Post Office if relevant.

AOB/questions to be captured on Post-its (those that can be
answered during the day can be dealt with; those that can’t share
with delegates where to go for help. (Quick recap)

Slide: Domestics
Post-its.

Introductions

To get to know each
other and remove
personal barriers

Icebreakers: If there are any newcomers, ensure introductions are
done, otherwise go round the room and ask what was the most
significant learning from yesterday (for them).

Slide:
Introductions

Page 2
