POL00407546
POL00407546

From: Matthews, Gavin”

Sent: Tue 16/07/2013 2
To: Susan Crichton! Parsons,
Ce: Hugh
} Jarnail A Sing
Subject: RE: For discusion [BD-4A.F1D20472253]
Susan

I know that you are with Simon and Andy today so I have taken an initial look at this for you. I agree with you that I
would expect the advice to me more prescriptive ie you need to say this in response.

I do also have concerns from a civil point of view over a couple of statements in the draft response. In particular
where it states;

"He has done so both to POL and, in expert witness statements and oral evidence, to the court. In particular he has:
attested to the presence of defect detection and rectification systems; the robustness of the prosecution audit trail;
and stated that, in his expert opinion, Horizon accurately records and processes all information submitted into the
system. The Second Sight Interim report demonstrates that this was not the case."

I consider this to be unhelpful given that the SS report found there to be no systemic problems with Horizon.

It shows the need for all POL letters (criminal and civil) to contain a consistent message — so that the right hand and
the left hand know what they are each doing.

I am not a criminal lawyer but I would query whether the CCRC have the power to review a case where the SPM
entered a plea of guilty in the magistrates’ court.

I would be happy to suggest some criminal barristers to take a look at this for you
Perhaps you could discuss this with Simon and Andy today if you get the chance.
Kind regards

Gavin

Gavin Matthews

Partner

for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:
POL00407546
POL00407546

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Susan Crichton [mailto:
Sent: 16 July 2013 13:58
To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Richardson, Simon; Matthews, Gavin; Hugh Flemington; Rodric Williams; Jarnail A Singh
Subject: For discusion

Andy — we received a letter from the CRCC yesterday which I have asked Cartwright King to review......their advice
feels odd to me as if given on a take it or leave it basis and I am not comfortable that’s particularly useful in this
context. Could we discuss, I am happy to go to another firm that specialises in Criminal law or a barrister, somehow
it feels as if there is a conflict here which I am not sure I understand.

Thanks

Susan Crichton I HR & Corporate Services Director

et, London, EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

