POL00101244
POL00101244

Message

From: Alwen Lyons! GRO
on behalf of — Alwen Lyons?

Sent: 29/08/2014 13

To: Paula Vennells

Subject: brief

Paula

I thought it might be helpful for you to have a note as well as a call so this is what I think we need to discuss.

1. Sparrow — You will have seen the Board note from Chris A referring to the SS 2™ report. I warned Alice about
this yesterday, hence the Board note. She was concerned that we were managing the fallout and reassured that
Mark was managing the comms. Her main questions was how many more of these can we expect, and are we
managing SS. She was disappointed with Tony Hoopers reaction to the report, which was basically ‘you have
made you bed with SS and now have to lie in it’. As highlighted in the Board note Chris A has sent thema
challenging letter

2. Prep for Sept Board — Everybody knows what they need to do for the September, we had a Business
Transformation session this morning which was challenging, and we have extra time ExCo on the 12" to start to
rehearse the Board conversations

3. Alice’s head is in a place where you will lead the session on Business Priorities at the start of the meeting, with
the 4 areas, I think this could work well Paula as it will give you back the lead. But we need to ensure that
everyone coming behind sticks to the agreed message

4. With that in mind Nick has an issue with having his papers ready on time for the ExcO on the 11", and is
suggesting he will circulate them on the 10" or 9"". He is going to raise this at next Monday’s meeting so just a
heads up. His main gripe is that he is having to come twice to exco whereas he feels he should just present it and
then circulate to the FS sub Committee and the Board

5. RM have contacted Martin to tell him that they are considering an online price discount through their website.
Which would clearly effect our online offering and mean branches would only get an acceptance fee instead of
sale fee, a reduction of over 50p per item. Martin/Paul are managing and it’s not certain yet, but feels like their
response to some of our simplification work

6. NT going well 4000 signatures and 3000 open soon

George T visit to Bishopsgate went well, as positive as it could be

8. Revenue is still dropping and it now feels as if the outturn will be and £8--m number and not £925 or £910 or
anything starting with £9—m. So the Board discussion will be difficult and work is underway to mitigate this
with short term cost reduction. David driving, but still some way to go.

9. Coral — Mark Russell and Richard Callard saw the Minister and answered a lot of her questions. The meeting
between Neil/Alice and Vince/Jo is currently on hold

10. Sarah Norris has sent another long email to Chris D (23 pages) and legal are dealing, I have told Alice but not the
detail, Sarah is now suggesting she will contact Richard Callard and the Board

11. I have spoken to Avene about her taking Tracy over and using any extra time she has, Avene is going to decide.

12. Olivia let us down at the last moment, changing her mind and going with her other offer, so you will see a new
woman called Diane, who Alice has not met but I’ve taken on as a temp. Alice knows and was supportive

13. Changes to Alice’s room will cost about £5k to move the door etc. ridiculous price but I think we should do it —
lets discuss

Pal

Speak to you later when I can add the colour
Thanks

Alwen

POL-0100827
POL00101244
POL00101244

Alwen Lyons f Company Secretary

@
©
©

POL-0100827
