POL00423674
POL00423674

Message

From: mark.dinsdale(_

Sent: 03/08/2010 16

To: christina.woot maureen. moors{ GRO jacqueline.morris¢_

cc: jane.m.owen(._ “

Subject: RE: Employee Confidential Disclosures (Operational, Other HR, Theft Fraud) - Test Email with Confirmation of Email

Escalation Routes - Please Respond ASAP

Chris, it means if we ever get anybody send in an email where they are
reporting possible theft or fraud etc by a fellow work colleague, then it will
come to us rather than Grapevine. If we ever get any, then make either myself
or Jane aware to deal, but_it will be in confidence. There is no process for
this for us to deal, we will take each one on its individual merits.

- Forwarded by Mark Dinsdale/e/POSTOFFICE on 03/08/2010

Post Office Security
Sent by: John M Scott
02/08/2010 19: 40.

speakupdi sclosures.,
<rmgspeakupdisclosures _», David A Noble/e/POSTOFFICE, Peter
Tansley/e/POSTOFFICE, Chetna Brandwood/e/POSTOFFICE

dale/e/POSTOFFICE, Post

Subject: RE: Employee Confide: ti ures (Operational, Other HR,
Theft Fraud) - Test Email with Confirmation of Email Escalation Routes - Please
Respond ASAP

Mark
Is this for information only, if not, can you explain what it all means please.
Cheers Chris.

Hello All.

In regards to the reporting of POL security issues, can you please have them
directed to a group email address of ‘Post Office Security’. They are not to go
to intel@grapevine, this is a call handling facility similar to the
Confidential Disclosure hotline itself which does have some parameters in terms
of responses, however would be totally unsuitable for receiving this type of
information. It needs to go direct to POL Security hence the email address
given.

Cheers.

John.

From:David A Noble On Behalf Of rmgspeakupdisclosuresj_
Sent: 30 July 2010 18:07

To: Ops_Compliance_Riski 3 Terry Mason; Fay Healey; Benjamin M
Boyce; Keith Woollard; Dave Pardoe; securityhelpdesk; Lynn Hobbs

Cc: Chetna Brandwood; Paul Beeson; Derek C Pratt; John M Scott; Benjamin M Boyce
Subject: Employee Confidential Disclosures (Operational, Other HR, Theft Fraud)
- Test Email with Confirmation of Email Escalation Routes - Please Respond ASAP

Re: Operational disclosures, Other HR disclosures & Theft/Fraud disclosures

Please confirm by return to this email address that you are content with
arrangements below. This will enable IA&RM to commence communication of
relevant employee disclosures as from 2nd August 2010. Any required changes or
queries please contact Chetna Brandwood or Paul Beeson in the first instance.

n.b. I realise that we are yet to confirm arrangements with Lynnfor POL

i d_disclosures. In addition I need to confirm with Dave that
mail address is fully appropriate for POL theft/fraud
type disclosures. I will ask Chetna Brandwood to speak to you both early next
week to this end!.

All

You will be aware we have been looking to finalise arrangements relating to the
treatment of employee confidential disclosures received via the new Speak Up
Hotline being run by InTouch Mcs Ltd on behalf of RMG.

As far as I am aware the escalation to BUs should be as follows - can you
please confirm these as correct.

Operational issues (including Compliance)

RML Retail To: Ops_Compliance_Risk¢ GRO \ Gane Hooper's dedicated inbox
for disclosures) “

RML Wholesale To: Terry Mason
Parcelforce To: Benjamin M Boyce
Post Office Limited Operational disclosures to Lynn Hobbs

Compliance disclosures to Keith Woollard

Other HR P
Group HRSC Gateway.

RML Retail HRSC Gateway}

RML Wholesale Terry Mason
Parcelforce Benjamin M Boyce

Post Office Limited Fay Healey

Theft / Fraud

RML Wholesale securityhelpdesk_

Parcelforce securityhelpdesk

Post Office Limited intel

Attached below are updated documents that may be of use / interest.

Policy
(See attached file: Employee Confidential Disclosures Policy - Final 30th July
2010. doc)

FAQs
(See attached file: Speak Up Hotline - FAQs and Scenarios - Final 30th July
2010. doc)

Process (high level explanation)
(See attached file: Employee Confidential Disclosures - High level process.doc)

POL00423674
POL00423674
POL00423674
POL00423674

Example of a Disclosure Form that will be received by yourselves for review and
appropriate action to be taken.

(See attached file: 12345 - Individual Disclosure Record - Confidential
Example.doc)

Regards

David
