POL00118135
POL00118135

Cash Seizure — CIT Collections Process

e To arrange CIT collection telephone William A Loughney, National
Customer Services Manager, Supply Chain —-:

e Provide contact names and telephone numbers of Security Operations
Managers, in case CIT need to make contact.

e Place cash into an exhibit bag or official CIT pouch (it must be sealed and
bear a unique reference number).

e Place a deposit slip into the exhibit bag or CIT pouch (from the Bank of

Ireland [BOI] paying in book).

The maximum limit per exhibit bag or CIT pouch is £25k.

The seized cash will be collected by a CIT Manager.

A manual receipt will be given to the Security Operations Manager.

The CIT Manager will need a second officer (preferably police, or

someone from Security) to accompany him/her back to the vehicle.

e The deposit transaction will be processed at the Cash Centre, negating
the need for the seized cash to be delivered to another Post Office for
processing.

e Once the deposit is processed, the Cash Centre will email a receipt to the
Security Operations Manager, confirming that the cash has been paid into
the BOI account.

e The Cash Centre will also notify the Security Operations Manager of any
discrepancies concerning the amount of cash (where applicable).

e If the cash is required for evidential purposes, forensics, etc, then it can
be held securely in the vault at any Cash Centre — inform CIT when
collection arranged.

e Where cash is held, the Security Operations Manager must email William
A Loughney and the Cash Centre Manager, confirming the secure
retention of cash (this ensures Bank Of England audit requirements are
met and internal compliance procedures are adhered to).

e Arisk assessment concerning the premises must be undertaken when
arranging a CIT collection — this is mandatory, but is mandatory as part of
an investigation anyway, whether via PORA completion, telephone
confirmation (immediate response operations) or conducted by police
when they assist.

Please note that this is an alternative method to seizing and processing cash
yourselves. You will need to undertake an assessment of risk when deciding
which method is your preferred option. If seizures are out of hours, or resource
or logistic problems are present, then CIT may not be able to offer the collection
facility. However, there may be alternatives available e.g. police retain overnight
in their safe for next day collection.

NB: A funding notification must still be completed and submitted by the Security
Operations Manager.
