POL00166682

POL00166682

Royal Mail Group
Statement of Witness

Surname: MCKENZIE uu Forenames: _ Alexander

Maiden Name: nema Known As or Alias: _Alex Title: _

Address (Home):

__. Telephone:

Address (Business/ care of): C/O Post Office Ltd, Glasgow Mail Centre, 20 Turner Road, Glasgow, 621
1AA

__ Telephone:

Date and place of birth:

Occupation: Field Advisor.

Witness states:

Post Office Ltd has employed me for 29 years. My current role is that of Field Advisor. Part of my duties is
to conduct audits, which involves the verification of cash and stock at Post Offices, within Post Office Ltd.
From a combination of records that are maintained by the Audit Team and my own memory I can say that
on Wednesday 23% July 2008, I attended Paible Sub Post Office Branch, Bayhead Shop, Paible, Lochmaddy,
North Uist, HS6 5DS.

I arrived with my colleague Mr Doug HEED at approximately 08.30hours. The reason for our attendance
was explained to Mr William QUARM, Subpostmaster who was present in the retail area. Mr QUARM
allowed us access into the secure area and logged himself on to the Horizon system. I then added myself as

a User as per procedures and obtained the following reports from the Horizon system.

Office Snapshot. This details the cash and stock on hand that should be present in the office at the time it
is printed, in addition to the business transacted through the branch during a ‘said period’.
Balance Snapshot for each stock unit (AA and ATM). This details cash and stock on hand that should be

Signature of witness: _. Signature witnessed by:

Page 1 of 3
GS011 (Scotland) Version 4.0 05/07

oval Mais trading name of Royal Mai Group pl Resistered ruber 4138203. Registered in England and Wales, Registered office: 148 OK Street, LONDON, ECV HO

POL00166682
POL00166682

Royal Mail Group
Statement of Witness

present in that stock unit at the time it is printed, in addition to the business transacted through the stock
unit during a ‘said period’.

Cash declaration (stock unit AA and ATM) for the previous end of day. The branch is required to declare the
cash on hand at the end of each day for each stock unit.

Suspense Account. This details any Cash in Pouches made up by the branch and not yet collected by Cash
in Transit.

Remittances Out by Product. This details the remittances despatched from the office by product (cheque,
Cash in Pouch etc) and destination during the current Trading Period.

Remittances Out by Day. This details the remittances despatched out daily from the office and destination
during the current Trading Period. The total for this should equal the total on the Remittances Out by
Product report.

Remittances In by Product. This details the remittances received for the office by product (Cash, Foreign
Currency and stock) and source during the current Trading Period.

Remittances In by Day. This details the remittances received daily at the office and source during the
current Trading Period. The total for this should equal the total on the Remittances In by Product report.
Transaction Corrections outstanding. This details any Transaction Corrections that are outstanding. A
Transaction Correction is issued when errors have been identified in the accounts for the office.

Transaction Correction processed. This details the Transaction Correction the office has processed during
the current Trading Period.

User Summary. This lists the UserID’s of all persons on the Horizon system for the particular office.

Reconciled Transfers. This details any transfers between stock units.

The branch operated two stock units AA and ATM.

The cash and stock in each stock unit was checked and a shortage of £40,277.76 was discovered.

All figures were entered on to the electronic Audit form P32.

Mr QUARM offered no explanation for the shortage but advised us that he had, had some accounting

Signature of witness: _.. Signature witnessed by:

Page 2 of 3
GS0114 (Scotland) Version 4.0 05/07

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mai Group ple. Registered number 4136203. Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HO
POL00166682
POL00166682

Royal Mail Group

Statement of Witness

problems which dated back to the previous winter.
Myself and Mr HEED then rechecked all the cash and stock discrepancies to verify the initial count.

The cash and stock were placed Special Delivery pouches and remitted out. The pouches were taken to

Lochmaddy Post Office to be despatched to the relevant departments.

Mr HEED and I left the branch at about 12:45hours.

Statement noted by: on . _ Job title:

Business/Department:

On (day, date & time):

At (Location):

Also present:

Statement read and signed by witness (Yes):

Signature of witness: Signature witnessed by:

Page 3 of 3
GS0111 (Scotland) Version 4.0 05/07

Royal Mail isa trading name of Royal Mail Group ple, Registered number 4138203, Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON. EC1V 9HO
