POL00448270
POL00448270

CTO2022 February 2024 SECTION 12 Monthly Accounting V4.1

Monthly Accounting:
Trading Period (TP) balance

1. Complete end of day activities in section
10, except the cash declaration
» The cash declaration will be completed as part ofthe 1
weekly balancing activities and should be the last 1
declaration you make before rolling over your stock H
unit 1
1
1
1
1

Remember! Please only complete a Trading '
Period (TP) balance on the date shown 1
under ‘Branch TP Number’ on your Back 1
Office home screen. You cannot complete I
more than 9 TP balances in a 62-day period !
2. Complete weekly balance activities in otherwise you will not be able to use your i
section 11 Horizon system. 1
» Every stock unit needs to be rolled overintothenew “===—= a

Trading Period before you can roll the whole office

into the new Trading Period and then complete steps

3, 4,5 and 6 as follows

3. Postage Label report

Print and cut off a Postage Label report. This report only

needs to be printed by one user, and lists the value of

the confirmed and rejected labels for each stock unit and

user:

» From Horizon ‘Back Office’ select ‘Monthly
Accounting’ then ‘Monthly Accounting Office’

» Under ‘Balancing Options’ heading, select ‘Postage
Labels’

«Select ‘Print’ and check the totals against the rejected
postage label you have on hand

«Select ‘Cut off’, press ‘Yes’ and then ‘Continue’

Keep the report in your branch for two years

4. Suspense Accounts

Once you have printed the Postage Labels report, print
the Suspense Account report. This report only needs to
be printed by one user as it provides suspense account
totals for the whole branch:

» After printing the Postage Labels report, Horizon will
return you to the Weekly Accounting Office page.
Under ‘Balancing Options’ heading, select ‘Suspense
Account’

«Select ‘Print’

» Press ‘Enter’

» Keep the report in your branch for two years

9f this document are cl
fice and for th

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
se intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

‘The contents

POL00448270
POL00448270

SECTION 12 Monthly Accounting V4.1 CTO2022 February 2024
5. Declare PCI Device Inspection ee
» From Horizon ‘Back Office’ select ‘Monthly

Accounting’ then ‘Monthly Accounting Office’

» Under ‘Balancing Options’ heading, select ‘Declare yk =
PCI Device Inspection’ cose

» Read the declaration statement

» Select ‘Yes’ to confirm. (If you have not completed seep eiae cerca a
the required inspections please select ‘No’, complete See re ees i

the inspections and then start the ‘Declare PCI

Device Inspection’ process again)
» The PCI Device Inspection report will print on the = £2

Back Office printer
» Once printed, sign and keep in your branch for 12 eee)
months I Important! Ifa PIN pad has been swapped I
Note: The report can be completed at any time during 1 out by an engineer please note this onthe 5
the month through the ‘Monthly Accounting Office’ ' PCI Device Inspection report !
screen Shao Sais a Sess Sr

; ae See eee ais
' Top tip! If you are unable to print a Trading

Statement:
» Have all stock units rolled into the next

6. Office Rollover and Trading Statement 7
» From Horizon ‘Back Office’ select ‘Monthly 1 1
Accounting’ then ‘Monthly Accounting Office’ i i

» Under ‘Balancing Options’ heading, select Trading I TP? From Horizon ‘Back Office’ Home i
Statement’ 1 Screen select ‘Admin’, then Stock Units 1
«Select ‘Print’ or ‘Preview’ 1 ‘View' 1
* Rollover, then the Trading Statement will print on the I. Have you moved out of the ‘Monthly 1
back office printer ! Accounting’ screen since printing the '

» Once printed, sign, date-stamp and keep in your i Postage Labels or Suspense Account? Try i
branch for six years, preferably in a separate folder 1 Previewing these again before attempting I

to the reports being stored for two years 1 _ to print the Trading Statement 1

. Fy

! Top tip! Section 20 Troubleshooting of the Operational Training Guide contains guidance on the causes !

of errors and discrepancies when completing a weekly or monthly balance, and the steps to take to :
resolve them and/or access support. i
4

‘The contents of this document ate classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this
(on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

;cument to any third-party not working
CTO2022 February 2024

Monthly Accounting:

Settling discrepancies

When you complete a monthly trading period balance, any
branch discrepancies for that trading period will need to be
accounted for so that you can start the new trading period
afresh, with zero discrepancies.

Depending on your branch type, before rolling over into
the new trading period, you will have at least one of the
following three options available on the Horizon screen:

1. Review Dispute CALL BSC

You can select this option for all discrepancies. The
discrepancy amount will move into a centralised holding
account at the end of the trading period, awaiting dispute,
further investigation, a Transaction Correction or payment
to Post Office.

If you choose ‘Review Dispute CALL BSC’, it’s really
important that you call the Branch Support Centre as soon
as possible. They'll ask you to provide information, so they
can support you to understand and resolve the discrepancy
sooner.

2. Make good cash

This is optional if you would like to settle the discrepancy
without disputing it. You can select this option, then
physically add or remove cash to balance without a
discrepancy.

3. Assign to nominee

If you work in a strategic partner branch, for example,
where a Post Office branch is based within a store chain
such as McColl’s or Co-op, then this is the only option for
settling discrepancies for any amount.

This option acts in the same way as ‘Review or Dispute’
does for other branch types.

How to dispute a discrepancy

Strategic Partner branches: If you are unable to
resolve any discrepancies, please contact your Partner
Relationship Manager in the first instance.

All other branches: Whichever option you use to settle a
discrepancy at the end of the trading period, you can still
dispute the discrepancy with Post Office. To do this contact
the Branch Support Centre.

If you can demonstrate the reason for the discrepancy or if
you firmly believe the discrepancy will be resolved through
a Transaction Correction, please call the Branch Support
Centre with all the details you have.

POL00448270
POL00448270

SECTION 12 Monthly Accounting V4.1

coccs

I Top Tips for investigating discrepancies in

1 your branch

11. Re-count the cash — has some cash
been missed, for example, cash left in a
drawer or drop safe?

2. Check the values entered for the cash
declaration on Horizon — have you
miskeyed a value or left a ‘0’ off an entry?

3. Are there multiple cash declaration IDs
showing for one stock unit, where there
should only be one? For example,
declaration 01 and 02

4. Recheck the stock on hand and values
entered for the postage stamps
declaration

5. Ask someone else who works in the
branch to check for you — sometimes a
new pair of eyes will spot something
you missed

6. Are there any outstanding transfers
between stock units that haven't been
accepted?

7. If you have Paystation, have you moved
the cash across to the stock unit for the
Transaction Acknowledgements you
accepted that morning?

8. Have you left a receipt to the side to
reverse later and then forgotten to do
it?

9. If you have an ATM, have the correct
amounts been entered into Horizon
during your weekly balance? Is there
any ATM cash held in the safe?

Remember!

If you need any support investigating a

discrepancy in your branch, please call the

Branch Support Centre.

The contents
fon behalf of Pe

and fort ended, isnot permitied
Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence

st Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

@

Post Office - Operational training guide
POL00448270
POL00448270

SECTION 12 Monthly Accounting V4.1 CTO2022 February 2024

Guidance on disputing a discrepancy
or Transaction Correction

Making that initial call into the Branch Support Centre

Once you make an initial call into the Branch Support Centre, they will support you through your balancing
issue. They will need vital contact information such as an email address and telephone numbers from you to
help them keep you updated about progress. If required, they will ask about your discrepancy and perform
some basic checks over the phone to try to resolve the issue there and then.

If they are unable to resolve your issue right away, they will pass it to the investigations team.

When it gets passed to the investigations team

An investigations advisor will notify you by telephone and/or email to let you know they are working on your
case, and they might request further information about it.

They will then triage your case and let you know how long it might take to resolve. If they cannot resolve
your case within the target timeline, they will call to apologise and update you on progress.

What happens at the end of the investigation?

The investigations advisor will let you know the outcome of your discrepancy and offer you a report of the
findings to help explain what has been done.

If a discrepancy amount has been investigated by Post Office, or agreed by the Postmaster, and is found to
be a genuine loss to Post Office, the discrepancy will be passed to the Postmaster Account Support Team to
support you through the options regarding settling the amount.

If the investigation cannot find a genuine loss to the Post Office, a decision about clearing the discrepancy will be
taken and any gains to the Post Office will be paid back to you, and the Postmaster Account Support Team will
advise about the steps.

Whatever the outcome, they will support you through what this means in terms of branch accounting
operations and your options regarding the outcome of the investigation.

What if you don’t agree with the outcome of the investigation?

If you disagree with the outcome of an investigation, you can request that your case is reviewed by the
Review Committee for compliance with Post Office policies and procedures, and if further evidence is
provided to support your reasons for dispute, that further investigation is undertaken.

The conte
on behaif

document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the informatio
st Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

‘ontained within this document to any third-party net working

