POL00401675
POL00401675

IT Contract Manager

Page 1 of 5
POL00401675
POL00401675

About Post Office

The Post Office has thrived at the heart of high streets and local communities across the UK for
over 370 years. As one of the country’s most trusted brands, we take our commitment to
providing essential services to customers across the UK very seriously.

We're the UK’s largest retail network, as well as the largest financial services provider in the UK,
with over 11,600 branches nationwide - more than all of the UK's banks and building societies
put together.

We know that the best way to provide a great service for customers is to evolve our business
and adapt to their changing needs. That’s why we have a range of over 170 products and
services, from personal financial services like banking, insurance, payments and travel money,
to telecoms and, of course, mails. And we’re improving our online and in store experience for
customers. We know that our customers never stop changing, so neither will we.

Securing the future Post Office’s future:

We are working hard to ensure that the next chapter of the Post Office’s history is a bright one.

We are the current guardians of an iconic business and we want to hand over a thriving network
of branches which can continue to provide essential products and services for our customers for
many years to come. This is a uniquely exciting and challenging time for the Post Office - we’re
shaping the future and creating a business we can all be proud of.

Working at the Post Office:

Post Office colleagues are the driving force behind our business. Whether they are in our
branches or supporting from our offices, we are proud of the energy, commitment and customer
focus our people all have in common.

All Post Office people are guided by our three values and behaviours, see Code of Business
Standards:

We care by always thinking customer
We strive to make things ever better through honest challenge
We commit to decisive deliver

The basics
Job Title: IT Contract Manager
Grade: 3A
Post Reports to: Head of IT Contract Management
Division: Business Performance
Business Unit: CIO
Budget Responsibility:
Number of Direct Reports: 0
Location: London/Chesterfield

The purpose of the role

Responsible for managing IT supplier contract life cycle, which includes changes and
modifications and the enforcement of performance and obligation clauses, including incentives
and remedies.

Acts as the key contact and subject matter expert for all IT supplier contract-related activities.
This includes assisting with negotiating contract terms, conditions, modifications, incentives and
remedies, while working with key stakeholders to ensure that their requirements are met.
Working in partnership with IT Procurement, manages the contract execution process, resolving

Page 2 ofS
POL00401675
POL00401675

problems, mitigating delays, assisting with audits, mediating disputes and escalating issues.

Principal accountabilities

Supplier Contract Process Development

e Supporting Vendor Managers in governing the relationship and communication process with suppliers
(regardless of Tier) and resolving/settling supplier disputes/commercial issues through attendance at
governance meetings.

« Establish contract management objectives, procedures, templates and workflow processes
for assigned vendor contracts and deliverable schedules.

e Maintain IT Contracts within POL’s central Contract repository (Bravo) which contains all
executed contracts, as well as contracts that are under development but are not yet
active. Moreover, track Contract Approval Forms, Commercial Terms, Contract Change
Notes, Authorisations to Proceed, Letters of Intent, new Schedules and manage and
control access to those documents as appropriate.

« Track both vendor and POL contractual obligations, ensuring any key non-compliance is
escalated to Senior Management.

e Work with Legal stakeholders to review, develop and insert appropriate legal protections
in contracts, as warranted.

e Work with all teams (CIOs, IT Security & Service, IT Transformation, Procurement, Legal,
Finance, etc.) to ensure that vendors are performing in accordance with existing
requirements and regulatory obligations.

* Develop a knowledge base of negotiating strategies, best practices, and negotiation
personnel and teams. Make improvements to processes, procedures, workflow and
organisational structures for best practice contract management.

« Administer commercial and financial arrangements with vendors to include billing,
invoicing, performance incentives and remedies, and internal chargebacks, where
appropriate.

* Work with vendors and key stakeholders to establish clear contract change control
processes; including Contract Conformance.

« Ensure all Contractual Risks are communicated, documented, tracked, mitigated and
escalated where appropriate.

e Work alongside IT Procurement colleagues from time to time and assist with developing
statements of work (SOWs) and understand any current requests for information (RFIs),
requests for quotations (RFQs) and requests for proposal (RFPs) that are in the pipeline.

Supplier Contract & Market Insight
Understand relevant market trends and vendors. Track, gather and analyse market and
industry data.

e Effectively communicate a clear and concise contract overview (summary of key contract
terms, risks, opportunities and service delivery guidelines) to key stakeholders, and
provide contract interpretation when required.

« Be responsible for ensuring that pricing is competitive by commissioning benchmarks as
needed during the lifetime of the deal.

* Manage contract review meetings to ensure delivery against objectives and contract
budgets. Develop regular reports on contract milestones, execution and risk, and inform
internal stakeholders and vendors of activities and progress through regular written and
verbal communication.

« Responsible for ensuring compliance with any specific legislative, regulatory, or
contractual requirements.

Qualifications, experience and skills

« An ability to determine contractual and financial exposure, negotiate contracts, and the
ability to participate in the development of the IT asset management mission, goals and
objectives

Page 3 of S
POL00401675
POL00401675

« Knowledge of IT contracting trends, licensing models, and traditional and emerging
contract and vendor best practice.

e Deep market knowledge of the category of IT vendor for which the contract manager is
responsible

« Strong project and process management skills, with the ability to handle multiple vendors
and multiple contracts, as well as a wide range of tasks

« Ability to understand contract risks and to work with other parts of the organisation in
crafting tactics and strategies for risk mitigation

« Knowledge of best practices for IT contract negotiation tactics and strategies

e Ability to structure bids, evaluate bids against a broad set of evaluation criteria and
provide recommendations for vendor selection

e Understanding of Public Contract Regulations that will influence contracting approach and
vendor behaviour.

e Strong ability to communicate with IT stakeholders, legal and procurement staff, and
business partners to craft contracts that align complex needs with contractual
requirements to achieve business outcomes

e Customer-focused approach to delivering contract management services to internal
customers

e Strong relationship and interpersonal skills to be applied in working with vendors across
the entire contract life cycle

e Ability to distinguish what is required versus what is "nice to have," and ability to manage
conflicting stakeholder needs and wants

Qualifications required
e Degree or relevant experience from a legal or contract management background
e ITIL, Prince2, COBIT, IACCM or CIPS desirable

Skills required

« Ahigh degree of commercial contract management to qualify and implement income
generation and cost saving initiatives.

e Excellent influencing and communication skills to ensure effective stakeholder
management across all levels within the organisation. This is to motivate and encourage
others to be enthusiastic for the need for change.

e Confident in challenging others, whilst at the same time maintaining and building a
professional relationship.

* Personal resilience and drive to succeed. Self-motivated to achieve against targets.

e An ability to remain calm, professional and decisive when in intensely pressurised
situations.

« A high degree of customer orientation and commerciality in decision-making, coupled
with analytical and strategic decision-making skills.

« An ability to work with ambiguity whilst making decisions that are commercially sound.

Where does this role fit in with the rest of the team?

Business Performance

Page 4 of S
POL00401675
POL00401675

FT Contract Manager x3 (3a]]
VMO x2

IT permissions

Please note that the following section is to be completed by the Line Manager (deleting any on the list that
are not applicable and inserting any not already included):

IT permissions

Job Role Contract Manager
IT Equipment Laptop, mobile phone
Applications Microsoft Office 365, email account, Employee Interaction Centre,

Employee Interaction Centre, Success Factors (L&D); SharePoint; External
SharePoint (to fileshare with vendors), Skype for Business, Adobe Sign.
Software Access SAP ESS, SAP MSS,Employee Interaction Centre, Success Factors, Advisor
Plus, Learning and Performance, SABA Learning & Performance, Orbit, IRIS,
Condeco, IT Catalogue, BRAVO, SAP GUI, Galaxy

Other System/Application
Approved by [System Owner]
Job Title [System Owner]
Date

Page 5 of S
