POL00028342

POL00028342

Electronic

To

cc

Hard Copy To
Hard Copy cc
From,
Date

Subject
All

Apologies for the
all by now have hi

27 AUG 1999
nieme - 10903

Craig/POCL/POSTOFFICE:

Folkes/ITS/POSG/POSTO!
Henderson/POCL/POSTOFFICI Ruth
Holleran/POCL/POSTOFFIC Graeme

Seedall/POCL/POSTOFFICE
GroffWitton/POCL/POSTOFFICE
Grayston/POCL/POSTOFFICE(__
Rollason/POCL/POSTOFFIC!
Box/POCL/POSTOFFICEI

Jeff Austii
French

Bruce McNiven/POCL/POSTOFFICE

/POSTOFFICEt..

John Meagher/POCL/POSTOFFICE
26/08/99 17:40

Acceptance workshop roles

late delivery of the following but we have had problems with e-mail. You will
ad an opportunity to engage in the first tranche of acceptance workshops on

25/26 August. Nevertheless, it is not without benefit to articulate the roles for those attending

these sessions.

Add the following

Martin Box Calum Craig Ruth Holleran
Nancy Groff Trevor Rollason I Steve Graystone
Whitton © :

Acceptance Workshop Roles.d

POL00028342

POL00028342

Acceptance Workshop Roles

As you will presumably know by now, Pathway have not achieved acceptance due to
unresolved acceptance incidents at the time of the acceptance board on 18 August.
The incidents which POCL regard as either High or Medium severity are listed below.
The resolution of these incidents is now being taken forward in a series of workshops
designed to agree resolution plans for each incident.

lorder to ensure that we are fully supported in our upcoming discussions with
Pathway on the acceptability of their rectification plans, we have identified the
following roles for each incident: Business Expert; Technical Expert and Champion.
Clearly there are inter-relationships between the roles and champions, for example,
will need to rely on the business expert to agree success criteria for the eventual
clearance of the incidents.

The role of the Champion will be to lead the discussion with Pathway at the
workshops and negotiate the appropriate rectification plan. The plan will need to
include clear measurable activities complete with time-scales for completion and the
necessary success criteria. Whilst it is Pathways responsibility to propose a
rectification plan, the champion will be required to have defined in advance the
success criteria for the incident.

The role of the Business Expert is to measure the business impact of each incident
and what would be an acceptable level that could be absorbed by POCL. To validate
the Pathway rectification plans from the perspective of the acceptability of the plan to
return the impact which is being absorbed back to an acceptable level.

The role of the Technical Expert is to support the Champion in understanding the
root cause of the deficiency which is described in the incident. To validate Pathway
rectification plans for technical completeness and to advise the Champion on the
achievability of such plans.

AI I Description Business Technical Champion
Expert Expert

376 I Data integrity at TIP interface I Graeme Calum Craig I Ruth Holleran
Seedall

378 I Incomplete cash account Martin Box Calum Craig } Ruth Holleran
records

218 I Training Nancy Groff I Trevor Steve
Whitton Rollason Graystone

372 I System management (LT2 David Jeremy John Meagher
upgrade) McLaughlin I Folkes

391 I Security at Wigan & Bootle I Ruth Holleran I Jeremy John Meagher
Folkes

298 I Outlet system stability Andy Radka I Jeremy John Meagher
Folkes

POL00028342
POL00028342

314 I Technical documentation Ruth Holleran I John Meagher I Keith Baines
408 II HSH service levels David Adele Adele
McLaughlin I Henderson Henderson

