POL00152928
POL00152928

Martine Munbyt._
Sent: Fri 14/08/2015 2:02:

-50 PM (UTC)

To: Melanie Corfield

Ce: Mike Granvillef
Coulthurst
Thomas P
Subject: FW: Post Office - Monitoring I Trouble at the Post Office

Hi all
For info — press release from CWU on the Panorama programme.
Kind regards

Martine

. Martine Munby
Public Affairs
Communications Team

Post Office Ltd
First Floor
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London

C2Y 9AQ

From: monitoringalerts; _
Sent: 14 August 2015 14:47

To: Martine Munby

Subject: Post Office - Monitoring I Trouble at the Post Office

Post Office - Monitoring

Communication Workers Union: Trouble at the Post
Office
UK Stakeholder - Press Releases

14/08/2015

On Monday evening, the BBC's Panorama programme will be
broadcasting reporter John Sweeney's investigation into the Post
Office's prosecutions of dozens of postmasters who were blamed for
errors created by the unfit-for-purpose ‘Horizon’ computer accounting
system.

Postmasters have faced victimisation, persecution and many have had
their reputations and livelihoods damaged or even destroyed, sparking
strong criticism of the company by the CWU's national officer Andy
Furey and the union's Postmaster branch secretary Mark Baker.

Our union's calls for a full judicial/public inquiry have been taken up and
supported by Members of Parliament from all of the political parties, a
House of Commons debate on the subject earlier this year heard
condemnation of the Post Office's senior management from furious
MPs, and questions have also been asked in the House during Prime
Minister's Question Time.

In Monday's programme - Trouble at the Post Office - Sweeney will be
probing claims that the Post Office charged some postmasters with theft
even when the evidence didn't stack up and he will be speaking to a
‘whistle-blower’ who will outline the problems inherent in the 'Horizon'
system.

Andy Furey is urging all CWU members to watch the programme and
also to "tell friends and neighbours about it too.

“It's vitally important that the extraordinary behaviour of senior Post
Office management is exposed for its vindictive, unfair and unjust
nature," he continued, adding that "the Post Office is clearly in denial
about the misery they have caused for so many hard-working
Postmasters and we are entitled to ask: 'Why is the Post Office in
denial'?"

“We will continue to demand justice for postmasters and we will not
stop until this has been achieved - this outrage must not be covered up."

Mark Baker agreed, saying: "Our postmaster members have been
treated appallingly over this issue and I strongly urge all our fellow CWU
members to watch Monday's programme to inform themselves about
this scandal."

* Trouble at the Post Office will be broadcast on BBC1 at 7.30pm on
Monday 17th August in England, Scotland and Wales. In Northern
Ireland, the programme will be shown at 10.35pm on BBC1.

POL00152928
POL00152928
» Back to top

» View article online

» View original source

Contact the Dods UK Monitoring Team
Monday to Frida
monitoringalerts

This email may contain Parliamentary information licensed under the Open Parliament Licence
v1.0, public sector information licensed under the Open Government Licence v1.0.; information
subject to copyright of the National Assembly for Wales Commission and/or; information
reproduced under the terms of the Click-Use Licence. All other material may be subject to
copyright.

Dod's Parliamentary Communications Limited Registered in England under Company number
01262354 Registered Office: 21 Dartmouth Street, London. SW1H 9BP.

POL00152928
POL00152928
