POL00458054
POL00458054

Nigel Introduction — Saf’s Draft of Current Issues.

Problem

Solution

PM profitability — no pay rise since 2015 —
understanding PM profitability and working backwards
to ensure the centre is run efficiently.

POL needs to reset and understand PM
profitability. We need to start from the
front and allow our PM’s to survive and
grow, then work backwards and use the
remaining funds to service our central
costs.

PM Costs and hardships are not understood within
POL.

Not enough effective interaction with
PM's.

{GRO /'s death

Size of organisation — Unclear accountability — too
many layers and costing needed with a target in mind of
the date completion. Eg: Silo Working.

Dual roles and limited responsibility within existing
roles. Eg: Digital roles, Western Union product
manager.

Eg: Risk understanding from Investment committee.

POL restructure staring from the top with
redefined roles and clear accountability.

Bonus Culture - LTIP and STIP should be abolished —
skin in the game — GE requested for PM reviews to be
there LTIP — this is madness and show the lack of
integrity in the process.

PDR and ratings for staff need to be revised
and rescored based on outcomes. We
need to be more commercial.

We deal by exceptions — PM horror stories brought to
the board by the retail team.

Give examples of expectations. We should
start from a position of trust with all, this is
the only way will regain trust and start
implementing a change in culture.

Overall Toxic Culture —new individuals can’t thrive,
innovate or contribute in the rotten entitled culture.

No pace — WU product manager wanting to respond in
a few months.

Silos — DC rollout and lack of engagement with any
other parts of the business.

Lack of engagement with PM’s (retail team) — not
engaging with PM NED’s and not inviting us to events

and keep us on a need-to-know basis.

Project Pineapple — an insight into this business from a
NED’s perspective.

Lack of decision making, - too many layers

Urgent Cultural Reset needed. PM's
involved within the business to ensure the
tone and language is right.

POL must give examples of expectations.
Ensure senior leadership team and all POL
staff are involved and supportive and know
what good looks like.

Serious consequences to poor culture.
Past Roles and Phoenix must be addressed
ASAP with outcomes PM’s accept and

understand.

PM’s concerns and poor working ethos
must be taken seriously.

POL00458054
POL00458054

Untouchables — this is common knowledge in relation
to certain individuals within the business.

PM NED’s excluded from certain board meetings
internally.

Budgets — very soft so they can be exceeded and this
allows the bonus to be achieved.

Senior Exec’s — economical with the truth

Back to working in the office.
Reduce central costs.

Yearly planner with significant events (this
has been requested several times at board)

7 Communications poor — throughout the business and Aclear comms plan. All comm’s must go
with Postmasters, PMs don’t know where this business I through the comm’s team and they must
will be 3 years, no comms for PM Ned’s have a data set which consists off all PM’s

background and best form on contact.
PM's NED’s need to be made more visible
within the business and their successes
shared.

8 Lack of Trust of PMs by POL Have rebuild trust programme by bringing

in more PM’s within the business.
— PM's don’t trust POL, and POL doesn’t trust them
either, we have done little to regain and restart the Learn from the PI and not see that asa
relationship, all lip service. hinderance. Be proactive and make a plan
with clear target of where trust should be
“All PM's on the Take” — this is common knowledge and I and if this not achieved then re-evalute
the thoughts within POL internally. and change our approach to make it
happen.
Investigations — current tone is unacceptable.
Stamps on PM’s system
PM Survey — Going down considerably and

9. I Redeployment — RU unit, payoffs and rehire, Brian Rehire and Redeploy policy must end.
Trotter
The business wasn’t even aware this was happening
until the PM NED’s went to PI.

9. I Marking own homework — targets and PDR scoring All metrics and grading must be done

holistically with PM’s involved.
Grading can go down too if performance and trust is
poor.

10. I Materiality - £1 for PM’s and £1M for PO — imbalance in I Recalibrating materiality, it should be the
creating power issues. same for both.

11. I Future business - What are we doing a business to Clear defined profitability targets for all

actively drive footfall as a business? Why are PM's
busier but making less money?

Commercial Deals

Digital strategy.

areas of the business.
Quarterly update on future strategies.

Yearly planner of key dates and contract
renewals.

POL00458054
POL00458054

Strategy days are poor.

12. I Cumbersome Board — 3 tiers, disconnect with the SEG UKGI Rep must treat all members of the
and board, limited meetings. The board is reliant on board as equal and provide the same
the CEO and his account and understanding of what information to all.
going in the business. The board is a cash machine who
is sent info on a need-to-know basis. Liam from More involvement from other parts of the
procurement telling the finance team the board is risk SLG to ensure information provided by the
averse!! CEO is accurate and can be challenged.

No CEO F2F or 1T1. The board and SLG should have more joint
events and better communication

No SLG and board joint discussion internally.

Board seen as the other and blamed by the SLG not

seen as a collaborative.

Current board Decks far too long.

13. I Oversight committee — S&E heading it — producing a PM NED’s chair this committee, it must
report to board to ensure the common threads running I have “teeth” and proper terms of
through the business and there is check and balances to I reference. The OC must have delegates
avoid to catastrophic governance failures we have had. I from all bodies that represent PM’s.

Give PM's a voice in the business.
This OC will provide some long over due
checks and balances.

14. I Lack of Accountability - Circular Hiding: Executive Clear line of decision making and restarting
directors hide behind board members; board members I will help.
hide behind executive directors.

DMB example 16 years to complete but
nobody wants to take the lead.

15. I Legal judgements - Board does not have a culture or The PI has proved how must produce legal
the skills to appraise and make judgements on legal notes that the board can understand and
advice. appraise.

16 I Defensive culture — PM Survey results, lack of cultural Positive duty of candour should be
change since 2012 (PV tried) promoted within the business.

17 I Mutualisation - Moving to a mutual business model How are mutuals eg. Building Societies

with the social arm funded by government should be
considered. Commercial arm is sustainable

with a large number of branches run
compared to the POL. They have counters,
account for cash on a daily basis, and pre-
empt possible risks.

POL00458054
POL00458054
