POL00163124

POL00163124
From: Melanie Corfield! GRO
Sent: Mon 28/11/2016 4:18:45 PM (UTC)
To: Mark R Davies}...
Subject: FW: Postmaster Litigation - Remote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths - LEGALLY
PRIVILEGED - DO NOT FORWARD
Attachment: _DOC_34439974(1)_RA comments on Response to Letter of Reply_ 27 November .docx

Another thought (I know it is stating the obvious but goes to heart of why there is no plausible reason anyone FJ or
POL would want to manipulate data even if possible):

Underline the simple fact we made to Panorama — that Horizon is an electronic point of sale and does not contain
money.

Mel

From: Melanie Corfield

Sent: 28 November 2016 15:54

To: Mark R Davies

Subject: RE: Postmaster Litigation - Remote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths - LEGALLY PRIVILEGED - DO
NOT FORWARD

Very slight suggested tweaks as discussed (highlighted attached). I think the context and language around the difficult
parts are very good though in portraying the ridiculousness of the claims about ‘ remote access’ so I don’t think we
should worry too much.

Mel

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 28 November 2016 15:19
To: Melanie Corfield

Subject: Fwd: Postmaster Litigation - Remote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths - LEGALLY PRIVILEGED - DO
NOT FORWARD

Would love your views on this if you have a chance?

Mark Davies

ns and Corporate Affairs Director

Begin forwarded message:

From: Jane MacLeod ¢
Date: 28 November 20
To: Paula Vennells *

Ce: Rodric Williams I

}, Rob Houghton
ark R Davies!
Subject: Postmaster Litigation - Remote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths -
LEGALLY PRIVILEGED - DO NOT FORWARD

POL00163124
POL00163124

Paula, Al

Attached is the current draft of the proposed wording regarding remote access that is to be included in a
much longer, and largely procedural letter to be sent to Freeths later tomorrow. We have a further call
with our QC at 5pm this evening to review this wording again with the team and Mark Davies is included
on that. For reference the key statement made in the letter to Freeths in July, was as follows:

“Administrator access to databases. Database and server access and edit permission is provided,
within strict controls (including logging user access), to a small, controlled number of specialist Fujitsu
(not Post Office) administrators. As far as we are currently aware, privileged administrator access has

not been used to alter branch transaction data. We are seeking further assurance from Fujitsu on this
point.”

Freeths have picked this up and therefore the new wording is designed to address their challenges.
Please let me have any comments asap

Jane
