POL00036254

POL00036254
IT Systems Change Request (CR)
Change Request Fujitsu EUM Counter Enhancements I Change Request
Title Number
Version No. 21
Supplier reference
number
Project Title Enhanced User Management Project ID EUM
Required January 2018 Type of response Formal Proposal
Implementation required
date (RFI, ROM, Formal
Proposal)
Cost Centre / I 114.16001.01.0 I Approved Yes Related CR’s
Budget Code 1.01.52 Funding
Author Graham Bevan Assigned Esther Harvey Architect Steve Page
Tel. / Email i Project Esther.harvey Tel. / Email
Manager + GRO
Tel. / Email Sovnne
Sponsor Contract No Contract Finance
Tel. / Email Manager Change Analyst
H Tel. / Email Tel. / Email
Test Manager I James Hume BRM / SDA N/A IT Project Graham Bevan
Tel. / Email James.humet's8¢5I Tel. / Email Manager Graham.Bevan
Tel. / Email L
CR Approvals
Supporting None Completed I Architect Architect
Docs Attached Team engaged
approval
Sponsor Yes Name of Peer I N/A Date Peer N/A
approval Reviewer Review
Completed
CR submission I 14.08.2017
date
Overview of Change - Please provide a high level description of the change including any supporting operational
changes; and the reasons for it. Detailed requirements should be documented in the ‘Detailed Requirements and
Acceptance’ section below. Please describe the outline change in terms of business impact.
Background:
The EUM solution is live in a number of sites across the network and will be ramped up to approximately
500-1000 branches between September and November 2017. Through joint working with Fujitsu, a
number of enhancements to support the EUM counter solution have been identified. This CR describes the
required changes which will ideally be implemented by January 2018, ahead of a further ramp up of the
EUM rollout across the network.
In addition, there is an existing Fujitsu CT pending Post Office approval, CT2307 Fujitsu Services
Application development for EUM Credence Reporting Enhancements, see attachment. This CT has been
challenged due to the cost and the existing CR will be withdrawn. Please impact assess this CT for delivery
alongside the changes below to assess if the associated delivery costs can be reduced through ecconomies
of scale.

Change Request Form Template v4.0 Page 1 of 5
POL00036254
POL00036254

IT Systems Change Request Form

Overview of Change - Please provide a high level description of the change including any supporting operational
changes; and the reasons for it. Detailed requirements should be documented in the ‘Detailed Requirements and
Acceptance’ section below. Please describe the outline change in terms of business impact.

Key Business Requirements:

The required changes are:
1. Dual Login Capability - Provide the ability for a branch user to have multiple concurrent sessions
open on multiple Horizon terminals but only to have one session active at any one time. Being able
to easily switch between sessions without being required to log in and out of the separate sessions.

2. EUM Network De-activation - Capability to rapidly, temporarily, remove EUM controls network wide
in response to a major incident.

3. Creation of a Counter Training Role - To allow staff to only access training transactions on Horizon
in the event they are locked out of horizon sales because of training expiry.

4. Local Update of Training Records - Introduction of a new capability to apply immediate updates to
the Horizon training records. Circumventing the PODG 24 hours data replication cycle and allowing
immediate access to sales transactions once training is completed.

5. Deletion of Old HUIDs - Introduction of a robust process to manage the bulk logical deletion of old
HUIDs.

6. Screen Messaging - Introduction of an capability to display basic training reminders on Horizon.

The required solutions are elaborated further below, however Fujitsu are requested to support a design
workshop for each of the areas to elicit the specific requirements and acceptance criteria.

Solution Outline:

Dual Login Capability

e When logged in to a Horizon counter users should be able to lock their current session and without
logging out of or closing the current session, be able to login to a second Horizon Counter terminal,
using the same credentials (HUID/POID linked HUID and Horizon Password).

e If a user attempts to login to a second session without locking the first then the system should
preferably automatically lock the first session, or prevent the second login and display an
appropriate error message.

« Once the user has logged into a second session the user should be able to switch between counters
and associated baskets by locking the current open session and unlocking the second session.

« The system will allow the user to only have one unlocked session at a time, e.g. will prevent a
second session from being unlocked if there is already an unlocked session in existence, displaying
an appropriate error message, or automatically lock the first session.

« If asession has been used to initiate the printing of back office reports or any other long running
activities, then the session should be allowed to be locked to allow the user to switch to another
terminal, but the initiated activity on the first session should be able to continue to completion. The
exact use cases where this would be possible to be advised by Fujitsu and elaborated through the
design development.

« Assumption - Standard Session timeouts and behaviour should be applied to all open sessions -—
please advise if this assumption is correct.

EUM Network De-activation

e Inthe event of a major issue, e.g. incorrect training data is pushed to the counters from Success
Factors which invalidates all users training, effectively removing access to Horizon sales for all
users, there is a requirement to rapidly disable EUM training controls across the network.

e This would be a ‘break glass’ solution and be triggered through the existing incident management
service.

e Full auditability of this event and the subsequent re-activation of training controls are required to
ensure Post Office can identify and differentiate sales that were transacted during this period.

« During the period of suspension any update files from EUM should either be continued to be applied

Change Request Form Template v4.0 Page 2 of 5
POL00036254
POL00036254

IT Systems Change Request Form

Overview of Change - Please provide a high level description of the change including any supporting operational
changes; and the reasons for it. Detailed requirements should be documented in the ‘Detailed Requirements and
Acceptance’ section below. Please describe the outline change in terms of business impact. :
(preferable) to ensure when the suspension is removed the estate is in an accurate position
regarding user status and training records, or if not possible, EUM updates should be queued and
applied on removal of the suspension.

Creation of a Counter Training Role

e Current Horizon roles include - Branch Manager; Assistant Manager; Clerk; these relate to Back
Office and Sales functions.

« Anew Training Role is required which would allow users to logon to Horizon but only allow them
access to the compliance training transactions.

e This will allow users whose essentials training has expired, to be set up as a training user and be
able to access and complete the required compliance training.

e In the event that it a single user branch and the Branch Manager has allowed his Essentials training
to expire there will need to be a capability for the user to login and switch their role to the Training
Role.

e Assumption: The training role will be subject to the same password rules as the existing roles.

Local Update of Training Records

« The desired outcome is, when a user completes and passes a compliance training transaction on
Horizon, the training records held on within Horizon (those provided by EUM) are updated to reflect
the User has passed the training and the required by date for that training is reset for 12 months in
the future. As a result a user should be able to login to Horizon immediately and transact the
associated sales transactions.

« Inslow time the training record will be output to a PODG file and applied to Success Factors for
replication back to Horizon the following day. NOTE: The work to support the PODG route
replication is subject to a separate CR and should not form part of the CT response to this CR.

e Assumption: It is assumed that the solution to deliver this functionality will be a new AP-ADC
datatype capable of updating the Horizon Training Records database.

Deletion of Old HUIDs

e« As the EUM solution roles out to the Network and new HUIDs, linked to the users POIDs are
created, there is a requirement to be able to logically delete the users old HUIDS at an appropriate
time.

e The deletions are currently managed by the FS MAC Team on an individual HUID basis. The
requirement is for this capability to be uplifted to allow Post Office to be able to request Logical
Deletion of old HUIDs (not linked to POIDs) by Fadcode or groups of Fadcodes.

* This may require exceptions to the current business rules around logical deletion or new business.
rules may be required.

Screen Messaging for Training Reminders

e To ensure Horizon users have notification of imminent training expiry dates, it is required that when
a user logons on to Horizon a message is displayed notifying the user of any training curricula that
is due to expire in the next 2 weeks and the date of expiry —- exact massage text to be defined. 2
weeks is an initial assumption, though the period should be configurable and be able to be varied
via a service request — i.e. not a release dependant change.

e The message should only display in the event a user has a training curricula that is due to expire
and should not display if no curricula are due to expire in the defined period.

« The message should only be applicable to actual training curricula, not the exceptional override
curricula. This may require an additional attribute to be made available within the Type X reference
data for the training curricula supplied by Post Office and may require corresponding change to the
reference data test environment.

Attachments: Ai! supporting documents must be inserted below and referred to by their full title, version no. and
Wate. See guidelines for examples of minimum supporting document expectations

Change Request Form Template v4.0 Page 3 of 5
POL00036254
POL00036254

IT Systems Change Request Form

€12307.rtf

+ CT2307 Fujitsu Services Application development for EUM Credence Reporting Enhancements.

{Environments/Applications Affected: (Please indicate which applications are affected by this change — the list
below is not exhaustive, please add appt atots as relevant)

HNG-X CMS [N_I Post & Go [N

HNG-A 7 NOTE: I have added the HNG-A Application to the template as it will
be impacted - Graham Bevan

HNG Test Automation I Y I Credence Y I Stock Management POLSAP N

expecté

in. their

HNG Test Automation Script I Y I PODG N_ I Swindon Systems N
revision required? Y/N (If Yes
}

N_I Internet N_I Transtrack N
N I MDM (Master data N I Web N
management)
Call Centre N_I Paystation N_I SAP SuccessFactors Y

Business Processes Affected: (Please indicate which business operations are affected by
this change - the list below is not exhaustive, please add operations as relevant)

Branch Network Y I Supply Chain (Value & Non Value N I Mails N
Stock)

FSC N_I SAP SuccessFactors N_I Telephony N

Client Settlement N_I Financial Services N_I Government N

Contact Centre (NBSC) Y_I Other (please specify) N

Suppliers impacted by the change — Please state Yes, No or Clarification required (Y/N/C)

If a 3 Party Supplier is being used to provide anything that isn’t contracted as an existing service, please confirm
that you have carried out an assessment using the correct Group Purchasing procedures - please consult your
Finance Analyst or Purchasing Services as appropriate for advice.

BT N_I Capgemini N_I Cogent N_I Commidea N_ I csc N
Fujitsu Y_I HP. N_I Ingenico _N_I Interchange Itron N
Logica N I Q-Matic N I Siemens N I Streamline/ N I Steria N
i HSBC
Vocalink N I Wincor Nixdorf N I Accenture UN I NCR N I Computacentre Y
Atos

Supplier Contact Details - jf contact has already been made with a Supplier(s), please include Contact name and
details, as this will aid speedier progression at the Supplier end. Post Office can add supplier details if assistance has
been provided in the development of this CR or a specialist supplier is required.

Contact Details: No contact has been made with Fujitsu services or Accenture. However, Graham Bevan
of Atos is fully aware that this request is being raised.

Acceptance - If Acceptance Criteria are not applicable or where they could apply but not for this particular
development, please explain why. Please include testing requirements & acceptance.

Full requirements and acceptance criteria will be developed during an intial design phase.

Detailed Requirements and Acceptance (Please copy and paste the following table for each requirement.
Please refer to CR guidelines for help). - Please consider non-functional requirements. E.g. resilience, performance,
availability, criticality. Consider POL’s obligations when defining requirements. Where a supporting document contains

Change Request Form Template v4.0 Page 4 of 5
POL00036254
POL00036254

IT Systems Change Request Form

Acceptance - If Acceptance Criteria are not applicable or where they could apply but not for this particular
development, please explain why. Please include testing requirements & acceptance.
the requirements, enter a reference to the supporting document (named in full with version number and date)
Requirement ID Supplier Fujitsu
Requirement Full requirements and acceptance criteria will be developed during an intial design
phase.
Acceptance
Criteria
Acceptance
Method
: Date Change Details.
V1.0 I 14.08.17] Initial I Creation of initial submission Graham Bevan
V2.0 15.08.17 I 24 Draft I Updated with comments from John Hill Graham Bevan

V2.1 17.08.17 I 3' Draft I Updated with comments from Shaun Turner. Shaun Graham Bevan
has also confirmed Michale Howarth approval of the CR
on behalf of Network.

Despatch Upon completion please submit the form to the mailbox below

POLBPORequestMgmt.it-solutions;s GRO :

For help and guidance on successfully completing this Change Request form please refer to the Change Request Form
Guidelines in the CHAMP Library.

Change Request Form Template v4.0 Page 5 of 5
