POLO0096604
POL00096604

Message

From: Paula Vennells I GRO j
on behalf of — Paula Vennells

Sent: 09/06/2012 10:

To: Susan Crichton

Subject: Fwd: 2nd Sight TOR

Alice called me. We'll pick up Monday.

Enjoy your weekends.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alice Perkins {
Date: 9 June 2012 0
To: "'susan.crichtort,

Ce: "paula.vennells

™Alwen.lyonsi”
Subject: 2nd Sight TOR

Following a conversation with Alwen yesterday, and given that I am away now for a few days, I
thought I should let you know before I went where I stand on which cases should be in or out of
this review.

Thave given this more thought since yesterday.

Jam clear that we should include ALL the MPs' cases, irrespective of whether they have been
decided in Court. If we try to draw a distinction here we will be accused of picking cases to suit
ourselves and being vulnerable on the ones we omit. We'll have a row about that instead of
moving the issue on.

On reflection, I don't buy the argument that we would somehow undermine the Court process by
doing this. There are plenty of ways in which people go over ground which has been settled in
Court and if there weren't, no-one would ever be able to get a conviction overturned. And if
(which we don't believe) there were new evidence in a case which had been decided, we would
want to do, and be seen to do, the right thing by that.

So I stick by the TOR as drafted yesterday on this important point.

Where I think there may be an issue is the line between Shoesmith's cases which have been
declared to us and those (many more) which they have merely hinted at. I suggest the way to
deal with those may be by time, ie we'll include those we know about as of Monday week but not
those which come after. As we said at our meeting, it would be open to the independent
reviewers to say in their findings that they think we should extend the review.

lam sorry to be bothering you with this on a Saturday but time is against us, especially as Paula
is seeing James Arbuthnot on Monday afternoon and I feel very strongly about this.

Iam around this moming packing ete if you want to talk to me and of course, if necessary, you
can raise me while I'm away.

Thank you

Alice

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0096187
