POL00448391
POL00448391

Saf ismail!”
Sent: Wed 01/05/2024 12:27:55 PM (UTC)
To: Alexandra Burrellf “GRO
Ce:
Shaun Kerrisont””
Elliot Jacobs £7
Subject: RE: NED recruitment process

Dear Tracy & Alex

I trust this email finds you well. I am writing on behalf of myself and Elliot to address our engagement in the
NED election process.

Over the past three years, we have been significantly hindered from engaging with Postmasters at the
desired level due to a lack of response from the Retail Engagement and Comms teams, despite repeated
requests. Additionally, we are firmly opposed to the way in which the replacement process is being handled
which we have both been vocal about. Specifically with regards to the lack of continuity, corporate
memory, and effective postmaster oversight that will be lost in this hand-over process.

After much consideration, we do not feel that we can endorse the process with our commentary in your
communication at this time.

Thank you for your understanding.
Regards
Saf & Elliot

Saf Ismail
Non-Executive Director

100 Wood Street,
London, EC2V 7ER
postoffice.co.uk

From: Alexandra Burrell <_
Sent: Wednesda
To: Elliot Jacobs!

Shaun Kerrison

Subje: ED recruitment process
Importance: High

Hi Saf and Elliot,
I wanted to check if you had any comments / thoughts about the attached note? Happy to chat through if easier?

Thank you,
Alex

From: Tracy Marshall {
POL00448391
POL00448391

Sent: Tuesday, April
To: ElliotJacobs!
Ce: Alexandra Burrell

§ Martin Robert:

Subject: RE: NED recruitment process
Importance: High

Hi both,

Hope you’re well.

Further to my email last week, we’ve drafted a short note for you both to review. If you’re comfortable with the
content of the attached, then we’d propose to send this to postmasters as soon as possible, given the fact that the

closing date for applications is on 7" May.

There are a couple of comments in here for both of you to take a look at and as always, we’d welcome any final
thoughts or amends from you. Important that this is a true reflection of your thoughts.

If you'd like to jump on a call later with some of the team, then we can arrange that. You should already have 4.00pm
blocked in your diary anyway so we could potentially use this time.

Thanks again for your support with this and do let us know if a call would be helpful.
Best Wishes,

Tracy

From: Elliot Jacobs!
Sent: Friday, April 2
To: Tracy Marshall !

Subject: Re: NED recruitment process

Happy to help.

Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Tracy Marshall
Sent: Friday, April 26,
To: Saf ismail I _
Ce: Alexandra Bi
Subject: NED recruitment process

Elliot Jacobs

Hi Saf/Elliot,

Hope you’re both well and thank you Saf for attending the event on Monday evening. Positive feedback received and
looking forward to the next event in Leeds on 7 May.

I’m writing to ask for your help please with the ongoing NED recruitment campaign. You may have seen in Martin
Roberts’ email yesterday that we’ve taken the decision to extend the application window through to 7‘ May to
provide potential applicants with additional time to get their CVs submitted. This is as a result of direct feedback from
postmasters.
POL00448391
POL00448391

The other piece of feedback received is that postmasters want to understand a bit more about the role itself from
your perspective, perhaps along the lines of why it’s an important role, what you’ve contributed to the Board over the
last few years and that you Saf who will be here until next year, will be working closely with the new NED.

On that basis and having reflected on the best communication approach here, I do think that a note directly from you
to be sent early next week would be the right way forward. We'd be happy to help draft a note for your review if
you’d be amenable to this. I really think it will help and encourage more applicants to apply.

Many thanks in advance.

Tracy

Tracy Marshall (She/Her)

Retail Engagement Director
Retail Team

100 Wood Street, London, EC2V 7ER.

GRO

