POL00150177
POL00150177

Paula Vennells[}.

Sent:

To: Haydi O'Brien[I

Ce: Angela Var Kevin
Gilliland[k

Bcc: Avene O'Farrell[:

Subject: Re: Griffithstown 342632

Attachment: image003.png

Attachment: image002.jpg

Haydi, thank for taking the time to pass on the details.

As you are now meeting with Angela, I have copied her so that she has the full details of what you are saying. I
have also copied Kevin, who I know will want to be sure we help you get to the bottom of the issues.

Tf you don't mind, I will now withdraw from the review so that you and Angela can sort this out. I have every
confidence that she will help you, so please deal directly with her.

Kind regards,
Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

“GRO,

Sent from my iPad

On 12 Dec 2014, at 21:27, HaydiO'BrienfCGROSSSS«S Wrote:

Dear Paula,

Further to our conversation on the evening of 9 December, I am writing to you as you requested me to
do. I have also since been contacted by Angela Van-Den-Bogerd. It was out of sheer frustration and
desperation that I felt compelled to contact you.

I have worked for the Post Office for 15 years initially on the counter and the last eight years in Training
and Auditing as an FSA. I used to have so much faith in the Post Office and its processes, so much so that
I bought my own branch in Griffithstown in December 2010.

I bought this as a family investment with the intention of employing my daughter as Manager. For the
first three years I regularly attended my branch, serving on the counter and balancing weekly, however,
it was always the intention to step back once my daughter was confident and competent in running the
branch which I strongly believe she is. I took the step back in September last year and gave her the
increased responsibility of managing the branch, working alongside another lady who I have employed
since I was appointed.

In May I decided to conduct a full cash and stock check of the branch and on completion I was stunned to
POL00150177
POL00150177

find that it was £33000 short. I immediately reported this to Colin Burston my Contracts Advisor and he
arranged an audit for the following day. The audit confirmed my findings and my Contract for Services
was suspended and I was also suspended from my role as FSA.

Following a Reasons To Urge interview with Colin I was reinstated to both roles on 4 August on condition
that the full shortage is repaid which I am currently paying at £500 a month from my remuneration.

On discovering the shortage I questioned my daughter on the cause of it and she stated that she had
been having problems with the ATM. She cited one such problem in December 2013 when a day’s
withdrawals had been ‘lost’ on the printouts obtained from the ATM. She had been naively continued to
declare the cash as reported by Horizon instead of declaring the actual amount of cash on hand. I
contacted the Finance Service Centre at the time that I discovered the shortage and they replied “oh yes,
there are £13000 of withdrawals that need to be put through”. They were unable to tell me when these
withdrawals related to. It seems that they had been ‘sat’ on this since December 2013.

I was told by the auditor that the shortage would be fully investigated and was promised that the
Security Team would be involved which I was more than happy with as I have certainly not taken the
money and I am certain that neither my daughter or assistant have. None of the Security Team have
contacted me at any stage.

I was left to conduct my own investigations and as an FSA I have more contacts in the business than a
normal Subpostmaster would have. Due to the large amount and the outstanding discrepancies in the
Finance Service Centre I decided to start with the ATM.

The first set of withdrawal figures supplied to me by Stacey Harper bore absolutely no resemblance to
the ATM figures processed through my branch (over the period covering January 2013 to May 2013 only
two figures actually agreed). Stacey confirmed that the figures were supplied direct from Wincor and
numerous emails were exchanged over a period of two months trying to arrive at an explanation for the
differences, to date this has not been forthcoming.

I contacted Wincor and requested the withdrawal figures from them and was told that they would not
supply them and to obtain them from the Post Office. I was given Sarah Haywood as a contact point and
she eventually supplied a second set of figures. Unfortunately these figures had large chunks of data
missing from them and when questioned, I was told that the data had ‘archived’ and could be no longer
obtained. I fail to see how data from the middle of a timeframe can be archived and nobody has been
able to give me an explanation for this.

Due to an anomaly in Drop and Go transactions recently and a customer’s account being frozen in mid
transaction, I was aware of a Transaction Correction which was due to the office. On not receiving this
TC I contacted the Finance Service Centre and was told that it could not be issued due to a ‘block’ being
put in place at the time of my suspension .Therefore, since 16™ May this year, no Transaction
Corrections can be issued to the branch until HR update their records regarding POLSAP Accounting
Procedure which currently states ‘Customer line item needs updating’.

I raised the point that if TCs were due from other departments whether they would be issued and was
told that none could be sent while the block was in place. I also asked whether they were notified when
this block was removed by HR and was told No and that it was up to each individual analyst trying to
issue a TC to check on a regular basis. I was dismayed by this and wonder how many more TCs in the
pipeline which may relate to my shortage?

I have been left throughout this process to carry out my own investigations as to how the shortage
occurred and feel that I am hitting obstructions every step of the way. The last seven months have been

absolute hell for myself and my family, I feel like I have been hung out to dry.

I have been an ambassador for Post Office for many years , and have carried out my role as
POL00150177
POL00150177

Trainer/Auditor with the utmost integrity, even to the point where my own branch is in the firing line. I
feel totally let down by the apathy and indifference I have encountered in response to my enquiries.

Angela has arranged to meet on Thursday 18" December to discuss things further, following which I
look forward to a thorough investigation.

Yours sincerely

Haydi O’Brien

Haydi

Haydi O’Brien I Network Field Support Advisor
<image002.jpg>

POST OFFICE LTD
4™ Floor, 120 Bark Street, Bolton, BL1 2AX

<image003.png>
