DISCREPANCIES

Discrepancies

The only way to find out what is a true discrepancy in a
stock unit is to go to trial balance.

There are 3 main times when an office may call to say they
have a discrepancy: -

1. The office has checked the stock unit snap shot with the
cash on hand and there is a difference.

Ask the office to go to trial balance to see what the true
discrepancy is. If they do not want to do this they can make
a note of the day the difference occurred. In this way when
they do a trial balance at a later date, if there is a
discrepancy, they will know on which date to look at
transactions to locate the error.

If the office does not want to go to trial but want to look for
the discrepancy tell them the checks to make below.

2. The office is doing the balance of the stock unit and have
message on the screen. “ The declarations do not match
the system derived figures, continuing will present a list”.
Tell the office to continue. The screen will now show a list
of cash/stock discrepancies. Tell the office to continue. The
next message will be “committing list” This message is OK
as it is only committing for the trial balance. If there is an
unacceptable net discrepancy in the discrepancy box when
the trial has printed, the office can still do F16 to exit the
balance, so nothing is committed.

3. The office has printed the trial balance and there is an
unacceptable net discrepancy. In this case F16 exit and do
the checks to see if it can be located.

Discrepancy checks.

As the PM has the trial balance to hand start checking this.
Keep in mind the value of the net discrepancy when doing
the checks. The trial balance shows all transactions that
have been entered on the Horizon stock unit from the last
time the stock unit was balanced. Some of the physical
transactions done in the office may not have been entered
on Horizon, or have been entered incorrectly.

Date Last Changed: 03/03/2006

Page I

POL00114814
POL00114814
DISCREPANCIES

1. Starting at the Value Items and MOP on the trial, is
the cash figure declared the same as to hand in the
Office. If the discrepancy is £900 loss has the office
counted £1,000 as £100. Have they failed to count all
the cash?

1. Other postage is the figure from the F2 Declare
Stamps, is this correct, has the office moved 42p
specials (held in adjust stock) to ordinary (Declare
Stamps) have they made any large adjustments in
adjust stock

1. Bottom of the Receipts, Rem in ADC and bottom of
the Payments Rem out ADC and Rem out Data Cen.
Are these figures correct are they the same as the
actual rem in and out for the balance period.

1. Stock Volumes. Are these correct to what is on hand?

1. Is there anything in general on receipts or payments
that look unusual?

1. AP reports. Are there any transactions that look
wrong? Is there for example a weekly council tax AP
for £500 instead of £50.

1. Have you done any mixed Giro deposits where you
have included the cheque figure with the cash?

If the error still cannot be found at this stage we start to
do transaction logs. Use a date range covering the
balance period or if they know a date when the cash
declarations had a mismatch go from that date to today.

2. Ifitis a loss, the stock unit thinks we have had a
receipt for that value. To find out, do a Transaction
log on receipts with a value to and from for around
the same value as the discrepancy.

2. If it is stock related do a Transaction Log, Mode F11
and select SAN (stock adjust Negative) this will show
any stock adjustments they have made down that will
increase the cash figure.

If nothing is found after doing the checks above tell the
office to check stock and cash again. If nothing can be
found the office will have to accept the discrepancy. Make
good and roll over.

Date Last Changed: 03/03/2006

Page 2

POL00114814
POL00114814
