POL00041871
POL00041871

Message

From: Rodric Williams I

Sent: 06/07/2018 08:36:19

To: Gavin Matthews [/o=Exchange-Org/ou=Exchange Administrative Group
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/cn=Recipients/cn=24fec6fc425343 1abbféce6acbbfSbe7-Gavin Matth]

Subject: RE: Post Office - Legal Letter [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Thanks - never in doubt!

Get Outlook for Android

Sent: Friday, July 6, 2018 9:
To: Rodric Williams; Simon Richardson

Cc: Jane MacLeod; Andrew Parsons; Mark Underwood1.
Subject: RE: Post Office - Legal Letter [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Hi Rod

Yes all on track.
Regards

Gavin

Gavin Matthews

Partner
Wombie Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

~GRO-

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON ; v fin]

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 06 July 2018 09:
To: Simon Richardson
Cc: Jane MacLeod; Andrew Parsons; Mark Underwood1; Gavin Matthews
Subject: RE: Post Office - Legal Letter

Good morning Gavin. Just checking that you're on track to get us /EY your letter today (our GE is chasing)?
Any problems please give me a call.
Thanks, Rod

Get Outlook for Android

POL-0038353
POL00041871
POL00041871

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: Wednesday 4 July, 19:45

Subject: RE: Post Office - Legal Letter

To: Simon Richardson

Cc: Jane MacLeod, Andrew Parsons, Mark Underwood1, Gavin Matthews

Gavin,
Thank you again for picking this up.

I now attach our letter asking you to confirm direct to our auditors Ernst & Young LLP, 1 More London Place,
London SE1 2AF (f.a.o. Peter Mclver, Senior statutory auditor) your opinion as to whether our Directors’
current assessment of the liabilities in the Post Office Group Litigation is reasonable.

Our auditors have asked to receive this by this Friday 6 July 2018. Please let me know if you require anything
further.

Kind regards, Rod

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 04 July 2018 14:46
To: 'Simon Richardso
Cc: Jane MacLeod {7
Mark Underwood1 <mi
Subject: RE: Post Office - Legal Letter

>

‘Andrew Parsons I
} Gavin Matthew:

Thanks Simon. Gavin and I have now spoken and are dealing woth the request (thank you Gavin).

Jane — are you happy for me to send the EY precedent letter to WBD, or does it need to come from you or
someone directly connected with the audit/ARC?

From: Simon Richardson
Sent: 04 July 2018 13:22
To: Rodric Williams 7" ~~ }
Cc: Jane MacLeod < - _GRO I — Andrew Parsons ¢
Mark Underwood... GRO, +; Gavin Matthew:
Subject: Re: Post Office - Legal Letter

tam away at the moment but I have had a quick word with Gavin who will look at this in the next couple of
rewards

Simon

Simon Richardson

UK Chair

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

POL-0038353
m:

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

» WOMBLE
BOND
DICKINSON

womblebonddickinson.com

w
©

Sent from my iPhone

POL00041871
POL00041871

POL-0038353
POL00041871
POL00041871

Jane,

am forwarding this to Simon Richardson (our client relationship partner) and Gavin Mathews (a
senior litigation partner) who may be able to take this forward in Andy’s absence.

Simon, Gavin — please give me a call or drop me a line if you want to discuss.
Thanks, Rod
From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 04 July 2018 12:03
To: Andrew Parsons

I Mark Underwood1

If there is someone else you can ask to deal with this, that would be fine!

EY want us to send you a letter along the lines of the attached requesting WBD to confirm to
EY that WBD ‘supports’ the contingent liability disclosure re the litigation in the accounts. It
appears they are now keen to get this by Friday (even though their panel doesn’t meet till next
Wednesday).

Apologies ...

Jane

<image001.png>

Jane MacLeod

Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street

LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number:

POL-0038353
POL00041871
POL00041871

From: Sana M Gangat I
Sent: 02 July 2018 1

_t Alisdair Cameron ¢
Legal Letter

Hi Jane — Hope you are doing well. Following on from the ARC meeting we had on Thursday
last week, you will recall that Peter mentioned we need to send out a letter to the external
lawyers.

I have attached the template that we will be using to this email for your reference. This is a
standard template we use across clients and in order for this to be completed, we will require
your summary write up providing the facts and position taken by Post Office with regards to the
Horizon Legal claim.

Are you able to provide us with your write up so that we can finalise this letter and get you to
send to your lawyers? The aim is for us to have them respond to us within this week so that we
have this in time for the panel that Peter referred to as well. The panel is currently scheduled for
the 11" of July.

In advance of the panel we will also require your proposed disclosures which I believe will be
included in your write up?

Please do let me know if you have any questions with regards to this. Also would be useful for
us to get a view on when we can expect to receive this so that we can plan diaries on our end
accordingly.

Thanks,
Sana

EY has supported the arts since 1994. We are proud of The EY Tate Arts Partnership and our
support of a number of other arts institutions around the UK. For 2017 — 2018, we are
sponsoring: A Perfect Chemistry: Photographs by Hill and Adamson at the Scottish National
Portrait Gallery and The EY Exhibition: Impressionists in London at Tate Britain.

This e-mail and any attachment are confidential and contain proprietary information, some or all
of which may be legally privileged. It is intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to
which it is addressed. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the author immediately
by telephone or by replying to this e-mail, and then delete all copies of the e-mail on your
system. If you are not the intended recipient, you must not use, disclose, distribute, copy, print
or rely on this e- mail.

Whilst we have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this e-mail and any attachment has
been checked for viruses, we cannot guarantee that they are virus free and we cannot accept
liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses. We would advise that you
carry out your own virus checks, especially before opening an attachment.

EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst
& Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited,
a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients.

The UK firm Ernst & Young LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales
with registered number OC300001 and is a member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited. A list
of members' names is available for inspection at 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, the
firm's principal place of business and its registered office. Ernst & Young LLP is a multi-

POL-0038353
POL00041871
POL00041871

disciplinary practice and is authorised and regulated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales, the Solicitors Regulation Authority and other regulators. Further details can
be found at http://www.ey.com/UK/en/Home/Legal

peereeeeeteer ieeeetreeecereccteenecferececereltesecerreccerrecrarecsd
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents
of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply
email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this
email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

IRSA OASIS OIA IIIS S ISIE IIA IIIS AISI DAI III AIT AI KI

<Solicitors Letter - England and Scotland R04.12.docx>

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?
i tt chments i is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected

las soon as possible
and delete any copies. Unauthorised Copying of this
communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use personal data
is in our Privacy Policy on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be
caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is
neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in
England and Wales under number O0C317661. Our registered office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1
2AU, where a list of members' names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is
GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which
consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere
around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the
acts or omissions of, nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson
(International) Limited does not practice law. Please see www.wombiebonddickinson.com/legal notices for
further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

POL-0038353
