POL00237265
POL00237265

From: Westbrook, Mark \(UK - Manchester\;
Sent: Tue 15/12/2015 2:22:21 PM (UTC)
To: Steve Al i

Whitton, Andrew J \(UK -

London\}
Cc: Patrick
Subject: RE: Jane & Patrick Discussion Pre QC Meeting
Hello Steve,

The details are as follows:

“Project Zebra Consolidated Report Draft Subject to Change 21/08/2014 18_06’
“Project Zebra — Board Briefing 040614 v13 Final Draft’

Thanks,

Mark

From: Steve Allchorn [-_
Sent: 14 December 2015 15:52

To: Whitton, Andrew J (UK - Londo:
Ce: Jane MacLeod
Mark (UK - Manchester’
Subject: RE: Jane & Patrick Discussion Pre QC Meeting

3 Westbrook,

Hi Andy
For completeness could you forward on the details .

Thanks
Steve

From: Whitton, Andrew J (UK - London’
Sent: 14 December 2015 15:43

To: Steve Allchorn

Cc: Jane MacLeod; Patrick Bourke; Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)
Subject: RE: Jane & Patrick Discussion Pre QC Meeting

Steve

This is largely fine with me, although we need to reference both documents, the main report and the Board Summary.
Do you have the details to complete this? If not let us know as we can provide.

Many thanks

Andy
IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C303675. Its registered office is 2, New Street
Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL
and its member firms.
POL00237265
POL00237265

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended

recipient(s), please (1) notify it.security.ukt, “2! by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
‘email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
From: Steve Allchorn
Sent: 14 December 2015 14:47
To: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester); Whitton, Andrew J (UK - London)
Cc: Jane MacLeod; Patrick Bourke
Subject: Jane & Patrick Discussion Pre QC Meeting
Importance: High

Andy, Mark — Jane has asked me to forward this on to you following the conversation between Patrick, herself
and yourselves prior to the QC meeting.

As discussed, the following is my suggested wording for a letter that I would be prepared to sign on behalf of
Post Office. Please let me know your thoughts on this.

"Post Office Limited hereby agrees to hold Deloitte harmless in relation to any reliance that Jonathan Swift QC
and Christopher Knight may put on the draft Deloitte report dated (insert details) (‘the Report’), in the context
of the advice that they have been requested to provide to Tim Parker, the Chairman of Post Office Limited.

We hereby confirm that we will instruct JS and CN that the Report may only be used by them for them
purposes of providing such advice and that they shall not disclose the Report other than to directors and
officers of Post Office Limited for any purpose except as required to do so by a court order or by applicable
law or regulation."

I look forward to your comments.

Kind regards,

Steve Allchorn I Complaint & Mediation Scheme PMO Manager

© Ground Floor, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, LONDON,
~ EC2Y 9AQ

((=)) Post Office stories

® @postofficenews
POL00237265
POL00237265

——————

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

coeeseesees oben os soe Jobbnieinioe

