POL00117614

POL00117614
From:
Sent: Thur 15/10/2015 10:08:59 AM (UTC)
To: Rodric Williamsf{,
Ce: angela.van-den-bogerd. ~ GRO _ 1]; Avene
O'Farrell GRO 4 ECTE GRO i
flagcaseadvisorIi GRO 7
Subject: Re: It had to happen sooner or later
Attachment: image003.png
Attachment: image002.png
Attachment: image004.png

Thanks Rod - wise advice with which I agree

Mark Davies

Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Post Office Ltd

Mobile

From my iPhone and therefore possibly in transit so please forgive spelling mistakes or brevity!

On 15 Oct 2015, at 11:00, Rodric Williams < GRO > wrote:

Thanks Angela. I agree that we should ask for the information, but recommend that we write to him in
the same terms that we have every other person who has said they have evidence of flaws (Kay Linnell,
Second Sight, Nick Wallis, Sandip Patel QC, Prof. Button).

I have sent those letters in the past and am happy to do so again. I’m also pretty sure I know about the
JR he’s referring to, and I have already sent a holding to letter to that former PMR acknowledging receipt
of his complaint, so my name might be known to Tim already.

If you agree, I’ll circulate something shortly. 1’ll want to send it in hard copy rather than email, with
Avene sending a short email saying a response is in the mail. Do we have a physical address for Tim?

Generally, my view is that this guy is a bluffer, who keeps expecting us to march to his tune. I don’t think
we should do so, but instead respond with a straight bat.

POL00117614
POL00117614

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: 15 October 2015 10:50

To: Mark R Davies; Rodric Williams

Cc: Avene O'Farrell; ECT; flagcaseadvisor
Subject: RE: It had to happen sooner or later

Mark, Rod,
My view is that we should ask Tim to share the information with us so that we can make
an informed decision on how to proceed. I would suggest that this is probably best coming

from Paula in the first instance.

Thoughts?

Thanks
Angela

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and
privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you
are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original
message.

From: Avene O'Farrell _
Sent: 15 October 2015 09:55

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; ECT; flagcaseadvisor
Subject: FW: It had to happen sooner or later

Hi all,
Please see below email from Tim. Can you advise what action we need to take?
Thanks,

Avene

Avene O’ Farrell
Executive Assistant
EQ to the Chief Executive, Paula Vennells

Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ
POL00117614
POL00117614

From: Tim McCormack }
Sent: 14 October 2015 21:25
To: Paula Vennells

Subject: It had to happen sooner or later

Dear Paula
This may be the last you hear from me directly.

It is a last chance for you to accept what I have been telling you these last
few years is true.

I now have clear and unquestionable evidence of an intermittent bug in
Horizon that can and does cause thousands of pounds losses to
subpostmasters.

Tonight there is a branch in your network sitting on a loss of 5 figures. The
money does not exist. It is a result of several one sided transactions being
entered erroneously by the system not the operator.

I have documentation from POL employees acknowledging the error and
that it has happened before.

I have the source documentation from the subpostmaster concerned.

I have evidence of a similar event happening two years ago. It is also
documented. I have a limited channel of contacts in the Industry. Two
similar events (plus the admission by your employee that he is aware of
other events) is a high percentage, and the error soon to be exposed will
result in more coming to light.

Most importantly it is an error that would not be noticed by many
subpostmasters and could well be the reason for many of the JFSA cases.

I have three options.

a) this email is the first option - appeal to your sense of decency and
compassion to accept that many of the claimants in the JFSA sage are
honest and decent citizens whose lives were destroyed by your
organisation.

b) go to the press and see what happens

or
POL00117614
POL00117614

c) await the inevitable judicial review where you will personally be exposed
and perhaps leave yourself open to criminal charges.

We can stop this farce now. You can wake up and realise that the people
you rely on to tell you the truth about what is happening don't have the
ability to do so.

Option b) happens on Friday. I have one former SPMR who is keen to
proceed with a JR. Option c) could happen sooner than you think.

You have two options:

a) ignore this email and accept the consequences

b) Travel with me to the Branch in question. See for yourself the evidence.
Talk with the subpostmaster concerned and reach your own conclusion. I
want nothing out of this and will meet my own costs.

Your call

Tim

__GRO

