POL00088823

POL00088823
Message
From: Jo Milton L
on behalf of — Jo Miltoni.,
Sent: 26/03/2020 13:20:41
To: Alison J Clark “} Hugo Grenyer£” {Simon Talbot
ce: L im Perkins
Subject: Transfer/Opening/Closure Pack, Transfer Audit Chapter and Workaid

Attachments: Transfer Opening Closure Pack Final V1.4 200131.DOCX; Chapter 04 Transfers V7.0 200221.DOCX; Chapter 04a
Transfer Audit Workaid V7.0 200221.DOCX

Alison, Hugo, Simon,
I have received the Transfer Audit Chapter, Transfer Audit Work aid, and Transfer Pack back from legal.
This remains work in progress, because of the following outstanding actions, which I will need you to take into BAU.

1. As discussed with Alison, there is some thought about whether we should be allowing Operators (Pmrs, SPMs)
to make good any discrepancies on the day of audit, either risk, transfer or closure. At the moment, the attached
documents, and all the other audit chapters are clear in that they do not let POL ask the Operator to make good
on the day, but they do have instructions on taking payment from the Operator if they offer to pay some
monies. As this is still happening in practice, I have left the references to this in all the documentation, but Audit
should review this policy and, if the decision is made to change it, all Audit Chapters and the P242 will need to
be amended accordingly.

Please note that, in any case, everyone must be aware that the Operator must never be asked to, or put
under pressure to pay any shortfalls on the day, nor should they be advised that doing so would resolve the
issue or remove the need for future action.

2. The documents refer to the Onboarding Team checking cash rems on their Teams sites, but this is not yet in
place. Can I leave it with Alison to work through this, with Hugo, and update the references in the Audit Chapter
and Workaid accordingly, depending on your operational solution?

3. Michelle Stevens, whose team is the recipient of the transfer pack documents, which is done sporadically via
post, would prefer to have these documents sent electronically to a shared location. Hugo, you were
investigating the use of scanners for your team to do this. If this is something that you have managed to
complete, then, in conjunction with Alison/Simon, please can you arrange for Michelle’s Team to set up the
shared location, agree a process, and update the Chapter, Workaid and the front page of the Transfer Pack
accordingly?

However, if you are all in agreement and happy with the documents, these documents can be put into use immediately,
but it will have to be made clear to the Onboarding team that they can’t yet check cash rems.

Transfer Pack changes

The transfer pack is not very different to what has already been issued as an interim — it’s just that some parts of it have
been slightly reworded, or reorganised, there are extra signatures, an updated ARS110 form, which is now officially
renamed as the Item Transfer Form, and its generally tidied up.

The biggest change, which already happened, was the removal of the “Acknowledgement of Appointment” form, all
documents relating to adhering to the official secrets act after contract end (P301), Residential form, staff registration
(P356) and the P13. I have been unable to find any reason to retain these documents as part of the pack and have made
POL Legal aware that we have removed these (in November).

POL-0085881
POL00088823
POL00088823

This means that the only paperwork that has to be done on the day of transfer is that relating to the count and transfer
of money, stock and POL property.

Please let me know asap if you have any questions,

Thanks
Jo

Jo Milton

POL-0085881
