POL00094149
POL00094149

ed

Criminal Investigation

E-books 1-9 together represent the theoretical learning from the Investigation
Foundation Course and to varying degrees the topics covered are all interlinked. An
understanding of the overall role of an Investigation Manager will only be achieved
when all the e-books have been completed. It is essential to complete the PACE
Codes of Practice e-book first as an understanding of that topic is necessary to
follow the remaining subjects but after that the order is not particularly important.

1 Title: PACE Codes of Practice - Duration, 30 minutes.

Description: This e-book provides an introduction to the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act 1984, which is a key piece of legislation affecting all aspects of how
Investigation Managers carry out their role. A considerable amount of additional
reading is required during the completion of this e-book. After completing the e-
book you will be able to explain why PACE was introduced and who it applies to,
identify the seven individual Codes of Practice and identify and explain the sections
of the Codes that are most relevant to the Investigation Manager's role.

2 Title: Caution and Interview - Duration, 55 minutes.

Description: This e-book provides an introduction into the meaning and correct
use of the caution and also the interviewing of suspected offenders both of which
are key areas of an Investigation Manager's role. After completing the e-book you
will be able to state the exact wording of the caution and when and how it should
be administered. You will also be able to state what constitutes an interview,

identify the equipment used in a tape recorded interview, understand how to

conduct tape recorded interviews with suspected offenders and explain where the
caution and interview fit into the process of caution, interview, search and arrest.

3 Title: Evidence and Witness Statements - Duration, 40 minutes.

Description: This e-book explains what evidence is and identifies the different
types. It also provides an introduction to the use and completion of witness
statements. After completing the e-book you will be able to identify and explain the
different types of evidence, the rules regarding the taking of witness staternents
and understand how to take a professional witness statement including the
production of evidence.

POL00094149
POL00094149

r

POL00094149
POL00094149

4 Title: Friends, Juveniles and Royal Mail Young Persons - Duration, 50
minutes.

Description: This e-book explains what is meant to an Investigation Manager by
the terms Friends, Juveniles and Royal Mail Young Persons. After completing the e-
book you will be able to define those terms, list who qualifies to be included in each
category, describe the measures that need to be taken when you have contact with
them and explain the implications of failing to follow the correct procedures.

5 Title: Notebooks ~ Duration, 35 minutes.

Description: This e-book provides an introduction to the use of notebooks
including the potential need for their use in a Court of Law. After completing the e-
book you will be able to explain the guidelines on making a notebook entry,
complete notebooks in an evidentially correct manner and explain the rules relating
to agreeing notebook entries with colleagues.

6 Title: Powers of Arrest - Duration, 35 minutes.

Description: This e-book explains the circumstances under which an Investigation
Manager might have to arrest a suspected offender and the legal issues
surrounding such actions. After completing the e-book you will be able to state
what powers of arrest you have as a citizen, what extra powers are given to the
Police, how you arrest someone and what you do after an arrest has taken place.

7 Title: Search ~ Duration, 1 hour.

Description: This e-book explains how Investigation Managers conduct searches
of official and private property. Some aspects of searching are also covered in the
PACE Codes of Practice e-book that you will have already studied. After completing
the e-books on Search and PACE Codes of Practice you will be able to state the
grounds for conducting searches, what your powers and those of the Police are,
and deal with aspects such as Health and Safety, search warrants, recording
recovered property including computers and explain the procedures to follow if
nothing is found during a search.

POL00094149
POL00094149

rd

POL00094149
POL00094149

8 Title: Testing operations - Duration, 35 minutes.

Description: This e-book explains the circumstances whereby suspicion that
someone is acting dishonestly can be turned into proof by testing operations. After
completing the e-book you be able to state what type of crimes can be tested, the
grounds to do so and the authority that has to be sought. You will be able to
explain what observation is required before a testing operation is required, describe
the process of making up and recording test items, controlling a test item, the
treatment of unsuccessful test items and state what constitutes “Agent
Provocateur”.

9 Title: Theft, Robbery and Burglary - Duration, 55 minutes.

Description: This e-book explains the offence of Theft as well as those of Robbery
and Burglary and the differences between them. After completing the e-book you
will be able to define the offences of Theft, Robbery and Burglary, understand the
points to prove for each and define from given examples which offence has taken
place.

POL00094149
POL00094149

-

ma

