POL00460649
POL00460649

From: Westbrook, Mark[!_
Sent: Thur 26/03/2020
To: Mark Underwood:

1AM (UTC)

Subject: FW: Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege - Suspense Accounts Report
Attachment: 180202 version 3 MU Tracked Legally Privileged SA Report.docx
Hi Mark,

See attached for the final version of this deliverable that Lewis and I could find — this was just before

it emerged Paul from your finance team had not extracted all the data which then resulted in the two

year long re-extraction effort.

This draft does clearly discuss how we arrived upon the two accounts though, although the dialogue is
incomplete.

Let's discuss.

Mark

Mark Westbrook

Director I Risk Advisory I Deloitte LLP
D “4M

From: Mark Underwoo
Sent: 02 February 2018 16:45

To: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester) <
Cc: Jonathan Gribben +
Subject: Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege - Suspense Accounts Report
Mark,

To discuss on our call on Monday — draft re-worked suspense Accounts Report attached.
Have a great weekend.

Mark

Mark Underwood
Head of Portfolio: Legal, Risk &
Governance

2017 Winner of the
Global Postal Award Ground Floor
for Customer 20 Finsbury Street

Experience London EC2Y 9AQ
Mobile numbe:

ERR RRR A RR A RR A ISR RI RRR CORR I GRR ACOA RR OSE GR A CGR OR ACS RGR ao

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

EER RR FRR A RR FRR A 2K RF ARR OR RR FR ROR A ERR AO ROR a ao
IMPORTANT NOTICE
POL00460649
POL00460649

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C303675. Its registered office is 1 New Street
Square, London EC4A 3HQ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom affiliate of Deloitte NSE LLP, a member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private
company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”). DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL and Deloitte NSE LLP do not provide services to
clients. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about to learn more about our global network of member firms. For details of our professional regulation please see Regulators.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient(s}, please notify it.securit and destroy this message immediately. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or
viruses. All emails sent to or from “mail account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

You can understand more about how we collect and use (process) your personal information in our Privacy Notice,

Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP
engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it,
