POL00143385
POL00143385

From:

Sent:

To:

Ce: Andrew J Moore[i

Subject: RE: Alan Bates - Draft FOI Response - Horizon Communication Failures

As per my response on 6/7 I still think that the stuff in what is now paragraph 6 (our satisfaction & controls) should be
positioned earlier in the letter. And the longish text on why comms failures happen (paras 2 -5) should be shortened
to be more of a concluding example. Currently the recipient of the letter reads a lot about why incident happen
before getting to the bit that says “..(but we are happy it is controlled)..”

I don’t think the current text leads to closure — it offers more leads to invite more questions or challenges about
matters which actually we feel do have controls in place to stop them.

Rod

From: Peter D Johnson

Sent: 16 July 2012 12:51

To: Mike Granville; Chris Darvill; Mark S Wright; Rod Ismay; Ronan Kelleher; Sabrina Jethwa; Alwen Lyons; Simon
Baker; Dave Hulbert; Ian Trundell

Cc: Andrew J Moore

Subject: RE: Alan Bates - Draft FOI Response - Horizon Communication Failures

Importance: High

Good afternoon everyone

Please find attached the latest version of my response to Mr Bates. I have taken into account Mike and Chris’s
comments and hopefully drafted a response that better reflects our position. The RMG review panel are sitting
tomorrow and will be discussing a complaint made by Mr Bates about this late response. I would like to give them
some comfort that we have responded to the request, and as such would really appreciate a quick turnaround so that I
can send this before noon tomorrow, If you would like to discuss any aspect of the response please give me a call.

Please note there are a number of reasons for a communication failure, however I have only included a small
selection.

Kind regards
Pete

Peter D Johnson

Senior Engagement and Involvement Manager
Post Office Ltd

Network Services and Transformation

1st Floor, Bunhill Row Wing, 148 Old Street,
London, EC1V

POL00143385
POL00143385

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended
recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the
original message.

From: Mike Granville

Sent: 09 July 2012 14:53

To: Peter D Johnson; Chris Darvill; Mark S Wright; Rod Ismay; Ronan Kelleher; Sabrina Jethwa
Cc: Alwen Lyons; Simon Baker

Subject: RE: Alan Bates - Draft FOI Response - Horizon Communication Failures

Peter

Looking at this reply — can I suggest that we need to include some more context such as an example of what a
communication failure actually is — presumably this is things such as a line connection being lost for an individual
terminal for a few minutes - to avoid any subsequent populist media line that seeks to wrongly make out that this is a
large number — for example claiming to have discovered that ‘there is one failure in every branch each year’. Also, is
there any wider context — for example is this the kind of thing that any large company system would have at these
kinds of level.

Finally — I suggest that before we send a reply, that this draft is sent to Alwen Lyons and Simon Baker — as we are
aware that Alan Bates has some link into the Arbuthnot enquiry type work — it is important that they are sighted on this
particular correspondence and the response that is being given.

Thanks

Mike

Mike Granville

Head of Stakeholder Relations

Post Office Ltd

1st Floor, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

From: Peter D Johnson

Sent: 07 July 2012 13:46

To: Chris Darvill; Mark S Wright; Rod Ismay; Mike Granville; Ronan Kelleher; Sabrina Jethwa
Cc: Cory Alexis; Dave Hulbert; Ian Trundell; Andrew J Moore

Subject: RE: Alan Bates - Draft FOI Response - Horizon Communication Failures
POL00143385
POL00143385

Hi all

Thank you all for your comments. I have taken these on board and adjusted the draft accordingly. Please find attached
my latest draft. Again we are hoping to send by close of play on Monday, any and all comments welcome.

With regard to context — would it help if we added detail around the number of Horizon terminals currently live within
the open and trading network?

Kind regards
Pete

Peter D Johnson

Senior Engagement and Involvement Manager
Post Office Ltd

Network Services and Transformation

1st Floor, Bunhill Row Wing, 148 Old Street,
London, EC1V
Mobile Number:

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended
recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the
original message.

From: Chris Darvill

Sent: 06 July 2012 12:43

To: Andrew J Moore; Mark S Wright; Rod Ismay; Mike Granville; Ronan Kelleher; Sabrina Jethwa
Cc: Peter D Johnson; Cory Alexis; Dave Hulbert; Ian Trundell

Subject: RE: Alan Bates - Draft FOI Response - Horizon Communication Failures

Andy

I would delete the reference to “tardy response”. If we have missed the deadline for responding, I think it would be
sufficient to say that “We apologise for the delay in responding”.

I think the explanation regarding communication failures across the network needs to be simplified. It was not
entirely clear what point we were trying to make. Needless to say any ambiguity in our response will be seized upon
and it is, therefore, important that our response is clear. Otherwise we simply open ourselves up to further requests
or challenges.

Going forward, please can you ensure that Sabrina is also copied in on these emails. Thanks.

Regards
POL00143385
POL00143385

Chris Darvill
Legal Services
Post Office Ltd
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC:

From: Andrew J Moore

Sent: 06 July 2012 11:38

To: Chris Darvill; Mark S Wright; Rod Ismay; Mike Granville; Ronan Kelleher
Cc: Peter D Johnson; Cory Alexis; Dave Hulbert; Ian Trundell

Subject: Alan Bates - Draft FOI Response - Horizon Communication Failures

Hello all,
Please find attached our draft response to Mr Bates regarding Horizon Communication Failures.
REQUEST

‘in your response (your ref: KFME-8TQJVX) to my Freedom of Information request dated 26th April 2012 where you
clearly state that nowhere within The Post Office are you aware or have ever been notified of any Bit Error Rate testing
results of Horizon, you do confirm that Horizon does suffer from communication failures.

How many communication failures has Horizon suffered from in the last 12 months or is this information not logged or
recorded or ever made known to The Post Office?”

The request comes on the back of the last response Mr Bates received regarding “bit error rate testing” (also attached).
Dave Hulbert has provided a figure for the past 12 months (11,862) and also some background to why these failures
occur. We have used this in the draft and the finer detail that Dave provided is detailed below.

The response deadline is close of play Monday so I would be grateful if you would provide all your comments by 3pm
on Monday for Peter to review and make any changes necessary.

Many thanks

Andy

Andrew Moore

Freedom of Information Team
24 Floor, 14 St. Peters Street
St. Albans

AL1 3AA

Incident levels fluctuate between 550 to 2000 per month. Network failures relate to the whole telecoms infrastructure
across our Horizon estate, which is vast. Added to this the complexity of the telecoms infrastructure in the UK, plus
consideration of all other factors such as environmental ones means that network failures are common in a branch
estate of our size. It would therefore seem unreasonable to trawl through the incident logs to pull out these failures,
particularly as the vast majority of these will be due to issues outside of Fujitsu and Post Office’s direct control.

An example below re incidents out side of POL/Fujitsu’s control that may affect our ability to communicate with
Branches.

I know that this one is not about a comms failure but an incident similar to this one could have affected
telecommunications [ remember the fire in the comms tunnel Manchester/Durham ] and reinforces Dave’s statement.

Other incidents could be the contractor digging up the road and slicing through comms cables !
COMMUNITYSAFE.GOV.UK

Whitehall - fire in EDF substation

Whitehall - Fire in EDF substation has caused a power failure in immediate area. Alarms/lifts have been effected -
Please bring this to attention of entry staff as any entry measures may be effected. Update as required

Message sent at June 29, 2012 11:11
