POL00448397
POL00448397

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Gratton, Lorna - UKGIf~~
Thur 06/06/2024 10:13:33 AM (UTC)
Saf ismail ¢

RE: PM Survey

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening
attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Thanks Saf. Very interesting to see. Especially the polarisation of it. As always, it’s hard to disaggregate the impact of
remuneration of declines (due to overall falling revenues and volumes) and the wider brand trust, with the actions of
POL / retail team directly (though I accept that on the rem side they’re clearly linked).

Thanks for sending on.

Lorna Gratton I Director

UK Government Investments

v.ukgi.org.uk

From: Lorna Gratton {

Sent: Thursday, June 6, 2024 10:21 AM
To: Gratton, Lorna - UKGIi”

Subject: Fwd: PM Survey ~

Sent from Outlook for Android

From: Saf ismail {
Sent: Thursday, J
To: Lorna Gratton

Jacobs (

Elliot
rew

Nigel Railton

Darfoor;

Hi all

Subject: RE: PM Survey

Brian Gaunt

Simon Jeffreys

Hopefully it works this time.

Regards

Saf Ismail

Non-Executive Director

100 Wood Street,
POL00448397
POL00448397

London, EC2V 7ER
postoffice.co.uk

From: Saf ismail: i
Sent: Tuesday, June 4, 2024 5:21 PM

Nigel,

Brian Gaunt

Hi all see attached.

Postmasters Survey Research.pdf
Regards

Saf Ismail
Non-Executive Director

100 Wood Street,
London, EC2V 7ER
postoffice.co.uk

FESS SESE SEI OSES OSES SEI OSES ORSI SSE SOE OREO SGI III

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 100 Wood Street, London,
EC2V 7ER.

FESS ESSE OSES SEES EEG EE SEES EE Gao a dora dar inci

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote
also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for
other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.
