POL00102280
POL00102280

Message

From: Ron WarmingtonI._ 3
Sent: 03/03/2015 17:1,

To:

Subject: RE: Post Office L

Sensitivity: Company Confidential

Thursday's good for me too Janet. And fear not, we'll not let the SPMRs, JFSA,
James and his colleagues (and you) down. But the situation has become ludicrously
untenable. It's clear that the legal team in Post Office no longer accepts (if
indeed it ever did) that its employer (as regards its in-house lawyers) or its client
(as regards Bond Pearce) is one of the SUBJECTS of this investigation. It is
equally clear that the Post Office legal team does not accept that any influence
that it exerts on us should be, as it were, ‘light touch’ unless ratified by the
Working Group and by the other stakeholders (including, of course,

James). Instead, it is clear to us that Post Office's attitude has hardened (from
the Crichton era) to one where we (Second Sight) are viewed as being under
contract/instruction to obediently follow our client's (i.e. Post Office's)
instructions as to what we are to do - or what we are to refrain from doing. It
remains unclear - certainly to me - whether the ‘lawyer tail is wagging the Post
Office dog’ here or whether the in-house and external legal teams are doing the
bidding of the Board/Chairman/CEO. It may even be a combination of the two. In
either case, it has resulted in a wholly inappropriate ‘Defend the brand at all
costs' stance (as reflected in comments made by Paula Vennells in response to
Question 170 by the Select Committee and also much referred to by George
Thompson in his response to Question 14) that seems to have completely
overwhelmed any intention (if ever there really was such an intention) to ‘seek the
truth’.

Best regards, Ron.

From: Ian Henderson’
Sent: Tuesday, March 03, 2015 3:29 PM
To: ‘WALKER, Janet'

Cc: 'Ron Warmington’

Subject: RE: Post Office Legal Issues
Sensitivity: Confidential

Janet

Pll still be at POL with their new legal person on Wednesday, so Thursday is best for me.

POL-0101863
POL00102280
POL00102280

Pll check with Ron as well.
BTW, Tony Hooper has also said he doesn’t want us to resign!

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Linkedin:
Twitter: I

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be privileged.
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me a and
delete the email and any attachments.

From: WALKER, Janet
Sent: 03 March 2015 11:21
To: ‘Ian Henderson’

Cc: Ron Warmington
Subject: FW: Post Office Legal Issues
Sensitivity: Confidential

Good morning Ian

James is seeing the CCRC chairman and head of cases on Wednesday. Might you (and Ron?) be free for a
phone call either:

3pm Wednesday 4 March — he's got votes so may be interrupted
4.45 pm Thursday 5 March?

I passed on your thoughts on how things were going and he has said to please let you know that he is
profoundly alarmed at the thought of Second Sight's offering to resign. Profoundly. Whereas he had to resign,
because the time was coming for him to hand over anyway, your position is different. If you do resign there
will be absolutely nobody between the subpostmasters and the wolves.

Let's take this further in the phone call.

Kind regards
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

POL-0101863
POL00102280
POL00102280

T{"GRO

From: lan Henderson I GRO
Sent: 27 February 2015 10:
To: WALKER, Janet

Cc: ARBUTHNOT, James
Subject: Post Office Legal Issues
Sensitivity: Confidential

Janet

'm not sure that Aujard’s replacement is any better than her predecessor. They are both antipodean after all...

I attach a letter which incidentally was not marked Private and Confidential, that shows that Post Office are continuing
to take a very robust line on our requests for access to legal files, included a thinly veiled threat that we are damaging

the business by continuing to look at this issue.

lalso attach a copy of an email showing that Belinda Crowe, the secretary to the Working Group, is also challenging our
longstanding requests for access to the email evidence.

They are a few other issues I need to brief you on, so I will call you later.
With best wishes

Tan R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Linkedin! : I

if you are not the intended recipient, please notify me ati
delete the email and any attachments.

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please
notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-
mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-
mail.

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail.

POL-0101863
