POL00101054

POL00101054
Message
From: Martin Edwards f_
on behalf of — Martin Edward:
Sent: 16/07/2014
To: Paula Vennells Sophie
i David Oliverf}
Melanie Corfield
_p Avene O'Farrell
Subject: FW: Draft email from James Arbuthnot to MPs

See below — a concession from James although he kept in the “harrowing” point. But overall the email is in far better
shape than the first draft a week ago. It has now been issued.

Avene/Sarah — please could you note in Paula’s diary the arrangements for the call which are set out below?

Thanks,
Martin

From: WALKER, Janet I”
Sent: 16 July 2014 11:28

To: Martin Edwards

Subject: RE: Draft email from James Arbuthnot to MPs

Dear Martin

James has changed the wording from ‘hundreds of individuals’ to ‘so many individuals’, and has asked me to
send this email out.

He looks forward to talking to Paula tomorrow. I'd be grateful if she would call my number i
and I will put her through to James. Many thanks.

Kind regards,
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

www.jamesarbuthnot.com

From: Martin Edwards GRO i
Sent: 15 July 2014 16:36 ~
To: WALKER, Janet

Subject: RE: Draft email from James Arbuthnot to MPs

POL-0100637
POL00101054
POL00101054

Dear Janet

Thank you very much for the call just now and apologies again that Paula wasn’t available today to speak with James
directly. We will get back to you as soon as possible about Thursday afternoon.

In the meantime, I have made our proposed amendment to the wording of the note to MPs in your email below. As
explained, our concern was that the language exaggerated the number of cases which have come through. While it is
certainly a significant number and we are taking those cases seriously, it is important that the number is put in
perspective to avoid unfairly undermining the confidence of sub-postmasters and customers in the system. We were
also concerned about the impression created by the wording at the end of this sentence — while it is certainly true that
some of the stories from subpostmasters are “harrowing”, these are complex cases with multiple factors at play,
whereas the language at the end of the sentence rather leads the reader to assume that the difficulties faced by these
individuals must be the direct result of the actions of the Post Office. The point of the Scheme is to consider these cases
objectively on a case by case basis.

Many thanks again for the opportunity to discuss the note, and please feel free to call me back if you have any further
questions or comments.

Kind regards,
Martin

Martin Edwards [ Chief of Staff to the Chief Fxecutive

RBUTHNOT, Jame:
Sent: 15 July 2014 11:59

To: Sarah Paddison

Cc: WALKER, Janet

Subject: Draft email from James Arbuthnot to MPs

Dear Sarah

Thank you for the brief chat just now. I can confirm that James would like to talk to Paula this afternoon, and
will call her mobile at 3.45pm.

One of the matters he wants to touch on is the email he is sending out to MPs, a draft of which is below. Paula
saw an earlier draft and commented upon it. The email will go with the Annex Paula sent last week. C

Could you please pass this on to her for her thoughts?

Many thanks
Janet

POL-0100637
POL00101054
POL00101054

[Draft email to MPs]
Dear Colleague

I had hoped that we might schedule a meeting before summer during which the Post Office might offer us an
update on how the mediation scheme is progressing. To this end I have been in correspondence with Paula
Vennells, the Chief Executive, to see what might be arranged.

It appears that not a great deal can be added to what was said in our last meeting. The mediation scheme is
progressing, but at a slower pace than any of us would have liked. Rather than hold a meeting just before
Recess that will not reveal more than we already know, I would rather wait until autumn, but I do want to get
a date in the diary for a meeting then.

I attach a note that Paula has sent which sets out the progress made since our last meeting. She has
reiterated to me that the integrity of the mediation scheme requires that confidentiality of cases be respected.
In her letter to me she has also said that individual case details may not be shared with us at any point,
including at the end of the Scheme.

I would like to believe that at the end of the Scheme we will be presented with a report which shows why and
how we got to the stage where a significant number of individuals have come forward with concerns. I do
believe that the mediation scheme has a good chance of righting things, but we shall all need clarity as to
what happened and why, and how it is being put right.

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

prrerereeerrcerercenerccereceerceccereterecerererertrecrercertvettercs
UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail.

POL-0100637
