POL00266141
POL00266141

From: Mark Underwood, _. GRO ee!
Sent: Mon 25/02/2019 8:21:56 AM (UTC)
To: Rodric f
igela Van-Den-Boger
Ce: Jonathan Gribbenf
Subject: RE: Expert joint memo [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]
Thanks —

Does Robert have the short explanation against each bug explaining why he disagrees with Coyne? Clearly this needs
to be included somehow. If it isn’t included in the joint statement — how do we get it in?

Mark
Mark Underwood
Portfolio Director: Legal, Risk &
Governance
2017 Winner of the
Global Postal Award Ground Floor
for Customer 20 Finsbury Street
Experience London EC2Y 9AQ.

Mobile number!

From: Andrew Parson:
Sent: 25 February 201
To: Rodric Williams ¢_
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd GRO

Ce: Jonathan Gribben +_

Subject: Expert joint memo [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Rodric, Mark, Angela

The expert joint memo has been delayed until 2pm today. The Court has been updated (by the experts directly) and
Fraser has agreed an extension of time.

The joint memo today is likely to be incomplete. It will cover the question of Horizon's reliability (ie. the 22 Coyne
bugs) but not remote access. A separate second joint memo will be produced for this later in the week. This approach
has been devised and agreed between the experts.

Coyne is being very difficult. He is opposing lots of Robert's ideas. For example, it is accepted by both that the
experts do not agree that all Coyne's 22 bugs are material problems. Robert wants to put a short explanation against
each bug explaining why he disagrees with Coyne. Coyne opposed this, wanting to just say that the bugs were
disputed. This would of course be useless for the Judge who would then only know that there was a dispute, but not
the substance of the dispute.

The cynic in Robert believes that Coyne is doing this intentionally, so to run out the clock thereby forcing the experts to
put in a lightweight memo that avoids any criticism of his supplemental report.
A
POL00266141
POL00266141

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

womblebonddickinson.com

A)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally py -d and protected by law. mark,underwoodt only is authorised to
access this e-mail and any attachments, If you are not mark.underwood "GRO please notify andrew.parsong s soon as possible and delete any copies.

inlawful. Information about how we use

Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may
personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website.

‘hed to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Any files atta
loss or dan

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB 123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US. the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www. womblehonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK

) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

