POL00310902
POL00310902

adcast ce New Broadcasting House, Portland Place, London WIA IAA

Telephone {.

‘BIBIC] News

Director, News and Current Affairs

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Post Office Ltd

21 January 2015

Dear Mark,

Thank you very much for your email of 16 January and I appreciate the constructive spirit in which it
was written.

I quite understand that when you are under the media's lens, an issue may seem magnified beyond a
size you feel to be appropriate.

lam reluctant, as a general rule, to limit the cumulative effect of editorial decisions made by
individual BBC editors on any given day, for reasons which I will explain, although I accept that in the
interests of plurality our overall agenda should not be monothematic and, as you indicate, the
amount of coverage given to a story over time might sometimes need close scrutiny.

The One Show which you mention, comes from another part of the BBC, rather than News, so I have
no say over its content. But the broader point is that our different news programmes and services
are aimed at different audiences and the degree of audience overlap between the various outlets
you mention - for example Today and Breakfast - is, as you might expect, next to non-existent. In this
respect, prominence might be a bigger editorial concern - whether, for example, we had placed a
story higher up the running order than its weight should bear.

I take your point about the background to these events, however, and your concern over the level of
coverage, and I will ensure that my editors are briefed on, and fully understand, the background you
have outlined, and the reason for your disquiet. In particular, I recognise that the Post Office is
bound by confidentiality in this matter and cannot speak freely.

In terms of the specific point you make about the apparent tardiness of Breakfast's request for
information, I asked its editor, Adam Bullimore, for his response. He says that it is certainly the case
that the programme team did not start to look at the story until Friday lunchtime. This is, he says,
par for the course as the team has first to plan its Saturday and Sunday editions.
POL00310902
POL00310902

In the end, however, I gather the planning team decided against the story for its own editorial
reasons.

I hope this helps to outlines our thinking, and thank you for allowing me to understand yours more
fully.

Yours sincerely,

James Harding
Director, BBC News & Current Affairs
