POL00248073
POL00248073

From:
Sent: (UTC)
To: Patrick
Ce: Pettitt Josh (Comms & Strat Plant,
UKGIE’
Melanie Corfiel
Subject: RE: Horizon
Hi Richard

Thanks for this. I’ve added Mel to the chain: she is leading our comms approach, and hope this is
useful.

That’s right - the point is that (according to JFSA), 1,000 people have contacted as possible
candidates, rather than joined.

In terms of an announcement, this was an announcement by the JFSA, confirming what we already
know, in an attempt to drive some coverage. I’ve pasted it below.

Our line is: The Post Office welcomes the Group Litigation Order as offering the best opportunity for the matters in
dispute to be heard and resolved. We welcome the progress that has been made but will not otherwise comment on
litigation whilst it is ongoing. We continue to have confidence in the robustness of the Horizon system which has
around 78,000 users across 11,600 branches nationwide to process six million transactions a day.

JFSA statement

The Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA) announced today that the Group Litigation Order (GLO)
against Post Office Ltd has now been approved by the President of the Queen’s Bench Division of the High
Court, which means that the case will continue through the court as a group action. Post Office Ltd is
defending the claim.

Over 1,000 subpostmasters from across the UK have now applied to join the action.

While the grounds of the case may be subject to revision as the matter proceeds, the claim focuses on a
number of areas — particularly the true nature of the contract between the subpostmasters and Post Office
Ltd in terms of the Horizon operating system, and the way in which Post Office has dealt with alleged
shortfalls.

The claim covers training and support, the proper recording of transactions, liability for claimants to pay
alleged shortfalls of cash or stock and the processes for identifying, investigating and recovering shortfalls.
The claim will also look at Post Office Ltd’s rights to terminate subpostmaster contracts and will examine
issues of “good faith, fair dealing, transparency, co-operation and trust and confidence.”

Alan Bates of the JFSA said: “The case is now up and running and we have had over 1,000-plus candidates
come forward so far. Subpostmasters now have until 26 July to join the action before the cut-off, which
prevents new claimants joining the claim thereafter.

“Subpostmasters have brought the claim to force Post Office Ltd to accept responsibility for the flaws in its
Horizon operating system, for its refusal properly to investigate accounting shortfalls and for its shoddy and
careless treatment of postmasters who have lost their liberty, livelihood or savings because Post Office Ltd
POL00248073
POL00248073

wrongly accused many of them of theft or fraud. As well as a court finding of responsibility, the claimant
group will be seeking appropriate financial compensation in respect of loss and damage suffered.”

The claim also seeks to establish whether subpostmasters were placed under duress by Post Office Ltd when
they signed off incorrect accounts or when they resigned.

Bates added: “We are looking to establish that Post Office Ltd acted ‘unconscionably’, in other words
harshly, oppressively or beyond what would be considered normal commercial bargaining. If that was the
case, we'll seek to establish whether this has a bearing on either the signing of the accounts or forced
resignations. We are also concerned that individuals may have been unlawfully harassed and also whether
Post Office can be held liable for damages in terms of the stigma created around the affected

subpostmasters, for their loss of reputation and the stress caused as a result of these serious breaches of
legal obligations.”

Any subpostmaster who was in post since 1999 and experienced issues with Post Office Limited and its
Horizon system including alleged shortfalls or discrepancies or other issues from using the system, may be
jor call

Mark Davies
Group Communications, Brand and Corporate Affairs Director

1st Floor

Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 94Q

GRO

From: Callard, Richard - UK
Sent: 30 March 2017 14:28

Williams, Jessica - UKGI

Subject: Horizon
Mark / Patrick

See below. This was also mentioned at the Board, just wondering if there was any more intel (at the Board we
POL00248073
POL00248073

were told that the JFSA or Freeths had been contacted by 1,000 SPMs, but not actually joined the action).

Nick Wallis’s blog refers to an “announcement”, which I can’t see on the JFSA website. Was there one, and
do you have it?

Many thanks

Richard

Nick Wallis (@nickwallis)

28/03/2017, 10:55
Blimey. 1,000 Subpostmasters have joined the claim against the Post Office in the High Court:
...atyouwishfornickwallis. blogspot.co.uk/2017/03/1000-s...

Download the Twitter app

Sent from my iPhone

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.
