POL00041684
POL00041684

Message ne ee
From: Jane Macleod: GRO '
Sent: 21/03/2018 15:
To: Rodric William:
cc: Patrick Bourke:

Veronica Brantor
Subject: FW: Litigation and Appoifitment= next steps

Attachments: Draft Protocol.docx

(Veronica — for awareness re Monday committee meeting; Di — for awareness re setting up a possible call on Friday)
All

lam being chased by UKGI for our views on this ~ can I have your thoughts? We have the first Board sub-committee
meeting on Monday and {I wouid like to flag this to them?

Also, we need to work up an agenda for that sub-committee meeting. So far my suggestions would be:
© ToR
* Litigation timetable & suggested dates for future meetings
e Update on developments since January board meeting:
© Scope of disclosure
© Scope of Horizon hearing
o Appointment of IT expert
© Application for security for costs
© Engagement with UKGI
e Contingency planning
« AOB

Anything else — we only have an hour? Could we have a call on Friday to discuss?

Thanks

Jane

Jane MacLeod

Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

From: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKG
Sent: 01 March 2018 1!
To: Patrick Bourke
Cc: Jane Macleod
Richard - UKGI

'Rodric Williams ¢ GRO —__icallard,
Cooper, Tom - UKG

aambert, Helen - UKGI

Patrick, Helen,

Thank you for your time last week.

POL-0038166
POL00041684
POL00041684

As discussed, I attach a standard form litigation protocol along the lines of what we would propose to submit to the
Permanent Secretary. As you will see, this sets out various touchpoints in the litigation process, and the steps we intend
to take to ensure the Permanent Secretary remains fully informed at each salient point.

If you are able to provide more detail on the litigation timetable, or indeed if you have any comments or suggestions, we
would be happy to amend the protocol bespoke to the current litigation.

Separately I’d be grateful, as I indicated in my email to Helen on Monday, if in anticipation of Tom Cooper’s
appointment, you could let me know if you intend to agree an NDA similar to the one you have with Richard, and if so,
forward me the proposed text so that Tom and I may consider.

Kind regards,

Elizabeth

From: Patrick Bourke}
Sent: 23 February 2018 15?
To: O'Neill, Elizabe'
Cc: Jane Macleod
Richard - UKGI <
Subject: Litigation Meeting

Dear Elizabeth

It was a pleasure to meet with you this morning.

I just wanted to confirm that we have understood the need for an appropriately structured information flow in
relation to the matters we discussed earlier, and agree that some form of protocol to govern those arrangements
makes very good sense.

While recognising that there is no set format in this regard, it would nonetheless be helpful for us to draw
inspiration from similar arrangements you have put in place with other ALBs. You kindly offered to share
something with us for that purpose.

We will come back to you with our take on how this might work best in our case, having regard to the
particularities of our governance arrangements and the litigation itself.

In the meantime, do please feel free to get in touch if there is anything you'd like to discuss.

POL-0038166
POL00041684
POL00041684

Kind regards

Patrick

° Patrick Bourke
Corporate Affairs Director
1 Floor
20 Finsbury Street
2017 Winner of the
Global Postal Award for
Customer Experience i

London EC2Y SAQ

GRO

EOE SOS IE OE OEE OHIO IAS IOCS HIS HSCCOB EEE OE CORSE Io mE
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JOO EI CII II CII CII FI CITE IEIOISIORIEI OIC ORICIOCOIEIORIEI OSE SISSIES IGOR EIS IORI AIK

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

POL-0038166
