POL00448233
POL00448233

Contract Termination Decision Review Panel -
Overview

David Southall, Head of Contract Management & Deployment
8 April 2024

POL00448233
POL00448233

Key Roles

Decision Review Panel
panel that has been designed to introduce independence in the decision review making process whilst ensuring that Post
Office retains its ability to make decisions about its contracts. To this end the panel comprises four members:

i. Two Post Office Senior Leadership Group (SLG) Members;
ji. One former postmaster; and
iii, A (non-voting) panel chair (also a former postmaster).

Postmaster
Being transparent and open towards Post Office
They may contact their NFSP representative to support them through the process or arrange legal or other support

Head of Contract Management & Deployment
+ Accountable for the deployment of the policy and supporting Post Office personnel who carry out actions under the policy.

POL00448233
POL00448233

Panel Composition

The panel has been designed to introduce independence in the decision review process whilst ensuring that Post Office retains its
ability to make decisions about its contracts. To this end the panel must comprise of four members:

+ Two Post Office Senior Leadership Group (SLG) Members. These are senior Post Office managers (Band 4 and above) who will
(where reasonably practicable) have had no material prior involvement in the contractual decisions being reviewed. The

presence of two Post Office employees ensures that Post Office retains some control over the decision taken in respect of its
contracts;

‘One former postmaster. The presence of a former postmaster brings some objectivity to the decision review process and gives a
postmaster voice on the panel. As this individual no longer holds a contract with Post Office (or is no longer the director of or
partner in a postmaster), but does have recent experience of the network, this limits the risk of any conflict of interest.

‘One (non-voting) panel chair (a former postmaster). The presence of a regular panel chair provides consistency to the Decision
Review process,

Each panel member will have the right of escalation, in which case the matter will be referred to the Group Chief Retail Officer who
may seek further assurance from the Group CEO if required

POL00448233

POL00448233

Postmaster Challenges — Contract Termination

Once a decision is taken by Post Office to terminate the contractual relationship this will be communicated to the postmaster
wholwhich, if the postmaster chooses, may challenge the decision that has been taken. This is applicable to a postmaster on any
contract type and covers decisions to both immediately terminate and terminate by notice.

During the review process, the Decision Review Panel may seek further information from the postmaster who will be invited to attend
the meeting remotely. The role of the panel is to review the termination decision and, if required, consider any additional information
provided by the postmaster to establish;

whether Post Office had the right to terminate the contract;

whether the decision to do so was taken consistently with the obligation of good faith; and

whether the decision was taken in compliance with the termination provisions set out in the relevant contract between Post
Office and the postmaster.

Decision required
The pane! wl collectively review he temination decison and reach a malorty decision on one ofthe fofowing options:

uphold the decision to terminate the postmaster contract; or

overturn the decision to terminate the postmaster contract, end the suspension period (if suspended) and reinstate the
postmaster contract subject to conditions (if applicable); or

uphold the decision to terminate the postmaster contract, but if the decision was to terminate immediately, change the decision
to terminate on notice and confirm the notice period; or

uphold the decision to terminate the postmaster contract, but if the decision was to terminate on notice, reduce or extend the
notice period (in line with the minimum notice period as set out in the Contract Termination Policy).

POL00448233

POL00448233

General Information

A Decision Review Panel meeting will be held once per month,

In addition to the mandatory panel members additional attendees will be invited (as required) to attend either in person or
remotely:

+ The postmaster who/which challenged the termination decision;
+ Postmaster representation (if requested by the postmaster); and/or

+ Contract Advisor and/or Head of Contract Management & Deployment who dealt with the case may be invited to input.

The postmaster will be informed of the outcome by the Decision Review Panel as soon as practicable after the decision is made.
The decision, and the rationale for the decision, will be set out in a decision letter, which will be sent to the postmaster.

f applicable payment under the contract to the postmaster continues during any period of suspension (as set out in the Postmaster
Contract Suspension Policy).

