POL00153578
POL00153578

From: Kendra Dickinson!
Sent: Wed 11/11/2015 1

To: Angela Van-Den-Boger¢ GRO
Subject: RE: Chairman’s Report - Requested Helpline Documentation
Hi Angela

Initial comments below. I can work on this for this week if the responses are acceptable .

One of the key areas for them, and where they currently have limited information, is NBSC operations, particularly
within the 2000-2010 period (pre-HOL). From meeting discussions and our own review of them following it, we
believe the specific asks are;

1) Could we provide a document which describes in laymen’s terms the NBSC architecture pre-2010 around calls
made into it i.e. the tier structure. I can provide this but would not be able to provide number of staff. There
was a bigger tier1/tier 2 operation which was then changed as Tier 2 moved over into POL around 2008. My
assumptions on staffing would be guesstimates.

2) Could we also provide the call categorisation list (if it existed, or needed to exist) e.g. SPM issue with Horizon
balancing, Horizon outage etc. I can only provide what we have today as any changes will have been made
over the years to reflect the changes in Products/processes and of the course the changes made when HNGX
came into force.

3) A list of the top 20-50? issues raised through the NBSC in relation to operating Horizon. I would only have this
in today’s world. Pulling that from the old data that we have from Remedy would be a mammoth task as
categorisations changes and the sheer amount of data ( circa 600k calls per year — higher some 6-10 years
ago) to trawl through manually as we don’t have this data on system anymore since move the new CRM. we
had to turn Remedy off as RM system.

4) The NBSC scripts for those issues highlighted in 3). I can provide what we have today.

5) Could we also provide information where those scripts have been changed/updated since Hol went live in
2010. We have the audit trails now but this is only fairly recent since the work came into POL. We don’t have
it going back that far.

6) A\list of any colleagues who were responsible for the management of the NBSC pre-2010 and who are still
working in the business. The QC may wish to meet with them. I can provide team Leaders, John and myself
are really the only ones now.

Reds
kendra
Kendra Dickinson
Senior Contact Centre Relationship

Manager
Support Services

Mobile §

Email I

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 11 November 2015 11:45
To: Steve Allchorn; Kendra Dickinson
POL00153578
POL00153578

Ce: Mark Underwood1; Patrick Bourke
Subject: RE: Chairmans Report - Requested Helpline Documentation

Steve,
Thanks for setting out the requirements below. Kendra will action this piece of work but to be clear

this is not an easy or swift task. Kendra will consider the task and let me know what is doable in terms
of turning this around.

Thanks,
Angela

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Steve Allchorn

Sent: 11 November 2015 10:11

To: Kendra Dickinson; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Cc: Mark Underwood1; Patrick Bourke

Subject: Chairmans Report - Requested Helpline Documentation
Importance: High

Morning Kendra/Angela

Patrick, Mark, Rod Williams, Jane MacLeod and myself met with Jonathan Swift (QC) and Christopher Knight (Junior
Barrister) to understand from them how we can further support them in their delivery of the Chairman’s review
report on Scheme complaints. We have

One of the key areas for them, and where they currently have limited information, is NBSC operations, particularly
within the 2000-2010 period (pre-HOL). From meeting discussions and our own review of them following it, we
believe the specific asks are;

1) Could we provide a document which describes in laymen’s terms the NBSC architecture pre-2010 around calls
made into it i.e. the tier structure.

2) Could we also provide the call categorisation list (if it existed, or needed to exist) e.g. SPM issue with Horizon
balancing, Horizon outage etc.

3) A list of the top 20-50? issues raised through the NBSC in relation to operating Horizon.

4) The NBSC scripts for those issues highlighted in 3).

5) Could we also provide information where those scripts have been changed/updated since Hol went live in
2010.

6) A list of any colleagues who were responsible for the management of the NBSC pre-2010 and who are still
working in the business. The QC may wish to meet with them.
POL00153578
POL00153578

All a bit difficult I know and only exacerbated in that there is an urgency to get anything we have (in reasonable order)
off to Jonathan and Christopher.

Angela — when we met briefly yesterday you suggested popping down to the Sparrow workspace sometime today.
You may want to do so for a little more clarity. I am not in the office today but Mark and Patrick are around if you
need a discussion.

Thanks
Steve

Steve Allchorn I Complaint & Mediation Scheme PMO Manager

(2) Ground Floor, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, LONDON,
~ EC2Y 9AQ

i)

©

©

@ Post Office stories

@® @postofficenews

Y

