POL00151297
POL00151297

From: Matthews, Gavinf.

Sent: Thur 26/02/2015
To: Rodric Williams[I
Subject: FW: Draft Letter to CCRC
Attachment: image001.png
Rod

Brian’s comments — interesting point re SS — my view is we should spell out the limitation on privilege.
Regards

Gavin

From: Brian Altman [mailto:
Sent: 26 February 2015 15:15
To: Matthews, Gavin

Subject: RE: Draft Letter to CCRC

Gavin
I have read through the letter and considered it against the CCRC letter.
I agree with option 1.

We should put the ball back in the CCRC’s court so that they tell us what interests them or it’ll be a never-ending hunt
for irrelevance.

My one other thought re option 1 is this: we don’t know why the CCRC have started enquiring now, but a good guess
would be the MPs’ interest and perhaps the parliamentary committee. While I never subscribe to conspiracy theories
it may be the case that Second Sight is in cahoots with certain parliamentarians or others and has reported POL to the
CCRC or sought an enquiry, which leads me to the point: do we need to make clear who a “third party” is for the
purposes of para 1.? i.e. that the definition includes Second Sight? Or looked at another way should we make clear in
the letter for the avoidance of doubt (or is it sufficiently clear) that the privilege POL is asserting is POL’s and does not
extend to anyone other than POL and its legal advisers.

Maybe that is too paranoid but it was a thought.
Otherwise I am content with the option 1 draft.
Brian

From: Matthews, Gavin [mailto!
Sent: 26 February 2015 14:43

To: Brian Altman
Subject: FW: Draft Letter to CCRC

Brian
As just discussed, here is Rod’s email and the draft letter to the CCRC.

Please can we have your comments. Although I drafted it on the basis of option 2 above I believe option 1 as drafted
by Rod is more sensible.
POL00151297
POL00151297

As stated, POL want to send the letter by the end of the week.
Kind regards

Gavin

From: Rodric Williams [mailt
Sent: 26 February 2015 13:19
To: Jane MacLeod

Cc: Chris Aujard; Matthews, Gavin
Subject: Draft Letter to CCRC

Jane,

With apologies for the delay, please find attached my revised draft letter to the CCRC. I also attach the letter to which
it responds for ease of reference.

The main change to Gavin’s first draft concerns our response to the requirement that POL provide "an updated
summary of the decisions and actions taken by the Post Office as a result of Brian Altman QC's report or copies of the
documents recording those decisions and actions."

Brian’s report makes a quite a few recommendations. Reporting on each of them is likely to be a time consuming
exercise which may produce a lot material irrelevant to the CCRC’s investigation. I think we can therefore respond in
one of two ways, either:
1. ask the CCRC (nicely) to identify the specific recommendations in the report which are pertinent to its
investigation; or
2. commit to providing everything within a longer time frame.

My preference is for Option 1, but I have included both alternatives in the draft.

Please let me have your comments. Gavin — can you please forward to Brian for his comments.

Kind regards, Rod

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
POL00151297
POL00151297

recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

soe ee soe oe

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

nly is authorised to access
SSO as POSTETE and delete any copies.
be unlawful

‘il and any attachments. If you are not
nation, distribution, pub

ed use, disser ‘ion of copying of this communication or

«d to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or dam
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C31766 1. Our registered
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
