POL00153939
POL00153939

Ce: Rodric Williams:
simon.clarke(”
harry.bowyert

Subject: FW: The Wimbledon Transaction Correction Issue

Martin

\’'m covering for Andy Winn at the moment. Please find responses to the first six questions. Questions seven and
eight will take slightly longer as I will have to obtain further information from different departments within POL. This
could be further delayed due to period end reporting taking place in FSC. I hope this is ok ?

Responses to your original questions in blue text below.

Kind Regards
Wendy

Wendy Mahoney
Case Review Team Leader
Post Office Limited

Of} Guildhall, 57 Queen St

Glasgow

G1 3AT.

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review,
use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.

If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Wendy Mahoney On Behalf Of Andrew Winn

Sent: 05 April 2016 10:57

To: Wendy Mahoney

Subject: FW: The Wimbledon Transaction Correction Issue
POL00153939
POL00153939

Wendy Mahoney
Case Review Team Leader

Post Office Limited
Guildhall, 57 Queen St
Glasgow

GSAT nn
Tel: d

Emaill

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review,
use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.

If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Martin Smith!
Sent: 30 March 2016 12:15
To: Andrew Winn

Ce: Rodric Williams; Simon Clarke; Harry Bowyer
Subject: The Wimbledon Transaction Correction Issue

Dear Andy,

During the bi-weekly conference call on 23" March 2016 you made reference to a branch at
Wimbledon and explained that Transaction Corrections had been issued which should not have
been so issued and that they had accordingly been “undone”. You went on to explain that there
was a risk that Transaction Corrections may have similarly been issued to other branches which
may have caused losses, possibly going back as far as 2005.

I would be grateful if you could explain:-

1. The precise reason the transaction corrections had been issued to the Wimbledon branch;
Unpaid cheques held in the stock unit.

2. The value of the transaction corrections in this particular case;
The value of the original Transaction Correction is £2400.00

3. The effect of those transaction corrections on branch accounting;
It doubled up the discrepancy from £2400.00 to £4800.00

4, Why the transaction corrections should not have been issued;
This was a value stock item, this item should have been “adjusted” in branch.

5. How the transaction correction issue was discovered;
The branch contacted their Franchise Contracts Manager

6. Whether this issue has arisen as a result of a bug in the Horizon system;
This issue has risen due to an error in branch and then further confusion in Finance Service Centre regarding
the issuing of TC’s.

7. Whether this is an isolated incident or this is an issue which has or may have affected other
branches.

8. If this issue has affected other branches, the period of time over which transaction
corrections may have been wrongly issued and the names of the branches affected.

Many thanks,
POL00153939
POL00153939

Kind regards,

Martin.

CartwrightKing

meme SOLICITORS =m

Offices Nationwide

www.cartwrightking.co.uk

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE
This e-mail is con!

atial and may contain ki d information. If you have received

tely by

not copy it or its contents to anyone

it in error please not
else and de it. Than
A list of directors is available at each office. Cartwright King is authorised
Solicitors Regulation Authority No: 312459. VAT Registration No 29
We cannot guarantee that this e-mail and any attac
check.

you for your cooperation.

regulated by the

re virus-free, but you should please

