HORIZON UPGRADE — December 2002

The new training system is the same as the live system on the counter, up until the middle of
October 2002. This is the first upgrade we have had in the CTO's for at least two years, so
there will be many things that will be different. The main differences for us are:

Screens/Icons/picklists, etc. are up to date

11's can now be scanned (it may take a few attempts though)

BT Bills can now be scanned

Barcoded bills can now be scanned

TV Licences can be scanned (only the newly printed ones will scan not the
shinny ones)

eevee

Trainers to note the following:
To start up when prepping for a course

« From the NT Desktop select 'United Kingdom' or ‘Northern Ireland’ (KPL Training
no longer available)

* Select 'ResetCounter’

e Select 'Delay Desktop' NOT ‘Desktop’ (this helps with setting up Training Mode)

IMPORTANT - To prevent loss of work in the event of power failure or when the
processor needs to be switch off (i.e. screen freezes)

Switch the processor back on and select ‘Delay Desktop’, this will prevent work being lost that
has already been entered.

Stock Units

« Stocks Units AA and BB have different stocks in now.
e There is an extra stock unit CC, which has no stock in it, so will need to be rolled over
if a Cash Account is to be produced.

Barcoded Bills

¢ All barcoded bills should now scan.

e Item 28/22H - Barcoded bill in the name of Ms I Lonely shows on the screen as
£22.50 instead of £82.00 which is on the bill. This can be changed manually on the
screen.

Training Mode

Time to switch to Training Mode - approx. 15 minutes
Time to exit Training Mode - approx. 10 minutes

User Name +
Password

Use of Postage Labels

We have the facility to print Postage Labels with certain conditions being met. Even though
the Postage Labels have a false FAD code and 05/11/02 as the date, they still look the same
as real ones when printed. This has caused concern with security, so the Operational
Training Team have agreed to meet the following security measures when using these labels:

December 2002 1

POL00032429
POL00032429
All Postage Labels MUST be stamped with 'VOID' (stamps are being ordered for each
CTO, until they are received write the word VOID on each postage label)

All Postage Labels MUST be accounted for and disposed of in sensitive waste (or
shredded) after use.

Only the number of Postage Labels that are required for each session must be given to
trainees.

Postage Labels MUST be kept locked in the Instructor's cupboard and must be treated as
a secure item.

These are temporary measures, which must be adhered to until we receive the next Horizon
upgrade.

OBCS

The current P&A books DO NOT scan in the normal mode of the new system with the
exception of Martha Edwards. We must ensure that trainees are trained and practice
scanning the P&A books correctly, therefore, Session 52 will need to be run in Training Mode,
which will enable all the P&A books (except Martha Edwards) to be scanned. This session
would need to be run either first thing in the morning or after lunch so it gives the trainer time
to switch to Training Mode and switch back again in the break. Obviously no money can be
exchanged and the dockets cannot go in the till as they will not be part of the balance.

Postage Stamps and Stationery

The new value stamps are in the system and stocks should be arriving at CTO's next week.
The old stamps will need to be taken out of the stocks, the new ones Remitted in and the
stocks rolled over before the first course. The old Swiftpacks will also need to be taken out,
and the stamp books (6&12stamps) can now be held in the stocks.

Shut Down at the end of a course

The systems should be shut down and switched off when not in use (i.e. in between courses).
To shut the systems down:

Log out so the green Riposte screen is showing

Press CTRL and ESC and the NT Windows Start Menu appears

Select Desktop Shutdown (top of list)

Press CTRL and ESC again, this time select Shutdown
When this is complete switch the processor off

Please ensure that the previous balances and reports for each stock unit are left for the next
trainer.

Sandra Lewis
Training Manager

December 2002 2

POL00032429
POL00032429
