POL00030602
POL00030602

POST OFFICE LIMITED

CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT AND
PROSECUTION POLICY

AIMS/ OBJECTIVES

The aim of this policy is to:

e Ensure a fair and consistent approach to criminal enforcement decisions by Post Office
Limited ("POL") nationally (UK and Northern Ireland)

e Provide POL investigating officers and legal decision makers with guidelines to enable them to
reach enforcement decisions in line with government guidance/ standards

e — Inform the public and businesses of principles applied by POL which guide enforcement
decisions

The objectives of the POL investigations and criminal prosecutions team are to:

e Maintain the integrity and viability of POL services provided to the local community which
could otherwise be directly affected or compromised by criminal acts

¢ Actas a deterrent to theft from POL

e Recover money and assets stolen from POL

e Ensure the safety and security of staff and customers

INTRODUCTION

POL provides a vital national service. Through the provision of around 11,800 post office branches
around the UK and Northern Ireland, POL gives local communities access to postal, banking and other
important everyday utilities.

The function of POL is to provide affordable and reliable services to the public through its retail
operation. POL is mindful that criminal acts against its business (in particular theft, fraud and false
accounting) result in increased costs to the taxpayer, impact on its customers and challenges to the
viability of services.

POL seeks to reduce criminal acts against its business by:

e Providing advice and education to its employees and sub postmasters

e Fully investigating reported concerns

e Taking enfercementaction (eitherincluding criminal or civil enforcement and disciplinary
action) in appropriate instances

POL investigation and legal teams will werk,-whereverpossibie_in-consultationHiaisonliaise with the
police and other relevant regulatory authorities, as appropriate, to provide a consistent and
coordinated approach to criminal investigation and enforcement and follow POL's Internal Protocol
for Criminal Investigation and Enforcement.

The following government guidance/ standards are formally adopted by POL:

« The Code for Crown Prosecutors
¢ The Government's Concordat of Good Enforcement
POL00030602
POL00030602

PRINCIPLES OF ENFORCEMENT
Enforcement will be carried out using four guiding principles:

Our actions will be proportionate to the circumstances

Our approach will be fair and consistent

Our actions will be transparent

Our enforcement will be focused on where it is needed most

We will have regard to the Human Rights Act 1998 ("HRA"), the Regulation of Investigatory Powers
Act 2000 ("RIPA"), the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 ("PACE") and its codes of practice and
the Criminal Procedures and Investigations Act 1996 ("CPIA").

Proportionality means relating enforcement action to the actual offence. Action taken by POL should
be proportionate to any impact on the community or environment, either directly or indirectly.

We will:

e Take account of the circumstances and attitude of the individual or business investigated
when considering action

e Work with employees and sub postmasters so that they can meet their legal obligations
without unnecessary expense

¢ Consider the extent of breach or harm caused as a result of the offence

Fairness and Consistency of approach does not mean uniformity. It means taking a similar and
objective approach in similar circumstances to achieve similar ends but taking into account the
particular circumstances of each case. Investigating-officersSecurity Managers investigating matters
and legal decision makers will need to take account of many variables — the extent of the offence, the
attitude of the individual or business and the history of any previous offending. The consistency and
rationale behind decisions on enforcement action is ensured through internal POL procedures.
including legal advice and sign off.

We will:

e Promote fairness and consistency through information and training to investigating
efficersSecurity Managers and legal decision makers
e Monitor enforcement decisions made and any rationale/ reasoning behind decisions

Transparency means ensuring that employees, members of the public and other affected parties
(including sub postmasters) are aware, through training, contractual documents and operation
manuals what is expected of them and what they should expect from POL. Employees and sub
postmasters are aware through contractual documents and operational manuals of the powers of POL
investigating officers and what is expected of them, including the importance of maintaining integrity of
the service provided and proper accounting to PPOL.O..

We will:

e Make this procedure and other relevant operational documentation available on request
e Provide information and advice in plain language

Translate ietters-for-th ho-first English (thi a tly provided but
deration should -be-given-to-doing
$ ics
Provide-details-of I =
Ppeais-pI

Focused means ensuring that any criminal investigation or enforcement is focused on individuals or
businesses whose behaviour gives rise to the most serious risks associated with offending. Serious
does not just mean where large sums of money isare stolen or significant harm is done but extends to
include wider risks of repeat behaviour and encompasses situations where enforcement will be
required to act as a deterrent to others. Investigations will be particularly focused on those in positions
of trust and relevant factors considered when implementing a criminal investigation will include
POL00030602

POL00030602

complaints from the public, employees or others (such as POL auditors), alleged seriousness of the
actual offending and previous history of offending.

We will focus on:
e Those whose alleged offending affects the elderly and vulnerable
e Individuals or businesses whose offending results in significant loss or harm to POL or the

community
e Individuals or businesses whose offending is committed over a long period

ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS

ROL-A riety-of-enfor at-option:

pions.
Whilst POL only has the criminal enforcement option of Prosecution (and consideration of confiscation
proceedings), it will also consider other actions available to Line Managers, Contracts Managers and
Civil Recoveries teams. All decisions and actions will be recorded and considered in the event of a
future investigation of the same individual or business and may well impact on a future decision to
take criminal enforcement action.

The application of these options available to POL will depend on the impact on the integrity of POL
and the services it provides to the community, risks to people or to the environment, the past history
and attitude of the offender, the consequences of non compliance and the likely effectiveness of
various enforcement options.

In particular, we will consider:

The seriousness of any offence and extent of harm

Duration of the offence

The suspect's age, physical and mental condition

Any voluntary disclosure or confession made by the suspect
Previous convictions or evidence of offending

Any breach of trust

Other social factors

Any delays in an enforcement decision being reached

eo erececece

Reference should be made to POL's Internal Protocol for Criminal Investigation and Enforcement for
further detail on procedure followed before an enforcement decision is reached.

ACTIONS AVAILABLE OUTSIDE OF CRIMINAL PROCESS:

lnformatacti bal tten-advi
«-Givil Proceedings
«Simple Caution
«—Prosecution

These actions to be considered by Line Management/ Contracts Managers and Civil Recoveries Team

in liaison with investigations by POL's lavestigations-and Security team.

Informal Action will usually take the form of letters or reports sent to the offender in the case of a
minor offence _but can also include verbal warnings. Informal action should be acted upon by the
individual or business and in the event they fail to do so, this can result in fermaicriminal enforcement
action being taken.

Examples of when informal action might be appropriate include circumstances where:

e Anearly admission of guilt (in the case of a minor offence) is made
e The offence is not deemed serious enough to warrant fermaicriminal enforcement action
« Action taken by the offender to repay or make amends for criminal act
POL00030602

POL00030602

e The past history of the individual or business suggests that informal action will deter future
offending

Disciplinary Proceedings may be deemed necessary by POL Management in accordance with POL
policies and employment contracts and considered alongside investigations by the Security and
Investigations team and criminal or civil enforcement action.

Civil Proceedings will be considered where the seriousness of the offence or the attitude of the
offender means that POL does not consider formal action is required either to act as a deterrent or a
punishment for criminal behaviour. Civil proceedings can be taken alongside or in place of format
criminal enforcement action and can be used to terminate a contract, recover monies stolen from POL.
or as financial compensation for other wrongdoing. Where civil proceedings are undertaken in
addition to formal criminal action, POL will not seek to- recover twice.

Simple-Cauti bs 4 Iternative-to-prosecution.-Bek impl ti b d
P p 5 ip)

thi t-be-evid #-guilt-sufficiont-to-gi listic-prospect-of tion-if-th

taken-to-a-_prosecution-and-the offender-must-admit-the alleged-offence-by-signing-aformal-caution.

form. imple-caution ious--matter-which--will--influ ny.-future-.decision.should-th

individual-or-business.offend.again.-It-can-be-referred.to.in.-subsequent.court-proceedings.

A-simple-saution-will-be-used-to:
CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT:

Deal-quickly-withes i fone
q ¥

«.... Directiess.serious offences.away fromthe Court

«..Reduce-the chances-of repeat-offences
The following options are available following an investigation by POL which warrants further action
(see below and POL Internal Protocol for Criminal Investigation and Enforcement).

Prosecution will be brought where the circumstances warrant it and where the alternative
enforcement options are considered to be inappropriate. Any decision to prosecute will take account
of the criteria set out in the Code for Crown Prosecutors.

There must be:

e Evidence of guilt sufficient to give a realistic prospect of success in criminal proceedings, and
e Aprosecution must be deemed in the public interest.

Where there is a realistic prospect of conviction and formal action is in the public interest,
circumstances which warrant a prosecution may include:

« Where the alleged offence has resulted in significant losses or impact on POL, it’s clients
and/or the public

e Where the alleged offence involved a flagrant or intentional breach of the law

e Where there is a history of similar offences

« Where the offender has refused to accept wrongdoing despite significant evidence to the
contrary

« Where the offender has failed to repay or make amends for any significant wrongdoing

POL will consider the following circumstances when deciding whether or not to prosecute in addition to
those above:

* The seriousness and effect of the offence
e The deterrent effect of a prosecution on the offender and others
e Any mitigating factors

The decision to proceed with a prosecution will be taken by the Head of Security of POL, upon legal
advice.

Confiscation OrdersProceedings will-be only be seughtundertaken by POL where prosecution has
been deemed appropriate, assets have been identified that can be used to service such an order (or
POL00030602
POL00030602

there is a reasonable belief that such assets exist), spinseculon ie desmed appropri a! and such a an
order is deemed to be in the public interest. -
” defendant the-ordd

7 pay
taken:

POL will:

asset.

¢ Obtain a Restraint Order where, following an interview under caution, a recommendation to
prosecute is made by the Security Manager, evidence is available that a suspect has
benefited financially from a crime, assets have been identified as available, there is a concern
that without the order assets will be dissipated and there is a lack of a credible offer by a
suspect to pay monies back voluntarily.

In the event that monies can be obtained voluntarily, criminal proceedings are discontinued atany

stage,-restraining-ord: Hobs iled-or. de.to.the civil-courts-following-a-default
ts-order) fe party debtorder.to-b ing-the train -der.-[We d-to-dii
party =f
d tinued, ROL Id-simply k-to-dii traints-at-th: tunity

ee uence ec a cut uaseee monies are eeoered via a
compensation order in criminal proceedings or via a civil recovery then a restraint order/ confiscation
proceedings will be cancelled/ terminated.

In determining whether or not confiscation erdersproceedings are appropriate (including restrainingthe
obtaining of restraint It orders), POL will consider: 7

e The seriousness of the offence and financial loss incurred (generally financial losses will be

more than £15,000

e Whether a-civil y Wd-b priate-to-obtain-moniesother factors such as an
abuse of trust or vulnerability of victim merit proceedings in cases where losses are less than
£15,000

e AayA voluntary repayment has made or credibly offered by the date of conviction and-the
attitude-of- the defendant

e Other recovery proceedings have been deemed more appropriate in the circumstances

e Other mitigation or explanation provided by the defendant which is deemed relevant

APPEALS AND COMPLAINTS

If a business or individual is dissatisfied with the action being taken or the way in which an
investigation is handled, they should ask to discuss these concerns initially with the investigating
officer's manager. If they remain dissatisfied with the way in which the matter is being progressed

POL's complaints procedure should be followed.—?{POL -needs-one, RMG-have-one-and-expect
similar template}

Legal proceedings will not normally be suspended whilst a complaint is investigated.
This is without prejudice to any formal appeals mechanism.

ADHERENCE WITH THE POLICY
POL00030602

POL00030602

Investigating officers and legal decision makers must abide with this Enforcement and Prosecution
Policy when making all criminal enforcement decisions.

Any departure from the policy must be exceptional, capable of justification and be fully considered by
the Head of Security (likely in conjunction with Head of Legal) before a decision is taken, unless it is

considered that there is sufficient risk in delaying the decision, under which circumstances the
investigating officer must take the most appropriate course of action, as they see fit.

AUTHORISATION

Specific competency levels for investigating officers involved in the decision making process (other
than prosecution which must be approved by the Head of Security or Head-of-Legal)-are-containedin
separate-intemal-protecol) will be ensured.

OBSTRUCTION OF INVESTIGATING OFFICERS

POL regards the obstruction of or assaults (physical and/ or verbal) on POL staff whilst lawfully
carrying out their duties as a serious matter.

Instances of the above will be referred to the legal department of POL with a view to instigating a full
investigation and legal proceedings against the perpetrator.

REVIEW

This Policy will be reviewed periodically at such intervals as is considered appropriate.

Date of Policy Implementation:
Date for Review of this Policy:

Formal approval of policy by:
Signed Name

POL00030602
POL00030602

‘Client/Client Work/POL - ENforcement POlicy
redraft 19 Oct to John Scott.doc

Description IPOL - ENforcement POlicy redraft 19 Oct to John Scott

ifile://F:/Client/Client Work/POL - ENforcement POlicy
redraft 2 Nov.doc

Description IPOL - ENforcement POlicy redraft 2 Nov
Rendering set standard

Document 1 ID

Document 2 ID

Insertion

Deletion

Maovedteons

Moved to

Style change

Format change

Moved-del 3
Inserted cell
Deleted cell
Moved cell
Split/Merged cell
Padding cell

Count
Insertions 45
Deletions 42
Moved from 0
Moved to 0
Style change 0
Format changed 0

‘Total changes 87

