POL00138314
POL00138314

From: Rodric Williamsf.

Sent: Fri 09/05/2014 2:12:10 PM (UTC) I

To: (UK - Manchester}

Ce: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)fi

Subject: RE: Draft Deloitte Phase 2 Instructions (RDW 07 05 14)3

Attachment: Draft Deloitte Phase 2 Instructions (RDW 09.05.14).docx
Thanks Gareth.

I think that reads well. — just two v. minor amends (see attached).
Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

® 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V S9HQ

Post Office stories

®© @postofficenews

From: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester) !
Sent: 09 May 2014 14:15

To: Chris Aujard; Lesley J Sewell; Julie George; Rodric Williams
Cc: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)

Subject: Draft Deloitte Phase 2 Instructions (RDW 07 05 14)3

CONFIDENTIAL AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED

All,
Further to the discussion this morning, we have captured in proposed words the objectives that see us through to next
Friday (including key milestones).

Speaking to the team, we see these milestones as achievable and I’m am much more comfortable with the clarity we
have on what we’re seeking to achieve. The outputs from the extension will provide you with a strong foundation for
seeing the “full picture” of those design features which support your assertions, and whether we have seen sources of
assurance over those features.
POL00138314
POL00138314

Best regards

Gareth

UK Futures

hittov/www deloitte.co.uk/ukfutures

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is 2, New Street
Square, London EC4A 382, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited ("DTTL"), a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL
and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient{s), please (1) notify it.security.uk{ xy forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
