In Strictest Confidence

POET(06)2™
POET 06/01 - 06/15
Post Office Limited

(company no. 2154540)

Minutes of the meeting of the Board

held at 148 Old Street, London
in May 17°" 2006

ol V7

Present:
Alan Cook Managing Director (Chair)
lan Anderson Human Resources Director
Simon Carter Acting Director of Marketing & Direct Sales
Peter Corbett Finance Director
Ric Francis Operations Director
Graham
Halliday Banking & Financial Services Director
David Miller Chief Operating Officer
In attendance:
Andrew Purchasing Services, Royal Mail Group (for POET 06/07)
Edwards
Ninian Wilson Group Procurement Director, Royal Mail Group (for POET

06/07)
Neil Owen Notes
Apologies: None
POET06/01 MINUTES OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS POET(06)15"

(a) The Board approved the minutes of the EC meeting of
January 18" 2006.
_ POETO6/02 STATUS REPORT
(a) The Board noted all status report actions as completed.

POET06/03 MD’s BUSINESS

(a) POL Strategy: A number of strategy sessions had been
scheduled which would feed into the RMH Strategy Event in
July;

(b) Executive Team Objectives: Interim 6 month objectives had
been agreed for all members of the executive team;

(c) Sales Goldmine: It has been agreed that Bureau targets
should be for value rather than volume. A revised table for
DMBs had been agreed in order to focus sales on the right

1
In Strictest Confidence

POL00294385
POL00294385
POET06/04

(d)

)

()

(9)

POL00294385
POL00294385

In Strictest Confidence

places;

Rapid Deployment: A Rapid Deployment review had been
undertaken and agreed;

Investment: It was reported that the following matters had
been agreed at the weekly meeting of the Executive Team:

(i) CMA and CWU Bonus Schemes;

(ii) Card Account Migration (budgeted spend only)

(iii) Pin Change;

(iv) Automation of A&L Corporate Banking Transactions;

(v) Renegotiation of the NS&I contract;

(vi) A conversion/closure programme of 1.6m, together
with £0.8m for unplanned maintenance;

(vii) £5m of additional marketing spend had been agreed
(subject to no further sales expenditure being
required). The cost of £3m is offset by a £2m net
contribution which would result in a need to drawn
down £3m from the transitional pot;

(viii) Allocation of the £20m transitional pot had been
agreed, subject to final business case approval;

(ix) A risk and opportunity document had been produced
for the 2006/07 plan;

(x) A gifting product strategy had been agreed which
would involve the option to exit the flowers market
within the next 4-6 months and reposition gift
vouchers (the focus being on high street vouchers as
a transactional product).

Bill Payment: A bill payment strategy review had taken
place, and it had been agreed to proceed with an option to
invest but under a new framework. A plan would be
produced;

Organisation Design: The Organisational Design review was
underway. Alan Cook would be discussing with Group the
redundancy sign-off change.

CRUSADER HOUSE CASH DEPOT BUSINESS CASE
POET(06)01

(a)

(b)

(c)

Ric Francis presented the business case to the Board. The
Board noted that:

the explosion at the Buncefield Fuel Storage Depot in
December 2005, had resulted in significant damage to
Crusader House, which the proposed investment sought to
repair. This was an important strategic site for Cash
Services and a key part of the future secure network
strategy that was fundamental to the delivery of current
business plan initiatives;

the unit accommodated 150 Post Office Cash Services
employees delivering Bureau, Cash In Transit (CIT), Safenet

2
In Strictest Confidence
POET06/05

Action:

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

In Strictest Confidence

and Coin processing services, and was used to store high
value items for distribution across the Post Office Ltd.
network;

contingency arrangements were in place at Breakspear
House, but there was an increased risk to staff and cash
holdings. Concurrence had been given by Cash Services
that both management and employees were committed to
returning to Crusader House as soon as the building had
been repaired;

the investment would produce an incremental negative post
tax NPV of £358k over the 7 years remaining on the lease.
This resulted from the timing difference between actual
costs incurred in 2006/07 and the expected receipt of the
insurance claim in 2010/11. The 4.5% interest rate applied
to the recovery of costs and was set against the group
investment hurdle rate of 11 %. The investment resulted in a
4.5% IRR;

the proposal would impact cash flow. However, the P&L
would be unaffected as costs had been included in the
balance sheet as ‘deferred’ income until the claim was
fulfilled.

Post Office Ltd. Executive Team had confirmed the
requirement for this operation to continue at a meeting on
8th May. Group Investment Appraisal understood this was
the least cost option available to comply with the legal,
safety and security requirements for the operation to
continue, and therefore had recommended the investment
be approved.

After some consideration, the Executive Team agreed to the
investment of £2.6m.

INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS STRATEGY

(a)

lan Anderson provided a presentation on Industrial
Relations strategy to the Executive Team. The following
matters we discussed:

(i) the current status of the relationship with the union,
of both Royal Mail Group and Post Office Ltd;
(ii) basic pay negotiations;
(iii) Bonus negotiations;
(iv) the progress being made in Cash in Transit depots.

The Executive Team noted the current status of the
relationship with the Union, and agreed that:

(i) given the new legislation that would come in effect
on October 2006, the issue of seniority and holiday
entitlements would be discussed at the next

3
In Strictest Confidence

POL00294385
POL00294385
Dave Miller
Action:
lan Anderson

Action:
Alan Cook

In Strictest Confidence

Executive Team;
(ii) lan Anderson and Ric Francis would discuss further

the situation at CIT depots;
(iii) Alan Cook would discuss with Adam Crozier and
Tony McCarthy the possibility of writing to staff to

outline the management position on basic pay and
the bonus (and the timing of such a communication).

(iv) POL’s Industrial Relations policy would continue to
be carefully aligned to the Group position.

POETO6/06 FRANCHISE TRIAL WITH WH SMITH POET (06)02

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

Dave Miller presented a paper to the Executive Team which
proposed a franchise trial with WH Smith. The Board noted
that:

the proposal was to transfer of 6 Directly Managed
Branches (DMBs) to franchise status with WH Smith. These
6 franchises would form a 3 year pilot scheme, which, if
successful, could lead to the rollout of 50 DMB conversions,
with an upper limit potential of 75. The P&L benefit of a 50
branch rollout would be of the order of £10m, and this would
represent a significant contribution toward the aim of 300+
long-term DMBs. The trial itself would generate an
incremental post tax NPV of £ 0.9m (@11% discount rate)
over 5 years and £4.1m over 10 years and was expected to
improve steady state total contribution by £1.4m per annum
(or £0.23m per office);

the trial activity would commence in early June with the first
consultation announcement, with 6 branches live by the end
of the third week in October 2006. The pilot sites would
move to a five-year contract should the trial lead to roll-out
(a decision on this was expected in the last quarter of 06/07)
and the roll-out branches would be on the basis of 5 year
franchise contracts. In order to achieve a 50-75 branch
rollout, up to 100 branches would have to be ring-fenced
now, because of issues such as landlord's consent; floor
loadings etc;

the franchised branches would featured the open-plan
design, although the cost would be a challenge. It was
possible that WH Smith would help meet the costs of this fit
out.

the Executive Team discussed the proposal. In the light of
the economic benefits that would result, together with the
consistent strategic fit in terms of headcount and DMB
strategy, the Executive Team agreed to proceed to transfer
6 Directly Managed branches to franchise status with WH
Smith, subject to contract finalisation and individual
business cases.

4
In Strictest Confidence

POL00294385
POL00294385
POET06/07

POET06/08

POL00294385
POL00294385

In Strictest Confidence

THE UTLITIES DIRECTIVE POET(06)03

(a)

(b)

(c)

(a)

(e)

(f)

(9)

Peter Corbett introduced Ninian Wilson and Andrew
Edwards from Group Procurement to the Executive Team. A
presentation was provided on the impact of the changes to
Public Procurement Law (PPL) on Post Office Ltd, and how
these changes would be managed. It was noted that:

currently PPL applied to ‘the postal business of the Post
Office’ and this was interpreted to applying to the letters
element of the Group business and excluding Post Office
Ltd;

in 2009 a new EU utilities directive will come into force
which will effectively remove the exclusion;

purchase contracts with an aggregate value above £280k
would require a call for competition in the form of an OJEU
advertisement, and a number of processes would need to
be followed for Competition, Evaluation and Contract Award;

some areas of activity would have potential exemptions,
which would include goods for resale, where there was only
one possible supplier, and where the supplier was on an
‘approved’ list. There was also an exemption for parts of the
business already operating within a fully competitive market;

analysis of POL’s contracts in 2005/06 suggested that 25
would have exceeded the £280k threshold. These would
need to be carefully planned to ensure the addition
burocracy did not lead to any delay;

The Executive Team agreed that Ric Francis would lead in
working with Group to help identify areas of POL that
operated in fully competitive markets, and would report back
as necessary.

EXECUTIVE REPORTS

FINANCE REPORT

(a)

(b)

(c)

Peter Corbett provided the Board with a short overview of
the period 1 business results:

Profit was modestly favourable against budget (£0.7m) but
cashflow was slightly adverse;

The Executive Team were reminded of their obligation to
keep the finances of the Company under tight review given
the nature of the interim funding agreement that had been
agreed and discussed in detail at the Board sub-committee
meeting earlier in the morning.

5
In Strictest Confidence
POETO6/09
(a)
(b)
POET06/10
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Action:
Simon Carter
POET06/11
(a)

(b)

POL00294385
POL00294385

In Strictest Confidence

SALES & SERVICE REPORT
The Executive Team noted that:

Postwatch: Milli Bangerie had taken over as Chief Executive
of Postwatch. Roger Darlington, who had worked for the
CWU as their head of research, had been recruited. He had
set up an internet ‘blog’ to highlight the problems
experienced in franchised offices;

Queuing: The MP for Bedford had highlighted a number of

queuing issues in the area which would need to be
addressed.

MARKETING & DIRECT SALES

The Executive noted that:

Mails: Following the last POL Board, the online postage
capability of the POL website had been enlivened with
“Smartstamp” (for SMEs). StampNow for consumers would
go live on 4" June. A reaction was expected from the
NFSP;

Telephony: There were now 300,000 live customers, and
Post Office Home Phone was now confirmed as number 4 in
the market, behind BT, TalkTalk/OneTel and
Pipex/HomeCall. However, sales had been slow in the first
month of the year and had reached only 50% of target;

Government Services: A number of meetings had been held
with potential ID Card partners. Discussion with Royal Mail
Letters indicate the desire to form a cross-Group team as
soon as possible. The latest view on the timetable was for
the Government tender documents to be available with the
next 2 weeks, with submissions due within 6-8 weeks. This
is likely to be resource hungary, but represented a multi-
million pound opportunity for the Group;

Postal Orders: The new Postal Order was launched on 27"
April with excellent media and front-line colleague feedback.
Alan Cook expressed concern that the words ‘Royal Mail
Group’ appeared on the Postal Order rather than Post Office
Ltd. Simon Carter would explore whether it would be to
amend this to ‘Post Office Ltd’ due to the potential customer
confusion;

BANKING & FINANCIAL SERVICES POET(06)30

The Board noted that:

Credit Card and Debit Card Acceptance: a business risk

existed over the standards for Credit Card and Debit Card

6
In Strictest Confidence
Action:

Peter Corbett
Graham
Halliday

POET06/12

POET06/13

POETO6/14

(c)

(d)

(e)

(a)

(a)

(b)

(a)

(a)

(a)

POL00294385
POL00294385

In Strictest Confidence

acceptance which had been drawn up by Mastercard/Visa.
POL had joined forces with the British Retail consortium to
voice its concerns;

Horizon Data Capture: an audit of the Horizon system had
revealed that data taken from cards was being stored in
different parts of the Horizon system in such a way that
breached Data Protection requirements. A solution was
being investigated;

Allliance & Leciester: A&L were pursuing further cost
reductions. Peter Corbett and Graham Halliday would meet
to discuss;

RFI: 9 Responses for bottom end of Card Account. The
Government would issue a tender in September.
Discussions with JP Morgan concerning how to deal with
EDs.

OPERATIONS REPORT

Horizon Next Generation: The business case had now been
approvel by GIA, Post Office Ltd and the Royal Mail
Holdings Board;

Horizon Failure: The recent outage in the Horizon system
was due to human error at Fujitsu. Fujitsu had been very
apologetic;

Cashholding: The cash target had been met, but it was now
becoming more difficult to produce improvements;

Safenet: There had been 3 attacks on Safenet in the last 6
weeks which had resulted in an increased risk to the
business.

HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT POET(06)32

The Executive Team noted that:

The Group Behaviours questionnaire would be provided to

the Senior Leadership Group rather than the Executive
Team's direct reports.

RAINBOW PROGRAMME REPORT
Rob Durrant reported that:
Business Development: the modelling for Business

Development of Agents had been completed. A trial would
commence on 5" June 2006 and would feed into the WH

7
In Strictest Confidence
(b)

POETO06/15

(a)

POL00294385
POL00294385

In Strictest Confidence

Smith franchising proposal.
Headcount: Headcount had been reduced by 157 this year,
although the staff budget was slightly over budget.

Significant staff reductions would be required within 6
months for the budget to remain on track.

CLOSE

There being no further business, the meeting was closed.

8
In Strictest Confidence
