POL00381632

POL00381632
From: Susan Crichton[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SUSAN CRICHTONCS5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-
BE4237A4AD4F]
Sent: Tue 03/09/2013 4:56:38 PM (UTC)
To: Alice Perkins{_

Ce: Paula Vennells{_
Subject: RE: SS and costs

Alice - we have agreed the cap on monthly fees of £25k (plus VAT).

Susan

Susan Crichton I General Counsel

-----Original Message:
From: Alice Perkins £
Sent: 29 August 2013 19:38

To: Chris M Day

Cc: Paula Vennells; Susan Crichton
Subject: Re: SS and costs

Thank you for letting me know Chris and all power to your elbow, Susan.

I guess this is realistic but it is disappointing that they are not themselves offering something lower given their familiarity
with the issues now and the unexpected amount of money they have been able to charge us to date (because of the
length of time involved). Is there any mileage in appealing to their sense of public service? (No need to answer that - just
a thought.) I'd be glad to know when the deal has been done - soon, I imagine.

All the best

Alice

----- Original Messag}
From: ChrisM Day!
Sent: Thursday, August 29, 2013
To: Alice Perkins

Cc: Paula Vennells
Subject: SS and co:

Susan Crichton

Hello Alice,

I have discussed this with Susan and asked her to negotiate a monthly cap of £25k with SS (their monthly costs for the
interim report ranged from £25-£43k). In addition, SS have agreed to transition out (subject to our in house team being
sufficiently competent/independent in both carrying on with existing investigations and supporting SPMRs appropriately)
over the coming months; depending on (a) the incidence of new cases arising, and (b) the rate of take up of the
mediation scheme, Susan's view is that this is likely to be achievable by the end of this calendar year or latest first
quarter 2014.

Best wishes,
Chris

Chris Day I Chief Financial Officer
POL00381632
POL00381632

Original Message:
From: Alice Perkins }.
Sent: 29 August 2013 08:24
To: Paula Vennells
Cc: Susan Crichton; Chris M Day
Subject: Re: SS and costs

I would simply like to know what we have agreed with SS about their rate/fee going forward and how this compares with
the basis on which they were being paid up to the interim report.

Thank you.

Alice

----- Original Message --
From: Paula Vennells :_
Sent: Wednesday, August 28, 2013 08:16 PM
To: Alice Perkins
Cc: Susan Crichton:
Subject: Re: SS and costs

Thanks Alice. Useful for me too. And I did receive your other mail, which is the next task in hand.

The Horizon costs have been scoped, and a budget is now in place. We have needed to look at the end to end costs: for
instance, the mediation process, as well as internal and external resources to see us through. I'm grateful to Susan who
has led this review and has devised a way of time limiting the Second Sight costs.

If I try to remember the exact figure estimated for SS, I will get it wrong so have copied Susan to respond, as she and
Chris worked on this together. The intention is for Second Sight to have finished their work by year end (I think calendar
year?). And then for any ongoing activity to be handed over to Angela and her team, so that it becomes a BAU process.
Angela will work hand in glove with SS over the next few months to enable this, and as importantly, to give SS the
reassurance that they can safely hand over to her. So far, I understand this is working well and they have expressed
respect for her input and capability.

Susan, could you and/or Chris update re the SS/costs?
Thx Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 28 Aug 2013, at 15:24, "Alice Perkins' iwrote:

> Hi Paula,

> That was a useful catch-up this morning, thank you. You should by now have had my thoughts on the TOR. I realised
while I was looking at those papers that I should have asked you where we got to on SS's costs which had not been fixed
by the time I went away. Perhaps you or someone else could let me know?

> Many thanks

> Alice

>

> This message has been scanned for malware by Websense.

> www.websense.com

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
POL00381632
POL00381632

expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

FARRIS SSD oo ISIS IOI IO III

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
