POL00204789

POL00204789
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc: Kramer, Jeff. Stevenson,
Rosemary V AI
Subject: Document List for Post Office Horizon Expert Witness Engagement
Martin,

further to our meeting on Friday, as agreed, here is the list of documentation and information that Jeff and Naranker are secking and
that would be useful for the engagement. The list is rather long and not all documents may be needed for the initial phase. However,
the indicate our need for general information about the overall system as well as particular information on integrity, auditing and
maintenance

Information Requested

* Details of the management hierarchy at POL and Fujitsu responsible for Horizon.

Horizon System:

* Description of software and hardware architecture of the Horizon system including software and hardware located in branches.
* Description of the external systems that interact with the Horizon system and how they interact with Horizon.

* Description of applications running in branches, including details of what information can be checked and printed at a branch by
Sub-Postmaster, including transaction and event logs.

* Description of the interaction, transaction and communication system used between branch Horizon machines and the central
Horizon system.

Integrity and Reliability:
* Detailed description of how Horizon ensures integrity and reliability.

* Detailed description of the support Horizon provides for auditing, including details of facilities for producing audit trails of local
and central events and transactions, and including some typical examples.

. Description of the development procedures used, including testing, deployment. Examples of tests used to ensure integrity and
reliability.

* Description of the Horizon reconciliation and transaction correction mechanisms and procedures.
Maintenance:

* Details of the process used to update software on central servers and on branch terminals.

. Details of the main revisions/updates made to the Horizon system in the past 5 years.

* Details of bugs/defects fixed in the last 5 years.

Disputes:

. Dispute procedures and history of disputes plus outcomes.

* Details of documents requested and made available to Second Sight for their investigation.

* Copies of Second Sight documents supporting their Interim Report.

POL00204789
POL00204789

If you need any further information from us, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Many thanks,

Paul

Dr Paul M. Cray
Business Development Manager - Natural Sciences
Imperial Consultants ICON)

This transmission contains information which may be confidential and privileged. It is subject to the DISCLAIMER at
http://www.imperial-consultants.co.uk. If you have received this transmission in error please contact the sender.

Imperial Consultants and ICON are trading names of IC Consultants Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Imperial College London.
Registered in England and Wales, number 2478877.
