POL00218943
POL00218943

From: Belinda Crowe[imceaex-
mms_ou=exchange+20administrative+ 20group+20+28fydibohf23spdit+29_cn=recipients_cn
elinda+20crowe7 9b93f1 1-569f-4526-a078-f5b4958a89 17220@c72a47.ingest.local]

Sent: Fri 16/01/2015 2:27:32 PM (UTC)
To:

}; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Ce: jark
Underwood,
Subject: FW: suspense accounts - Legally privileged for the purpose of seeking advice
Attachment: suspense accounts.emI!
Both

I understand that you are speaking with Rod today about suspense accounts. Please see below and attached. I do not
know whether Chris A will ask for someone other than Rod Ismay to attend a meeting with Second Sight but as things
stand the new CFO thinks it should be him.

In light of this, could you form a view when you put him through his paces this pm. He will be populating the answers
to the questions and Al and CA will sign off.

We need to get this done urgently and then set up a meeting with Second Sight (not the Working Group as Al
suggests) and at least aim to get something in the diary within the next couple of weeks.

am sure that Mark (copied) will set that up but if, when you have spoken to Rod you can get some idea of timescale.
We will need to get the written answers to Second Sight before we have the meeting.

I am happy that Mark does whatever in terms of supporting in this but grateful if you could let us know what that is
after you have spoken this afternoon.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

From: Alisdair Cameron

Sent: 16 January 2015 13:59

To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Ruth Phillips; Peter Goodman; Rod Ismay

Subject: RE: suspense accounts - Legally privileged for the purpose of seeking advice

Chris, Belinda thanks very much.

Rod Ismay is the right person to do this. He will fill in any blanks on the attached document and send it back to us. I
suggest that you and I review the final draft before it goes back.
POL00218943
POL00218943

As ever, I may be more inclined to be open, while recognising the desire not to set more hares running. Talking to
Rod, he is comfortable that we work systematically to stop branches being disadvantaged and where we have worked
through client suspense accounts and released monies back to credit the p/I account, this operates independently of
the branch accounting and the branches have not been disadvantaged. That is a good clear story.

In terms of the daily run of differences between the till and the system, which we used to call suspense accounts (but
don’t any more), we don’t know what has happened and start from the premise that we are owed any till shortfall.
There have been two circumstances where we identified that by pressing a particular sequence of keys a branch could
create such a gap, erroneously. Those have been corrected and the branch compensated. So while we can
demonstrate that we are alive to the possibility of error and behave correctly when it is identified and can state that
we are not aware of any other such systematic issues, we cannot, I would suggest, categorically state that it couldn’t
happen elsewhere.

In addition, there can be circumstances in which by making a series of errors, a branch can, for example, create a cash
deficit and a cheque surplus but make it impossible for us to align the two, which would benefit us at their expense.
But we do try and stop this. Rod will try and quantify this in the expectation that the amounts are tiny compared to
the agents’ remuneration.

While Rod and I agree that he is the guy to sit with the Working Group and answer questions, I think he needs to be
properly prepared. I would ask your team to arrange a rehearsal for Rod at which you can hurl all the most hostile
questions at him, to make sure that the balance of the script doesn’t set hares running.

I assume that you will be in the Working group and can offer some protection to Rod if required?

Does that work? Thanks Al

From: Chris Aujard

Sent: 16 January 2015 08:28
To: Alisdair Cameron

Subject: FW: suspense accounts

Al - FY — just in case the well-oiled PA machine fails to ensure that this gets to you promptly.

As you will see, I really need someone from your team who is technically switched on re suspense accounts, and can
handle themselves in front of an adversarial audience.

As you can imagine, I am concerned that we give Second Sight no more information than is necessary to address the
narrow proposition that money that is “missing” from an SPMR account is somehow taken into our suspense account
and then appropriated to our P&L.

Chris

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 15 January 2015 16:59
To: Ruth Phillips

Cc: Chris Aujard; Belinda Crowe
Subject: suspense accounts

Tracy
As discussed, could you please pass this to Alisdair. Many thanks Belinda

Dear Alisdair
POL00218943
POL00218943

I understand that Chris Aujard has spoken to you about the discussion at yesterday’s Working Group meeting of the
Complaint and Mediation Scheme. For some months, Second Sight and the independent chair of the Working Group —
Sir Anthony Hooper — have been asking for information on the operation of the Post Office’s Suspense Account. Put
simply, this amounts to:

e How much is absorbed into Post Office P&L from the suspense account each year; and

e How much of that relates to money which is/may be properly due to Subpostmasters.

The nub of the issue is whether it is possible for a Subpostmaster/Subpostmasters to have made good a loss in branch
or held accountable for a loss where it later transpires that the money was not owed therefore Post Office gains.

Please find attached a more detailed note on Second Sight’s questions which you will see ask for rather more detail. It
has become essential that we address these questions as a matter of urgency (although it could be that we cannot
provide all the information Second Sight have requested in the attached document). The Chair of the Working Group
is now pressing to provide answers as he has been asking for answers for some time. I’d be very grateful of you could
give this your urgent consideration.

In addition, we have taken an action from the Working Group to organise a meeting between Second Sight and POL
finance on these issues. I’d be grateful if you would also urgently consider who might attend such a meeting.
Thank you in anticipation

Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

i Postline! GRO

