POL00448393
POL00448393

From: NATHOO, Heather{

Sent: Thur 23/05/2024 10:49:51 AM (UTC)

To:

Cc: MEREDITH, Catherine

Subject: RE: Business and Trade Committee: Invitation to appear as witness - 11 June 2024
Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening
attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Hi Saf

As you will no doubt have seen, the Prime Minister has called a general election for 4 July.
As such, Parliament will be dissolved next week and all future evidence sessions have been cancelled.

This email is to confirm that the session on 11 June is no longer taking place. We are grateful for your willingness to
participate in the session.

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to get in contact.

All the best
Heather

Heather Nathoo I!

From: Saf ismai
Sent: Friday, May 17, 2024 1:17 PM
To: NATHOO, Heath:
Cc: BEECH, Nicholas ; MEREDITH, Catherin:
Subject: RE: Business and Trade Committee: Invitation to appear as witness - 11 June 2024

Hi Heather

Thank you for your email, I will be attending.
Regards

Saf Ismail
Non-Executive Director

100 Wood Street,
London, EC2V 7ER

postoffice.co.uk

From: NATHOO, Heather I
Sent: Friday, May 17, 2024 12:09 PM
To: Saf ismail
Cc: BEECH, Nicholas } MEREDITH, Catherine <
Subject: Business and Trade Committee: Invitation to appear as witness - 11 June 2024

POL00448393
POL00448393

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening
attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Dear Saf
T hope you are well. I am writing from the House of Commons Business and Trade Committee.

The Committee is conducting an oral evidence session on the Post Office on Tuesday 11 June at 10am. The
aim of this session is to follow up on the Committee’s previous oral evidence sessions on the Post Office, with
a particular focus on Post Office culture. I am writing to you as the Committee has expressed an interest in
hearing from a postmaster viewpoint. As serving postmasters who are also Non-Executive Directors, the
Committee would like to invite you to appear as a witness at this session, alongside Elliot Jacobs.

If you are able to appear as a witness for our session, it would be helpful to have a meeting via Teams to
discuss in further detail the aims of the session and potential lines of questioning. Please could you let me
know when is most convenient to do this.

Please do get in touch if you have any questions. It would be much appreciated if you were able to respond to
this invitation by close of play Monday 20 May 2024.

All the best
Heather

Heather Nathoo
Committee Specialist
Business and Trade Committee

Te :
House of Commons, Palace of
parliament.uk

jestminster, London SW1A OAA

House of Commons
HH Committees

The House of Commons welcomes feedback. If you have any compliments, complaints or comments,
about the service that you have received please send an email to feedback;

UK Parliament Disclaimer: this e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please
notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-
mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this
e-mail. This e-mail address is not secure, is not encrypted and should not be used for sensitive data.

JE EOS IOS TOES ISOS IOS ISOS SEIS ETE OBIS ISBT IORI
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named

recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
POL00448393
POL00448393

views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 100 Wood Street, London,
EC2V 7ER.

FESS EES ESI SSE SORES SES SSE SRE SS GS nS ISIE Saino ik dar iar nik

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy

UK Parliament Disclaimer: this e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail. This e-mail address is not secure, is not encrypted and should not be used for
sensitive data.
