ATTENDANCE NOTE

CASE NAME: SEEMA MISRA
CASE NO: CRM/258932/JSX
DATE: 15" July 2010

Received a telephone call from John Longman. He'informed me that he has spoken
to Penny Thomas regarding .my E-Mail and that she is still awaiting a form to be
completed and authorised by Post Office Limited before she is able to allow Gareth
Jenkins to meet up with the Defence Expert as directed by the Crown Court. He
tells me that there is a CT form which needs to be countersigned by somebody in
the Commercial Team which includes a purchase order number before Penny is able
to authorise.

I highlighted this to Rob Wilson. He informs me that one needs to tell Penny
Thomas that if this is not authorised we or the Defendant would have the matter
listed and then she or somebody from her organisation would need to come to
Court and explain to the Judge what the delay or the hold up is.

I spoke to John Longman informing him what I highlighted in my conversation with
Rob Wilson saying that this matter will be listed for Mention and that Penny Thomas
would then need a summons to appear before the Judge to explain why Gareth
Jenkins is not authorised to meet up with the Defence Expert. She was hesitant and
informed me that this may not be good for our relations with Fujitsu. I got Penny
and_a mobile number and informed _ him that I wil eak to her.

I telephoned Penny Thomas, explained the position to her and informed her that I
had spoken to John Longman and that if Gareth Jenkins is not authorised to speak
to the Defence Expert then we or the Defence may have the matter listed for the
Court and somebody from our organisation would need to be in Court to explain to
the Judge the reasons why and this would be horrendous for the Business and
adverse publicity this may attract. She informed me that Gareth Jenkins has been
authorised to speak to the Defence Expert and he will be contacting him today.

One telephone call to Issy Hogg the Defence Solicitor informing her that Gareth
Jenkins will be contacting their Expert today with a view to arranging to discuss the

issues involving this case as per the Direction given by the Judge at Guildford
Crown Court on the last hearing.

JARNAIL SINGH

Senior Lawyer

z:leriminal work folders\singh jamail - erm\258932 - misra\258932 fnZ.doc

criminal work folders\singh jarnail - crm\258932 - misra\258932 [n7.doc

POL00054999
POL00054999
