POL00186943
POL00186943

From: Alice Perkins

Sent:

To: Alwen Lyons{" ~~
Subject: Re: James A meeting

Dear Alwen,

Thank you for saying all this. Characteristically straightforward and frank.

I think it would be worth having a chat about this at some point soon. There are some things to learn from it.

In the meantime, we must get into a different gear on this issue. We stood to gain a huge prize from embarking on this though it was
never going to be easy. We have almost blown it on more than one occasion and if it goes wrong it will be hugely damaging. Too
bad if we find substantive things which are wrong. But if what goes wrong is self-inflicted that would be inexplicable.

This is not all down to you by any means but I do think in practice you have a pivotal role of only to bring things to my attention -
which you have sometimes done.

We have another chance to save this now. Please don't let us waste it.

All the best

Alice

----- Original Message
From: Alwen Lyons!”
Sent: Tuesday, May 21, 2013 09:22 PM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: James A meeting

Alice I wanted to apologise for the lack of clarity at the meeting today. Paula and i have had a conversation about the way forward
and the need to ensure second sight are woking to their terms of reference, finding out the facts and not focussing so much on.
keeping JFSA on board.

The JFSA issue will be picked up in the wider stakeholder piece which Paula and I have already discussed with Mark and Martin
Edwards about.

I have spoken to second sight and also to Susan who is contacting second sight this evening to reiterate our concerns and to ensure
that they are focused on delivering the 2-3 MP cases before the summer. Which they promised me they would do.

I would like to clarify one point as I realised that you and Paula were both disappointed with the time which has elapsed since the
exchange of letters between James and JFSA written on the 16th April and felt we should have moved things on.

I should explain that we were not copied in on these letters but received them from Second Sight as blind copies two weeks after they
were written. This has made reference to them very difficult, and managing the ongoing timelines and agenda challenging.

I believe the call with James on Thursday and a subsequent meeting after recess will help us understand his position in moving this
to closure, and also enable us to drive the agenda more proactively.

On my way home now. If you want to discuss tomorrow just let me know.

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons

ISHS SSE SSG HR aa Ga agar aaaicdbcicickiaickaiceick deck aici ici deg kok

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact
the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely
those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.
POL00186943
POL00186943

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON ECIV
9HQ.

IEEE SSS ESOS SESE SHICHI GHG E COGS OG CCG CRIS GAAS ICICI IA

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com
