POL00024741
POL00024741

To: Jane MacLeod
Cc

atrick Bourke f

“} Rodric Williams

Subject: FW: Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege. Findings in relation to
Recommendation Number 7

Date: Tue, 21 Jun 2016 07:41:54 +0000

Jane — please see the below note from Jonathan Swift QC

Mark

From: Jonathan Swift!
Sent: 21 June 2016 08:40

To: Mark Underwood:«; Christopher Knight
Ce: Patrick Bourke; Rodric Williams
Subject: Re: Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege. Findings in relation to Recommendation
Number 7

Dear Mark,
Thank you for the email. Apologies for the delay in getting back to you.

Chris and I have looked at the report. We think that Bond Dickinson have done a thorough job. We think that it meets the
recommendation in the report, and that what could reasonably be done in this regard has now been done.

Regards,
Jonathan

Jonathan Swift QC

11 KBW

11, King's Bench Walk,

Temple, London. EC4Y 7EQ.

www.11kbw.com
Confidentiality:

The information contained in this e-mail and any attachment may be confidential and may contain privileged information. It is intended only for the use of the
named recipient. If you are not the named recipient, please notify us immediately and delete it from your system. In such an event, you should not disclose the
contents of this e-mail to any other person, nor copy or print it,

All papers received for members of chambers will be sent for security shredding at the end of the proceedings unless you specifically request their return.

From: Mark Underwood!_
Date: Friday, 3 June 2016 11:37
To: Jonathan Swift
Ce: Patrick Bourke}

Christopher Knight {~~
Rodric Williams

POL-0021220
POL00024741
POL00024741

‘Subjec Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege. Findings in relation to Recommendation
Number 7

Dear Jonathan,

In relation to the allegation (and your recommendation in respect of it) that our Helpline may have provided
incorrect advice to subpostmasters which resulted in a loss to the accounts, Bond Dickinson (the external
firm conducting the work) has now completed its investigations. Attached is the report they have produced.

Would you be able to please confirm whether or not the work performed and its findings discharges your
below recommendation?

“POL cross-reference specific complaints about misleading advice from NBSC call-handlers with the
possible employees who provided that advice and consider their personnel files, where available, for
evidence as to the likelihood that the complaint may be well-founded”.

Many thanks
Mark

JESS SSIS IESE I ISSO ISS ISITE IISA TSE A TASER OEI AA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed
within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JESS ASIA ISS ISS IIS IOI IORI IORI IISA TOR A IIS AI IOI AAA

POL-0021220
