POL00162628
POL00162628

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[}
Sent: Wed 19/08/2015 8:22:27 AM (UTC)
To: Mark R Davies}

Subject: RE: Panorama - Trouble at the Post Office

Thanks Mark,

Angela

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 19 August 2015 09:10

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: Fwd: Panorama - Trouble at the Post Office

Just to be aware

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Post Office Ltd

From: George Thomson ¢ GRO ]
Date: 19 August 2015 09:06:
To: David McConnell ¢ GRO
Ce: Mark R Davies < j
Subject: Fwd: Panorama - Trouble at the Post Office

FYI

Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:

From: I. GRO b
Date: 19 August 2015 08:24:00 BST

POL00162628
POL00162628

To: Calum Greenhow

Subject: Re: Panorama - Trouble at the Post ffice

Good Morning Calum

Thank you for sending me your individual thoughts on Horizon and sharing further
individual thoughts on our forum.My statements,comments over the last 12 years on
Horizon have been on behalf of the Executive Council,both as an Executive Officer
and then General Secretary,my comments however are on behalf of Executive
Council,I can assure you that the EC still believe the Horizon system is robust and
safe.

Once again thank you for contacting me on this important subject.

Very Best

George

Sent from my iPad

On 19 Aug 2015, at 07:18, Calum Greenhow f
George,

I have received the BSC from you yesterday in response to the recent
programs aired by the BBC on the Post Office.

Tn respect of the Panorama program, vested interest is a key issue here.

Those who were on Monday nights program along with the other
members of Justice for Sub-Postmasters have a vested interest in the
problem being with Horizon. That would vindicate them of the crime
they have been convicted of.

POL have a vested interest in the problem being solely with Sub-
Postmasters as if the problem has been, in a small number of cases with
Horizon, then the business implications for a struggling organisation
would probably be the irreversible tipping point. It would also mean the
end of the career for many a POL executive due to the stance that has
always been maintained and also the resulting criminal convictions etc
endured by those Sub-Postmasters concerned. The press would have a
field day, with the political fall out being extreme.

The NFSP have a vested interest in the problem being with the Sub-
Postmasters as they have always stood resolutely with POL on this
matter. In fact, I was first introduced to the existence of Justice For Sub-
Postmasters in 2010 at my first Conference in Torquay. When I asked
who they were and what they were about, the response I received was
that they are bunch of crooks who were discovered putting their hand in
the till and are blaming Horizon for their losses. Your comments at the
Parliamentary Select Committee hearing in February this year, highlights
your thoughts on this matter that drew a sharp reprimand as to the
legality of your comments from the Chair of the Committee.
POL00162628
POL00162628

Imagine for a moment if what was highlighted through the program was
true? Where would that leave those Sub-Postmasters affected, where
would it leave POL and where would it leave the NFSP?

I hoped that when POL appointed Second Sight to carryout a thorough
investigation of Horizon and the claims made against it, that would be
the end of this because they would find that all was well. All that has
happened is more people are saying there is a fundamental problem at
the very heart of POL in its dealings with Sub-Postmasters that has
affected, very seriously, a small percentage.

There were originally 150 Sub-Postmasters that set up Justice For Sub-
Postmasters, which has now grown to 300. This still only represents less
than 3 percent of the network so it's not a systemic problem that is
widespread. It is also historical as those on last nights program where
affected prior to 2006, which is 9 years ago so the BSC statement from
you is a truth but it is misleading on these points and disingenuous to say
the least.

144 MP's have raised their concern over Horizon and it was once again
debated on the Ist of July this year during Prime Ministers Questions,
with the Prime Minister himself saying that "he hopes a full judicial
enquiry is not required but that we must get to the bottom of this."

Second Sight's Ian Henderson says that POL have an institutional
blindness in respect of this issue. James Arbuthnot, the former MP,
claims that POL have a bullying attitude towards Sub-Postmasters over
this issue yet you believe that because no-one has called Shoreham
recently over the issue, then there isn't one.

There are just too many impartial experts that cast doubt on POL's and
subsequently the NFSP's position. It's the Criminal Justice expert, the
computer expert, the forensic accountant, the computer programmer and
of course 144 MP's. The NFSP should be echoing the Prime Minster in
calling for every assistance to get to the bottom of this issue to ensure
once and for all on behalf of all members past, present and future that
there categorically is no issue now, nor has there ever been a problem
with Horizon.

It would be encouraging if the NFSP showed support for those 20 Sub-
Postmasters that are currently having their cases reviewed. None of us

would wish any innocent individual to have their reputations, livelihood
and liberty ruined incorrectly. Sometimes things go wrong and let's face
it we've been around the Post Office long enough to know it often does.

Yours,
Calum Greenhow

NFSP Branch Secretary
South of Scotland Branch
POL00162628
POL00162628

Sub-Postmaster
West Linton Post Office

Tel
Mobile - :
Email - cal

Sent from my iPad
