POL00396909

POL00396909

Weekly Highlight Report

PCI Compliance - HNG-X & BP Sales Programme

number
Essential Information
Sponsor David Smith Reporting 08/10/08 — 15/10/08
period

Owner David X Gray

Programme Connie G. Penn Key Team

Manager members

Change Card Scheme Compliance for Card Acceptance

Objective:

Tracking Summary

Measurable for I Rating I Comments (Reason for RAG rating)

HNGX

Time This section is red because we are unable to meet the deadline
for PCI compliance — December 2008.

Cost Costs generally are managed by the HNGX programme.
Costs for eliminating Track 2 from the audit log to make it PCI
compliant is still an unknown quantity. We have identified three
potential suppliers. They need engagement with Fujitsu via the
design authority to identify the size of the job. Then we will
measure cost. The design authority has now decided not to
engage with the outside companies — subject due for discussion
02/10/08.

QUALITY Project documentation produced between April and July so far

meets the requirements of the auditor. The documents
delivered late by Fujitsu in September have not yet been
supplied to the auditor for evaluation. They are not yet signed
off, but it is the quality of the documents that is important at this
point. Nothing is sent to the auditor until signed off by POL

Measurable for

BP Sales
TIME e The BT Buynet {PSP} integration for the RMG Portal now
reporting directly into the IT Roadmap.
e Progress — IT Roadmap programme now overseeing this
project. TMC now scheduled for live Feb/March 09 — a result.
COST ¢ Cost for the compliance for the RMG portal resides with

RMG.
* There is no cost to POL for compliance where the POW Third
Party has its own direct relationship with an acquirer.

Quality Keith Woollard now engaged with his risk counterparts in Bol.
Reporting red because it is important we now progress with
engagement from a brand perspective.

Progress Summary

What went well this period:

POL00396909
POL00396909

1. The meeting with Streamline to resolve the issue of their perceived need for multiple MID’s for
the portal shopping basket, delivered. It turned out to be a total non event except for the
result “yes you can have a single mid for the Portal shopping basket”. This means the portal
development can proceed quickly now. A major result.

What did not go so well this period:

1. After a delay of 3 months we finally received the Incident Response document from Fujitsu,
[20/09/09] that feeds into the Incident Response Plan we delivered to Fujitsu in May.

« There was huge resistance from Fujitsu to incorporate the PCI incident Response into the
existing Incident response process. I assumed that was for commercial reasons. Upon
reading the original document I now suspect that Peter Sewell, in particular, knew that the
original document was “not fit for purpose” and was perhaps trying to keep the original
document out of my sight. To indicate the original document is “Not fit for purpose” is a
kindness.

e PClis a slightly different scenario to e.g. a scenario whereby a cash depot is broken into
and all the cash is stolen. But both would fit into a Major Incident Category and the same
process would be followed in terms of logging, recording, escalating, categorising and
managing the incident, and then different operational steps will be followed in dealing with
the actual incident.

e APCl incident has been added to the Incident Response, but is sits almost as a separate
disjointed scenario, rather than part of the overall process. Same applies to general
security incidents and I feel a lot is still missing. I have submitted a list of changes, through
the response process, but existing diary commitments prevented these comments from
being returned in the timeframe originally required.

e Overall I am disappointed in the document so far, I would have expected more, bearing in
mind the document was 3 months late in delivery. I firmly believe that Howard Pritchard
could not have read this document prior to release.

2. Still no absolute confirmation as to the date that Fujitsu will do the BSI audit for ISO 27001/2.
However, it is now clear that Howard Pritchard is not on top of the job, so this has now
become an issue and the problem as to when and how the BSI audit will be done is a
problem that needs to be resolved elsewhere. The next PCI board meeting needs to decide
if this should be put on the risk register.

3. Still have not resolved the issues on the statement of work from the auditor. The auditor will
now be given a PO to allow the workshops to proceed and if the subject is not resolved by
the end of this week, there is a proposal to refer the matter to the PCI council, who are
currently heavily engaged in reviewing QA for the PCI auditors.

Key Activities planned for next period:
e Second PCI workshop on the control objectives, scheduled for Thursday.
« Review of PCI DSS V 1.2

Issues and Risks

Issue around the failure of Fujitsu to submit to an external audit [BSI] for
1$027001 is an issue for the project and a risk to the PCI project. This needs
discussion at next weeks Project Board meeting before the subject is written
up.

