POL00126810
POL00126810

Christopher G. KNIGHT

2007 Security Industry Authority (SIA) Licence Holder — CViT (valid for 3 years)
Key achievements:
e having worked in both the Fraud Team as an Investigator and as a Physical Security Manager
but utilising different sets of skills to achieve results.
e being the Security Manager that was part of the Project Team that introduced CCTV to Cash
Centres as part of a new way of working. Driving a change in process for Outward / Inward
Rems to obtain the best use of CCTV, leading to hugely reduced losses.
* being the Lead Investigator in a number of cases where the employees have been found guilty
after progressing an investigation to Court.
e being a part of a Team that has seen Losses fall consistently over the last few years;
* being able to utilise my knowledge gained over 20 years in Post Office® Security to help with
problems and their solutions, both CViT, Cash Centre & Network.
* Helping to deliver a Situational Crime Prevention (SCP) course to colleagues. Writing scenarios
that featured Theft / Fraud rather than Physical Security.

EXPERIENCE
1983 to present day Royal Mail Group

2009 - Post Office Ltd - Operations Strand
e Investigate Crimes affecting the Post Office® Network and Supply Chain

* — Conducting formal interviews within the guidelines of PACE 1984
e Use of analytical tools; PO Credence, POLMI

e Working with the wider Security Team to target crime trends identified by Fraud Risk Team

2005 2009 - Post Office Ltd (Security Team)

. Verification of adherence to Security Procedures (best use of equipment) to protect staff &
assets

. Monthly loss data analysed and reports produced to assist in the development of a preventative
strategy for the measurable loss reductive impact on the business

. Targeted action to support crime trends (Burglary / Robbery); Target hardening, Crime
awareness; Equipment install / upgrades

. Meet with Key Stakeholders to gain buy in to Security and maintaining close working
relationship with Cash Value in Transit Depots (CViT) ensuring adherence to business

procedures.
2003

POL00126810
POL00126810

- 2005 Post Office Ltd Internal Investigation Team - Investigation Manager

Gather and analyse information and data sources.

Conduct thorough investigations and interviews of suspects in accordance with guidelines;
Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE)

Prepare casework for submission to RM Legal Services up to giving evidence at Court
Maintain relationships with other Investigative bodies i.e. the Department for Work &
Pensions (DWP) and Police

1999 — 2003 (Sept) Cash Handling & Distribution (Royal Mail Group)

1997

1993
.
.
.

1987

1984
1983

INTERESTS

Giving Hostage training to Staff and advice on personal security.

Patrols of Delivery crews to ensure adherence to Business / Security procedures.
Investigations in to Criminal Offences by staff (e.g.Theft) and the preparation of files for
submission to Royal Mail Group Legal Services

During the period 2001 — 2002 I was working with a Project Team that was implementing a
new way of working in our Cash Centres; a new digital CCTV system was installed whereby
each processing table (and therefore every clerk). To prevent losses a more robust system by
which the clerk performs each task was re-written to allow the CCTV to ‘see’ more of what
was being done by the clerk. This allowed for mistakes to be identified and corrected. Again
avoiding a loss. This had the added benefit of giving the Cash Centre the evidence to rebuke
claims made against them. The CCTV system paid for itself within two years.

- 1999 Post Office Security & Investigation Services, Croydon (promotion to

Investigator)

Analysis of loss trends to identify high loss routes and / or persons
Performing interviews under PACE.

Surveillance including foot, vehicle and static.

Cognitive interviewing skills — taking Witness Statements

Liasing / working with the Police.

- 1997 Post Office Investigation Department, London (Clerical Role)

The checking of pre-employment checks sent by personnel branches nation-wide.
Up-dating computer records, dealing with enquiries from other POID depots.
General administration duties.

- 1993 Remittance Unit, Exeter.

Principle tasks included dealing with sub-post offices, distributing and receiving cash and
supplies.

- 1987 Counter work at the Head Post Office, Exeter.
- 1984 Distribution of administrative documents and general office duties at P.O. stores,

Head Post Office, Exeter.

Sport;

Driving
Travelling

Cycling; Play Football weekly; keep fit by running and have taken part in a number 10k runs to
test myself

A member of the Institute of Advanced Motorists (IAM)

Numerous voyages to France giving a chance to improve my language skill.

PERSONAL ATTRIBUTES

Ability to deal confidently with people, a skill acquired and built on from my early days on the counter.
Competent communication skills at all levels within the business.
Good sense of humour.
