POL00344384
POL00344384

Message

From: Sophie Bialaszews! Hl
Sent: 07/02/2014 09:46:41
To: Mark R Davi

cc: Jane Hill f~

Subject: Mediation

Flag: Flag for follow up

Hi Mark,

Iwill set up a meeting for early next week (working with Helena) but below are a few things we have and could do.

1. Ruth is working on Media Q&A (this has had many iterations and comments so Ruth is trying to finalise). I'd like the
comms team to review these then send on to Belinda/Chris to agree.

2. Simon has developed an internal briefing doc which I've just had comments from Angela re business improvements. I
will finalise this and send to you and Belinda for views. I'd then like to send this to SSMs (they've asked for background)
alongside the list of MPs with a case so they know to look out for queries from them. I'd also like the SSMs to let me
know any issues with the MPs on the list over the last year (so we can start preparing for the MP meeting).

3. Martin is flagging with the Correspondence team and will find out if any of them have written to Paula in the last year
(I know the ones that have about Horizon specifically already).

4. I've got a spreadsheet that includes all MPs that have a case but also any that rasied an issue historically and continue
to keep this up to date.

5. Following on from the sparrow programme board yesterday I will create a timline that includes mediation scheme
activity and other activity that may impact upon it (front office IT tender etc). I will also ask nicky to send a note to the
programme board and ask for any specific feedback on the slides by next Tuesday (just in case people have other ideas
they haven't shared before)

6. We also need to develop a strategy for the MPs meeting with James Arbuthnot - I'm happy to kick this off and send a
brief outline to you and Jane today so we can review in time for a fuller meeting of some members of the comms team?
David is going to draft an invite to MPs and agenda for the meeting and circulate to us for review.

7. We need to develop a strong narrative for business improvements - again happy to kick this piece of work off.

Mark I am still really happy to be the point person on this working with members of the comms team - I'm really happy to
do the work I will just need guidance re positioning with the media/MPs (from those that have more expereince than me).

Thanks

Sophie
