POL00059734
POL00059734

Message

To:
Subject: FW: Re: Khayyam Ishaq
Attachments: Horizon.zip

FYL

From: Steve Bradshaw
Sent: 14 February 2013 14:54
To: martin smith

Subject: FW: Re: Khayyam Ishaq

Martin

Please see e mail below. I also telephoned her prior to sending the e mail. Give
us a ring if you wish to discus.

Steve
Steve Bradshaw - security Team

Clippers Quays, Salford, Manchester, MSO 3NW

Post Office stories

@posto: ne’

From: Steve Bradshaw
Seni

Subject: Re: Khayyam Ishaq

Beverley

As per our telephone conversation. @

Point 1.

I have saved the data from the source disk onto my computer as an excel
spreadsheet. All the data was on the disc however it would appear that the date
column had been formatted as text, hence the dates did not appear in the correct
order but mixed up within the column.

I have corrected the formula so the data appears in date order and I have
attached the spreadsheet covering the dates for ARQ’s 135 to 139. To assist you
further I have added an extra column with the item long name next to the product
number, for example 1 = cash 2 =- cheque 4925 = Post Office Card Account

withdrawal and so on.

Point 2

POL-0056213
POL00059734
POL00059734

Exhibit SB/5 is a Horizon Final Balance Print out showing the cash and stock held
at Birkenshaw branch on 11 February 2011. This was the amount of cash and stock
that the interim sub postmaster accepted as being in Birkenshaw Post Office
branch when he became responsible for the cash and stock.

At a Post Office when they are due to balance the cash and stock, they will print
out a balance snapshot, this shows the amount of cash and stock expected to be in
the Post Office. They will then physically check what is in the Post Office
against the balance snapshot. The Horizon Final Balance Print out is then
printed, the sub postmaster will sign and date stamp the bottom of the print out
confirming that this is the amount of cash and stock in the Post Office. They
then print out the Branch Trading Statement on Ad paper (as SB/7 to SB/10). The
Horizon Final Balance Print Out will be filed with the weekly /monthly work and
the Branch Trading Statement is normally filed in a separate folder. Therefore
all these print outs will be held at the Post Office branch

If you look at the second page of SB/7 to SB/10, this page shows the amount of
stock that has been claimed as being in Birkenshaw Post Office when the Branch
Trading Statement was produced.

Exhibit SB/6 is a form that is used by the auditor when recording the amount of
stock checked during the audit. This form will only exist when an audit has taken
place.

Point 3

All the data is contained within the source disc. If you filter Column H (Mode)
and Select number 24 (this means remittance in only), this will show all
remittances (cash - stamps etc) into the Post Office for that given period.
Please note that stock is shown as volume only and not value.

Point 4

This refers to Branch Trading Statements SB/7 to SB/10 (not SB/23) and where
reprinted by the Auditors no other Branch Trading Statements are held at this
office. All original Branch Trading Statements where filed by the sub postmaster

at Birkenshaw Post Office.

If there is anything else I can assist you with please do not hesitate to contact
me.

Steve

Steve Bradshaw - security Team

Clippers Quays, Salford, Manchester, M50 3NW

steve.bradshawi@
Post Office stories

@postofficenews

POL-0056213
POL00059734
POL00059734

croeceurcas ti rere eee ee

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0056213
