POL00089050
POL00089050

Bundler 1

From: Brooks, Victoria

Sent: 16 October 2014 10:31

To: Martin Smith; 'Ward, Alexandra’

Ce: Parsons, Andrew; Eames, Amy; Jarnail A Singh
Subject: RE: M109 - draft POIR CK amended [BD-4A FI

Thanks for this Martin
Kind regards

Victoria

Sent: 16 October 2014
To: 'Ward, Alexandra’
Cc: Parsons, Andrew; Brooks, Victoria; Eames, Amy; Jarnail A Singh
Subject: M109 - draft POIR CK amended

Hi Lex,
Please find attached the daft POIR upon which we have suggested a couple of amendments.

At p.7 of the POIR we are asked to provide the actual wording of the charge. We have extracted
below the precise wording in the Indictment to which the Applicant pleaded guilty:

GRANT ALLEN between the Ist of April 2010 and the 7th of February 2012, dishonestly and
intending to make a gain for yourself or another, or to expose another to risk of loss, made
representations to Post Office Ltd, which were and which you knew were untrue or misleading,
namely that the Winsford Post Office had more cash on the premises than was actually the case,
resulting in a shortage of £11,705, in breach of section 2 of the Fraud Act 2006.

Kind regards,

Martin.

Martin Smith
martin.smith!

martin.smi
Tel:

CartwrightKing

mmm SOL CTT ONS emmem
Birmingham I Derby I Leeds I Leicester] London I Milton Keynes I Nottingham I Sheffield I
Tyneside

www.cartwrightking.co.wk
POL00089050
POL00089050

oe

avid may contain legally privileged informat
mediately
for your «
al gach office, Cartwright King is authorised and rogedated by Ib
ygistzation No: 737872

settee, bal y

jon. If yor have radived

cise and dolete it

Alist of directors

retuon email, do not co

itor ils comteniy lo anyene:

poration.

We canine! ge
check.

Please conskler the ca:

se print this email

nformation in this email and any attachments is confidential aod may be legally privileged and
only is anihorised to access Us e-mail and any attackmerds. If yau are not martin smithy

i 328 soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, disseminati
communication or attachmentars prohibited and may be untavit

protocted by Law. martin smit
} please notify
oni, distribution, pubbeation or copying of this

Any files attached te thiv email sill have boon checked by os witlry
any less or dasage which may be caused by software viruses and yo

detortion sefisvare before iranemission. Bond Dickinson LLP aireptsno hebility for
should earry out your own virus ced belore opening any altachurent.

Content of this email which does y

relate to the offidal business of Bond Dickinson LLP, iswwither givennor endorsed by i.

jcluisw limited linbility partners:

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinoon LLP w p registered in England and Wales ander number OCBI7661
‘Our registered office i St Ann's Wharl, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon'Tyne, NEL SDK, where a fist of members’ names is upen ie inspection. We use the
jenn. partner tt refer to a membor of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GBI23390027,

ed Dicuinsors LLP és

authorised

and regulated by the Solicitors Rog

jon Authority

