POL00086353
POL00086353

Activity

Closure Workaid

Planned/
Unplanned

Planning

For Post Office Funded - Contact Ann Wild, (Current Agent Accounting)
Agent Debt (Branch Control) Louise Wilkins (PL.

outstanding debt is to be recovered on closu
Contact Retail Cash Management o}
CIT collection times if not known.
Confirm that the ACC has been disabled by contacting the Network Support
Admin Team on
date of closure.
Reference Data Service o}
Ensure spare Closure Pack is carried to branch Closure (P242 Final Cash
Account, P344 Transfer Report, P301 Non disclosure statement) Best
practice, to always carry spare Closure Pack, and items listed in Appendix
L, with you.
Contact Supply Chain to ensure they have been advised of the closure.(This
is a double check as we have been experiencing problems through Supply
Chain not being notified of a closure)
Contacts

Rebecca L Portch Landlit

Planned/
Unplanned

Planned

2 I Planning

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel

Contact the outgoing agent at least 5 working days prior to closure and
confirm receipt of closure letter.

Discuss the Pre Closure Activities list (attached to closure letter sent to
branch) to ensure the branch is preparing for closure. Please remind Agent
not to prepare any remittances after the last collection prior to closure as all
Cash & Stock has to be verified at the closure. Post Closure Activities list
can be found in Appendix D Closure Letter. Please note that closure
processes for Core and Outreach branches have additional activities. Ensure
the branch has some one-trip rem pouches and other items as listed in
Appendix L.

If there are any unresolved items e.g. Cash In Pouches or Remittance

simon.talbot@

peter.b. jackson@-"¢ “} Simon Talbot Tel:

Page 1

Planned

POL00086353
POL00086353

discrepancies (cash) please contact the appropriate team below to confirm

they are proper to be held & if so to arrange a Transactional Correction to be
sent to the branch prior to closure.
Carol King (PI

Dave Lancashire (PL or! GRO. I

3. I Planning

Agree audit attendance h the outgoing agent considering:

1. If cash and stock is to be returned using Shared Service confirm the
collection time so audit attendance can be aligned.

2. Confirm the value of cash held by the branch. If it is over the £10K
limit for Shared Service or the amount of coin on hand exceeds 4 full
or part bags, asks the agent to return excess cash over the limit for
RMSD/Shared Service.

3. Ask the outgoing agent to confirm with the Postman that a collection is
planned from the branch on the day of our visit or following day
depending on our attendance time.

4. Please refer to appendix I for instructions on how to return by Shared
Service

Planned

4 I Onsite

On arrival, ask the agent for the Pre Closure Activity list and the closure pack.
Confirm what activities have taken place in preparation for closure.

Planned

5 I Logging On To Horizon

Ask the Sub-postmaster/Manager to add you to Horizon On Line with
Manager access. If dealing with an unplanned closure you will need to use
your Global User Account and password.

If there is a problem in arranging for you to be logged on use your Global User
Account sign on to Horizon — unplanned closures only

Planned/
Unplanned

6 I Rem Verification

juling & Admin Support on either postline STD
‘to confirm the inward and outward rems and Outstanding

Debt.

Planned

7 I Asset Verification

8 I Postage labels
& Official Postage

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel

Ensure that cash and stock is recorded correctly on Horizon.

Cash and stock to be checked against the Office snapshot/Trial Balance.
Discrepancies to be resolved prior to remitting out all cash and stock.

Print postage labels for final Archiving Boxes (If not already printed by SPMR)
Use RM Standard Parcel and claim amount as official
Any official postage used please email peter.b.jackson
with branch name, branch code, items posted, cost, branc

items postec
simon.talbof_

“jpeter.b jackson} Simon Talbot T

Page 2

Planned/
Unplanned

Planned

POL00086353
POL00086353

from and official postage claimed.

9 I Pay station

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel

Upon closure of a branch to the public, the Paystation must be removed from
service at the same time that the branch closes irrespective of whether or not
the retail side remains open.

The Paystation must remain plugged-in to facilitate the download of data.

You will need_to ensure that there are no outstanding barcode summaries by
undertaking the following process

At time of closure, you must check the Horizon TA records to assess the last
TA’s received in branch

Report for Outstanding & Processed TA’s is available via Office Daily
Reports.

To ensure you account for any transactions taken after the final TA. Print off
from the PayStation terminal an unseen Batch Control Summary report using
the following path ADMIN, Enter, Reports Menu, Enter, unseen batch Control
summary report enters YES. The terminal will produce a report detailing all
outstanding batch control summaries. These must be reprinted using the
following path Admin, Enter, Print BCS, enter. At this point, enter the batch
ID number from the unseen BCS report. The BCS will then print out and this
must be kept for association with TA that will appear the following day.

. Check the Receipt Number of the Batch Control Summary (BCS) follows the
last number recorded on the Outstanding & Processed TA report

e This will tell you how much cash to secure from the retail side of the
branch and place this in the PO account. ( Any cash discrepancy will
be accounted as a final account surplus as per normal practise
against the outgoing sub-postmaster) Enter this amount into
Housekeeping’, and under the heading ‘emergency transactions’,
‘receipts (23).

The amount identified as outstanding from the terminal print offs will be
entered into the emergency suspense account for this to be accounted for in
Horizon.

Ensure you e-mail P&BA on the day of the transfer Colette A
McAteer¢ {and Robert.needham{__ jor
contact them o hey will need to know the amount
that has been entered into emergency suspense, and where known the re-
opening date for the branch.

Simon Talbot Tel simon .talbot@

Page 3

Unplanned

Planned

Unplanned

POL00086353
POL00086353

Paystation, Post & Go &
National Lottery

Overnight this data will populate the relevant POLSAP accounts, and a TA
will be created awaiting the branch re-opening.

When the branch re-opens either you or the branch must accept the TA’s. (If
the branch never re-opens or does not re-open within 40 days an alternative
process will need to be followed by P&BA)

This will cause a cash discrepancy, which will relate to the outstanding
balance in Horizon which would equate to the amount in transfer suspense.
Either you or the branch must redeem this figure from the emergency
suspense this will ensure both Horizon and POLSAP balance.

If there were any difficulties encountered during this process or the
discrepancy bet the figures in suspense o1 I tact P&BA
(Paul Lebeter x ~"B or paul.lebeter¢

For business as usual closures, follow the process detailed above for
unplanned closures.._ The pay station terminal can then be disconnected from

the power supply and telephone line the terminal is packed_up ready for

collection and that the Postmaster is aware of the collection. On a planned
closure it should have been organised for INGENICO to carry this out. The
Postmaster should have received a phone call from INGENICO confirming
the collection details. If the Postmaster. cannot confirm this the Auditor must
contact PROPERTY PROJECTS on!____GRO____j to arrange collection of
terminal. DHL will come to collect the Paystation, so ensure it is parceled up
ready for collection, The Postmaster should be instructed to contact the
NBSC if the terminal is not collected on the due date

At unplanned closures and the branch is to be defunded the terminal must be
packed up and returned by Special Delivery to Ingenico UK, Lock 13, Ridge
Way Donibristle Ind Pk, Dalgety Bay, Fife. KY11 9JU . Email

steven.birch@ within 24 hours, with branch details and the
Special Delivery number. Keep the S/D receipt with branch paperwork.

If the branch is to be re-opened then disconnect the terminal and place in the
safe. If it is impractical to have the PayStation in the safe then look to see if it
can be locked away securely elsewhere such as a coin cabinet and establish
that you have all the keys. If this is not feasible then a secure site such as a
local Crown Branch or CTO. If required contact your Line Manager.

If you locate other red or old grey PayStation on-site, return to Ingenico at

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel: €

imon Talbot Tel

'peter.b jackson@ Y simon.talbot@

Page 4

POL00086353
POL00086353

the above address, informing Steven Birch as before.

If the PayStation is not on site contact Steven Birch ot

e Where a branch has Paystation, Post & Go & National Lottery follow
the EASE process

e This will tell the auditor how much cash to secure from the retail side
of the branch and place this in the PO account. (Any cash discrepancy
will be accounted as a final account deficit as per normal practice
against the outgoing sub-postmaster

e The amount identified as outstanding from the terminal print offs will be
entered into the emergency suspense account for this to be accounted
for in Horizon.

« Auditor to e- mail P&BA on that day, Colette A
i and Robert.needham@_

'y the amount that has been entered into
emergency suspense, and where known the re-opening date for the
branch.

e Overnight this data will populate the relevant POLSAP accounts, and
a TA will be created awaiting the branch re-opening.

e When the branch re-opens / transfer completed the branch would
accept the TA’s. (If the branch never re-opens or does not re-open
within 40 days an alternative process will need to be followed by
P&BA)

10 I TC’s and Debt recovery I Bring any outstanding Transactional Corrections to account and discuss how I Planned/
the agent will make good any losses. Credit/Debit card payments can be Unplanned
accepted by calling Debt Recovery team on} }

} debit/credit card payments can be offered if before 5pm
Monday to Friday.

11 I Rems to BdC Spoil Travellers Cheques by cutting the bottom right hand corner off and remit I Planned/

out to ADC. Complete Certificate of Inventory Destruction, (TC8). Despatch I Unplanned

in Green pouch marked branch closure TC's.

BdC currency should be returned using horizon print out and in purple pouch
marked Currency. Please refer to appendix I for instructions on how to return
by Shared Service

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel

imon Talbot Tel

ipeter.b jackson@

Page 5

POL00086353
POL00086353

12

Cash Rems

Rem out all the notes on hand and seal in grey pouches enclosing the
Horizon print out ensuring that you keep to the pouch limits for the branch.
P6097 and scan prior to sealing. (If ACC is disabled and the grey pouch bar-
code cannot be used affix a coin bar code label to the grey pouch and use
this). Coin bags should be remitted out and bar code label P6097 affixed to
the back of the coin return advice. Presentation standards can be found in
Operational Workaid week 15 2003 & should be adhered. To.

For PO essential self funded branches, the cash is to be returned to the
SPMR and reported on the Horizon System utilising the LOAN FROM PO
Icon. Please refer to appendix I for instructions on how to return by Shared
Service

FTM at the partner site would (1) Transfer cash and stock to the CORE
branch via Horizon using Core and Outreach internal transfer pouch numbers
(separate pouch numbers for cash, stock and foreign currency). The cash,
stock, foreign currency would then be placed in normal pouches for despatch.
(2) Inform NFSA at the Core branch what the pouch numbers are (branch to
branch) and the cash and stock pouch numbers, the items are actually
placed in, for CIT collection. The lead would (1) accept the transfer to the
Core and input the barcode manually. (branch to branch) (2) Rem in the
stock items as transfer from Outreach. (Cash and foreign currency should
have gone into the Core automatically). (3) Rem out to ADC cash ,stock and
foreign currency and manually input the pouch numbers given for the
Outreach branch CIT collection and (4) prepare the partners pouch collection
manually in order to hand over assets when the CIT arrives at both the Core
and Partner site if necessary. CIT may need to be advised to make a small
detour from the Core to the Partner branch to complete collection.

Planned/
Unplanned

Unplanned Closures at Core and
Outreach branches

13

Stock Rems to ADC

Rem out all stock on hand and seal in Green Stock pouches enclosing the
Horizon receipt.
For temporary closures and relocations please see Appendix H.

Planned
Unplanned

14

Postal Orders

Rem out all sealed packs of 250 x Postal Orders. All open packs of Postal
Orders must be destroyed. Adjust stock accordingly. Complete the
Destruction Certificate (Appendix C) and store with other documents being
despatched to Iron Mountain.

15

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel: i
i.

MVL

PLEASE NOTE MVL DISC’S ARE REMMED OUT ON HORIZON BUT
DESTROYED LOCALLY.
The destruction Certificate must be completed and archived with the

peter-b.jackson@

simon.talbot¢

‘imon Talbot Tel

Page 6

Planned/Unplanned

POL00086353
POL00086353

documents going to Iron Mountain
See Appendix N for copy

16 I POCA All POCA cards at the branch have to be destroyed. Planned/Unplanned
Prior to destruction - Enter onto Horizon - Front Office, F3 Banking, 66 Card
Management, 26 Report Withdrawn card, Swipe card, Apply reason, Apply
reason other: PO closure.

17 I National Lottery Contact Camelot retailer hotline on & inform them that the Planned/Unplanned

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel

branch is closed and no further transactions are to take place under the
current retailer number. If lottery is being retained then a new retailer number
will be issued. Verify unactivated scratchcards to print out from lottery
terminal. Unactivated packs to be returned to Camelot by Special Delivery
and postage claimed on Official Postage. The address is at the bottom of this
page in “What goes where and how?”

A WH1 form should be completed (4 copies). This should have been sent to
the branch by Camelot. A copy of this is in Appendix L. (Suggest you print 4
copies before attending closure.)

All activated Instant Lottery tickets are to be remmed out and returned with
the activation slips in Green Stock Pouches. If activation slips are not on hand
contact the Helpline to confirm that all activated cards on hand are within the
final return date. Any obsolete tickets are not to be returned and the shortage
is to be made good.

Unactivated Packs are to be verified by confirming they agree with the
Unactivated Pack Summary and Individual Pack Status reports obtained from
the Camelot Terminal. The Pack numbers are then to be recorded on the
National Lottery Return Ticket Form, (WH 1), and returned by special delivery
to Kim Kelly, Returns Department, Camelot PLC, The Kestrel Centre Unit, 44
Salthouse Road, Brackmills Trading Estate, Northampton, NN4 7EX. Please
refer to appendix L for instructions on how to return by Shared Service.
Please email jenny.magni¢ with the Branch Name & Code,
Game Name & Pack Number, Date Returned, and Retailer Number along
with the Special Delivery tracking number. Pro-forma for this is in Appendix L
Winning tickets and scratchcards and the validation tickets are to be archived
and despatched to Iron Mountain

VOID all NL cheques by striking through each one using a black marker pen
then return them to the Secure Stock Centre for destroying.

On HOL scan the cheques barcode and select to Spoil Cheque.

zeter.b jackson@ imon Talbot Tel

Page 7

POL00086353
POL00086353

Complete 2 copies of the Destruction Certificate
One to go with cheques to Secure Stock Centre
One to be archived with other paperwork and sent to Iron Mountain.

18

CIT same day

Prepare collection before the CIT officer arrives. On arrival of CIT, handover
the pouches obtaining a signature for them on the collection receipt. Retain
one of the collection slips and file with the closure documentation. You can
only complete a Final Trading Statement once the CIT collection is complete
when the ACC is still enabled.

Where the ACC card has been disabled HOL process is. Prepare Collection
22. Dispatch 23. Then office can be rolled over and Final Account prepared.

Planned/
Unplanned

CIT next day

Prepare collection and obtain 3 pouch collection slips. Keep the collection
receipt with the pouches ready for despatch the following day. To remove the
amounts from Suspense the process on HOL is. Prepare Collection 22.
Despatch 23. Then roll stock unit over. When ACC is still enabled.

Where the ACC card has been disabled HOL process is. Prepare Collection
22. Dispatch 23. Then office can be rolled over and Final Account prepared.

Planned/
Unplanned

19

Despatch of Rem
pouches

If CIT are not attending ON the same day and the postmaster will be
despatching the pouches, transfer the pouches to the outgoing
Subpostmaster using the reverse of one of the Pouch Collection receipts from
Horizon. Write this statement on the reverse of the receipt, I confirm receipt
of the pouches listed overleaf. I will secure the pouches in the safe and
despatch as agreed signed by the outgoing agent and the FTM. Bring
the signed statement away with you and leave a self-addressed envelope on
hand so the agent can sent you the despatch note once complete. PLEASE
NOTE FOR UNPLANNED CLOSURES WE SHOULD DEAL WITH THE
DESPATCH DIRECTLY OR AGREE DESPATCH WITH CONTRACTS &
SERVICE TEAM.

Planned/
Unplanned

20

Reconciliations

Complete all the reconciliation's and despatch the weekly pouches
Chesterfield and Girobank as per the Counter Operations manuals.

Planned/
Unplanned

21

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel

Final Account

Offices in Network
Transformation
Programme

Proceed to complete the Trading Statement and prepare P242 final trading
statement. Ensure that the outgoing agent signs the P242, as well as the
NFSA. If there is an amount is suspense, note the reason for the suspense
item. Enclose in an envelope and post by Special Delivery to Paul Dann,
Debt Recovery Team. No1 Future Walk, Chesterfield, S49 1PF. Please note
that for late account items over £1k, a copy of the report should be sent to
Paul Dann.

peter.b jackson: Simon Talbot T

Page 8

Planned/
Unplanned

Planned

POL00086353

POL00086353
If there is a final account deficiency/surplus on the day of the Audit that the
agent cannot make good, then please make a call to Jackie Whitham at
P&BA (Postline 5309 2378) to advise of the amount of the deficiency/surplus.
22 I Advise Supply Chain Advise Supply Chain initially by phone and followed by email confirmation Unplanned/Temporary

immediately it is made aware a branch is closed as a result of audit or any
other reason where the closure will be for more than 24 hours. This will make
sure the cash, bureau or stock is not dispatched via RMSD to closed
branches. Recovery of any items dispatched as a result of no or late
notification of closure will be the Networks responsibility if it is found that
Network was at fault. Any loses incurred as a result will be investigated and a
decision made on individual case merits.

Branch closure escalation contac
Rebecca _L Portch Landline:
Mobile
Andrew

Posting GRO

Email: Cash Management Support Mail In

23

Safe Keys

For temporary closure where no defund is to occur ensure all safe keys are
handed over. If only 1 key produced make enquiries as to the whereabouts of
the second key. If satisfied contact your Regional Network Manager to raise
a framework order to Insafe from the OBC Budget

If not satisfied with response contact the Contracts Advisor for instructions. If
a Contract Advisor is not available contact your team leader.

Temporary

24

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel

Datestamps

A manual copy of the RECORD OF DATESTAMPS DESPATCHED FOR
DESTRUCTION (Appendix J) to be completed and stored with other
documents being despatched to Iron Mountain.

Self Inking Datestamps. Complete the appropriate form in Appendix J.
Enclose this with the Self Inking Datestamp(s) and send by Special Delivery
to Andy Warmer. COLOP UK. Clifton House. 32 Lower Essex Street.
Birmingham. B5 6SN. Tel

Send an electronic copy of the form to chris.c.edwards@

imon Talbot Tel

jeter. b jackson@i

Page 9

Planned

Unplanned/

POL00086353
POL00086353

Hand Datestamps.

Complete the appropriate form in Appendix J. Enclose this with the Hand
Datestamp Head(s) and send by Special Delivery to Mrs Sarah Howard. Post
Office Ltd. Network Admin Support. 2nd Floor. The Markets PO. 6 / 16 New
York Street. LEEDS. LS2 7DZ

The handle, case and numbers and months type to be disposed of locally.

The parcel datestamp should be destroyed locally by removing the rubber and
cut in 4.
Travel insurance policy pads should be destroyed locally.

Date stamps should be secured in the locked safe and arrangements made
with the Network Support Contracts Admin Team in Leeds for the storage of
the keys.

Note: Only where the FTM has concerns regarding the security of the safe, or
where no safe exists, then the datestamp head or self inking datestamp
should be returned, with any branch keys and alarms codes, to the Network
Support Contracts Admin Team in Leeds.

Temporary/
Planned

25

Investigation support

Procedure to be followed on closures following suspensions. Contact should
be made with the investigators to confirm what/if any accounting documents
they require. These should be taken off site if requested by the investigators.

Unplanned

26

MI notification

For closures where pouches left with subpostmaster contact the relevant
Admin Team (see number 5) whilst ON SITE to confirm the following:
Branch name, FAD code, Type of closure - Suspension/BAU,
deficiency/surplus in final account, date of closure, Pouch numbers and
contents i.e. cash or stock and amount of cash enclosed in pouch, Cash
Centre and Coin Centre that deal, Permanent or Temporary closure, rem
pouches despatched or not and date of collection?

Planned/
Unplanned

27

Retention of
documentation

File paperwork locally for 60 days. If there were issues on closure or if there
was a suspension please retain the paperwork in accordance with the
Retention of paperwork policy.

Planned/
Unplanned

28

Post Audit activities

Save and password protect the P32 in the correct format e.g.
SUSPENSION.023323.010105.xls and email to P32 file generic email
address.

Unplanned due to suspension.

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel: ¢

Simon Talbot Tel: ¢.

simon.talbot@

peter.b,jackson@}

Page 10

POL00086353
POL00086353

What goes where and how?

Old accounting records via RM Standard Parcel - Royal Mail Account, Iron Mountain Records Management, Norman Road, Pickardy Manor Way,
Belvedere, KENT DA17 6JY

Metal Datestamp via Special delivery - Mrs Sarah Howard. Post Office Ltd. Network Admin Support. 2nd Floor. The Markets PO. 6/ 16 New
York Street. LEEDS. LS2 7DZ

Self inking datestamp via Special delivery - Andy Warmer. COLOP UK. Clifton House. 32 Lower Essex Street. Birmingham. B5 6SN.

Unactivated Thstatits via Special delivery - FAO Kim Kelly, Returns Department, Camelot PLC, The Kestrel Centre Unit, 44 Salthouse Road,
Brackmills Trading Estate, Northampton, NN4 7EX

imon Talbot Tel: ¢ GRO

Version 2.5 Dec 2012 Pete Jackson Tel

peter-b.jackson@

imon.talbot@ GRO . i

Page 11
Track Changes

oN Oak WD

Insert
Insert
Insert
Insert
Insert
Insert
Insert

Insert

peter.x.jackson,
peter.x.jackson,
peter.x.jackson,
peter.x.jackson,
peter.x.jackson,
peter.x.jackson,
peter.x,jackson,

peter.x.jackson,

15/07/2010 08:38 PM
15/07/2010 08:38 PM
15/07/2010 08:38 PM
15/07/2010 08:38 PM
15/07/2010 08:38 PM
15/07/2010 08:38 PM
15/07/2010 08:38 PM
15/07/2010 08:38 PM

POL00086353

POL00086353
