POL00100144
POL00100144

Message

From: Alice Perkins t

on behalf of — Alice Perkins <;

Sent: 28/01/2014 0 0g 48:53

To: Paula Vennells [f
Subject: Re: Further briefing for tomorrow

My cab was late. On my way now. Alice

----- Original Message.
From: David Olivert a
Sent: Monday, January 27, 2014 11:11 PM GMT Standard Time
To: Alice Perkins; Paula Vennells

Cc: Martin Edward: x
Theresa Tles<i00> “GeO. ~~ wr Sy Sarah Paddi son <
Aujard < GRO >; Rodric williams 7
subject: "REY Fu “Fe in _ "

All,

Having spoken to Martin this evening one further point to clarify. In terms of the JFSA update item on
James' agenda there is not a specific point of friction at the moment, James’ office told me he had a
call with Alan this evening so it will act as a hook for that discussion. We might expect jfsa to lobby
on second sight's behalf but we can stress the level and manner of our direct and transparent engagement.

David

From: Alice Perkins
Sent: 27 January 2014721734

To: David Oliverl; Paula Vennells

Cc: Martin Edwards; Jorja Preston; Theresa Iles; Sarah Paddison; Chris Aujard; Rodric williams
Subject: Re: Further briefing for tomorrow

A question for tomorrow at 9am.

If we have changed our policies so dramatically on suspensions etc, isn't that an admission that we got
it wrong in the past and should therefore automatically pay compensation to all affected?

Alice

From: David Oliver;
Sent: Monday, January 27, 2014 06:14 PM GMT. Standard Time

To: Paula Vennells ‘>; Alice Perkins
Cc: Martin Edward Py Jorja P.
Theresa I j Sarah paddison <
Aujard <¢ 3 Rodric williams

Subject: Further briefing for tomorrow
Alice, Paula,
Please find attached is further briefing from Chris following a phone call from Ian Henderson.

Also attached a draft agenda that James has sent through after seeing ours, I suggest we ask to take
business improvement first at the start of the meeting as this sets the tone for our wider engagement.

There are some further bullet points below setting out a proposed response to the past cases issue:

* Cartwright King have reviewed past cases in line with a process that has been by endorsed by
leading Counsel.

* 325 individuals cases were reviewed to see if any issues arising out of the Second Sight review
ought to be disclosed to the defence in accordance with our duties as a prosecutor.

* Further disclosure was provided in 21 cases.

* It is up to the defence in cases where disclosure has been provided to review the material and take
any appropriate action in the interests of their client.

* Thus far no convicted defendant has sought the leave of the Court of Appeal to challenge his
conviction; this may of course change.

* Post Office is still confident that we have not seen an unsafe conviction. We continue to keep
this matter under constant review as the Second sight work and Post Office’s own investigations into the
complaints continue.

* All 147 applications (including those with a criminal conviction) are being overseen by a former
Criminal Court of Appeal Judge Sir Anthony Hooper.

Regards

POL-0099727
POL00100144
POL00100144

David

David Oliver

Programme Manager

Initial Complaint and Mediation Scheme
“y

David. pliverds as GRO... I b>
Mobile! 4

FAR PE Hiei Iori irieie iii io rdrariririnieieiei ini eararatir
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Click here<https://www.mai Icontrol.com/sr/MZbqvYsSQwJvpeaetUwhCQ==> to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com<http: //www.websense.com/>

JH nnninn ii nin I i SSeS ee ied sears drererseaeaoioteieieiesriede ars ar ata
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

TEIN RISEN nin inn inn in ier ier ini io einai iegriiicirsisi arabe siegesiieiear degra aria arses sea araee arate

POL-0099727
