POL00000890
POL00000890

Pathway and the Post Office: the lessons leamed Page I of 3

ComputerWeekly.com
Pathway and the Post Office: the lessons learned
By Computer Weekly

The infamous 1996-1999 Pathway project aimed to computerise the nation’s post offices and
tackle benefit fraud. But 18 months later, after losing millions and destroying reputations a
credible IT project has emerged.

It was one of the largest roll outs in Europe, and, despite its complexities, it is now running
smoothly, on time and to budget.

A National Audit Office report stated that up to £1bn of taxpayers’ money was wasted on the
aborted attempt to introduce a swipe card system. But, even today, the Post Office refuses to call
this a disaster.

In a written response to Computer Weekly, the Post Office said, “IT projects are complex and
difficult to forecast accurately. [t is important to maintain a flexible and realistic approach to
planning and targets throughout the life of a project. Judgement about whether the project is. a
disaster should be based on if it works when installed.”

It is true the multi-million-pound swipe card system worked successfully, but only in trials. The
fact remains that the system was never installed in post offices. Instead it was stopped. By
anyone’s standards, this was a disaster.

Ata hearing of the Select Committee on Trade & Industry in July 1999, two months after deciding
to cancel the swipe card, and causing a massive monetary loss, three cabinet ministers leaned
heavily towards blaming the supplier, ICL Pathway, for the disaster.

But the mud stuck. It didn’t help that the scheme had become known as Pathway since the core
supplier was formed specifically for the project. The real contract aame was BA/BOCL. ICL
Pathway did well to keep its head up as the accusations raged and politicians dived for cover.

But it had little choice. Not only did the company owe its existence to the project, it had no power
to prevent government ministers from removing the element of the deal that would generate profit.
ICL Pathway would have made money on each transaction by a swipe card.

The supplier did have enough contractual clout to ensure it led the refocused and relaunched
project to computerise the UK’s post offices, following Pathway’s demise. The new contract is
worth about £900m up to March 2605. ICL Pathway makes money depending on the number of
computerised post offices that go live. The project, with the swipe card replaced by a smartcard
platform, is known as Horizon.

Liam Foley, business development director for ICL Pathway. has been involved with Pathway and
Horizon since their inception. The branding of the aborted project is a thorn in his side.

“The benefits payment card project was not cancelled for technical but for policy reasons. Every

time somebody says Pathway was not working, it grates,” he said. “The idea that Pathway is dead
and Horizon is alive is wrong. The project has always been known as Horizon.”

hitp://www.computerweekly conv feature/Pathway-and-the-Post-Office-the-lessons-le... 28/06/2016 FITOM
POL00000890
POLo0000890

Pathway and the Post Office: the lessons leammed Page 2 of 3

Language aside, Foley is happy to move on from the past, He is proud of how ICL Pathway is
progressing. Today, it is one of the largest and most complex IT projects in Europe.

Post offices are spread throughout the UK. The project is now going live as far afield as Shetland
and Orkney. Post offices also come in all shapes and sizes, permanent or temporary, and employ
72,000 people. Getting the whole system functioning as one, computerising services with colour
touch-screen intuitive technology, and training all staff, is a major challenge. Not least co-
ordinating it al] to hit the deadline of spring 2001.

ICL Pathway has 600 people working on the project alongside approximately 1,000 other staff
from sub-contractors and the Post Office. To convert a post office from manual to computerised
processes and retrain staff can take up to 38 weeks. Some are transformed individually, others in
regional clusters.

More than 300 post offices are converted every week. This is an average of one terminal every
five minutes and one branch every 12 minutes. Almost 72% of the network is now automated,
representing 13,109 live offices, 29,900 counters and over 32,200 personnel.

Computerisation is intended to make all post offices more efficient and effective, but iris also
meant to offer new services such as charging of gas and electricity smartcards, online voting and
network banking. Such applications could save the village post office, which has been long
threatened with extinction.

Despite the enormous task, ICL Pathway is ahead of schedule on implementation. But is this
because the company can see the end to a project full of woe with years of grief?

“Par from it” said Foley. “We're very happy to be involved. We see the important contribution it
can make to delivery of modern government. Anyway, ICL Pathway will continue afterwards as
we're operating the system.”

The greatest difference between the Horizon project now, as opposed to under the Pathway label,
is that there is now only one contract between ICL Pathway and the Post Office. Previously, there
had been three. One with the Post Office, another with the Benefits Office and one with both.

“it was a nightmare,” said Foley. “We had twe customers with conflicting objectives. It hit
problems no-one else had.”

Surviving the bruising of the first contract and maintaining enthusiasm for the second has to be
admired. But Foley is clear on the hard lessons learned.

Ry,

ver has a contract with two customers, and clarifying their requirements in a business sense
up-front been achieved. Ensure what they are asking for will achieve what they want,” he advised.
“} would recommend others to have a period of time at the start of a contract. This is to ensure
requirements are understood, and drawn up in business terms.”

Foley added, “Shared risk management is also an important contractual clause.” ICL Pathway has
applied its lessons to the wider ICL Group. The parent company is starting a set of projects and
programme management methods and standards. It dictates how it interacts with customers from
beginning to end. From painful experience, Foley advises honesty, commitment and openness
when negotiating contracts.

He added, “Our relationship with the Post Office has matured. We're committed to its future. The
ability to walk away is the most challenging. But I’m tremendously pleased I’ve worked with it. 1
think it’s absolutely fantastic now.”

http://www.computerweekly.com/feature/Pathway-and-the-Post-Office-the-lessons-le.. 28/06/2016 Ey7qi9
POL00000890
POL00000890

Pathway and the Post Office: the lessons learned Page 3 of 3

History of an IT disaster:

May 1996: ICL beats off competition from IBM and consortium including Unisys and Barclays. It
lands the £1 bn contract to modemise benefits systems and automate 18,500 post offices

February 1997: ICL, the Post Office and the Benefits Agency agree revised timetable
August 1997; DSS ministers tell Treasury they are “extremely concerned” about delays

September 1997: PA Consulting commissioned to review project after “consistent and chronic
slippage in delivery dates”

January 1998: Trade & Industry committee is concemed about delays
March 1998: Ministers call for second independent report on project, led by Adrian Montague

April 1998: Department of Trade & Industry denies problems and says “subject to successful
completion” of tials, “national roll-out would start in April 1999 and be completed before the end
of 2000”. Post Office takes over Hine management

July 1998: Montague committee reports, supporting PA Consulting's findings. It says the project
could deliver by the end of 2001. But not without improved management and “uncertain cost”

September 1998: Graham Corbett, deputy chairman of the Monopolies & Mergers Commission,
is appointed as troubleshooter. He is ordered to produce a third report

October 1998; Deadline for live trial of system is passed

November 1998: Secretary of state, DTI. Peter Mandelson, admits delays. He says he is
“confident deadlines would be met”

December 1998; Post Office Counters and ICL agree restructuring of project with both sharing
losses. Government blocks the deal saying it contradicts findings of the Montague report. Minister
lan McCartney tells Trade & Industry Select Committee the magnetic strip card project is
“evitically important 10 the future of the Post Office”

January-May 1999: ICL continues to develop the project. The Benefits Agency tells the
Government it wants t move directly to automatic credit wansfer. Treasury officials study
alternatives

25 May 1999: Stephen Byers announces the end of the payment card scheme in favour of paying
benefits through banks from 2003. ICL signs a new heads of agreement contract. As part of
revised plans, ICL will deliver a secure smartcard-enabled electronic retail platform to all Post
Offices. The Benefits Agency, formerly a client of Pathway, is struck out of the contract altogether

September 1999: A Commons committee report concludes the project was “blighted from the
outset” and lists a catalogue of errors

01 Now 2006

All Rights Reserved, Copy rub

6, TechTarget

bitp://www.computerweekly.com/ feature /Pathway-and-the-Post-Office-the-lessons-le.,. 28/06/2016 F/70/3
