POL001 14298
POL00114298

POL001 14298
POL00114298

POL001 14298
POL00114298

‘

ES

From: The Rt. Hon. James Arbuthnot, MP.

HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWI1A 0AA

10 December 2009 '

Rt Hon Lord Péter Mandelson 0° >
Sectetary of State

Department for Business, Innovation & Skills
1 Victoria Street

London

SW1H OET

Noa Reber

1
T write further to my letter of 3 November regarding correspondence received from my constituent
Mr David Bristow, postmaster of Odiham. Post Office, High Street, Odiham, Hampshire, RG29,

T enclose a copy of my previous letter, and the two emails to which it refers, I also enclose two
subsequent emails from Mr Bristow and an.email from a local Councillor, Cllr John Kennett,
describing the circumstances of the second post office in my constituency affected by the Horizon
system, Jo Hamilton of South Wamborough Post Office, Hampshire,

T have not yet received a reply and I should be most grateful if you would let me have your
comments on this matter. T alsq request reassurance that BIS will investigate this matter fully and
take action as and where appropriate. Given the urgency of Mr Bristow’s situation I would ask for
your attention as soon as possible and a response by way of a letter or, if preferred, a meeting.

POL00114298
POL00114298

I

Page 1 of J

HEFFERNAN, Virginia

From: ARBUTHNOT, James

Sent; 30 November 2009 12:00

To: HEFFERNAN, Virginia

Subject: FW: Post Office threatst! URGENT
importance: High

From: David Bristow i
Sent: 29 November 2
‘To: ARBUTHNOT, James
Subject: RE: Post Office threats!I

Dear Mr Arbuthnot,

Yes, there are commonalities between my case and the one you received from your local

*. councillor, .
- There Is however one major difference
the difference is that the post Office
Money in to try a

although mine originated from the same source,

will-take criminal action if the postmaster has put his own
ind correct matters, they are then seen to be falsifying accounts.

In my case J did not do that so its then Put through as a civil case,

* Twould like to explain to you exactly what has happened to me, would it be possible to have a
Meeting with you?
Thave also discovered another MP who has experienced constituents with the same Problems,
His name is David Heathcoat-Amory(Con), T have sent him an introductory email,
I believe that if you contact him you will fin

id the same concerns as those expressed by David
Jones,

T have also asked the Post Offi
But they refused and they told

ice for more information, to back up their claim for over 42K,
‘They just continue with their th;

me, that they didnt know where it came from,
ireats of legal action,

Thank you for your continuing interest and’eoncern.

nets cates at eaten

07/12/2009

POL001 14298
POL00114298

.

Page 1 of 2

HEFFERNAN, Virginia

From: MARSHALL, James

Sent: 19 November 2009 16:23

To: HEFFERNAN, Virginia

Subject: FW: Possible Post Office injustices

From: ClirKennett¢
Sent: 04 April 20
To: ARBUTHNOF, James

Subject: Possible Post Office injustices

Dear James,

As promised when we talked in Long Sutton on Friday,

feport on possible failings in the ‘Horizon’ computer prog

- Weekly. The reporter working on itis Rebecca Thomso!
beck jOMSO}

or threatening responses, some of which ‘Suggest that by printing’the story they would be damaging the *
magazine's credibility, which they think may mean that the Post Office will generally rubbish the article and
everyone connected with it.

system. The Post Office swiftly removes all fecords, as it entitled to do under a rather one sided
contract, so there is no evidence and Feconstructing a paper trail is nigh Impossible.

Again anecdotally, what often happens is that when discrepancies start to arise the Postmaster makes up
the difference with his own money but perhaps watches his records more in future. When it happens on a
larger scale then he/she declines to keep putting in money and starts complaining. If he complains too
loudly or too Specifically then the Post Office cancels the franchise contract and removes all records.

Some overworked and careless Postmasters make the mistake of pressing the ‘Enter’ key when starting the
computer in a moming since the system will not open if itis not pressed. They may press it to be able to
serve the customer standing in front of them, meaning ta sort things out later, but pressing it constitutes
agreement that the cash in the till is what the computer screen says, Ifitis not then they can be prosecuted
for False Accounting.

People careless enough to get themselves into this-pasition aré+then offered a deal: plead.guilty to False
Accounting, refrain from taising any awkward:questions in Court, sign a ‘gagging order and pay whatever
the computer says is missing and the Post Office will not Oppose a light sentence. Protest: your innocence
or try to defend yourself in any way and the Post Office will press charges of Theft and push for a
“deterrent” prison sentence. It Is a brave person who takes that risk.

that such a small operation could have accumulated such a large sum of cash in the fill, even if she had
pressed ‘Enter’. The PO 'Help Line’ was worse than useless and one occasion the keys they instructed her
to press increased the apparent cash disctepanéy; they were unable to correct that so left her ‘owing’ even

07/12/2009

POLO001 14298
POL00114298

I

Page 2 of 2

This issue is no longer about Jo and South Wamborough. That is water u
believes there Is a i

greater importance is that so many suspiciously similar cases are coming to light and the possibility that a
State institution is perpetuating

injustice on a targe scale and wrecking many fives rather than admit that it
might have made mistakes.

No one would expect you to take a Position on an issue in the absence of firm evidence but if, after talking
to Computer Weekly, you think you might be able to help get

more facts then that would be much
appreciated by residents. If you would like more local background information then I can provide contacts of
people closer to the issue than! am.

Best regards,

John

07/12/2009

ye — ir — ese i ee ee ee ee ee

POL00114298
POL00114298

-ee——_ EE

Page 1 of 2

HEFFERNAN, Virginia

From: ARBUTHNOT, James
Sent: — 24 November 2009 16:41
To: HEFFERNAN, Virginia
Subject: FW: Post Office threatslt

From: David Bristow:
Sent: 24 November 2009 16:05
To: ARBUTHNOT, James

Subject: RE: Post Office threats!!

Dear Mr Arbuthnot,

Firstly I would like to thank you for your interest, concerns and actions relating to my Problems
with the Post Office, their threats and allegations.
Tam very grateful. . -

Weekly" website on Monday 23rd Nov.
It.appears that an independent IT company have found defects with the Horizon system but the

I would like to bring to your attention the article below that appeared on the "Computer
Post Office seem unwilling to help,

—

COMPUTER WEEKLY

Post Office theft case deferred over
‘IT questions

Rebecca Thomson
Monday 23 November 2009 02:21

A sub-postmistress accused of theft from the Post Office has had her case postponed
until next year to allow experts time:to investigate the accounting IT system at her
branch.

Seema Misra, postmistress at the West Byfleet Post Office in Surrey, is accused of one count of

theft of £74,000, She claims the IT system may have caused the account deficit, which she
en-attempted to cover up: She has admitted four counts of false accounting.

~ Her Barrister, Keith Hadrill, raised concerns dn Guildford Crown Court on Friday about the

Horizon system,

+ Misra first appeared in Guildford Crown Court earlier this year, when the case was deferred for
the first time after she raised her concerns by showing the judge a copy of Computer Weekly's
article on sub-postmasters and the broblems they had encountered,
in that time an IT expert has inspected her system and produced a
report alleging defects. The Post Office has dismissed the report as. "hearsay" and called

“ it a “hypothetical theory". The defence Says it requires more information from the company so

it can investigate further.
Hadrill said he asked for access to a failing Post Office branch, but said the Post Office has not
responded to the request so far. He said the defence has Identified certain failing branches, but
i Postmistresses were reluctant to allow them access because they
would be breaching their contracts.

“We have also asked for a history of complaints to show it is not an Individual problem," he

said. "The Post Office says the report is hearsay: - it may not be once they have reviewed their

files."

8
a
$
a
2
hd
i
3
Fa
a
i
a
g
a

07/12/2009

POLO001 14298
POL00114298

. . ee I

Page 2 of 2

Hadrill said the records on what went on with the computer system In West Byfleet have not
been disclosed, but Warwick Tatford, prosecuting, said the volume of raw data was "enormous".
Judge Christopher Critchlow allowed extra time for the final expert report to be Produced,
moving the case date to March next year, He asked, "This Horizon system is one which has
caused enormous problems for the Post Office ~ technical problems?"

Tatford replied, "We don’t agree with that at all. I have looked through two cases which are the
subject of two of the complaints In that [Comput

er Weekly] article. There were no problems
identified In those cases. Both defendants pleaded guilty."

Critchlow said the Post Office must respond to requests for information within 14 days,
Tatford sald the Post Office does not. anticipate employing an IT expert, but that witnesses from

IT company Fujitsu and "Post Office Investigators who-can deal with these matters" would be
speaking in court.

Thank you again for everything,

Mr David Bristow.

07/12/2009

POL00114298
POL00114298

. er I

03 November 2009

Rt.Hon Lord Peter Mandelson

Seéretary of State

Department for Business, Innovation & Skills
1 Victoria Street

London

SW1H OET

Post Office Horizon system: Possible errors leading to postmaster being accused of
fraud

J enclose two emails which I have received from a Constituent Mr David Bristow of Odiham Post
Office, High Street, Odiham, Hampshire, RG29. T note the. Parliamentary Question raised by Brooks

Newmark MP on 12 October and the reply dated 13 October from Alan Cook, Managing Director of
Post Office Ltd.

Nonetheless there does appear to be a significant number of Postmasters and postmistresses

accused of fraud who claim that the Horizon system is responsible, including at least two in my
constituency.

Given the level of impact this has on the Personal lives of these postmasters and postmistresses

‘arid théir families, often involving bankruptty and certainly sighificant financial‘tiardship, 1 should

be most grateful if you would let me have your comments on-what can be done to investigate the
matter,

POL001 14298
POL00114298

Page 1 of 2

HEFFERNAN, Virginia

From: —ARBUTHNOT, James
Sent: 27 October 2009 15:52
To: HEFFERNAN, Virginla
Subject: FW: Post Office threats!!

From: David Bristow
Sent: 27 October 2003-970"
To: ARBUTHNOT, James

Subject: RE: Post Office threats!!

Dear Mr Arbuthnot,

Today I received another threatening letter from the Post Office this time saying it is the last
letter before action.
I-now believe I know where the problent might be.

I have discovered how to send transactions through the Horizon system which will appear on an
Alliance and Leicester bank account but-will appear as Zero on the Horizon system,

j I,m sure you will also find this interesting I found it on Mr Newmark MP,s website.

{ Mr Bristow
12 October 2009 ; Parliamentary Question .
Post Office Horizon System
Mr. Newmark: To ask the Minister of State, Department for Business, Innovation and Skills
whether he has received reports of errors in the Post Office Horizon system which have led to
Postmasters or Postmistresses being falsely accused of fraud; and if he will make a statement.

; [291675]

Mr. McFadden: The Department has received no such reports. Any Issues relating to the
Horizon system are operational matters for Post Office Ltd. I have therefore asked Alan Cook,
managing director of Post Office Ltd., to respond directly to the hon. Member and a copy of his
reply will be placed in the House Libraries,

From: David Bristow I
Sent: 08 October 20097127
To: ARBUTHNOT, James
Subject: Post Office threats!!

Dear Mr Arbuthnot,

My name Is David Bristow, I run the Odiham Post Office in the High St.

Until 6 months ago I was the Sub postmaster, with a contract to operate the post office.

Post Office Ltd have however taken my contract away, and are demanding I pay them £42,000
, or they will commence legal proceedings.

My predicament is very similar to man

ly postmasters/mistresses around the country.
You may be aware of

the similar case of Mrs Hamilton at the South Wamborough Post Office,

This morning your colleague Mr David Jones MP Phoned me about this matter.
One of his constituents has been subjected to the same Problem.

07/12/2009

POL00114298
POL00114298

ae
re
ad Page 2 of 2
He intends to request a public inquiry in the house of commons, concerning the Post Office and
the Horizon system,
He ask me to make you aware of my-problem,
My solicitor from Tanner and Taylor will also be writing to you.
I would be very grateful to you for any attention that you can give this matter and support you
can give me and Mr Jones MP(Con).
yours sincerely,
Hn GR
t
a
i
1
}
1

07/12/2009

oom >

POL00114298

POL00114298

#751
Metadata

jename

[1.17 Arbuthnot Horizon fraud follow up - Copy - Copy(t).pat

[ORIGINAL]

=

