POL00002841

POL00002841

Global User Accounts

The Global User Account process is embedded here:
Global User Process
V3.3.doc

I maintain the Global User Accounts for the Outlet Support Team group (this is a generic name which
has not been updated since the team changed names).

The field team members have two accounts:
e Trainer — this enables the user to logon and reset the training data on the CTO Horizon kit
only. This cannot not used in a live branch.
e Audit (Emergency Manager) — This allows the FSA to logon at any post office branch and
may be required during an audit, if there is no one available in the branch with manager
access to add them to the system, and reports are required for the audit.

Global User Accounts are unique and all start with an *
lam a Requester and an Approver for the Field Support Team which means that I can request and
approve Global User Accounts to be opened and closed for that team only. This cannot be done

unless you have Approver and Requester access.

To open a Global User Account
e Requester completes the Global User Request Form. Latest version embedded here:

Global User
Request Form_V5.xl:

e Email the completed form to NBSCEnquiries, who pass the form to Fujitsu who create the
account.

Fujitsu send an email to the person who the account is for, which contains their Global User
Account Username. This email must be answered within 7 days.

© Once the first email is answered a further email is then sent which contains the account
password. The password can be changed once logged onto Horizon.

Once the account has been set up it will be included in the list of users maintained by NBSC.

NBSC will send a copy of the relevant sections of the Global User list to the Requesters once a month
and ask them to confirm that the list is up to date. Some of the field team have been added under
the ‘POL Network’ company name instead of ‘POL Outlet Support’, so you may need to request this

list as well.

It is important to ensure that only the correct people have a Global User Accounts (especially the
Audit account) as this allows them to log on in any live branch.

Here is the latest Outlet Support list from NBSC (April 2016):

180416 POL-Outlet
Support.xlsx

Global User Accounts — Sandra McBride - Sept 2016 1

F/1538/1
POL00002841
POL00002841

Here is the latest Master list. You would normally just get the list for POL Outlet Support not the full
list (Master) but this is useful to identify which people are listed against POL Network.

a

GLOBAL USER
MASTER 38 4 (imtB3«

Global User Emergency Password reset

Is an FSA requires a Global User password reset because they have forgotten their password or have
been locked out of their account they need to contact NSAT who will make the request for them.
Here are the instructions:

z
Global User
Password Reset Inst

Only those listed as requesters or approvers can request a password reset. Most of the scheduling
Team have Requester access which allows them to request a reset.

Here is a list of the current Requesters and Approvers and the accounts I have requested to be
closed.

Requestor Approve
r List SMcB Sept 163

I have requested that Sue Richardson is added as a Requester and Approver for Pol Outlet Support.

Further Information

All NOAs have Trainer and Audit Global User Accounts. A decision will need to be made regarding
whether the NOMs and NOAMs will need Global User Accounts and which ones. Currently FTL’s
have Trainer and Audit accounts and FCA’s have Set Up accounts. I don’t know what, if any,
accounts the PPMss have.

Tracey Cutts is currently the Requester and Simon Drinkwater the Approver for FCAs. There are
currently several people from Property on the Requester and Approver list but I don’t know who
they request accounts for — PPMs?

Global User Accounts — Sandra McBride - Sept 2016 2
F/1538/2
