POL00296703
POL00296703

From: Parsons, Andrewf,.

Sent: Tue 25/06/2013 12:

To: Ben Thor

Ce: Rodric Williams”

Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues
Ben, Rodric

To be honest, | don't quite follow the logic of Andy Winn's letters (| suspect this is just me and that this makes perfect
sense to the SPMRs!).

The risk here is that disclosing any form of an error in Horizon could become problematic if it ends up in the hands of
the JFSA. However, we have no real option but to disclose this issue and make right the error with the SPMRs that
have been effected. To do otherwise, risks damaging POL's credibility on Horizon and severe criticism from the Fed

My suggest therefore is to make sure that we fully understand the root cause of this error before going public.
Hopefully, this will give us a good explanation as to why this one error does not undermine our general view that
Horizon is otherwise robust.

With that in mind, are you happy for me to speak direct to Simon Baker / Andy Winn to get some more
background/technical details?

Ben — | suspect that some of this won't make any sense. If so please feel free to give me a call and I'll chat you
through the history.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Ben Thorp L
Sent: 25 June 2013 11:14
To: Parsons, Andrew

Ce: Rodric Williams
Subject: POL - Horizon issues

Andrew

By way of very brief introduction, my name is Ben Thorp. | am a Bond Dickinson secondee (from the Newcastle office)
currently working with Rodric Williams in POL’s Legal team for the next few weeks.
POL00296703
POL00296703

We have received the attached query from the business regarding historical issues a very limited number of branches
had with Horizon. POL intends to refund any losses caused by these issues, but not seek to recover any gains.

Could you please review the letters and let Rodric and me have any comments you may have, particularly in the
context of the Spot Reviews?

If you would like to discuss anything arising from your review, please do give either Rodric or mea call.

Kind regards,
Ben

Ben Thorp | Legal | Tel.;
1* Floor, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ.

JES OB ID ISHII IIIS IIS IIS IOI IIIS IIIS IIIS II IIS III III IIE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

5 only is authi
possible and d

copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

-d to this e-mail will have been cheeked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or d:
used by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any atta

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neithe

‘en nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC:
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Up ames is open to inspection, We use the term part
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
