POL00064059
POL00064059

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND
INVESTIGATIONS ACT 1996

(s. 23(1))

CODE OF PRACTICE
POL00064059

POL00064059

CONTENTS PAGE
Preamble [x]
1. Introduction [x]
2. Definitions [x]
3. General responsibilities [x]
4. Recording of information Ix]
5. Retention of material Ix]

(a) Duty to retain material

(b) Length of time for which material is to be retained
6. Preparation of material for prosecutor [x]

(a) Introduction

(b) Circumstances in which a schedule is to be prepared

(c) Way in which material is to be listed on schedule

(d) Treatment of sensitive material
7. Revelation of material to prosecutor [x]
8. Subsequent action by disclosure officer [x]
9. Certification by disclosure officer Ix]

10. Disclosure of material to accused [x]
POL00064059
POL00064059
POL00064059

POL00064059

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND INVESTIGATIONS ACT 1996

CODE OF PRACTICE UNDER PART II

Preamble

This code of practice is issued under Part II of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act
1996 (‘the Act’). It sets out the manner in which police officers are to record, retain and reveal
to the prosecutor material obtained in a criminal investigation and which may be relevant to the

investigation, and related matters.

Introduction

Ll This code of practice applies in respect of criminal investigations conducted by police
officers which begin on or after the day on which this code comes into effect. Persons other than
police officers who are charged with the duty of conducting an investigation as defined in the
Act are to have regard to the relevant provisions of the code, and should take these into account

in applying their own operating procedures.

1.2. This code does not apply to persons who are not charged with the duty of conducting an

investigation as defined in the Act.

1.3 Nothing in this code applies to material intercepted in obedience to a warrant issued
under section 2 of the Interception of Communications Act 1985 or section 5 of the Regulation
of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, or to any copy of that material as defined in section 10 of the

1985 Act or section 15 of the 2000 Act.

1.4 This code extends only to England and Wales.
POL00064059
POL00064059

Definitions

2.1 In this code:

- acriminal investigation is an investigation conducted by police officers with a view
to it being ascertained whether a person should be charged with an offence, or whether a

person charged with an offence is guilty of it. This will include:

- investigations into crimes that have been committed;

- investigations whose purpose is to ascertain whether a crime has been

committed, with a view to the possible institution of criminal proceedings; and

- investigations which begin in the belief that a crime may be committed, for
example when the police keep premises or individuals under observation for a

period of time, with a view to the possible institution of criminal proceedings;

- charging a person with an offence includes prosecution by way of summons;

- an investigator is any police officer involved in the conduct of a criminal
investigation. All investigators have a responsibility for carrying out the duties imposed
on them under this code, including in particular recording information, and retaining

records of information and other material;
POL00064059

POL00064059

- the officer in charge of an investigation is the police officer responsible for directing
a criminal investigation. He is also responsible for ensuring that proper procedures are in
place for recording information, and retaining records of information and other material,

in the investigation;

- the disclosure officer is the person responsible for examining material retained by the
police during the investigation; revealing material to the prosecutor during the
investigation and any criminal proceedings resulting from it, and certifying that he has

done this; and disclosing material to the accused at the request of the prosecutor;

- the prosecutor is the authority responsible for the conduct, on behalf of the Crown, of

criminal proceedings resulting from a specific criminal investigation;

- material is material of any kind, including information and objects, which is obtained
in the course of a criminal investigation and which may be relevant to the investigation.
This includes not only material coming into the possession of the investigator (such as
documents seized in the course of searching premises) but also material generated by him

(such as interview records);

- material may be re/evant to an investigation if it appears to an investigator, or to the
officer in charge of an investigation, or to the disclosure officer, that it has some bearing

on any offence under investigation or any person being investigated, or on the
POL00064059
POL00064059

surrounding circumstances of the case, unless it is incapable of having any impact on the

case;

- sensitive material is material, the disclosure of which, the disclosure officer believes,

would give rise to a real risk of serious prejudice to an important public interest;

- references to prosecution disclosure are to the duty of the prosecutor under sections 3
and 7A of the Act to disclose material which is in his possession or which he has
inspected in pursuance of this code, and which might reasonably be considered capable of

undermining the case against the accused, or of assisting the case for the accused;

- references to the disclosure of material to a person accused of an offence include

references to the disclosure of material to his legal representative;

- references to police officers and to the chief officer of police include those employed

in a police force as defined in section 3(3) of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985.

General responsibilities

3.1 The functions of the investigator, the officer in charge of an investigation and the
disclosure officer are separate. Whether they are undertaken by one, two or more persons will
depend on the complexity of the case and the administrative arrangements within each police
force. Where they are undertaken by more than one person, close consultation between them is

essential to the effective performance of the duties imposed by this code.
POL00064059

POL00064059

3.2 In any criminal investigation, one or more deputy disclosure officers may be appointed to
assist the disclosure officer, and a deputy disclosure officer may perform any function of a

disclosure officer as defined in paragraph 2.1.

3.3. The chief officer of police for each police force is responsible for putting in place
arrangements to ensure that in every investigation the identity of the officer in charge of an
investigation and the disclosure officer is recorded. The chief officer of police for each police
force shall ensure that disclosure officers and deputy disclosure officers have sufficient skills and
authority, commensurate with the complexity of the investigation, to discharge their functions
effectively. An individual must not be appointed as disclosure officer, or continue in that role, if
that is likely to result in a conflict of interest, for instance, if the disclosure officer is the victim
of the alleged crime which is the subject of the investigation. The advice of a more senior officer
must always be sought if there is doubt as to whether a conflict of interest precludes an
individual acting as disclosure officer. If thereafter the doubt remains, the advice of a prosecutor

should be sought.

3.4 The officer in charge of an investigation may delegate tasks to another investigator, to
civilians employed by the police force, or to other persons participating in the investigation
under arrangements for joint investigations, but he remains responsible for ensuring that these
have been carried out and for accounting for any general policies followed in the investigation.

In particular, it is an essential part of his duties to ensure that all material which may be relevant
POL00064059

POL00064059

to an investigation is retained, and either made available to the disclosure officer or (in

exceptional circumstances) revealed directly to the prosecutor.

3.5 In conducting an investigation, the investigator should pursue all reasonable lines of
inquiry, whether these point towards or away from the suspect. What is reasonable in each case
will depend on the particular circumstances. For example, where material is held on computer, it
is a matter for the investigator to decide which material on the computer it is reasonable to

inquire into, and in what manner.

3.6 If the officer in charge of an investigation believes that other persons may be in
possession of material that may be relevant to the investigation, and if this has not been obtained
under paragraph 3.5 above, he should ask the disclosure officer to inform them of the existence
of the investigation and to invite them to retain the material in case they receive a request for its
disclosure. The disclosure officer should inform the prosecutor that they may have such material.
However, the officer in charge of an investigation is not required to make speculative enquiries
of other persons; there must be some reason to believe that they may have relevant material.
That reason may come from information provided to the police by the accused or from other

inquiries made or from some other source.

3.7 If, during a criminal investigation, the officer in charge of an investigation or disclosure
officer for any reason no longer has responsibility for the functions falling to him, either his

supervisor or the police officer in charge of criminal investigations for the police force concerned
POL00064059

POL00064059

must assign someone else to assume that responsibility. That person's identity must be recorded,

as with those initially responsible for these functions in each investigation.

Recording of information

4.1 If material which may be relevant to the investigation consists of information which is
not recorded in any form, the officer in charge of an investigation must ensure that it is recorded
in a durable or retrievable form (whether in writing, on video or audio tape, or on computer

disk).

4.2 Where it is not practicable to retain the initial record of information because it forms part
of a larger record which is to be destroyed, its contents should be transferred as a true record to a

durable and more easily-stored form before that happens.

4.3 Negative information is often relevant to an investigation. If it may be relevant it must be
recorded. An example might be a number of people present in a particular place at a particular

time who state that they saw nothing unusual.

4.4 Where information which may be relevant is obtained, it must be recorded at the time it is
obtained or as soon as practicable after that time. This includes, for example, information
obtained in house-to-house enquiries, although the requirement to record information promptly
does not require an investigator to take a statement from a potential witness where it would not

otherwise be taken.
POL00064059

POL00064059

Retention of material

(a) Duty to retain material

5.1 The investigator must retain material obtained in a criminal investigation which may be
relevant to the investigation. Material may be photographed, video-recorded, captured digitally
or otherwise retained in the form of a copy rather than the original at any time, if the original is
perishable; the original was supplied to the investigator rather than generated by him and is to be
returned to its owner; or the retention of a copy rather than the original is reasonable in all the

circumstances.

5.2 Where material has been seized in the exercise of the powers of seizure conferred by the
Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, the duty to retain it under this code is subject to the

provisions on the retention of seized material in section 22 of that Act.

5.3. If the officer in charge of an investigation becomes aware as a result of developments in
the case that material previously examined but not retained (because it was not thought to be
relevant) may now be relevant to the investigation, he should, wherever practicable, take steps to

obtain it or ensure that it is retained for further inspection or for production in court if required.

5.4 The duty to retain material includes in particular the duty to retain material falling into

the following categories, where it may be relevant to the investigation:

- crime reports (including crime report forms, relevant parts of incident report books
POL00064059

POL00064059

or police officer's notebooks);

- custody records;

- records which are derived from tapes of telephone messages (for example, 999

calls) containing descriptions of an alleged offence or offender;

- final versions of witness statements (and draft versions where their content differs
from the final version), including any exhibits mentioned (unless these have been
returned to their owner on the understanding that they will be produced in court if

required);

- interview records (written records, or audio or video tapes, of interviews with

actual or potential witnesses or suspects);

- communications between the police and experts such as forensic scientists, reports
of work carried out by experts, and schedules of scientific material prepared by the expert

for the investigator, for the purposes of criminal proceedings;

- records of the first description of a suspect by each potential witness who purports to
identify or describe the suspect, whether or not the description differs from that of

subsequent descriptions by that or other witnesses;
POL00064059
POL00064059

- any material casting doubt on the reliability of a witness.

5.5 The duty to retain material, where it may be relevant to the investigation, also includes in

particular the duty to retain material which may satisfy the test for prosecution disclosure

in the Act, such as:

- information provided by an accused person which indicates an explanation for

the offence with which he has been charged;

- any material casting doubt on the reliability of a confession;

- any material casting doubt on the reliability of a prosecution witness.

5.6 The duty to retain material falling into these categories does not extend to items which

are purely ancillary to such material and possess no independent significance (for example,

duplicate copies of records or reports).

(b) Length of time for which material is to be retained.

5.7. All material which may be relevant to the investigation must be retained until a decision

is taken whether to institute proceedings against a person for an offence.
POL00064059

POL00064059

5.8 Ifacriminal investigation results in proceedings being instituted, all material which may
be relevant must be retained at least until the accused is acquitted or convicted or the prosecutor

decides not to proceed with the case.

5.9 Where the accused is convicted, all material which may be relevant must be retained at

least until:

- the convicted person is released from custody, or discharged from hospital, in cases

where the court imposes a custodial sentence or a hospital order;

- six months from the date of conviction, in all other cases.

If the court imposes a custodial sentence or hospital order and the convicted person is released
from custody or discharged from hospital earlier than six months from the date of conviction, all
material which may be relevant must be retained at least until six months from the date of

conviction.

5.10 If an appeal against conviction is in progress when the release or discharge occurs, or at
the end of the period of six months specified in paragraph 5.9, all material which may be relevant
must be retained until the appeal is determined. Similarly, if the Criminal Cases Review
Commission is considering an application at that point in time, all material which may be

relevant must be retained at least until the Commission decides not to refer the case to the Court
POL00064059

POL00064059

Preparation of material for prosecutor

(a) Introduction

6.1 The officer in charge of the investigation, the disclosure officer or an investigator may
seek advice from the prosecutor about whether any particular item of material may be relevant to

the investigation.

6.2. Material which may be relevant to an investigation, which has been retained in
accordance with this code, and which the disclosure officer believes will not form part of the

prosecution case, must be listed on a schedule.

6.3. Material which the disclosure officer does not believe is sensitive must be listed on a
schedule of non-sensitive material. The schedule must include a statement that the disclosure

officer does not believe the material is sensitive.

6.4 Any material which is believed to be sensitive must be cither listed on a schedule of
sensitive material or, in exceptional circumstances, revealed to the prosecutor separately. If there
is no sensitive material, the disclosure officer must record this fact on a schedule of sensitive

material.
POL00064059
POL00064059

6.5 Paragraphs 6.6 to 6.11 below apply to both sensitive and non-sensitive material.

Paragraphs 6.12 to 6.14 apply to sensitive material only.

(b) Circumstances in which a schedule is to be prepared

6.6 The disclosure officer must ensure that a schedule is prepared in the following

circumstances:

- the accused is charged with an offence which is triable only on indictment;

- the accused is charged with an offence which is triable either way, and it is
considered either that the case is likely to be tried on indictment or that the accused is

likely to plead not guilty at a summary trial;

- the accused is charged with a summary offence, and it is considered that he is likely

to plead not guilty.

6.7 In respect of either way and summary offences, a schedule may not be needed if a person
has admitted the offence, or if a police officer witnessed the offence and that person has not

denied it.
POL00064059

POL00064059

6.8 If itis believed that the accused is likely to plead guilty at a summary trial, it is not
necessary to prepare a schedule in advance. If, contrary to this belief, the accused pleads not
guilty at a summary trial, or the offence is to be tried on indictment, the disclosure officer must

ensure that a schedule is prepared as soon as is reasonably practicable after that happens.

(co) Way in which material is to be listed on schedule

6.9 The disclosure officer should ensure that each item of material is listed separately on the
schedule, and is numbered consecutively. The description of each item should make clear the
nature of the item and should contain sufficient detail to enable the prosecutor to decide whether

he needs to inspect the material before deciding whether or not it should be disclosed.

6.10 In some enquiries it may not be practicable to list each item of material separately. For
example, there may be many items of a similar or repetitive nature. These may be listed in a

block and described by quantity and generic title.

6.11 Even if some material is listed in a block, the disclosure officer must ensure that any

items among that material which might satisfy the test for prosecution disclosure are listed and

described individually.

(d) Treatment of sensitive material
POL00064059
POL00064059

6.12 Subject to paragraph 6.13 below, the disclosure officer must list on a sensitive schedule
any material, the disclosure of which he believes would give rise to a real risk of serious
prejudice to an important public interest, and the reason for that belief. The schedule must
include a statement that the disclosure officer believes the material is sensitive. Depending on

the circumstances, examples of such material may include the following among others:

- material relating to national security;

- material received from the intelligence and security agencies;

- material relating to intelligence from foreign sources which reveals sensitive

intelligence gathering methods;

- material given in confidence;

- material relating to the identity or activities of informants, or undercover police
officers, or witnesses, or other persons supplying information to the police who may be in

danger if their identities are revealed;

- material revealing the location of any premises or other place used for police
surveillance, or the identity of any person allowing a police officer to use them for

surveillance;
POL00064059

POL00064059

- material revealing, either directly or indirectly, techniques and methods relied upon
by a police officer in the course of a criminal investigation, for example covert

surveillance techniques, or other methods of detecting crime;

- material whose disclosure might facilitate the commission of other offences or hinder

the prevention and detection of crime;

- material upon the strength of which search warrants were obtained;

- material containing details of persons taking part in identification parades;

- material supplied to an investigator during a criminal investigation which has been
generated by an official of a body concerned with the regulation or supervision of bodies
corporate or of persons engaged in financial activities, or which has been generated by a

person retained by such a body;

- material supplied to an investigator during a criminal investigation which relates to a
child or young person and which has been generated by a local authority social services
department, an Area Child Protection Committee or other party contacted by an

investigator during the investigation;

- material relating to the private life of a witness.
POL00064059
POL00064059

6.13. In exceptional circumstances, where an investigator considers that material is so sensitive
that its revelation to the prosecutor by means of an entry on the sensitive schedule is
inappropriate, the existence of the material must be revealed to the prosecutor separately. This
will apply only where compromising the material would be likely to lead directly to the loss of

life, or directly threaten national security.

6.14 In such circumstances, the responsibility for informing the prosecutor lies with the
investigator who knows the detail of the sensitive material. The investigator should act as soon
as is reasonably practicable after the file containing the prosecution case is sent to the prosecutor.
The investigator must also ensure that the prosecutor is able to inspect the material so that he can
assess whether it is disclosable and, if so, whether it needs to be brought before a court for a

ruling on disclosure.

Revelation of material to prosecutor

7A The disclosure officer must give the schedules to the prosecutor. Wherever practicable
this should be at the same time as he gives him the file containing the material for the
prosecution case (or as soon as is reasonably practicable after the decision on mode of trial or the

plea, in cases to which paragraph 6.8 applies).

7.2 The disclosure officer should draw the attention of the prosecutor to any material an
investigator has retained (including material to which paragraph 6.13 applies) which may satisfy

the test for prosecution disclosure in the Act, and should explain why he has come to that view.
POL00064059

POL00064059

7.3. At the same time as complying with the duties in paragraphs 7.1 and 7.2, the disclosure
officer must give the prosecutor a copy of any material which falls into the following categories
(unless such material has already been given to the prosecutor as part of the file containing the

material for the prosecution case):

- information provided by an accused person which indicates an explanation for the

offence with which he has been charged;

- any material casting doubt on the reliability of a confession;

- any material casting doubt on the reliability of a prosecution witness;

- any other material which the investigator believes may satisfy the test for prosecution

disclosure in the Act.

7.4 If the prosecutor asks to inspect material which has not already been copied to him, the
disclosure officer must allow him to inspect it. If the prosecutor asks for a copy of material
which has not already been copied to him, the disclosure officer must give him a copy.
However, this does not apply where the disclosure officer believes, having consulted the officer
in charge of the investigation, that the material is too sensitive to be copied and can only be

inspected.
POL00064059
POL00064059

75 If material consists of information which is recorded other than in writing, whether it
should be given to the prosecutor in its original form as a whole, or by way of relevant extracts
recorded in the same form, or in the form of a transcript, is a matter for agreement between the

disclosure officer and the prosecutor.

Subsequent action by disclosure officer

8.1 At the time a schedule of non-sensitive material is prepared, the disclosure officer may

not know exactly what material will form the case against the accused, and the prosecutor may

not have given advice about the likely relevance of particular items of material. Once these

matters have been determined, the disclosure officer must give the prosecutor, where necessary,

an amended schedule listing any additional material:

- which may be relevant to the investigation,

- which does not form part of the case against the accused,

- which is not already listed on the schedule, and

- which he believes is not sensitive,

unless he is informed in writing by the prosecutor that the prosecutor intends to disclose the

material to the defence.
POL00064059

POL00064059

8.2 Section 7A of the Act imposes a continuing duty on the prosecutor, for the duration of
criminal proceedings against the accused, to disclose material which satisfies the test for
disclosure (subject to public interest considerations). To enable him to do this, any new material

coming to light should be treated in the same way as the earlier material.

8.3 In particular, after a defence statement has been given, the disclosure officer must look
again at the material which has been retained and must draw the attention of the prosecutor to
any material which might reasonably be considered capable of undermining the case for the
prosecution against the accused or of assisting the case for the accused; and he must reveal it to

him in accordance with paragraphs 7.4 and 7.5 above.

Certification by disclosure officer

91 The disclosure officer must certify to the prosecutor that to the best of his knowledge and
belief, all relevant material which has been retained and made available to him has been revealed
to the prosecutor in accordance with this code. He must sign and date the certificate. It will be
necessary to certify not only at the time when the schedule and accompanying material is
submitted to the prosecutor, and when relevant material which has been retained is reconsidered
after the accused has given a defence statement, but also whenever a schedule is otherwise given

or material is otherwise revealed to the prosecutor.

Disclosure of material to accused
POL00064059

POL00064059

10.1 If material has not already been copied to the prosecutor, and he requests its disclosure to

the accused on the ground that:

- it satisfies the test for prosecution disclosure, or

- the court has ordered its disclosure after considering an application from the accused,

the disclosure officer must disclose it to the accused.

10.2. If material has been copied to the prosecutor, and it is to be disclosed, whether it is
disclosed by the prosecutor or the disclosure officer is a matter of agreement between the two of

them.

10.3. The disclosure officer must disclose material to the accused either by giving him a copy
or by allowing him to inspect it. If the accused person asks for a copy of any material which he
has been allowed to inspect, the disclosure officer must give it to him, unless in the opinion of
the disclosure officer that is either not practicable (for example because the material consists of
an object which cannot be copied, or because the volume of material is so great), or not desirable
(for example because the material is a statement by a child witness in relation to a sexual

offence).
POL00064059

POL00064059

10.4 If material which the accused has been allowed to inspect consists of information which
is recorded other than in writing, whether it should be given to the accused in its original form or
in the form of a transcript is matter for the discretion of the disclosure officer. If the material is
transcribed, the disclosure officer must ensure that the transcript is certified to the accused as a

true record of the material which has been transcribed.

10.5 Ifa court concludes that an item of sensitive material satisfies the prosecution disclosure
test and that the interests of the defence outweigh the public interest in withholding disclosure, it
will be necessary to disclose the material if the case is to proceed. This does not mean that
sensitive documents must always be disclosed in their original form: for example, the court may
agree that sensitive details still requiring protection should be blocked out, or that documents
may be summarised, or that the prosecutor may make an admission about the substance of the

material under section 10 of the Criminal Justice Act 1967.
