POL00067072

A,

Mail

Legal Services
Impact House

Our Ref: CRM/23950-1/DH/dmt
Your Ref: AB/VK/10161

Dear Sirs .
REGINA -v- CARL ADRIAN PAGE
STAFFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL - 4 JANUARY 2005

I write further to previous correspondence in this matter and in particular your letters of 23 April 2004
and 20 September 2004.

For ease of reference, I will deal with your request for further material initially requested in your letter
of 23 April 2004 using the headings referred to therein.

Page 2 Request: Disciplinary Notes

4 The league table indicating STAM (System Transaction Accuracy Management) was
produced monthly during the period covered by the Indictment. The STAM system would
update the figures monthly and a hard copy of the table would be forwarded by post to the
post office concerned. The team in Chesterfield, who input the errors, did not retain a hard
copy.

The tables would be accessible to other interested parties via the post office intranet site.
Mr Coney, as a Retail Line Manager, would have used the tables to address any issues with
offices in his area. Mr Coney has been contacted and is unable to say whether he would
have kept the league tables on his computer or printed them out. He does not have copies.
in his possession now.

5 In relation to the offer for Mr Page to shadow a Branch Manager, arrangements were made
with Cannock Post Office (being convenient to Mr Page) for this facility to be made available.
Mr Page did not pursue this course of action. As Mr Page was not an employee of the post
office, this was something that Mr Coney could not insist that Mr Page do.

I enclose copies of all notes in Mr Coney’s possession relating to Mr Page and Rugeley Post
Office.

‘tAcriminal work folders\helszajn debbie\28135-6 page and! I91-defencefrisby.doc

© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 1 of 5

Royal Mail is a ading name of Royal Mail Group plc. Registered number 4138203,
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0063551
POL00067072

n fact incorrect, the amount payable being £1.16. An additional statement correcting this
Berror'is being obtained and will be served by way of additional evidence. When Mr Page
Feceived his monthly wage slip, he would also have been provided with a detailed
reakdown of each product, which would show how many transactions were conducted in
that period and the amount payable per transaction.

Acopy of the Post Office Limited’ standard corporate customer (Bureau de Change) contract
is enclosed.

The relevant part of the contract has already been disclosed to you. The position of the
prosecution rémains the same — the contract is commercially sensitive and not undermining.
It will not be copied in full save under a Court Order. Although the document has been
referred to in evidence which has been served, it does not follow either that the entire
document should be supplied or that time-consuming redactions should be made.

6 I enclose a copy CD showing all Bureau de Change on demand office weekly summary
figures from Week 01 (week ending 3 April 2002) to Week 43 (week ending 22 January 2003).

8 It is correct that there is no written instruction that says business cheques can be accepted
for the Bureau de Change. However, the Cash and Cheques Acceptance Operations Manual
Version 3, September 2002 (copy already supplied) deals with the various types of products
for which personal cheques and business cheques with a post office issued cheque authority
card can be used. If you refer to Section 10, Pages 46-48, you will see that the position is
fully set out.

9 I have been advised that any list referred to by Mr Hutchins is no longer available. The
information supplied at 6 above shows the high level of sales and therefore orders from other
outlets throughout the country.

10 The volume and amount of currency sent to any particular post office is keyed into a
computerised Access programme (Borders Database) on a daily basis. The hard copy
documents used to input this data have been destroyed in line with internal policy. LGH/04
was produced by Mr Hutchins keying into the system the name of the office in relation to

D which the information was required together with the relevant period. The schedule was then
automatically generated from the database.

Mr Patel has obtained a further list which shows all currency types sent to Rugeley MSPO
between 3 January 2002 to 1 January 2004. A copy is enclosed.

12 The only knowledge which Customs and Excise had of Mr Page prior to his arrest was his
identity as the Sub Postmaster at Rugeley. I have to repeat that Mr Whitehouse was the
target of an investigation into suspected money-laundering. Mr Patel’s evidence does not
conflict with my letter of 8 Juh 2004. Customs and Excise were aware of large value
cheques being used by'_ ~} made payable to the post office and datestamped on
the-reverse with the Rugeley datestamp.

‘\criminal work folders\helszajn debbie\28135-6 page and, 1-defencetrisby.doc

© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 2 of 5

POL-0063551
13

16

17

23

:\criminal work foldersthelszajn debbie\26135-6 page and

hurchard LLB .
egal Services Director

\
™” Steve Cottier who has the relevant working knowledge of this case in terms of the Customs

investigation, is on long-term sick leave. However, when the Customs and Excise
documentation from Birmingham was reviewed on 28 September 2004, it was noted that the
notebooks referred to by you were not included in that documentation. An examination of
the notebooks in your possession will show that Mr P Hunt's activities are recorded in the
notebooks of A Hudson, A Cureton and P Jones. The. position regarding the remaining
officers will be confirmed in due course.

The Prosecution does not consider that there is any further material which falls for
disclosure. The material held by Customs will be retained by them. This is third party
material and, as we do not consider that it falls for disclosure, should you wish to pursue the
matter, it will have to be by the usual third party procedure by making an application for
disclosure to Customs and Excise.

A further copy of the Customs and Excise draft schedule is enclosed.
The diary was not recovered during the search, nor has it been located at the office Since.

In relation to training records, Mr Page took over the running of Rugeley Post Office in April
1997. At that time training for sub postmasters was conducted by each of the three training
teams. Post Office Limited have since moved to one national training team and in the
numerous reorganisations between 1997 to 2003, the business has taken the decision to
destroy “old” training files in an attempt to cut down on storage space. There are
accordingly no training records held by Post Office Limited in relation to Mr Page and
Rugeley MSPO. Mr Page would have received sufficient training at the commencement of
his employment to ensure that he was able to manage the running of the outlet.

The Money Laundering section in Post Office Limited was set up at the beginning of the
2002/2003 financial year. A publication was sent out to all post office branches in
September 2002, providing instructions regarding the procedures to be followed in relation to
money laundering, together with the forms to be used and who to contact. A copy of that
publication is already in your possession.

The lists referred to by Mr Brown were screen prints that he examined. The number of
offices holding more than £5,000 above their target could have run into hundreds and
Mr Brown and his team would therefore start tackling the offices which were well over their
cash holdings target.

The list would in any event be discarded after it had been dealt with, there being no retention
period for the document and no requirement to print it off.

It is therefore not possible to replicate the list as it was when Mr Brown was making requests
of Mr Page to return his excess cash.

All offices would have different targets for cash holdings and therefore are not comparable.
Mr Patel has confirmed that neither he, nor Mandy Bushell, made notes of the search at

Rugeley Post Office. As you are aware, the Police had a warrant to search the post office
and as such were in charge of the search, seizure and documentation of any exhibits.

‘jis1-detencefrisby.doc

© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 3 of 5

POL00067072

POL-0063551
relation to your letter of 20 September 2004, I reply as follows to the matters listed under the
; heading “Other Matters”:-

4 My apologies. Copies of both transcripts are now attached.

2 The Financial Investigation Unit who undertook the financial investigation obtained copy
bank statements through Production Orders and the relevant material has alteady been
produced either as exhibits within the main papers or as Non-Sensitive Unused material.

I enclose copies of the mobile telephone records of Mr Page. These were checked by the
Police for calls made to Mr Page’s wife, Mr Whitehouse and Mr Horton. The Police then
made a list of the date, time and duration of the call; this list is attached to the telephone
records. -

No records were passed to the Post Office Investigation Department advising them of the
extent of the Police enquiries. Mr Patel was advised verbally that the checks showed calls
made from Mr Page's mobile to the mobile of, _ GRO _} although these calls were only
for a short duration’atid both had confirmed in interview that they did call each other.

3 The Officer in charge is believed to be Margaret Pearce.

The stock unit referred to is Stock Unit 05. Mr Patel has been informed by the existing staff
at Rugeley MSPO that Stock Unit 05 at the time was held by a lady called Sue. We are not
aware of her surname.

4 A copy of Post Office Limited’s Corrective Action Policy (2002) is enclosed; this deals with
disciplinary/suspension matters. Jim Coney has visited Rugeley Post Office on several
occasions and gone through any issues with Mr Page to make sure that he had an
understanding of what was being required of him. Your Client will, of course, be able to
supply you with any details which you consider to be relevant.

5 The monitoring undertaken related to Mr Coney keeping a close eye on the STAM figures
over the following three months to see whether the performance of the office had improved.
The fact that there was no further correspondence with Mr Page after the three month period
meant that the performance of the office had improved, alleviating Mr Coney’s immediate
concerns. As already indicated, the STAM tables are updated monthly and accordingly no
records exist to demonstrate this.

I enclose a copy of the material used by Neil Roberts to prepare his statement. As indicated at
Paragraph 1 [Under Pages 2 to 5: General Matters], Mr Page would have received a detailed
breakdown with his monthly wage slip.

I enclose,.a.cany..of!.
copied td. GRO ‘olicitors.

!Defence Statement. Mr Page's Defence Statement will be

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 4 of 5

POL00067072

POL-0063551
POL00067072

Finally, having considered the contents of your Client's Defence Statement, I confirm that secondary
~ disclosure has now been considered. I enclose herewith copy Form CSO06C confirming that there is

no disclosable material.

Yours faithfully

= " _ “ "
enior Lawyer .

Criminal Law Team

Enclosures

‘\criminal work folders\helszajn debbie\28135-6 page arI GRO __ }31-detencefrisby.doc

© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 5 of 5

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group pic. Registered number 4138203.
Hegistered in England and Wales. Reyislered office: 148 Old Stwel, LONDON, ECV 911Q.

POL-0063551
