POL00448399
POL00448399

From:
Sent:
To: :
Subject: FW: Postmaster Non-Executive Director Role

This message originates from outside our organisation. Consider carefully whether ou should click on any
links, open any attachments or reply. If in doubt, forward to phishin

Regards

Saf Ismail

e
GRouP

IE Group UK I 12 Oxford St! Bolton! BL1 1RF

ss Please consider the environment before printing this email.

The information contained in and accompanying this communication may contain confidential information and is for
the intended recipient(s) only. Any views or opinions presented are solely those of the author and do not necessarily
represent those of IE Group. If you are not the intended recipient of this communication you are hereby notified that
any disclosure, copying, distribution or reliance upon the contents of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you
have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete all copies immediately. IE
Group has taken every reasonable precaution to ensure that any attachment to this email has been swept for
viruses. However, IE Group cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses
and would advise that you carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. IE Group is the
trading name of IE Group UK Limited. Registered in England No: 11316603.

From: PostmasterEngagemen’
Sent: Friday, June 28, 2024 1:28 PM
To: 'saff
Subject: Postmaster Non-Executive Director Role

Dear Saf,

Thank you for applying for the Postmaster Non-Executive Director position and please accept our apologies for the
time it has taken to come back to you.

Unfortunately, on this occasion, we are not able to progress your application to the next ‘shortlisting’ stage of our
recruitment process. This is because your branches have not met all the initial eligibility criteria.
POL00448399
POL00448399

Our data shows that you do not meet the eligibility criteria regarding Cash Declarations, scoring an average
completion rate of 88.9% for your New Hall Lane branch over the six-month period from October 2023 to March 2024,
versus the eligibility criteria of 90%. The rest of your branches did pass the criteria.

I appreciate that this will be disappointing for you and would like to thank you for the interest you have shown
in this position and your continued support in providing vital Post Office services in your community. We are
also incredibly grateful for your ongoing support in your role as a Non-Executive Director and very much
hope that, once your tenure ends, we can continue to have a strong working relationship through your
engagement and participation in other groups.

If you require any further information, please reach out to the postmaster engagement team :
postmasterengagement_ iwho would be more than happy to assist. Alternatively, you can of
course speak to your Area or Regional Manager.

Thank you once again for applying for this role.

Kind Regards,
Postmaster Engagement Team

FESS E SESS EI SESS EI SEO IEA IK

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 100 Wood Street, London,
EC2V 7ER.

FESS IESE IIE SECIS EOS CEI OSES OSES OES ORES ORI EI dcr

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy
