POLO00116960
POL00116960

Post Office Limited
Ty Brwydran
Atlantic Close

Swansea
SAT FJ

Mobile: i GRO

Mr David Hill
By e-mail only

02 January 2015

Dear Mr Hill

Thank you for copying our Chief Executive, Paula Vennells, into your email of 09 December to the
Rt Hon James Arbuthnot MP in respect of the Radio 4 reports about our Horizon system. As the
senior manager leading on behalf of Post Office the investigation of each of the Mediation Scheme
cases your message has been referred to me for a response.

Post Office takes its responsibilities to its people and to its customers very seriously and has gone
to enormous lengths to address the concerns of the small number of postmasters who have raised
them with us. We set up an independent review of our computer system, actively advertised and
encouraged people to come forward and have provided funding for postmasters to take
professional advice to make their case to a complaint review and mediation scheme. After
extensive investigations, there remains no evidence of any system-wide issue with the Horizon
system.

However, I am sorry to hear that errors were made in processing payments into your ISA and I
apologise for any inconvenience this may have caused you. I am keen to understand the
circumstances in which the errors relating to your ISA arose and to be able to offer you as full an
explanation as I can. In order to do so, I would need the information of the transaction (this will be
on the receipt you have) and the name of the post office you used for this service. I would
therefore be grateful if you would send me your contact details so that I may contact you or, if you
prefer, you may contact me directly on mobile detailed at the top of this letter.

Yours faithfully,

Angela Van Den Bogerd

Head of Partnerships
Post Office Limited

angela.van-den-bogert

www.postoffice.co.uk

fed in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HO
Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd

