POL00031245
POL00031245

YEP PROJECT Booz

"36/10, °86 18: D7

Traraaction information Prowenning (117) Pract

Board Papers for Meeting on Lith October 1996

Progress Report (October 1996)

1. INTERIM TIP
Li Progress to Date

Following on from last month's board meeting, the tearn has prepared a more detailed
"Migration Options’ analysis paper outlining the costs and benefits of four options to
enable POCL to support the roll out of the Pathway system prior to Go Live of the Full TIP
development towards the end of 1997. The paper has been widely circulated and the
recommended solution to develop an electronic interface to receive and process all
transactions from automated outlets at both individual and summary level has been
accepted. The merits of this preferred solution are based on the fact that it is the only option
that enables POCL to accept individual transaction level data from day one of Pathway roll
out. This has the following advantages over and above the other options considered:

» this particular development route combines the advantages of a low risk, tightly
controlled and incremental transition with the oppertunity to be the most
strategically aligned with the future functionality of Full TIP;

a) it is this option that provides POCL with the opportunity to test its own ability to
receive and process individual transactions with significant volumes and in a robust
‘live’ production environment prior to Full TIP which will not be possible during
the prototype phase. Hence it is this option that provides the best learning
opportunity for Full TIP:

HD this option is the only one that enables POCL to test Pathway’s ability to provide a
complete and accurate set of transaction data. By receiving both the cash account
and individual transaction levels of data we will be able to ensure that Pathway's
cash account construction emulates the derived version calculated by TIP from the
individual details. Although this will be proved to a large extent with test data prior
to Go-Live, this will give POCL the added assurance of being able to ensure

financial probity of key business data.
12 Next Steps

A decision has now been made to pursue this development solution and a business case will
be submitted to MaPEC on 13 November.

Planning is being undertaken to determine how the analysis and design phase of Interim
‘TIP will be delivered. Both iT and SEMA are involved in discussions about how this
should proceed with the recommendation that delivery of this, predominantly systems
related, activity should involve a combined IT/SEMA team project managed by iT under
the control of the TIP project with team involvement from the current operation.

TeRROR October 1956 Page 14

POLO0031245
POL00031245

TIP PROABCT Baos

*30/1R “98 26:01

Teamsachnn Information Processing (TH Project

2 CP6 PROCESS TO PROJECT ALIGNMENT ANALYSIS

21 Progress to Date

‘The CP6 Project Board has established 2 Sub Group to more clearly establish the future
shape of the process which will deliver the Business outputs of CP6. Ruth Holleran will be
leading the group which will be formed of representatives from the ADT, NAT, TPBU,
SAP Distribution and Consolidation projects; ISSU, Automation Programme and the RDC.

2.2 Next Steps

The first meeting has been arranged to take place on 14 October. The purpose of this
meeting will be to clarify the issues raised to date and to identify the options for resolving
these issues.

3 OPERATIONAL CONCURRENCE

3.1 Progress to Date

The Operational Concurrence (OC) User Group has now been established. This group has
been formed from members of the TIP BPR Tear and user representatives from CTP.

3.2 Next Steps

The OC User Group will work together with the BPR Team on developing the business
process models, organisational design and identifying the impact on current operation. The
OC User Group will develop a set of assurance criteria for the process and system in order
to ensure the TIP project achieves operational concurrence in the business case. The
deliverables will be presented for agreement to the CTP Process Co-ordinators and for
ultimate sign-off by the Process Owner.

4 BUSINESS PROCESS MODELLING
4.4 Progress to Date

The current CP6 process has now been mapped with the high level future process overlaid
to identify the arees of TIP impact. Data on the costs and timescales of the impacted areas
are now being gathered to baseline against the future process. .

Work is continuing to develop the detailed Full TIP processes to individual activity areas.
In particular, this work is focusing on the different types of error that could still occur when
Full TIP is implemented and how these errors should be resolved.

‘The BPR Team are also developing a Product Requirements Matrix which will be used to.
identify the TIP requirements for validation, matching, error handling and reporting during
the roll out of Automation. This will be used to define the volumes of transactions to be
processed by TIP during each phase of rollout.

TPPADOS Setober 1996 Page 23

eo

TX/RX 8O.1280

* 30/10, 98 18:02

POL00031245
POL00031245

TIP PROJECT Bows _

“Transachen information Processing (TIP) Project Based Papers for Meeting on 35th October 1596

4.2 Next Steps

‘The team will continue to define the detailed future TIP process for completion by 28
October. This will then be compared to the baselined current process which will also be
finished by 28 October. The product requirement matrix will continue to be developed to
ensure that each product, both prior and post reengincering, can be supported by the TIP
processes.

5 TIP MIS REQUIREMENTS
SL Progress te Date

The MIS workshops phase is complete and more than 60 users of management
information(MD across the business were invited to generate their requirements, The main
purpose of the exercise was to educate the business about how and what cransaction,
information will be available in the future and therefore to extract real requirements for MI.

5.2 Next Steps

The workshops will be supplemented by demonstrations of the TIP Prototype MIS module
across a wider audience and by one to one interviews to analyse the requirements in further
detail to feed into the functional requirements and business process development for Full
Tr.

Criteria for evaluating requirements is being developed and will be applied to all requests
for MIS as pact of the business case justification.

6 PROTOTYPE DEVELOPMENT
64 Progress to Date

The JAD sessions were completed on 7 October. The purpose of the final JAD session was
to review the development to ensure the prototype phase objectives had been met and to
review the outstanding issues and requirements from these sessions.

The JAD users agreed that the objectives of the prototype phase had been achieved. The
users were content thet all requirements not reflected in the prototype developrnent had
been captured and would be taken forward as Full TIP requirements. All unresolved issues
have been logged within the TIP project.

Unit testing of the prototype deliverables is now taking place prior to integration of the
different units.

6.2 Next Steps

‘The Pull TIP requirements will be taken forward by the BPR Team and the OC User Group
to ensure the Full TIP process and system reflect the users’ needs. The issues will be
progressed via the OC User Group .

TRemBees Bemaber 296 Page 10

P00 e

30/10 ($6 18:05
2 ABLIQ 8B 18: 2

POL00031245
POL00031245

TIP prosrer Hoos

Transaction intormation Procesng (TP) Project Yasar Papers for Meoting 0 38th October 1996

There will be a demonstration to the users of the Prototype system at the end of October)
after the completion of testing. The testing will only ensure that the requirements

by users will be incorporated in the prototype. ‘There is no intention to conduct the full
range of tests which would be applied to a system entering a live environment.

Completion of the prototype development is scheduled for mid- November.
7 FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS

21 Progress To date

Planning is under way to ensure that the agreed business requirements emanating from the
prototype activities are translated inte systems deliverables. This will encompass the
development of a functional model and logicat data model for Full TIP. These are
essential elements for coming to a systems view of Full TIP and, in particular, the systems
development costs which need to be attributed to Full ‘TIP. Without these activities a true
cost for Pull TIP cannot be arrived at.

72 Next Steps

On agreement of the full business requirement the functional mode! and logical data model
will be developed by the end of November.

8 SYSTEMS INTERFACES

81 Progress to Date

The Applications Interface Specification (AIS) between TIP and Pathway is in the process
of being signed off. This will focus on the deliverables from Release 1 of the Pathway
system but not ignore the future re-engineering requirements of the business. There are
still some issues between the project and Pathway , at a detailed level, which need
resolution prior to total sign off. In particular, the requirement to receive an electronic
form of the cash account is deemed to be a change request on Pathway. The impact of this
is being assessed.

Work continues on defining the Reference Data to TIP AIS.

The Technical Interface Specification (TIS) which the TIP project ted in the initial stages :
has now been handed over to the Reference Data Project (Paul Santilli) as that project has
the most immediate need for progressing this work.

B.2 Next Steps

Complete agreement to the TIP/Pathway AIS is due by the end of October. Agreement to
the Reference Data to TIP specification is scheduled for the end of October. This is being
monitored as there are some issues, notably around version control, which may impact on
this.

TRPBeON Desaber 1956, Page 7

RX NO. 1286 PL

2
3S
POL00031245
POLO0031245

«30/18 (86 1a: BS PIP PROJECT Boos

‘Transaction information Processing (TIP) Project ‘hoard Papers for Meeting on 13th October 1996

9 TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS
O41 Progress to date

‘The Technical Evaluation for Full TIP is scheduled to begin in mid-October. This was so
timed due to the gathering of business requirements and the development of the prototype
software. A contract has been set up to test the prototype and associated activities on both
HP and Mainframe environments - thesé being the two environments considered for Foil
TIP

Work continues on looking at the systems migrations activities across the business where
‘TIP has an impact. The project now provides a major feed into the Automation Working

Group.
9.2 Next Steps

The Technical Evaluation will begin in mid-October utilising the resources of Post Office
Resources Group (PORG). This forms the ideal link into the Technical Concurrence
Process. ‘The outcome of this work will be to determine the platforms, databases,
development methods and tools required to operate Full TIP. ‘This will also include the
costs required to perform this service. Culmination of the evaluation is scheduled for the
end of November followed by a period of review and assessment to feed into the Full TIP
business case. This work will include benchmarking the prototype with Hewlett Packard
to stress the likely system to 10% of projected volumes. Similar activities will be
conducted on the IBM Mainframe currently within the Post Office environment.

30/10 '96 18:05

RX NO.1280 P.O06 e
