POL00091030
POL00091030

Message

From: lan Henderson [/~

on behalfof — lan Henderson ¢_

Sent: 27/07/2012 08:36:25

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd f.
; Susan Crichton
GRO Z

Subject:

Angela

Everything has to be done via the Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot.

MP’s are all on surnmer recess at the moment and we were told it would take some time to co-ordinate a response from
JFSA and other relevant MP’s.

We met with JFSA a few weeks ago and they are reasonably happy with the current proposals.

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

UK Mobile:

Emai Dh,
Website: http://advancedforensics.com
Linkedin: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be privileged.
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at ir
delete the email and any attachments.

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd [ma
Sent: 26 July 2012 21:56

To: Simon Baker; Alwen Lyons; Susan Crichton; Ron Warmington; Ian Henderson; Rod Ismay
Subject: RE: 2nd Sight Audit

Simon,

What is the reason for the delay in the cases coming our way? A reasonable assumption to make would be given that
JFSA has been challenging us to undertake this kind of review for quite some time now that they would be eager to get
their cases to us for review?

Given that we are somewhat obliged to review the Yetminster and South Warborough cases does it not make send to get
on with these cases whilst we await the other proposed cases from James Arbuthnot’s office?

Angela

POL-0090674
POL00091030
POL00091030

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Network Services
Post Office Ltd

Ist Floor Admin, Swansea Mail Centre,
Siemens Way, SWANSEA, SAI 1AA

Mobile
Email: angel:

ogerd

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Simon Baker

Sent: 26 July 2012 14:40

To: Alwen Lyons; Susan Crichton; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Ron Warmington; Ian Henderson; Rod Ismay
Subject: 2nd Sight Audit

All

Some questions have arisen about the process for including cases in the Second Sight review.

The underlying principle we need to bear in mind is that Post Office in no way should be involved in defining which cases
to include — it should be coordinated and agreed by the MPs who have requested the review, headed by James

Arbuthnot.

The principles I’d like to suggest are below.

The audit will only include cases that have come through the office of James Arbuthnot.

e This includes the “5S to 10 best” cases from the JFSA — they also need to come through James Arbuthnot’s
office.

If the Post Office receive requests from SPMs for their cases to be included, they should ask to their local MP to
forward the case to James Arbuthnot’s office.

e — If we receive requests from MPs we should ask them to forward their case to James Arbuthnot.

e From this list of cases from James Arbuthnot, Second Sight will then need to identity which cases to include in
their review — no more than 20, ideally 10. This allows Second Sight to select the cases which they believe will
best illuminate the issues of concern.

.

In terms of timescales, we would like Second Sight to start the work as soon as possible, but so far we only have 5 cases
(see list below), so my suggestion is that we keep the door open to the end of August, then draw a line under the scope.

Please let me know your thoughts. If we agree, Alwen, can you forward to James Arbuthnot’s Office for his views.

Regards, Simon

Sub Post-Master Post Office Name MP FirstName MP Surname
Alison Hall Hightown Mike Wood

Jenny O'Dell Great Staughton Jonathan Djanogly
John Dickson (blank) Alan Meale
Tracey Ann Merritt Yetminster Oliver Letwin

POL-0090674
Jo Hamilton

l South Warnborough

POL00091030
POL00091030

[ James

I Arbuthnot

Grand Total

Simon Baker
Programme Manager

Post Office Ltd
148 Ol
Mob ¢.
Email s

Building a Post Office®we can all be proud of

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
OHQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered

company number 02154540

POL-0090674
