POL00363163
POL00363163

POST OFFICE LIMITED
(“the Company”)
Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) is a Committee of the Company
Board (“the Board”) from which it derives its authority and to which it reports
after each meeting. Its authority is always subject to the powers and duties of
the Board, as set out in the Articles of Association.

A. PURPOSE
1. The purpose of the Committee is to:

i. Ensure that appropriate Group remuneration policies are in place for
the Company and its subsidiaries taking into account all factors the
Committee deems necessary including relevant legal and regulatory
requirements, the provisions and recommendations of the UK
Corporate Governance Code 2018 and associated guidance. The
objective of such policy shall be to attract, retain and motivate
executive management of the quality required to run the Company
and Group subsidiaries successfully without paying more than is
necessary, having regard to views of the shareholder and other
stakeholders;

ii. Design remuneration policies and practices for the Company’s
Executive Directors (‘Executive Directors’) and members of the
Strategic Executive Group to support strategy and promote long-
term sustainable success, with executive remuneration aligned to
Company purpose and values, clearly linked to the successful
delivery of the Company’s long-term strategy;

iii. I use discretion to override formulaic outcomes and to recover and/or
withhold sums under appropriate specified circumstances ensuring
that any exercise of discretion is clearly documented in minutes of
Committee meetings and reported to the Board (refer to paragraph
24 below);

iv. Approve for recommendation to the Shareholder the remuneration
for Executive Directors and the fees for Non-Executive Directors for
the Company, aside from the Chair where the Shareholder will
advise the remuneration for the Chair as determined by the
Shareholder;

Vv. Approve the remuneration packages of individuals who are members
of the Strategic Executive Group and fees for Non-Executive
Directors of the Company’s subsidiaries;

vi. Approve of the introduction of any long- and/or short-term incentive
scheme (LTIP/STIP), the associated performance criteria and any
awards made under such schemes by any Group Company. In
approving such a scheme, the Committee shall ensure that it is
simple, transparent, and clear’.

1 post Office Management Services Limited (Post Office Insurance) and Payzone Bill Payments Limited.

PUBLIC 1
POL00363163

POL00363163
Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee
vii. Review workforce remuneration and related policies and the

PUBLIC

alignment of incentives and rewards with culture, taking these into
account when setting the policy for executive director remuneration.

viii. During scheme periods, routinely assess progress against STIP and
LTIP metrics, including reviewing the validity of STIP and LTIP
metrics if circumstances change and determining whether changes
to metrics are required noting the need to potentially consult with
the Shareholder on any proposed scheme changes.

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Remuneration Policy for the Company: Executive

Approve for recommendation to the Board the remuneration policy for
the Executive Directors and those individuals who are members of the
Strategic Executive Group.

Remuneration Package: Executive Directors, Members of the
Strategic Executive Group, Group boards

Approve the remuneration package and terms and conditions of
employment including any variations thereof for proposed Executive
Director, Strategic Executive Group (including any interim appointments to
the Strategic Executive Group), and Subsidiary board appointments
(excluding Group board appointments which are in addition to an
executive’s primary role and where no additional remuneration applies).
This may include, but shall not be restricted to:

i. Base salary

ii. STIP

iii. LTIP

iv. Pension Provision

v. Contractual terms such as notice periods.

The recommendations shall align with the Group Remuneration Policy
approved by the Board, the Public Sector Pay and Terms Guidance (PSPTG)
(subject to any modifications agreed in the Shareholder Framework
Document) and the HMT Senior Pay Guidance (a requirement for all public
corporations).

The Committee must make a recommendation to the Shareholder and
Shareholder approval is required in respect of the remuneration policy and
packages for Executive Directors.

The Committee must make a recommendation to the Shareholder and
Shareholder approval is required in respect of the proposed remuneration
of any person who is a director of a Subsidiary Company who is not an
employee of a member of the Group (unless that company is regulated by
the FCA).

Approve each element of the remuneration package and _ total
remuneration for all members of the Strategic Executive Group and for any
new hires, internal promotions and appointments or remuneration
increases for employees below the Strategic Executive Group which are
proposed to carry a salary in excess of £250,000 per annum.
POL00363163

POL00363163
Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee
5. Review annually the overall total remuneration of the Senior Group

(defined as Executive Directors, members of the Strategic Executive
Group, and Group board appointments including interim appointments)
compared both with external market comparators and with the
remuneration of other employees in the Group.

Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIP)

6. Approve the proposed design of, changes to, and outturn against LTIPS
for the Executive Directors, members of the Strategic Executive Group and
senior managers eligible to be invited to participate in the Company’s LTIP.
LTIP scheme metrics, weightings and targets that are proposed for
Executive Directors must be approved by the Shareholder.

Ts Review periodically progress against LTIP metrics, including reviewing the
validity of LTIP metrics if circumstances change and determining whether
changes to metrics are required noting the need to potentially consult with
the Shareholder on any proposed scheme changes.

8. Document the data that has been reviewed to determine whether LTIP
metrics have been achieved noting this in the minutes of Committee
meetings.

9. Review annually the criteria for and outturn against the LTIP for the

Executive Directors, members of the Strategic Executive Group and senior
managers eligible to be invited to participate in the Company’s LTIP.

10. Where final LTIP outturns are in line with Shareholder approval obtained
under paragraph 7 above, Inform DBT and UKGI officials in respect of the
final outturn amounts for performance related LTIP for Executive Directors.
Where final LTIP outturns proposed for Executive Directors are not in line
with Shareholder approval, additional Shareholder approval must be
obtained prior to award.

Short Term Incentive Scheme (STIP)

11. Approve the criteria for, changes to, and outturn against the STIP for
Executive Directors and members of the Strategic Executive Group. STIP
scheme metrics, weightings and targets that are proposed for Executive
Directors must be approved by the Shareholder.

12. Review periodically progress against STIP metrics, including reviewing the
validity of STIP metrics if circumstances change and determining whether
changes to metrics are required noting the need to potentially consult with
the Shareholder on any proposed scheme changes.

13. Review annually the criteria for and outturn against agreed Plan of short-
term performance related pay arrangements for Executive Directors and
members of the Strategic Executive Group.

14. Document the data that has been reviewed to determine whether metrics
have been achieved noting this in the minutes of Committee meetings.

15. Where final STIP outturns are in line with Shareholder approval obtained
under paragraph 10 above, Inform DBT and UKGI officials in respect of
the final outturn amounts for performance related STIP for Executive
Directors. Where final STIP outturns proposed for Executive Directors are

PUBLIC 3
POL00363163
POL00363163

Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee

not in line with Shareholder approval, additional Shareholder approval
must be obtained prior to award.

16. Receive information on the total outturn of performance related pay
arrangements across the business for information.

Exit Packages

17. Where any exit package for any Executive Director or Strategic Executive
Group Member is in excess of contractual obligations, the exit package
must be approved by the Committee for recommendation to the
Shareholder.

Remuneration Policy for the Company
Non-Executive Directors

18. Approve for recommendation to the Shareholder the fees for Non-
Executive Directors of the Company aside from the Chair where the
Shareholder will advise the remuneration for the Chair as determined by
the Shareholder.

Group

19. Approve for recommendation to the Board the Group Remuneration
Policy. The Committee notes the responsibilities of the Group Chief
Executive as the Accountable Officer to observe the principles set out by
HM Treasury in Managing Public Money and the responsibility of the
Company to have regard to relevant sections of HM Treasury Guidance for
approval of Senior Pay (June 2023) and will take these into account, as
well as the items listed in Appendix 5 of the Shareholder Relationship
Framework Agreement (March 2020), when making recommendations
regarding the Group Remuneration Policy and its application to the
Executive Directors and members of the Strategic Executive Group.

Cc. REPORTING RESPONSIBILITIES

20. The Committee Chair shall report to the Board after each meeting on the
nature and content of its discussion, recommendations and action to be
taken.

21. Report to the Board on decisions where the Committee has exercised
discretion as well as whatever recommendations it deems appropriate on
any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed, and
adequate time should be available for Board discussion when necessary.

22. Report on its activities in the Company’s annual report which should
describe the work of the Committee in line with the requirements of the UK
Corporate Governance Code and include detail relating to any exercise of
discretion by the Committee.

23. Identify in the annual report any consultants appointed as remuneration
consultants, alongside a statement about any other connection they have
with the Company or individual directors.

D. AUTHORITY

PUBLIC 4
POL00363163
POL00363163

Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee

24. The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Company’s
expense, outside legal or other professional advice on any matters within
its terms of reference.

25. The Committee shall be authorised to seek any information it requires from
any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.

26. The Committee shall have full authority to appoint remuneration
consultants and to commission or purchase any reports, surveys or
information which it deems necessary at the expense of the Company.
However, the Committee should avoid designing pay structures based
solely on benchmarking to the market or on the advice of remuneration
consultants and should ensure pay structures are simple, transparent, and
clear.

E. COMPOSITION AND GOVERNANCE
Membership

27. The Committee Chair and members of the Committee will be appointed by
the Board, acting on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee
and in consultation with the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and
shall be appointed for a period coinciding with their term of appointment
as directors of the Company, which may be extended for an additional
three-year period, provided the director still meets the criteria for
membership of the Committee and is otherwise approved for re-
appointment as a director of the Company.

28. The Committee Chair shall be an independent Non-Executive Director who
should have served on a remuneration committee for at least 12 months.

29. In the absence of the Committee Chair at any meeting, the Committee
members present shall determine who shall chair the Committee.

30. The Committee shall include within it’s membership the Shareholder Non-
Executive Director and at least two independent Non-Executive Directors.
If considered independent at the time of appointment, the Chair of the
Company may be a member of the Committee, but shall not chair it.

31. Only Non-Executive Directors shall be eligible to be members of the
Committee, such that no individual shall be involved in determining their
own remuneration.

Quorum
32. Quorum shall be two members.
Committee Secretary

33. The Group Company Secretary, or his or her nominee, shall act as
Secretary to the Committee and shall attend all meetings to keep minutes
and record actions.

Frequency

34. The Committee shall meet as often as required but at least [three] times
per year.

Governance

PUBLIC 5
POL00363163

POL00363163

Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

Meetings may be held in person or by telephone or other electronic means,
so long as all participants can contribute to the meeting simultaneously.

Notice of each meeting shall be given to all those entitled to participate at
least three working days before the meeting.

Meetings for the Committee may be convened by the Secretary in
consultation with the Chair, or by any member of the Committee, at any
time. The Secretary will be responsible for setting the venue date and time
of meetings in conjunction with the Chair. All papers supporting the
meeting will be issued in good time, one week in advance of the meeting
date.

The Chair will report regularly to the Board. Minutes of each Committee
meeting will be circulated to all members of the Committee and, once
agreed, to those members of the Board who have no personal interest in
the matters discussed. Where a conflict of interest exists, the Company
Secretary will provide sufficient information to the full Board to provide an
understanding of the matter(s) considered.

The Secretary shall provide current and new Committee members with any
training, briefings or induction required under the supervision of the Chair.

Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee
meetings. The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief People Officer (or
the holder of any equivalent position), Group Reward Director, and external
advisers shall be informed of the date of each meeting and may be invited
by the Chair to attend all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.

The Committee shall have access to sufficient executive time and resources
in order to carry on its duties, including access to the Company Secretary
and members of the People/Human Resources team.

The Committee shall be exclusively responsible for establishing the
selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting terms of reference of
remuneration consultants and have authority to appoint remuneration
consultants and to obtain, at the Company's expense, legal or other
professional advice on matters within its terms of reference as required,
up to a financial limit determined by the Board.

If there should be disagreement between the Remuneration Committee
and the full Board, the Chair of the Board shall make time available for
discussion of the issue so that the matter may be resolved. Where any
such disagreement cannot be resolved, the Remuneration Committee shall
report the issue as part of any annual report on its activities required by
the Shareholder.

Process to obtain Shareholder approval

44,

45.

PUBLIC

Where within these terms of reference there is a requirement to obtain the
approval of the Shareholder, the process shall be as described in Article
8.3 of the Company’s Articles of Association.

ANNUAL REVIEW AND APPROVAL

The Committee will undertake an annual review of its performance and the
Terms of Reference. The outcome of these review will be recommended to

6
Post Office Limited

Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee

POL00363163
POL00363163

the Board for approval (notwithstanding amendments approved by the

Committee whenever so required).

Approved by: Date: Version: Effective from:
Post Office Limited Board 25/03/2015 11 25/03/2015
Post Office Limited Board 25/11/2015 1.2 25/11/2015
Post Office Limited Board 30/10/2018 1.3 30/10/2018
Post Office Limited Board 20/07/2019 14 30/07/2019
Post Office Limited Board 08/04/2020 2.0 09/04/2020
Post Office Limited Board 03/06/2021 2.0 04/06/2021
(no changes)

Post Office Limited Board 28/03/2023 3.0 29/03/2023
Post Office Limited Board 27/02/2024 4.0

PUBLIC
