Norman Lamb de

Member of Parliament for North N.

Constitueney Otfic:

‘The Rt Hon Vince Cable MP

[3 December 2010
Secretary of State

Department for Business, Innovatio; %

Skills S

1 Victoria Street ease quote our reference und

London SWIH OBT \ coastituent's name in all correspundence
\ vA Jur Ref: 2010/1421 /sp

Dear Vince

Allison Henderson,

Tenelose for your attention some correspondence I have received from my
constituent, Allison» Henderson setting out her concerns about post office
audit procedures and the accusations being levelled at sub-postmasters.

Allison Flenderson’s letter sets out her concerns in some detail and ] was
alarmed to hear about the level of prosecutions quoted in her letter, I
would be most grateful if you could investigate this situation and let me
have a response to these concerns as soon as possible.

I look forward to hearing trom you.

a

Norman Lamb
Member of Parliament for North Norfolk

Please quote the above telvrence in all correspondence with this office.

POL00294731
POL00294731
POL00294731
POL00294731
POL00294731
POL00294731

15" November 2010

Dear Mr. Lamb,

lam writing to you in a hope that you can assist the plight of the growing number of sub-
postmasters that have been, and are still being wrongly accused of stealing monay from their post
offices.

I moved to Worstead fram Hertfordshire in June 1997 and purchased the Worstead Post Office and
have been running It trouble free since then. In Febsuary this year the auditors arrived without
warning and informed me that there was a sum of nearly £18,000 missing from my office. This was
quickly reduced to £11,990. As a result of this I was suspended from my position and am now facing
a trial at the Norwich Crown Court accused of theft and false accounting.

{have never taken a penny from that post office but the prosecutors from the Post Office do not
believe me, hence the trial. I was aware some time ago that the figures were wrong during a weekly
balance ~ some £4,000 appeared to be missing. I tried to find the missing amount without success,
and due to the fact that the PO helptine were less than helpful decided to roll over the figures
hoping that an error notice would be issued from Chesterfield and the matter resolved. This did not
happen and for some reason the figure just seemed to get larger.

Post Office Counters are adamant that there are no issues with any part af their IT systems and are
demanding that I pay back the apparent missing money as well as face a trial. It is written into the
sub-postmaster’s contract that they are liable for any losses, however caused, but those contracts
were issued in the days of hand written ledgers and were not re-issued to take into account
electronic counting systems.

There are some 300 former post masters that have been, or are currently being prosecuted for
similar offences. We are all {mostly} trustworthy business people trying to do what Is right for the
POL00294731
POL00294731
POL00294731
POL00294731

community we serve and are being persecuted for it. There is also a train of thought that the Past
Office is using these unexplained accounting issues as a way of closing offices “hy the back door”.

My oftice surprisingly escaped the tast round of closures, but now instead of having to pay me a
redundancy sum, my reputation has been wrecked and I face the prospect of a possible prison
sentence, heavy fine, or some other criminal punishment plus having to pay the Post Office a large
sum of money, Money that was never taken from the affice, but just seemed to vanish into cyber-
space. Since I dosed my office, POCL have not ever attempted to re-open an office in the village, so
their intentions must be questionable.

{ would therefore be obliged If you could see fit ta raise this matter with the minister responsible for
postal services. I am not sure who that is, but was Informed by an action group that is looking to take
court action against the Post Office on behalf of wronged sub-postmasters that the minister
cancerned had already promised to look into the matter. Surely the Past Office does not believe that
we are all thieves?

Yours sincerely,

Allison Henderson
POL00294731
POL00294731
