POL00297877
POL00297877

From: Neil McCauslandf_

Sent: Mon 22/07/2013 1:54:39 PM (UTC)

To:

Ce:
virginia.holmes
susannah.stort ‘Alasdair
Marnoch' Paula Vennells[I
Chris M Davi ; Alwen Lyons[é.
Barton[s._ Lesley J Sewell[f- >
Charles _d Nicholas
Kenne

Subject: PRINTED RE: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

Hi all — Greetings
Please forgive me if you already covered this at the Board meeting.

I agree with Tim’s comments above, and support the papers.

But I am unhappy about using our contingency up like this.

More bad things will happen — that’s just the way life is!

So I would like to rebuild our contingency from somewhere else — either revenue or costs — over and above the plan,
so we can retain a decent buffer to give us some headroom. If not I fear that our bottom line becomes more difficult
to deliver, and that is not something that I would like to see.

Is that going to be possible Chris?
Cheers
Neil

From: Tim Franklin [¢_
Sent: 22 July 2013 12:55

To:AlwenlLyons
Ce: Alice Perkins; Neil McCausland ( GRO ; virginia.holmes
susannah.storey¢_ i Aiasdair Marnoch; Paula Vennells; Chris M Day; Alwen Lyons; Susan Barton; Lesley
J Sewell; Charles Colquhoun; Nicholas Kennett

Subject: Re: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

Chris,

Many thanks for the updated information relating to the IT Transitional Services Agreement. I am in agreement with
the proposal as I don't see we have any choice. Horizon is a complex Fujitsu proprietary system and any move other
than renewal would present unacceptable risk. I agree with Lesley's future review and the potential to mitigate our
Fujitsu dependency in the future. I do feel like they have us over a barrel, and that they know it. I'm not clear how
much we have tried to play hardball with them, but I would hope that these numbers represent our maximum
financial exposure, and that we will seek to negotiate below this. If they want a future role in our IT estate, they
should want to be less exploitative of us now.

The deviation from our original plan is a big chunk of our headroom used up. Have we looked at other large contracts
to test that our assumptions are realistic and that there are no other surprises lurking? This might be a good thing for
procurement to look at independently of the budget holders. The IT market is highly competitive at the moment and
in my experience costs are coming down, not going up. We may be able to enter into negotiation to extend contracts
mid term at lower costs. The vendor will see this extension as advantageous and might be prepared to trade lower
annual costs for longer contractual certainty. IT procurement is highly specialised, and I'm assuming we have people
negotiating who have the requisite scars!
POL00297877
POL00297877

Regards.
Tim

Tim Franklin

Sent from my iPad . ae
On 19 Jul 2013, at 17:35, Alwen Lyons ¢ GRO wrote:

Dear All
On Tuesday the Board asked for information on three things this week:

eA paper on Transitional Support Services with Fujitsu which we agreed would be considered by
corresponded

«The impact of the Financial Services Junction insurance changes, and the continued Transitional
Support from Fujitsu, on the strategic plan and bottom line (including the P&L and cashflow

changes)
e The impact on Horizon/Second Sight on our insurance cover.

The first two points are covered by the attached and the final one is explained by Chris below

Insurance

We discussed what impact the current Horizon issues might have on our insurance on which we are
advised by our insurance broker, Miller. Their view is that whilst other insurance policies may be
impacted the most likely one is D&O — this has the added complication as it is the only policy we share
with RM and was placed by their broker, JLT. The excess on this policy varies under different criteria but
the main one is £25k on each and every claim. A meeting is being set up with JLT and Miller to ensure
they are fully briefed on the issues before JLT engage with the insurer.

Chris Day

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
POL00297877
POL00297877

the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

<TSS BOARD PAPER_13_07_18_v6 0.doc>
<Implications of update on Financial Services and IT Transitional Support.doc>
<New_File_Strategic_Plan_2013_to_2020 190713 v2.doc>
