POL00381633
POL00381633

From:

Sent:
To:

Cc:
Subject:

Thanks

Paula Vennells[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAULA. VENNELLS8C63D283-A5 1 1-46C3-A93E-
DC6F2AE7A78D]

Tue 03/09/2013 7:51:28 PM (UTC)
Susan Crichton _

Theresa lles! Martin Edwardsf,

Re: Alice - James Arbuthnot meeting

Susan. As we don't have cvs for Bell and Bligh could you say who they are/why suggested?

Re the update - could you add a para re costs and timing on SS? I did ask for the last week update, updated - not
sure why I have just been sent an extract? My ambition is to reassure Alice that we are on the detail.

A good

Paula

meeting this pm. Thank you.

Sent from my iPhone

On 3 Sep 2013, at 18:32, "Susan Crichton"

wrote:

Paula
Further to our conversation this afternoon.
There are two issues where we need to obtain JA’s view on our approach.

Firstly, JA committed to providing an update for MPs in the autumn but we have not ascertained what
he has in mind, although I think that there was a brief conversation which suggested that no written
report would be required but that a meeting would be held with JA; MPs; SS; JFSA and the Post Office.
Our strong preference would be to use that meeting to discuss the mediation scheme and to provide an
update eg no of cases registered, where they are in the process etc. The mediation scheme will not
close now until 18" November so we won’t have final numbers but we can certainly give an update on
progress. It is also our current intention/ aspiration to have resolved some of the cases of the most
vociferous MPs.

An understanding of his thoughts would be useful at this stage, I had raised this with Janet and she was
proposing to talk to him last week and update me, I have not had an update but that could be because
of the political situation rather than anything else. I will drop her an email asking for an update before
the meeting.

Secondly we are going ahead on the basis that he doesn’t want to be involved in the process either as a
conduit for MP’s cases (where they are submitted to him/Janet they are being sent the mediation packs)
or as part of the Independent Working Group. We need to acknowledge that he recommended Sir
Stephen Sedgley as a candidate for the independent chair.

Obviously general feedback would be useful as to how he thinks that this is going.

Paula as requested I have included a front page on the brief for the Independent Chair and a ref to some
CVs to follow.
POL00381633
POL00381633

Extract from update on 30° August

Mediation Process Launch — 27" August
e Appointed CEDR (Centre of Effective Dispute Resolution) as Mediators
Panel of independent advisors nearly finalised.
© Panel will include over approx. 20 professionals made up of Accountants and Legal firms
o Weare currently negotiating with a final couple of legal firms to restrict their costs and
this will decided - this will decide whether they make the panel or not.
¢ Weare running a briefing/training day for the panel of independent advisors and mediators 5"
Sept in Birmingham. This will help make sure they are well informed before they are engaged
for SPMR cases. I will chair the day, the JFSA are going to introduce the programme, Andy
Parsons will cover the mediation process, and introduction to the Post Office and the horizon
system will be presented by Angela and SS are preparing a case study.
e I have agreed with SS to cap their costs over the coming months.

Working Party
Independent Chair
e  Wecurrently have 5 potential candidates for the independent chair:
Sir Antony Hooper
Sir Alan Ward
Sir Stephen Sedley
Catherine Bell
Stephen Bligh
e — I will send the JD and briefing pack separately

Legal and Adjudication of future case
e Meeting was held with our external law firm who have been completing the criminal case
review
«The issues that we want Brian Altman QC to advise on were agreed, final sign off of review
process; options re appointment of independent expert witness (paper to follow); advice on
prosecutions going forward.
e — Following this discussion TOR for his review to be finalised.

Shout if you need anything else

Susan
Susan Crichton I General Counsel

<image003.jpg>
1* Floor, Central Wing, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

<image004 jpg>

<Sparrow Briefing 1.doc>
<Anthony Hooper CV 2013.doc>

<Sir Alan Hylton Ward and Sir Stephen Sedley CV 2013.doc>
