POL00131623
POL00131623

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce:
Underwood1
Subject: RE: Strictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

The letter from Jonathan Swift QC dated 16" December
Rodric,

Seasons Greetings to you too! I called on Friday and see you are out of the office until 23. I am currently on leave
so any discussion of the below will need to wait until 2016!

The documents requested and questions forwarded by Mark have been answered separately by Pete. With respect to
Jonathan Swift QC’s queries about Richard Roll’s allegations, I've done my best to answer the points below.

First, I believe it is important to provide some background on Richard Roll. He worked for Fujitsu in the early 2000s
and as such we assume his “allegation” applies to Horizon not HNG-X. He worked in the estate management section
of the Service Support Centre (3° line support) team which comprised 20-25 people. As such he did not work in the
team that provided software “fixes” etc. The third line support group have never had access to the system that would
allow them to correct software errors. Such errors are always resolved by the development group and delivered to the
live service via the release management process.

With respect to the claim that “one night he and his colleagues had had to secretly correct 500,000 glitches in one
night which could affect branch balances”, we are somewhat confused! If he is referring to software glitches then this
simply is not true and probably not physically possible.

On the assumption he’s not simply lying, we've tried to ascertain what he could be referring to (if anything). The best
guess we have come up with, based on the alleged volume, is he may have been involved in re-sending or the
processes around the sending of client files to your third party white label product providers, for example, as it was at
the time, Alliance & Leicester. These had SLAs associated with them equating to the cost of 1.05p per transaction in
the non-delivered file by 23.59 on the day following the original event (Post Office will have had SLAs to the third
parties too). However, this process does not change branch balances and so is not a good “fit” for Mr Rolls’
“allegation” but it's the best we can do!

If further clarity regarding Mr Rolls “allegation” is available then we would hope to provide a more detailed answer but
as you can see from the above we are struggling to understand what he is alleging occurred.

Kind regards,
Mike

Mike Harvey
Head of Commercial, New Business

Commercial, Legal and Governance

inI

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children

POL00131623
POL00131623

From: Rodric Williams [mailtoz.
Sent: 17 December 2015 10:43
To: Harvey, Michael <:
Subject: Strictly Private & Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege

Mike,
Season’s greetings.

Thank you for meeting with Jonathan Swift QC and Christopher Knight from 11KBW on Monday, especially at such a
busy time of the year. In addition to the follow up items you discussed in the meeting, Jonathan has asked us to
forward to you for response a letter concerning allegations made about Horizon by the former Fujitsu employee
Richard Roll (see attached).

The allegations raised through Second Sight are new to us. Needless to say, we are not accepting them at face value,
including those relating to how Post Office’s contract with Fujitsu operates, and will be looking into them at our end
also.

With kind regards and thanks for your continuing support,
Rodric

POST
OFFICE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
POL00131623
POL00131623

free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U.
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U.
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
