POL00089720
POL00089720

Crnd Dideingow

Regular Call re Horizon Issues
Meeting: 21/08/13

Attendees:

Team/Function Attendees

Legal Rodric Williams
Martin Smith
Andrew Parsons
Renata Prywerek
Kayleigh Harding
darnail Singh

Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay

Security Dave Posnett
Rob King
John Scott

Communications Sophie Bialaszewski

Network Gayle A Peacock
Nick Beal

Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Steve Beddoe

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Nam

John Scott The purpose of these weekly meetings is considered part of the
Operating and Governance model to ensure visibility, support and
communication across the business. Gail to be writing terms of
reference going forward. In addition to the minutes of each
meeting a matrix document is required to bring all actions and
issues on 1 document to provide a clear line of sight. The matrix to
include: matter or issue; date raised; identified or raised by; impact
or potential impact on the business; impact or potential impact to
prosecutions; action required and by whom and resolution.

Rob King Security Rob addressing outstanding issues from the previous
conferences.

2410713

Howden — Gail confirmed there are no specific concerns. The case
is being monitored.

Business banking customer dispute — concerns over the validity of
the customers receipt. The customer has refused to provide the
original receipt. This matter is not a challenge on Horizon, simply a
question as to whether ink used to modify receipt.

48_27326865_1 1
POL00089720
POL00089720

Crnd Dideingow

34/07/13

Bureau de Change — Development issue not a Horizon issue.
Service improvement to be investigated. Email confirmation of
issue to be sent.

Issue raised by Dave Posnett regarding the weight of a letter and
instructions to reboot system. Matter referred to Fujitsu.

Crystal reporting - Sophie confirmed it has been a business
decision not to use the Crystal mark. This will now be removed
from the outstanding issues list as it is not a Horizon issue.

Wincor issue - list circulated including details of branches
attended by the agent. Security gathering evidence as to the
impact on the branches. More in depth information to be requested
from Wincor and in particular records in excess of 12 months old.

07/08/13

Terms of reference re Branch Loss Board — sent out by Gail
21/08/13.

CPS external issues progressing through the Courts — action
completed by Dave Posnett.

14/08/13
Rhigos branch — no update. Gail to investigate further
E-top up issues — Rod to ask Andy Winn for an update

Process for communicating between teams when a prosecutions
is withdrawn — Jarnail and Rodric to look into this.

Andy Winn FSC No new issues.

Steve Beddoe IT No new issues.

Nick Beal Network No new issues

Gail Peacock

Rob King Security The team are collating points raised in interviews with suspects,
logging the details, and feeding back to legal. Gail to discuss with

Dave Posnett Steve Beddoe the process for investigations and working with

contract advisors and litigation going forward.

John Scott Security Cartwright King are currently reviewing previous cases and
existing prosecutions. Whilst the current cases are continuing, all
new matters are under review. In order to flush out the issues and
get to the point of resolution, a subject matter expert is to be
found. The next steps are to identify an independent subject
matter expert, and to vet and interview the expert for the position.

48_27326865_1 2
POL00089720
POL00089720

Crnd Dideingow

The expert's role will be to review Horizon and report back to Legal
and Cartwright King.

Sophie Communications I No new issues.

Bialaszewski

Jarnail Singh / Legal No new issues.

Martin Smith

Rodric Williams / I Legal No new issues

Andy Parsons

Action Points

1 The minutes of the meeting are to be circulated in advance of the next telephone conference due

to take place on 28 August 2013.

2 Telephone conference to take place between Andrew Parsons, the security team and Jarnail
Singh re action point list.

3 Sophie Bialaszewski to copy Jarnail Singh and Rodric Williams into emails going forward
regarding new MP cases, reporting and relaying information regarding queries by MP's to Rosie
Gaisford of Bond Dickinson.

4 Jarnail and Martin Smith to discuss what further information is needed on Wincor ATM theft

issues.

Rhigos branch — no update. Gail to investigate further.

E-top up issues — Rod Ismay to ask Andy Winn for an update.

Process for communicating between teams when a prosecution is withdrawn — Jarnail and
Rodric to look into this.

8 Bureau de Change — Development issue not a Horizon issue. Email confirmation of issue to be
sent to group by Steve Beddoe.

48_27326865_1
