POL00306234
POL00306234

From: Griffiths, Lauren (UK - London);
Sent: Tue 02/09/2014 1:42:52 PM (UTC)
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd?,

Ce: regina.griffiths¢
Subject: FW: Hope Farm Road Post Office
Angela

After speaking with my mum yesterday I am emailing to let you know how disgusted we are with the treatment our
family has received from the Post Office.

As you are well aware it has now been almost a year since we lost our Dad. We hold the Post Office solely and wholly
responsible for what happened to him. As I am sure you can imagine, our family has had an extremely tough year,
with what I consider no support from the Post Office.

My Dad was the main income earner for our family, without this income my family has been struggling to get by
i i ii of the Post Office due to the severe ill feeling she holds for it, an
ith the stress and workload of keeping the shop open.

Considering the financial size of a business such as the Post Office Ltd, I cannot comprehend how our family has not
been supported or compensated this past year. I firmly believe that we would not have received this kind of
treatment from any other large corporate organisation.

I understand that you are putting what you discussed with my Mum yesterday in writing to her. It appears from what I
have heard that you are offering the £140k “compensation payment” on the condition that we drop any action or
legal recourse with the Post Office Ltd for any further compensation for its wrongdoing.

No amount of financial compensation could replace the fact that the Post Office has taken our Dad away from our
family but simply put, £140k “compensation” for our Dad’s life is simply disgusting.

I request that you escalate this matter and you forward this email on to the relevant parties within the Post Office. As
stated above, this has now dragged on for almost a year; the way in which the Post office has dealt with this matter

has been inadequate and incompetent.

We will get back to you once we have received your response in writing. I would also appreciate a response to this
email.

Regards
Lauren

Lauren Griffiths

POL00306234
POL00306234
