POL00192192
POL00192192

From: Matthews, Gavin _ J
Sent: Tue 16/07/2013 5:24:01 PM (UTC)
To: Susan Crichton[,

Cc: Richardson, Simoni

Subject: PRIVATE - For discusion
Susan

I've just had a brief conversation with Simon before he disappeared into the tube so have caught up about Second
Sight.

Separately I received calls after sending the message below from both Rodric (from Portugal) and Hugh (from Ireland)

I won't recount the full details but Rodric suggested initially that instead of a criminal barrister POL may use DAC
Beachcroft. I said that was of course up to POL but I thought one more firm being involved in this matter might get
complicated and the advantage of a barrister was that they would be completely independent and have no pre
conceived ideas. Rodric thought that was sensible.

Hugh subsequently called me to say that he had spoken to DAC Beachcroft (Mary Lawrence) having spoken to you but
that I should continue to consider criminal silks who POL may want to use to oversee what Cartwright King are doing.

I am just a bit concerned that there may be too many law firms involved looking at things through different lenses. Of
course it is up to you whom POL instructs but you may just want to reflect on this overnight.

I have copied in Simon for when he emerges from the underground system!
Happy to discuss at any time

Kind regards

Gavin

Gavin Matthews
Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

G pe
and Didkingon
Direct: j

st GRO
Office: I

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Matthews, Gavin

Sent: 16 July 2013 15:48

To: ‘Susan Crichton’; Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Richardson, Simon; Hugh Flemington; Rodric Williams; Jarnail A Singh
POL00192192
POL00192192

Subject: RE: For discusion [BD-4A.FID20472253]
Susan

I know that you are with Simon and Andy today so I have taken an initial look at this for you. I agree with you that I
would expect the advice to me more prescriptive ie you need to say this in response.

I do also have concerns from a civil point of view over a couple of statements in the draft response. In particular
where it states;

"He has done so both to POL and, in expert witness statements and oral evidence, to the court. In particular he has:
attested to the presence of defect detection and rectification systems; the robustness of the prosecution audit trail;
and stated that, in his expert opinion, Horizon accurately records and processes all information submitted into the
system. The Second Sight Interim report demonstrates that this was not the case."

I consider this to be unhelpful given that the SS report found there to be no systemic problems with Horizon.

It shows the need for all POL letters (criminal and civil) to contain a consistent message — so that the right hand and
the left hand know what they are each doing.

I am not a criminal lawyer but I would query whether the CCRC have the power to review a case where the SPM
entered a plea of guilty in the magistrates’ court.

I would be happy to suggest some criminal barristers to take a look at this for you
Perhaps you could discuss this with Simon and Andy today if you get the chance.
Kind regards

Gavin
Gavin Matthews

Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Mobile: GRO

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Susan Crichton
Sent: 16 July 2013 13:58
To: Parsons, Andrew

POL00192192
POL00192192

Cc: Richardson, Simon; Matthews, Gavin; Hugh Flemington; Rodric Williams; Jarnail A Singh
Subject: For discusion

Andy — we received a letter from the CRCC yesterday which I have asked Cartwright King to review......their advice
feels odd to me as if given on a take it or leave it basis and I am not comfortable that’s particularly useful in this
context. Could we discuss, I am happy to go to another firm that specialises in Criminal law or a barrister, somehow
it feels as if there is a conflict here which I am not sure I understand.

Thanks

Susan Crichton I HR & Corporate Services Director

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confide
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not susan.crichtonl
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or

only is authorised to access
possible and delete any copies.
prohibited and may be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Diekinson LLP aceepts no liability for any loss or dar
hich may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
