POL00099223
POL00099223

Message

From: Paula Vennells

on behalf of — Paula Vennells

Sent: 14/07/2013

To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Re: The case for independence in the Post Office appeals system
Hi Alice,

I agree the two of you must restore the relationship; if not, it is not tenable for Susan to continue with this. I
trust you implicitly, so do forgive me for stating the obvious, but belt and braces is always useful in sensitive
situations: Susan shared her feelings with me in confidence and at a time when she was feeling very low about '
letting this happen to the business she worked for'.

I'm sure together you can repair it but it's a F2F conversation; as Susan and I need to have as well. I imagine
after this weekend she will be of a very different view, having spoken to one Spmr herself and read the
background to what happened to Alan Bates. (I will also send on separately to you.)

No need t reply to this. See you tomorrow.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 14 Jul 2013, at 14:50, "Alice Perkins" <<" GRO

Thanks Paula.

As you say, for our 1:1.

Susan and I will need to talk if she is really up for it. Can't have stuff unspoken. It's too serious for that.
On Alasdair, need to think whether this is really a role for a non-exec who is chair of ARC. It may be. Just
need to think that through. And as he is a non-exec, I think it would be for me to broach it with him in
the first place.

Look forward to discussing this tomorrow.

A

From: Paula Vennells [mailto:_ _GRO —y
Sent: Sunday, July 14, 2013 10:38 AM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Re: The case for independence in the Post Office appeals system

Hi Alice, Susan says she is up for it. She consulted a lawyer who we both know, and who I rate
highly, who (to put it briefly) told her she should get on with it!

Ihave also said that we might make the HR change, ie, Fay to report to me in the interim, whilst
we recruit the senior HR role. It would reflect the new structure and also give Susan a clear path
to concentrate on what needs to be done here. But I will decide that after we have worked out the
final plans for how we handle the SS/JFSA actions. The programme, as that is what it will need
to be, will need a leader, but the resource cannot just be Susan as there will be network
operations changes needed, as well as Mark on the reputation impacts. And as I mentioned, it
would be great if Alasdair would chair an internal group. (I was planning to discuss more with

POL-0098806
POL00099223
POL00099223

you and then call him.) Other resources such as Angela and Belinda are still in the mix. Susan
and I are getting together tomorrow with Kevin, to work out how we approach all this.

I will follow up with a face to face discussion with Susan as well - always best to see someone
say they are up for something (we were only able to speak on the phone). And I'll clarify the
final approach after we have had the Board session.

Let's pick up at our 121: I do want to make sure I am not missing something: this is a particularly
good example of where people and life are not tidy!

Thope you are having a wonderful weekend - the West Country in the sunshine sounds blissful.
Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 13 Jul 2013, at 11:33, "Alice Perkins" < ee
When it suits you, could you please let me know what SC has decided to do? Or is she
reflecting over the weekend? (Sorry, I can't remember what you told me about her
timescale.)

A

From: Paula Vennells [mailt
Sent: Friday, July 12, 2013
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Re: The case for independence in the Post Office appeals system

Well...

Let's just say if you and Jack know +Desmond Tutu ... I wasn't that far off in my
Justice & Reconciliation Commission idea. (And spookily Mark just had the same
idea.)

Probably best to tell you rather than mail. We were right to do the review.

Susan btw has been splendid today!

P

Sent from my iPhone

On 12 Jul 2013, at 10:08, "Alice Perkins" q

Well done Paula.

l admire you for this email to Susan/Kevin et al.

This is painful, time consuming and expensive and I am so sorry itis
happening when there is so much going on of such importance but ina
funny way, this is potentially strategically symbolic and therefore
potentially of equivalent importance in the long run to our strategy
discussions. You are doing the right thing and I believe it will pay huge
dividends in the end.

POL-0098806
POL00099223
POL00099223

I look forward to hearing what happens next.
Alice
Alice

From: Paula Vennells [mail
Sent: Friday, July 12, 2013 08:38 AM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Fwd: The case for independence in the Post Office appeals
system

Hi Alice, I hope you are well.

This is not what I would want to wake you up with. A
subpostmaster email to JS copied to a large number of MPs about a
situation, which if it is correct (and it needs checking) is an
example of why the SS review was worthwhile.

It could nonetheless be an opportunity for a possible ‘triumph’ out
of disaster.

I suggest you read my mail below, then go onto to read the Spmr's
mail to JS and his attachment.

Happy to talk; though to protect your Friday, I can update you after
my call with Susan and Kevin.

Paula
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells

: : The case foi
Post Office appeals system

Hi both/all, please see below and read the
attachment.

I would like to take this as an example of how we
can begin to turn the SS situation around. And I am
taking it very seriously - there are many interested
MPs copied and a letter direct to our minister, but
irrespective of that (which is clearly important) I

POL-0098806
want the business to respond willingly and with
transparency and pace.

Whatever the rights and wrongs of the case and
there will be views on both sides, if this Spmr has
had an unblemished record for 33 years, (which I
would want us to verify), why are we suspending
him while we investigate around £2000?

That is the optic.

It was already a complicated case (ATM rates
related) compounded by a further and totally
separate issue, which appears to be caused by the
fact that our accounting procedures do not allow for
cheque acceptance for stamp purchases over a
certain value.n the case in point.

To be very very clear, I am not saying we should
abandon disciplinary action. But his note repeats
some of what we hear in the SS review: an
overbearing/impersonal process, one that is not
proportionate to the record or the case in hand, and
one that penalises the cashflow/costs of a small
business less able to bear those in the short-term. In
acase like this, perhaps a formal written warning
might have been better as an initial stake in the
ground, while we explored the issues - it would be
more understanding of Spmr colleagues situations,
it would diffuse any angst on the part of PO
colleagues trying to understand the confusion, and
certainly would be less costly for us: the cost of
public funds deployed this case already outweighs
the cost of the error/missing funds, which if I have
understood correctly are/will not be missing at all.

I would like an answer by this pm as to whether
there is any good reason why we cannot just clear
this up now. This is a chance for us to move at pace,
email Mr Woodrow and the MPs and show that the
new PO has common sense and can act quickly but
not ignore the risks to the business.

We will then need quickly to work out guidelines
for colleagues involved in such cases, to allow for
more flexibility, better understanding and reaction
to cases/ £ thresholds, as well as impacts on
manager support to guide staff.

Susan and I have a 121 this afternoon, Kevin can
you join please for the first 15 minutes, I want to
understand firstly what we can do about this and

POL00099223
POL00099223

POL-0098806
POL00099223
POL00099223

secondly, what we might need to think about to be
able to respond responsibly going forwards.
(Someone should call in from Chris' area - please
could Susan decide.)

Mark/Martin can you liaise with Will. I will send
this onto Alice, it may well reach her in some way
and I know she would want to be aware.

Many thanks, I realise this is not easy but it is the
best response so that we are seen to be true to our
word, and it is absolutely a chance for a ‘triumph’ as
JA would say.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: DAVID WOODROW.

POL-0098806
Subject: The case for
independence in the Post Office
appeals system

Reply-To: DAVID WOODROW

i GRO. ia

Dear Jo.

I write to you as the minister dealing
with the inquiry into the Horizon
system and I watched with interest
the debate on Monday as a
constituent in your neighbouring
constituency

You seemed to make quite an issue
of the fact that there was only 47
cases that have come to light. As a
currently suspended subpostmaster
after 33 years service I can assure
you that the 47 are only the tip of the
iceberg. I personally paid out £1900
last year as our office could not
resolve a horizon issue to do with
reversing M.V.L.transactions.

Only two weeks ago P.O.C.L. issued
a very complicated procedure to
resolve such matters but because it
involves a separate government
agency the procedure is fraught with
problems and that would be
confirmed by helpline operators.
Why I am currently suspended is
because I broke the terms of my
contract by retaining £2000 in lieu of
a rates issue which is exclusive to

POL00099223
POL00099223

POL-0098806
Scotland and is partly due to poor
support for current Sub Postmasters
from P.O.C.L

T attach a document which I
submitted to my first interview at the
end of which I was given the option
of resigning ot take my case to
appeal.

I chose to appeal, but in light of the
debate on Monday, the fact that the
appeal is to be heard by a Post Office
Manager seems a bit contrary to one
of the accepted outcomes of the
inquiry that there should be some
form of independence in any appeal
process.

My office has now been closed for
nearly 8 weeks and I will attend my
appeal on Tuesday 16th in the hope
that I and my staff can get back to
serving our community.

Tam copying this to all the M.P.s
who took part in the debate as they
all had issues that need to be
resolved. There was however a
common denominator in that
P.O.C.L. has been lacking in their
support and training for Sub
Postmasters.

Yours sincerely
David Woodrow (Sub postmaster in
limbo Bishopton)

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no
2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

etre ere tent tater teeter ttre teeter tec tet tert tie reet tet ere rete ty)

Click to report this email as spam.

POL00099223
POL00099223

POL-0098806
POL00099223
POL00099223

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense.
www.websense.com

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If
you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered
Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Seerrerrrerertrrtrer rrr trent rrr ttre

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH O IOI IOI IODA SOI IDI ODO IIIT ISAT SIDI AISA I IOI AIT

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH IOS SOI IO IO IORI IDOI ODIO IDI ISO II DDI AISA IAAI AIA

POL-0098806
