POL00039256
POL00039256

Dispute Process

Name: Andy Winn
Job Title: Relationship Manager
E-mail address: andrew.winn@¢

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 1
1.

QRON>

POL00039256
POL00039256

Contents

Contents.....
Document Version
Purpose...
Process Maj
Level 4 process Map and Narrative

PFwWoOn

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 2
2. Document Version

POL00039256
POL00039256

Version Control Table

Version Change Change Change Made (summary) of changes: I Review Date
Made Made By:
(date):
1.0 14/11/14 I Andy Winn Creation of Document N/A
3. Purpose

The purpose of this document is to provide a clear and concise description of the Finance
Service Centre (FSC) Dispute process.

4. Process Documentation Set

The process documentation is comprised of:
1. Process Template.
2. Level 4 process Map.

Finance Governance - Process Document Template

Page 3
POL00039256

POL00039256

5. Process template

Process Sponsor : Alisson Bolsolver

Process Owner Andy Winn
Process Expert : Andy Winn
Process Deliverer : FSC( Financial Service Centre) Chesterfield

1.0 Process Objectives and Aim: Post Office Ltd acknowledges the potential financial impact
and stress that may be caused by unexpected Transaction Corrections or Branch
Discrepancies. An effective dispute process is essential to ensure that settled centrally
debts are not recovered from agents without reasonable time to investigate, challenge and
resolve individual amounts. The process provides a single point of escalation and creates a
clear audit trail to illustrate that subpostmasters accounting challenges have been
adequately investigated with clear feedback having been provided.

2.0 Process Details: Dispute Process

There are two routes by which an agent might instigate the dispute process: -
21 Transaction Corrections

a Branches should contact the Transaction Correction issuer within 7 days of
acceptance at branch to challenge the evidence provided to support the Transaction
Correction. NB Where time permits prior to Branch Trading, branches should challenge prior
to acceptance.

G If the challenge is accepted in full or part at this stage, a compensating Transaction
Correction will be issued to close the dispute.

G On receipt of supporting information the issuing team will suspend the debt recovery
process, if the Transaction Correction was settled centrally, until a response has been made.
Written submissions to the specific team will receive a written response, within 10 working
days, in line with Business standards. It is recommended that written submissions be sent
using a priority service.

2.2 Transaction Corrections where there is insufficient time to investigate prior to Branch
Trading roll over.

Branches should contact NBSC (08456011022) and request further time to
investigate and present supporting information. A reference number will be provided.

Supporting information to support any dispute must then be presented in writing via
Special Delivery to The Current Agents Accounting Team (Debt recovery), 1 Future Walk,
Chesterfield S49 1PF within 7 days quoting the above reference number.

The Current Agents Accounting Team will then present to the issuing team who will
suspend the debt recovery process, if the Transaction Correction was settled centrally, until
a written response has been made. FSC will provide an update on the query or a resolution,
within 10 working days.

2.3 Branch Discrepancies

The resolution of branch discrepancies is the responsibility of the branch.

If the agent believes a transaction correction is required they should contact the
appropriate department in FSC via NBSC (08456011022). Supporting information should be

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 4
POL00039256

POL00039256

presented and resolution then follows the transaction correction process. It is recommended
that this be sent using a priority service. FSC will provide an update on the query ora
resolution, within 10 working days.

2.4 Disputes / Appeals
i If the agent believes that the supporting information provided to FSC adequately

supports their dispute but the dispute has not been allowed they should make a written
submission to: -
The Relationship Manager
1 Future Walk
Chesterfield
S49 1PF

The debt recovery process, if settled centrally, will be suspended pending a written
response.

Awritten response will be provided, within 10 working days, in line with Business
standards.

All correspondence will be included on the EFC for the Network to be able to view.
Where a dispute is subsequently not upheld, a branch then becomes liable for the settled
centrally debt and no repayment will be made for any debt made good.

3.0 Systems Utilised: Credence / POLSAP/HORICe/Remedy

4.0 Process Critical Success Factors (CSFs) and KPIs:
Responses to branches within 10 working days

5.0 Process Stats (as and where appropriate):
Monthly summary reporting via the Network Working Agreement pack.

6.0 Controls: {Document controls built into the process}
None in place.

7.0 Training Material: Standard approaches/letter are available on the Relationship Manager
share point site (control and click on below)

8.0 Skills Requirements: Comprehensive understanding of POL SAP/CFS Customer
Accounts , Credence & HORICe. Intermediate understanding of the Horizon transaction
process, accounting Agents Accounting and Enquiry team processes. High level of written
ability. Wide knowledge of key points of contact around the business and National
federation of Subpostmasters. Basic knowledge of excel and Remedy

9.0 Change Control: No formal controls in place.
10.0 Internal Risks: Loss of systems/ building. No trained cover for role

11.0 External Risks and Contingency: System failure. Confidential data falling into the
wrong hands.

12.0 Other Stakeholders not included above:
POL Account Managers & Service Management, NBSC, Network, Security

13.0 Related Links to Policy and Other Guidance Documents on this Process:

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 5
POL00039256
POL00039256

Debt recovery process

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 6
POL00039256
POL00039256

6. Level 4 Process Map and Narrative

Supply or produce a process map in any format which is available, Visio would be
preferable, but not all staff have Visio on their PCs.

Governance will convert to Visio if not supplied in Visio to ensure all documents are
consistent in their structure and using the same symbols.

i

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 7
