In Strictest Confidence

POLB(12)98
POLCAG0512

Post Office Limited

(company no: 2154540)

Notes of the Post Office Commu ions Action Group Meeting

Present:

Paula Vennells
Alana Renner
Kevin Gilliland
Martin Moran
Mike Granville
Ronan Kelleher
Richard Walden
Stuart Taylor

Apologies:

Nick Kennett
Kevin Seller

Sue Huggins
Shane O’Riordain

Guests:

Stewart Fox-Mills
John Willcock
Nick Beal

David Simpson

POLCAG01/05

POLCAG02/05

held at 148 Old Street, London
on 29 May 2012

(PV) Chief Executive (Chair)

(AR) Communications Director

(KG) Network & Sales Director

(MM) Commercial Director

(MG) Head of Stakeholder Relations
(RK) Head of PR & Media

(RW) Head of Corporate Communications
(ST) Head of External Relations, Wales

(NK) Director of Financial Services

(KS) Head of Government Services

(SH) GM Network Services & Transformation
(SOR) Communications Director RMG

(SFM) Head of Marketing

(JW) Head of Financial Services
(NB) Head of Network Development
(DS) Head of News, RMG

Previous Meeting Notes

The notes from the previous meeting were agreed.

Action — PV asked ST to ensure that the CAG actions are
captured and shared in the format used for the Post Office
Board Meetings.

Previous Action Points — All Completed

Action — the CAG asked AR to report back on the key Post
Office messaging for the RMG Report & Accounts.

Action — AR to speak to Ronan Kelleher.

Completed

DS suggested that outside of the monthly CAG process then
both communications teams would benefit from a weekly
catch-up.

Action — AR to consider this approach and reply to DS.
Completed

Action — AR to bring back to the CAG the PR approach to be
used to support the wider marketing effort.
Completed

POL00096748
POL00096748
POLCAG03/05

POLCAG04/05

POL00096748
POL00096748

In Strictest Confidence

Action — MG to ensure that SPAD contact is assimilated into
the wider plan.
Completed

Action - RW to check and feed back to SH.
Completed

Post Office Integrated Comms Plan

The CAG noted and reviewed the Integrated
Communications Plan (May — Sept 2012). The meeting
offered the following observations:

A key event taking place at the end of the month is the ND12
Go On Digital Conference. PV is speaking on Day 1. The
event includes a series of Post Office Champions workshops,
facilitated by Maggie Philbin. It concludes with the
presentation of the Digital Champion of the Year Awards,
presented to Llangadog Post Office couple, Win and Richard
Morgan.

1. Action - PV asked AR to ensure that all the activities
contained within the plan are given both named owners
and detailed completion timescales.

PV asked that a follow-up communication on the subject of
the Scottish Local Authority FOoG session be included on the
plan timeline.

The CAG discussed the likely timing of any mutualisation
announcement from BIS. MG advised that whilst BIS has not
confirmed any specific date, it has been suggested that the
response to the consultation will be issued before summer
recess.

On a wider communication subject, PV asked for a progress
update on the redesign and development of corporate pages
for the website. AR/MM responded by confirming that a
reskin of the website is underway and that the corporate
pages are drafted and awaiting sign-off.

PV stated that the images used at the recent Vision Launch
event did not represent the current brand identity for the
business and these should not be used for other events.

2. Action —- SFM and RW to liaise and prepare new style
images and share these with PV.

RMG Comms Update (Verbal Update)
DS provided a brief update on key Royal Mail communication
matters.

RMG Report & Accounts — this is provisionally planned for
publication on the 28 June.

i
POLCAG05/05

POLCAG06/05

In Strictest Confidence

3. Action - the CAG asked AR to liaise with Chris Day on
the Post Office submission to the RMG report.

Gold Medal Winners Olympic Stamps — RM is planning to
issue a press release naming the 500 Post Office branches
where the Olympic Gold Medal Winner stamps will be
available. The provisional release timing is mid June. DS
reflected on the good integration between internal and
external communication messaging in support of this major
initiative.

RM Modernisation Programme — the programme continues
apace and DS reminded the CAG of the importance of
ensuring that RM and PO network change activity is shared to
access the potential impact on external customers and
stakeholders.

SFM — suggested that it would be beneficial for RM to
benchmark how Australia Post used the Sydney Games to
leverage business and brand profile.

PV thanked DS for his contribution to the meeting and wished
to place on record her personal thanks and that of Post Office
Ltd for David's advice and support over many years. David

leaves RMG in June. The CAG wished DS well for the future.

Projects Eagle and Polo (Verbal Update)

JW provided a verbal update on the key FS-related projects.
Eagle — it is hoped that the discussions around the Eagle
changes are close to completion. A firm date has yet to be
agreed for communicating the changes.

Polo - a proof of concept pilot is scheduled to start in selected
Post Office branches in East Anglia on the 22 October. Work
continues with BOI on the IT build aspects. It is likely to be
September until a final go / no go decision is made on the
project.

Annual Report and Accounts

AR shared with the CAG the key elements of the approach to
be taken in respect of the preparation and communication of
the full year RMG Report & Accounts. This will be the final
combined set of financial results, and as such, RM will
inevitably dominate the coverage. A press release and press
briefings are being prepared. The Post Office
Communications team is contributing to both the statement
and the supportive Q&A brief. The tactic is for Post Office to
take a low-key approach to the R&A. KG suggested a
challenge to that stance and said that Post Office should be
more proactive and bold in telling our story. AR responded
by reminding the meeting of the complicated external agenda
which is unravelling over the next few months. This includes
the publication of reports of major significance to the
company. Specifically, these include the R&As; the BIS

POL00096748
POL00096748
POLCAG07/05

POLCAG08/05

POLCAG9/05

In Strictest Confidence

Select Committee report; the Post Office Network Report; and
the report on Mutualisation. The key is deciding whether the
Post Office’s best interests are served by adopting a
proactive or reactive approach to each topic.

4. Action - PV asked AR to compile a more detailed
timeline of the key ticket issues for circulation in advance
of the June meeting.

Handled with Care - PR & IC Plan

RW and RK took the meeting through the PR and IC plan that
supports the ‘Handled with Care’ brand marketing strategy.
The CAG noted and endorsed the approach.

In line with the new brand values of Care, Challenge and
Commit, then a company-wide ‘first line fix’ communications
campaign is to be rolled out. This includes wider business
messages to be inserted into sessions with Subpostmasters,
e.g. Step Branch briefings and Rural Branch Network forums.

5. Action — MM to liaise with Harry Clarke about this
campaign, with the CAG asking MM to join the Customer
Complaints Group.

6. Action —- MM shared that it has been identified that an
elevator style Post Office story speech would be really
useful for FOoG colleagues when they meet external
clients and stakeholders. AR to provide please.

June Meeting Agenda

A presentation on the feedback from the Vision Launch and
the workplan moving forward will be presented at the June
meeting.

7. Action — RW to prepare and share a presentation at
the June meeting

At the June CAG, the further elements of the overall
engagement strategy with stakeholders will be shared,
covering; BIS, Other Government Departments, Devolved
Administrations and Special Interest Groups.

8. Action — MG to prepare a paper and deliver a
presentation at the June meeting.

Agenda Standing Items
The CAG agreed that the following should be standing items
on future meeting agendas:
- Integrated Communication Plan Update (Alana
Renner)
- FS Update on Financial Services Projects (Nick
Kennett)
- RMG Communications Update (Shane O’Riordain)

POL00096748
POL00096748
POLCAG10/05

POLCAG11/05

POL00096748
POL00096748

In Strictest Confidence

AOB

Vision Launch Review

PV recognised the fantastic job that the Communications
team had done in executing the Vision event. In advance of
formal structured feedback, then all of the anecdotal feedback
so far has been overwhelmingly positive. Well done and
thank you to all those concerned.

Action — the CAG asked for a digest of the Vision event
feedback and the wider workplan of how the key messages
are being cascaded throughout the company to be shared at
the June meeting. Action - RW

Justice for Spmrs - engagement with MPs

PV shared with the CAG her recent experience of meeting
with two prominent MPs on their concerns over the accuracy
and validity of the Horizon system, following lobbying from
Subpostmasters at branches where financial discrepancies
have been discovered. PV praised the work of Angela Van
Den Bogerd, Head of Network Services, in meticulously
unpicking the MPs claims step by step and turning an openly
initial hostile stance into one of understanding and
acknowledgement of our position on the cases concerned.

PV stated that the MPs concerned have now asked Post
Office colleagues to meet a larger group of MPs who have
similar complaints from constituents to demonstrate the
robustness of the Horizon system.

DONM: The next meeting will be held at 9.30am on
Thursday, 21 June in Room 107.
