POL00103154
POL00103154

Message

From: Tim Parker

on behalf of — Tim Parker <.

Sent: 21/03/2016 0:

To: Jane MacLeod }

Subject: Re: Pst Office - Chairman's review

Thanks for the update Jane, seems we are making good progress.
Best

Tim

Tim Parker

Chairman
National Trust

Chairman
Post Office Limited
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Chairman
Samsonite International SA

Westerrin; 17, B-9700 Oudenaarde, Belgium

wrote:

On Fri, Mar 18, 2016 at 9:31 AM -0700, "Jane MacLeod" <
Dear Tim

Tim

A quick update on the work being taken forward as part of your review, and on Sparrow more generally:
Report Recommendations

Brian Altman QC, who is providing the advice on charging and prosecutions practice, is nearing the end of the terrorism
trial in which he has been acting. Accordingly, we expect that he will be in a position to provide his advice either just

before or just after Easter.

We convened a tri-partite meeting earlier this week between Post Office, Deloitte and Fujitsu to commence the more
intrusive phase of Deloitte’s work on the testing of the Horizon system. Ensuring a collaborative approach between all
parties will be critical to delivering these aspects of the recommendations. Fujitsu has agreed to facilitate a number of

POL-0102737
POL00103154
POL00103154

workshops for Deloitte at their principal site at Bracknell. The exchange of documentation and data is reported to be
free-flowing.

Deloitte are also making good progress on the recommendation relating to the Post Office’s suspense account, with one
of their forensic accountants meeting relevant staff in Chesterfield earlier in the week.

Lastly, our external lawyers, Bond Dickinson, continue their work with Post Office staff responsible for the Sub-
postmasters’ Helplines, to see whether there is any evidence of misleading advice being given in the very limited
number of cases this has been alleged. Given the history of some of these incidents, reconciling data sets is not a
straightforward process, but progress is being made towards a resolution.

Letter to the Minister

The team has just today had some informal feedback from BNR’s officials in relation to your letter to her of 4 March. We
understand that BNR noted its content and is unlikely to send a formal reply. That is a positive sign in that, had she (or
her officials) had any real concerns, and based on previous engagement, these would have precipitated further enquiries
by now.

Group Litigation

We have had no further communication from the solicitors acting for the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance, and the
threatened litigation has therefore yet to materialise.

As ever, please do contact me if you would like any more information in relation to any of these points.
Kind regards,

Jane

* Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number:

POL-0102737
