POL00423412

POL00423412
POST OFFICE Page 1 of 6
AUDUT AND RISK COMMITTEE
Financial Crime Risk Update
Author: Sally Smith Sponsor: Jane MacLeod Meeting Date: 27" March 2018

Executive Summary

Context

This paper updates the Audit and Risk Committee on financial crime risks relating
to Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Counter Terrorist Financing (CTF) and Anti-
Bribery and Corruption and compliance with The Money Laundering, Terrorist
Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 and
The Terrorism Act 2000.

Questions this paper addresses

« What are the key AML and CTF risks within Post Office Ltd and are there any
significant gaps or weaknesses in the Post Office’s compliance with its
regulatory obligations under the Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs)?

« What is the current position with the post HMRC Audit Bureau de Change
remediation project

« What is the current position with financial crime risk assessments.

e Are the minimum control standards in the Post Office’s Anti-Bribery and
Corruption and Whistleblowing Policies being effectively applied?

Conclusion

1. Work to comply with the new Fit & Proper requirements is progressing,
however there is still significant work to meet the June 2018 deadline and to
ensure that the ongoing framework is robust, particularly in the light of
HMRC’s new requirement to maintain data with them.

2. There have been further delays with the Bureau de Change remediation
projects with implementation of the data warehouse solution further delayed,
although some draft reports have been built. The eKYC, PEPs and Sanctions
solution is progressing for April implementation, however, HMRC have now
verbally advised that our interim solution for cash transactions over £2k is
not acceptable.

3. Post Office is considering raising the issues with the new Fit & Proper data
and our solution for over £2k cash transactions with Treasury as we believe
that we have demonstrated a robust approach.

4. Risk assessment work continues, although there are a number of new or
updated Product Information Packs that are currently due.

5. There have been no issues with Gifts & Hospitality reporting since the
communication in January. The volume of Whistleblowing reports received

INTERNAL Page 1 of 6 [ FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]
draft

POL-BSFF-0238227
POL00423412

POL00423412

via various channels has increased, although further communication and
awareness activities are planned throughout 2018.

Input Sought

The ARC is asked to review this report and the progress in addressing the action

plan.

The Report

Compliance with MLRs

6.

10.

11.

12.

Annual training content for Network and back office staff is being drafted and
is due to be delivered 4'" - 30 May 2018. There are still 4 branches that
have not completed their training from last year and second remedy letters
have been sent to them and we are working with the contracts team to
resolve.

We continue to liaise with HMRC on the new Fit & Proper tests, and have sent
them an initial data set split out by Multiples, Sole Trader Agents, Limited
Company Agents, and direct employees who are now captured. There is
significant work still to do to complete the gaps in data, especially the
identification of Directors and Beneficial owners. Other activity that needs to
be completed includes documenting the policy and processes to cover on-
boarding and periodic vetting/self-declarations, training and defining events
that would require fit and proper status to be reviewed.

HMRC wrote to all Large Traders at the end of February to emphasise that
the deadline for responses with the information they require is the 25‘ June
2018 (i.e. one year after the new regulations came into force). Whilst our
HMRC supervisor has indicated that our approach is acceptable, at a meeting
on 12‘ March with our supervisor and his senior managers, they indicated
that they now require us to provide all of the data to HMRC by 25 June
2018, and to ensure that any changes are notified to them within 30 days,
or they will de-register either the impacted branches, or Post Office.

Having worked closely with HMRC over the last year and shown both a
willingness to comply and progress, we feel that this u-turn by HMRC at this
late stage is unrealistic, as their new requirements are unachievable. We are
therefore now considering raising our concerns direct with Government
contacts and Treasury (see also para 13 re. Bureau de Change eKYC
approach)

Non-conformance issues in the Network in January and February 2018
included 38 incidents identified at 38 branches.

The volumes of suspicious activity reports (SARs) have increased slightly in
January and February 2018. The increase volume on internal SARs submitted
by the AML team has contributed to this rise in overall SARs, these
predominantly are in relation to Bureau de Change.

The Financial Crime Team were previously concerned that SARs in relation to
MoneyGram and potential vulnerable customers had decreased since the
introduction of MoneyGram’s new ID capture portal, and this was resulting

INTERNAL Page 2 of 6 [ FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

draft

POL-BSFF-0238227_0001
POL00423412

POL00423412

in branches assuming transactions were genuine because the customer was
still willing to complete the transaction. Communications to increase the
networks awareness are planned for March.

Bureau de Change remediation project status

13.

14.

15.

16.

HMRC have responded verbally to the letter sent in January setting out our
interim approach for transactions over £2000. Whilst they accept that for
transactions paid by card the proposal is sufficient, they have stated that our
proposal for cash transactions, whereby the clerk will need to confirm on
Horizon that the photo ID and the customer are the same individual, is in
breach of regulation 40, which requires us to retain a copy of the ID.

At the meeting on 12‘ March, we advised HMRC that our legal guidance to
date indicated that there is no legal requirement for us to take ID for
transactions below €15k, and therefore regulation 40 does not apply. HMRC
indicated that we could review our risk assessment, but if we relied on the
photo on the ID we have to take a copy. We believe that the improvements
we are making provide adequate measures to prevent money laundering and
the data capture limits we have set are appropriate. We are also considering
raising this issue with Government contacts and Treasury.

The eKYC, PEPs and Sanctions capability has progressed to testing and
should be live in April, but the exact date is yet to be determined. Post Office
have been advised that the Government Document Checking Service cannot
be used for one-off transactions, only where re-usable credentials are
established, so this element cannot be applied until the new Customer Hub
and Identity service is achieved later in 2018.

The new data warehouse delivery has slipped further and issues in loading
the historical data have identified that the new environment has been built
with only 42 fields of data. This is causing an issue with mapping the
historical data and is under investigation. However, some of the reports have
been built in the development environment and we are presenting these to
HMRC in Chesterfield on 21% March so that they can view the progress we
are making.

Financial Crime Risk Assessment

17.

18.

19.

Work on risk assessment continues as BAU, and Appendix A gives full updates
on the status of Product Information Pack completion and re-assessment
work. Completion of the Banking Framework Services Product Information
Packs is critical for the risk assessment work to meet the May deadline from
the recent Internal Audit report.

We have identified managers within Retail and Financial Services & Telecoms
that require financial crime risk assessment training, and will be looking to
roll out sessions in the new financial year.

As part of the work the Risk team are doing on the Risk and Controls Matrix,
we are piloting a methodology to ensure that there is appropriate oversight
of financial crime as a principal business risk.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) update

INTERNAL Page 3 of 6 [ FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

draft

POL-BSFF-0238227_0002
POL00423412
POL00423412

13. Following further communications sent out in January after the Oct-Dec
quarterly report, there have not been any significant issues identified in Gifts
& Hospitality reporting.

Whistleblowing update

14. The volume of Whistleblowing reports is improving, and further regular
communications are planned for 2018.

15.13 reports were received between January and February, and 11 of these
named a Post Office branch. 6 were classified as fraud and 1 as money
laundering. The majority of Fraud reports were submitted via Grapevine or the
Speak Up line and were in relation to theft carried out by a Postmaster, Agent
Assistant or an employee. 2 reports alleged thefts from vulnerable customers.
All reports are investigated with recommendations made and followed up

Regulatory updates

16. The update relating to the Fifth Money Laundering Directive in the January
report remains current.

17. The new Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Bill introduced on 18
October 2017 has been reviewed. There are two key areas it is designed to
address:

e enable the UK to continue to implement United Nations (UN) sanctions
regimes and to use sanctions to meet national security and foreign policy
objectives; and

« enable anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing
measures to be kept up to date, helping to protect the security and
prosperity of the UK and continue to align the UK with international
standards

There are no significant impacts for Post Office.

18. Following the National Risk Assessment that was published at the end of
October 2017, HMRC has published a review of anti-money laundering
compliance in money service businesses (MSBs). This is mostly aimed at
money transmitters operating via an agency model, but covers some generic
areas. The review identified good practices to assist with a risk-based
approach and reduce vulnerability. The document has been reviewed and
there are no significant areas that impact Post Office business.

External threats
19. There have been no new issues since the January 2018 report.

INTERNAL. Page 4o0f 6 [ FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]
draft

POL-BSFF-0238227_0003
POL00423412
POL00423412

Appendix A

Risk Assessment and Product Information Pack update
Due for reassessment in the next two months

Product/Service PIP due for review Month FCT will re- Comments
received and update assess risk

Gift Cards July 17 July September Following an incident in October
2017 the PIP needs to be updated.
Product Manager has confirmed
that this is at present being
reviewed and updated.

Bill Payments October 17 October December Following an incident in October
2017 the PIP needs to be updated

Postal Orders April 17 April June Not yet due

Travel Insurance May 17 May July Not yet due

Business Insurance May 17 May July Not yet due

Home Insurance May 17 May July Not yet due

Car Insurance May 17 May July Not yet due

Motorcycle Insurance May 17 May July Not yet due

Van Insurance May 17 May July Not yet due

Pet Insurance May 17 May July Not yet due

Drop & Go May 17 May July Not yet due

Due from November 2017 Product Manager Workshop
Product/Service Month PIP Completed PIP Month FCT scheduled RAG Comments
Due received? to re-assess residual status
risk

Partner Banking Framework _I February No May [Amber] Five Pips received

Identity Services March No May Draft has been received and
comments provided to the product
manager. Awaiting amendments.

Savings Products March No May Draft PIP received for review

Credit Card Products March No May Draft PIP received for review

INTERNAL Page 5 of 6 [ FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ] draft

POL-BSFF-0238227_0004
POL00423412
POL00423412

Product/Service Month PIP Completed PIP Month FCT scheduled RAG Comments
Due received? to re-assess residual status
risk
Pre-Paid Cards March No May
Mortgages March No May Draft PIP received for review
Loans March No May Draft PIP received for review
Life Insurance Products March No May Draft has been received and
comments provided to the product
manager. Awaiting amendments.
Telecommunications March No May Due March
products
National Lottery March No May Due March
INTERNAL Page 6 of 6 [ FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ] draft

POL-BSFF-0238227_0005
