POL00104891

POL00104891
CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS
APPENDIX 1 to P&S 5.4 - RULES & CONTINUITY OF EVIDENCE Version 1 Jan 10

CONTENTS
Section Introduction
Section Competence & Compellability of Witnesses
Section Hearsay Evidence
Section Bad Character Evidence

Section Continuity of Evidence
Section Vulnerable (children and persons with mental disorders) & Intimidated

2
3
4
Section 5 Other Types Of Evidence
6
7
Witnesses & Special Measures

1. INTRODUCTION

1.1 For the Investigator obtaining information, gathering evidence and seeking the
truth are the primary goals .The word evidence is used to describe the means by
which a point of issue may be proved, or disproved, in a manner complying with
the legal rules governing the subject; these rules are known as the “Rules of
Evidence”.

1.2 Scotland and Northern Ireland. This Appendix details the rules and types of
evidence in England and Wales. The principles should be treated as good
practice in Scotland and Northern Ireland. References to advice from the
Criminal Law Team (CLT) should be directed to the Procurator Fiscal in Scotland
and the Public Prosecution Service in Northern Ireland.

Back to Contents

2. COMPETENCE & COMPELLABILITY OF WITNESSES

are two exceptions;

1. Where it appears to the court that a person is not able to understand
questions put to them as a witness and give answers to them which can be
understood,

2. A person charged in criminal proceedings is not competent to give evidence
for the prosecution.

At a trial, the Judge or the Magistrate(s) will decide if a witness is

competent. Most witnesses who are competent can be compelled to give evidence.

The only exception relates to spouses or civil partners.

2.2 Spouses or Civil Partners are only compellable to give evidence for the
prosecution against their partner in cases which inv 1 or violent
offences. However spouses or civil partners are generally competent to give
evidence against their partners. That is to say if a spouse or civil partner is
content to be a witness against their partner then they can be. The only
exception to this is if the spouses or civil partners are jointly charged. If
they are, neither is competent or compellable on behalf of the prosecution,
against the other. Former spouses and civil partners are both competent and
compellable.

2.3 Children. ‘The test for competence applies to all witnesses; however, children
under the age of fourteen years always give unsworn evidence. Children of any
age can be called to give evidence. Their competence depends upon their
understanding, not theix age. The court will apply the following test;

1. Is the child of sufficient intelligence to justify the reception of his or
her evidence?

Rules & Continuity of Evidence
Appendix 1 to Pas 5.4 Wit
Jan 201

Statement

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891

POL00104891
CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS
2. Does the child understand the duty to tell the truth?
2.4 Compelling Witness. If it is thought that a witness will not attend court

without being compelled then advice should be sought from the CLT as to whether
their attendance is necessary. If so a witness summons can be obtained.
Back to Contents

3. HEARSAY EVIDENCE

3.1 Hearsay evidence is evidence of something a person does not know for him or
herself, but has been told by another, or it has been gathered or deduced from a
document. The Criminal Justice Act 2003 (CJA 2003) codifies the law in relation
to the admissibility of hearsay evidence. Prior to the CJA 2003 there was a
general principle that hearsay evidence should not be admitted in criminal
cases. Following the introduction of the Act there is now a more flexible
approach and hearsay evidence is allowed in the following circumstances:

1. Any provision of the CJA 2003 or any other statutory provision makes it
admissible,

2. All parties to the proceedings agree to it being admissible, or

3. The court is satisfied that it is in the interests of justice for it to be
admissible.

3.2 Section 116 of CJA 2003 allows hearsay evidence in cases where a witness is
unavailable. Information may have been provided to an Investigator which may or
may not have been recorded in a witness statement. If the witness is
subsequently unavailable to attend court then their evidence may be allowed in
the following circumstances;

1. Through fear the witness will not give evidence.

2. The witness is dead.

3. The witness is unfit to testify because of their physical or mental health.

4, The witness is outside the UK and it is not reasonably practicable to secure
their attendance.

5. The witness cannot be found.

Hearsay evidence in these cases will only be admissible if the witnesses’ oral

evidence would have been admissible and the witnesses’ identity is known.

3.3 Section 117 of the CJA 2003, allows hearsay evidence contained in business and
other documents. Such evidence can be admitted if the following apply;
1. The document was created or received by a person in the course of a trade,
business, profession or as the holder of a paid or unpaid office; and

2. The person who supplied the information in the statement had or may
reasonably be supposed to have had personal knowledge of the matters dealt
with in the statement; and

3. Each person through whom the information was supplied received the
information in the course of a trade, business, profession or other
occupation or as the holder of a paid or unpaid office.

4, However, in the case of documents prepared for the purpose of criminal
investigations or proceedings, the statement will only be admissible if the
supplier of the information is unavailable or cannot reasonably be expected
to recall any of the matters dealt with in the statement.

3.4 By way of explanation consider producing a P13 Personnel Declaration in
evidence:

1. If a suspect has identified theiz signature on the P13 during interview then
the Investigator can produce it in evidence. The contents of the P13 would
not be hearsay as the signature has been verified by the suspect.

2. If the suspect refused to identify their signature on the P13 then the person
who witnessed the suspect’s initial signature could produce a statement to
the effect that they had witnessed the suspect signing the P13. This is again

Rules & Continuity of Evidence
Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 Witness Statement
an 2010

P&S Doc.
Date:
owne:

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891
POL00104891

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

not hearsay.

3. If it is not practicable to get a statement from the person who witnessed the
suspect’s signature then the Investigator or the Delivery ice Manager
could produce the item and say what it is and what is used for. The fact that
it is signed by the suspect is hearsay as neither the Investigator or the DOM
can say the suspect signed it. However as the document satisfies the
criteria of Section 117 of the CJA 2003 then the hearsay, namely that the P13
had been signed by the suspect will be admissible.

To enable the hearsay to be admitted the witness statement should bear a

declaration to the following effect;

The Personal Declaration form P13 Identified as ABC/la referred to and

identified in this statement was created or received by a person in the course

of a trade, business, profession or as the holder of a paid or unpaid office and
the person who supplied the information in the document had or may reasonably be
supposed to have had personal knowledge of the matters dealt with in the
document. Additionally each person through whom the information was supplied
received the information in the course of a trade, business, profession or other
occupation or as the holder of a paid or unpaid office. The supplier of the
information is unavailable or cannot reasonably be expected to recall any of the
matters dealt with in the statement”.

3.5 Section 118 of CJA 2003. This section preserves the existing Common Law
categories of admissible hearsay evidence. The categories of hearsay evidence
relevant to investigators under this section are;

1. Public information. This includes published works (such as maps and
scientific works), public documents (such as the electoral role and land
registry titles), records of certain courts (such as court transcripts or
certificates of conviction) and evidence relating to a person's age or date
of birth.

2. Reputation as to character. Hearsay which deals with a person’s reputation
could be admissible.

3. Res gestae evidence. Res gestae is Latin for “things done”. Simply it
things said or done naturally and spontaneously, without any time to thi
about what is said, in direct response to an event. Such words or act
which are closely connected to an event, are thought to be reliable and may
be admissible. An example would be a lady is in a High St. She hears an old
man, who is across the road shout “The postman is being robbed”. The lady
then turns and sees a man running away from a postman with a mail pouch. The
old man is never found but the lady repeats what she heard him say. The
statement would be considered reliable as evidence as the statement was made

spontaneously at the time of the event and there is little chance of the lady
misunderstanding what the old man said, even though the man cannot be
identified.

4. Confessions Will be admissible as long as they fulfil the requirements of
sections 76, 76A and 78 of PACE 1984

5. Statements made in the presence of the accused. Statements made in the
presence of the accused are admissible but only to prove the reaction of the
accused and not as evidence of the truth of what was said.

6. Admissions by agents. An admission made by an agent of a defendant is
admissible against the defendant as evidence of any matter stated.
Additionally a statement made by a person to whom a defendant refers a person
for information is admissible against the defendant as evidence of any matter
stated. This in the main relates to legal advisors making admissions on
behalf of their client.

7. The rule of “common enterprise” This means that a statement made by a party
to a common enterprise will be admissible against another party to the
enterprise as evidence of any matter stated. For example, if it is
independently proved that A and B are involved in a joint enterprise to rob a
Post Office Branch any incriminating statements made by A could be admissible
against B.

8. The rule of ‘expert evidence’. This permits an expert to give evidence of
any relevant matter which forms part of their professional expertise
(although not acquired through personal experience) and to draw upon

Rules & Continuity of Evidence

Statement

Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 &
Jan 201

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891
POL00104891

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

technical information widely used by members of the expert's profession.

3.6 Section 119 of the CJA 2003 Previous Statements. If a subsequent statement
contradicts a previous statement made by a witness then the previous statement
may be admitted in evidence in certain circumstances.

3.7 If you are in doubt about the admissibility or necessity of potential hearsay
evidence in your case you should seek advice of the CLT before obtaining the
evidence.

Back to Contents

4. BAD CHARACTER EVIDENCE

4.1 The CJA 2003 introduced legislation in respect of the admissibility of bad
character evidence. The legislation covers the bad character of both the
defendant and non-defendants in the case. Bad character evidence is defined as
evidence of, or of a disposition towards, misconduct.

4.2 Misconduct is defined in Sec 112 CJA 2003 as the commission of an offence or
other reprehensible conduct. This is intended to be a broad definition and
covers evidence that shows that a person has committed an offence, or has acted
in a reprehensible way (or is disposed to do so), as well as evidence from which
this might be inferred. The admissibility of such evidence will be decided by
the Court.

4.3 [Bad Character of the defendant
The defendant’s previous misconduct or bad character may be admitted in evidence
if it is relevant and it demonstrates that the defendant has a “propensity to
commit offences of the kind charged” and or has a “propensity to be untruthful”.
If so and if it is in the interests of justice then the courts and juries should
be made aware of such character. The test of relevance is simply the similarity
and number of previous events of misconduct and how recently those events
happened.

4.4 Propensity to commit offences of the kind charged. Any evidence that shows that
a defendant has a propensity to commit offences of the kind with which he is
charged and that evidence makes it more likely that the defendant is guilty of
the current offence is generally admissible at court. The legislation specifies
two instances when the defendant’s propensity to commit offences of the kind
with which he is charged may be established. They are evidence that the
defendant has been convicted of;

1. An offence of the same description as the one with which the defendant is
charged. That is to say when the charge or indictment is written it is in
the same terms as the previous charge or indictment. It relates to the
particular law that has been broken and not the circumstances of the offence.

2. An offence of the same category as the one with which he is charged. The
Secretary of State has prescribed “categories” of offences which are of the
‘same type’ for use as an indicator that a defendant has a propensity to
commit offences of a certain type. One of the categories is “theft” type
offences. This means that where a defendant has previous convictions for an
offence of theft, then an offence charged in the same category creates a
strong presumption that the previous conviction should be admitted. The
theft type offences covered in the category can be found by fol
link. The Criminal Justice Act 2003 (Categor lex 2004

The evidence will not be admitted under this type in cases where the court is

satisfied by reason of the length of time since the conviction or for any other

reason that it would be unjust for it to apply.

4.5 Propensity to be untruthful. The law does not define what amounts to
untruthfulness and as such the literal meaning must apply. This allows for the
inclusion of evidence of previous convictions for offences of perjury,

Rules & Continuity of Evidence
P&S Doc. : Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 Witness Statement
Date: Jan 2010

Ray Prat

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891
POL00104891

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

perverting the course of justice, deception « fraud. In addition the suspect
may be in jeopardy under this section if in the past they have been convicted of
an offence after pleading not guilty, because their defence was thought to be
untruthful. It can also include untruthfulness in previous disciplinary cases.
Evidence of propensity to be untruthful will only be allowed where it is
suggested that the defendant is being untruthful in defence in the current
case. If the prosecution and defence agree on the facts of the case and the
defence is that an element or part of the offence had not been made out, for
example dishonesty, then this type of evidence will not be admissible.

Bad character evidence can include;

1. Evidence such as previous convictions.

2. Evidence from charges being tried concurrently.

3. Evidence relating to offences for which a person has been charged in the
past, where the charge was not prosecuted, or for which the person was
subsequently acquitted.

4, Evidence of untruthfulness.

5. Evidence of reprehensible conduct such as a disci
misconduct involving dishonesty

linary record at work for

Bad Character evidence will be generally admissible against the defendant in the

following circumstances:

1. All the parties agree to it being given.

2. The defendant introduces the evidence himself or it is given in response to a
question put by the defendant (or his counsel) that is intended to elicit it.
For example the defendant introduces the alibi that they were in prison at
the time of the offence.

3. It is important explanatory evidence. This is evidence that is needed in
order for the court to understand the meaning of the evidence in the current
case. An example would be in the past the defendant had used violence to
commit robbery on a postperson and was subsequently convicted and imprisoned.
Following his release he approached the same postperson but this time
demanded the delivery pouch without offering violence. The fact that the
robber had used violence in the past is relevant to the current case because
the postperson is aware that if he does not give over the pouch then violence
could be used again. The fear of the Postperson is relevant to the case as
important explanatory evidence of robbery in the latter case.

4. It is relevant to an important matter in issue between the defendant and
prosecution. This allows evidence of bad character it demonstrates the
defendant’s propensity to commit offences similar to the offence charged
and/or the propensity to be untruthful.

5. It has substantial probative value in relation to an important issue between
the defendant and a co-defendant. Only a co-defendant and not the prosecution
introduce such bad character evidence. An example of this would be a
defendant saying that the co-defendant has previous convictions or a
propensity to be untruthful.

Rules & Continuity of Evidence
Appendix 1 to Pas 5.4 Wit
Jan 201

Statement

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891

POL00104891
CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS
6. It corrects a false impression given by the defendant about himself. [If the

Court is satisfied that the defendant is responsible for giving a false
impression during proceedings then the evidence of his bad character will be
admissible. The false impression could be given during an interview under
caution for example. However a defendant is not responsible for an assertion
if he either withdraws or disassociates himself from the assertion. The
defendant can also be responsible for assertions made by other people if it
was the defendant’s intention to give a false impression through for example
a defence witness.

7. Attack on another person’s bad character. A defendant’s bad character will
become admissible when there has been an attack on another’s person
character. This can happen in one of three ways;

a. The defendant adduces evidence attacking the other person’s character,
ox;

b. He (or his legal representative cross-examine a witness in his
interests) asks questions in cross examination that are intended to
elicit such evidence or are likely to do, or;

c. The defendant imputes the other person’s character when questioned
under caution or on being charged or officially informed he may be
prosecuted. This means that it will be important that the Investigator
includes such an attack in the written record of taped interview or
notebook.

4.8 Bad Character Evidence in the Investigation & Prosecution. The introduction of
bad character evidence may assist the investigation/prosecution in two mai
areas. Firstly it prevents the suspect from forwarding a defence which, i
their true character was known, would bring the plausibility of their defence
into question. An example of this would be a suspect being investigated for the
theft of mail, forwards the defence that the mail in question was left in his
car by another postperson. However if the suspect has been convicted of theft
the past and during that trial he had proffered a similar explanation, then his
current defence becomes less plausible. Secondly it allows investigators to
highlight similarities between the previous and current suspected misconduct.

4.9 If an Investigator feels that previous misconduct is relevant to current conduct
then they should explore the previous misconduct in the suspect interview. If
however the link between the past misconduct and their current conduct is not
strong, due to either length of time or the type of previous misconduct then it
should not be raised during a suspect interview.

4.1 I Bad Character Evidence Non-defendant

Bad Character Evidence of non-defendants mainly pertains to witnesses but it
also includes persons other than witnesses whose character could be brought into
question, (An example of such could be a person who has died.). Unless the
prosecution and the defence agree, evidence of misconduct of a person other than
a defendant cannot be given without the permission of the court. The Court will
only admit bad character evidence of a non-defendant if it is important
explanatory evidence or it has substantive probative value.

4.1 Important Explanatory Evidence is detailed in paragraph 4.7.3 above. An example

1 of when it would be relevant in respect of the bad character of witness would be

as follows. A suspect is charged with robbery of mail from a postman. The
suspect is a “loan shark” and he states that the postman, who is a drug addict,
owed him money. The loan shark states that the postman gave money to pay
the debt but the postman’s evidence is that loan shark took mail containing the
money by force. Evidence of the postman’s drug addiction would be important
explanatory evidence without which the jury would find it hard to fully
understand the case.

4.1 Substantive Probative Value. This is to say the bad character of a non
2 defendant may be relevant to their evidence in the case. For the bad character

Rules & Continuity of Evidence
Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 Witness Statement

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891
POL00104891

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

evidence to be admissible the evidence must have substantial probative value in
relation to a matter which;

1. Is a matter in issue in the proceedings, and

2. Is of substantial importance in the context of the case as a whole.

Recent convic x dishonesty are more likely than old convictions for
dangerous driving to be of substantial probative value in respect of the
evidence of a prosecution witness. An example of when bad character evidence of
a prosecution witness may be admitted would be in a case where “Test” letters
were handed to a Delivery Office Manager to place in the walk of a suspect
offender. It was later reported by the addressee that one of the test letters
did not arrive. Subsequently it is established that the addressee has recent
previous convictions for theft. In these circumstances the defence would no
doubt wish to introduce a prosecution witness’s bad character.

4.1 2 during an investigation an investigator becomes aware of evidence that
3 identifies Bad Character of a non defendant the matter must be discussed with
the CLT.
Back to Contents

5. OTHER TYPES OF EVIDENCE

5.1 Direct Evidence is evidence that directly proves the facts in question at court.
It is something that the witness themselves have knowledge of, something they
have seen, heard, smelt, felt or touched. An example of this is producing an
opened Test letter in court. This proves that the opened Test letter exists.

If the offender had the Test letter with him when he was apprehended a statement
from an Investigator should prove that it was in the offender’s possession at
the time of the apprehension.

5.2 Documentary Evidence is in simple terms information or writing contained within
a document. As well as actual documents, such as tape summaries, search records
and signing on sheets, it also includes such things as master tapes,
photographs, sketch plans, video tapes etc.

5.3 Circumstantial Evidence is evidence, not of the fact in question but of other
issues, from which, the fact in question may be inferred. For instance, a
delivery officer is handed a Test postal packet, which he/she is due to deliver
and subsequently the Test postal packet cover is found, minus its contents, in a
bin at the office. The recovery of the opened Test postal packet is direct
evidence. The fact that it was found in a bin is circumstantial evidence as it
infers that the delivery officer may have stolen the contents. For
circumstantial evidence to be useful more than one circumstance should exist.
The fact that no one else was in the delivery office at the time between the
delivery officer being handed the test item and it being found in the bin would
also be circumstantial evidence. In the case R v Exall 66) Judge Pollock
described circumstantial evidence as, “...a combination of circumstances, no one
of which would raise a reasonable conviction, or more than a mere suspicion, but
the whole, taken together, may create a strong conclusion of g

5.4 Corroborative evidence is that which tends to support the truth and accuracy of
evidence already given. It is a general rule that a Courts’ decision can be
made on the evidence of one person. There are exceptions to this such as
perjury and speeding which requize corroboration to secure a conviction.
Corroboration should be sought, if possible, during and after any investigation,
as it will add extra weight to the existing evidence. In Scotland all evidence
must be corroborated if at all poss

e.

5.5 Opinion Evidence is, as a general rule, only allowed in evidence from expert
witnesses, for example a Doctor can detail someone’s injuries; a handwriting
expert can state that, in their considered opinion, similarities exist that
would strongly suggest two documents were written by the same person. A non-
expert can give opinion on such things that might well be interpreted as a fact,

Rules & Continuity of Evidence
Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 Witness Statement

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891
POL00104891

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

for example identification of a person or object, the speed of a moving vehicle,
temperature, time, value of an item and whether a person is drunk (however, the
witness is required to describe the facts upon which this opinion is based). I
is important that opinion given by non-experts does not cover prejudicial

evidence for example suggesting that a suspect has been spending a lot of money,

without having supporting evidence.

5.6 Real Evidence or Exhibits are the actual objects, which are produced for
examination of the court and jury. It is different to documentary evidence as
documents pertain to the information contained within it. An exhibit is
physical proof of the objects existence. The recovered letter detailed in 5.1
above is both direct evidence and real evidence.

5.7 Similar Fact Evidence. This deals with the admissibility of evidence relating
to previous similar acts by the accused. In order for evidence to be admissible
under this rule, the previous offences have to be similar to the point of being

ixtually identical to the events in the current case. Although the rules of
Similar fact evidence are still in existence most similar fact evidence would
now be admissible under the Bad Character rules.

Back to Contents

Docum
P&S Doc. Ref.:
Date:

owne:

t Title: Rules & Continuity of Evidence
Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 Witness Statement
an 2010

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891
POL00104891

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

6 CONTINIUTY OF EVIDENCE

6.1 When items of evidence are obt.
reference number, have an identi
into an identification bag.

ed they must be given an identification
ication label attached to them or be placed

6.2 Investigators must ensure that all items evidence are retained in secure
conditions, either individual secure storage accommodation such as a locker, or
an Investigation Team secure storage area such as an exhibit room. If challenged
Investigators must be able to prove the integrity of the system to prove
continuity.

6.3 If it is necessary for an item of evidence to leave the secure accommodation it
must be sent by Special Delivery or transferred by hand. A written record
including, if relevant, the Special Delivery, number must be maintained. The
receiving Investigator must also maintain a written record of receipt and return
of the item. A copy of the written record must be returned to the Investigato
The Investigator in the case must make a record to acknowledge the return of the
item. The Special Delivery receipts should be retained until the case has been
finalized.

6.4 Exhibit Book GS005A can be used to control exhibits larger individual
operations and can also be used by Investigators or teams as the written record
of transfer of exhibits for all Investigations conducted by the Investigator or
team. The same records could also be maintained on a computer database.

6.5 Rather than sending the original item of evidence to another part of the country
for a witness to make a statement the Investigator should consider whether the
witness could make a statement from a photocopy. so the photocopy will
become an item of evidence in its own right at the time the witness makes the
statement. It is suggested that the photocopy be identified by adding a suffix
to the Item reference, for example if the original item reference is ABC\1 then
the photocopy can become ABC\la.

6.6 Original items of evidence must not be enclosed in case files but good quality
copies of the items should be. Alli items of evidence should be retained in
accordance with the Criminal Procedure & Investigation Act 1996

Back to Contents

7. VULNERABLE (CHILDREN & PEOPLE WITH MENTAL DISORDERS) & INTIMIDATED WITNESSES &
SPECIAL MEASURES

7.1 Vulnerable. Witness. A person is eligible for assistance as a vulnerable witness
if they fall within the categories detailed in Section 16 of The Youth Justice
and Criminal Evidence Act 1999, which are detailed below:

1. A child under 17 years of age at the time of the hearing.
2. People whose quality of evidence is likely to be diminished because they:

a) Have a mental disorder (as detailed under the Mental Health Act 1983).

b) Have a significant impairment of intelligence and social functioning.

c) Have a physical disability or are suffering from a physical disorder.
It is important to consider however that not all adults with a mental disorder
will necessarily be vulnerable as a witness or would wish to be treated as such.
It will depend on the nature of the person’s disability and whether it affects
their ability to perform the functions of a witness.

7.2 Appropriate Adults. Whenever statements are to be obtained from children or
people whose mental capacity is such that they may not understand the
significance of what is said they must have an appropriate adult present. If
the child is of tender years, (normally those under 14 years) they may not
understand the importance of taking a sworn oath to tell the truth and as such
they must not be asked to sign the declaration on the statement form. They

Rules & Continuity of Evidence
Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 Witness Statement

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104891
POL00104891

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

should however include in their statement the fact that they know what has been
said is true.

Intimidated Witnesses are defined by Section 17 of The Youth Justice and
Criminal Evidence Act 1999. They are witnesses, but not the accused, whose
quality of testimony is likely to be diminished by reason of fear or distress at
the prospect of giving evidence. In deciding if a witness falls into this
category and is therefore eligible for Special Measures being made available,
the Court will need to consider any views expressed by the witness but will also
need to take account of a range of factors relating to the witness, the alleged
offence and the alleged offender

If an Investigator becomes aware, or thinks that a witness is vulnerable or they
have any reason to suspect that the witness is or will be intimidated then they
must seek advice from the CLT. The question of the necessity of the evidence can
then be addressed. If it is thought that a statement is necessary consideration
can be given to achieving best evidence. The police have specialist interviewers
for vulnerable and intimidated witnesses and the statement can be recorded
visually if the case is suitable for “Special Measures”. See paragraph 7.6
below.

Vulnerable or intimidated witnesses can also receive independent social support
during the investigation/prosecution process. Three distinct roles for witness
support have been identified;

1. Interview Support - from a person much like a RMG friend but not necessarily
an employee. For further information on interview supporters see Paragraph
4.4 of P&S 5.4 Witness Statements.

2. Pre-trial Support - can be provided to the witness in the period between the
interview and the start of any trial. A “Victim Support” volunteer may well
play this role.

3. Court Witness Support - can be a person known to the witness but is not a
party to the proceedings and has no detailed knowledge of the case. The
person may have assisted in preparing the witness for their Court appearance.
A member of the Witness Service may well fulfill this role.

Special Measures It is the duty of an Investigator and the prosecution lawyer to

ascertain whether a particular witness qualifies for Special Measures. Special

Measures can include:

1. Screens may be made available to shield the witness from the defendant

2. Removal of Wigs and Gowns by Judges and Barristers to make the criminal
proceedings less daunting.

3. The use of video recorded interviews to be admitted as evidence-in-chief and

cross-examination.

Giving evidence through a

Court room

5. Examination of the witness through an intermediary

6. Examination using aids to communication such as a communicator or translator
or by using some communication technique

Permission to use them in Court is only available by application to the

Magistrate or Judge. The Magistrate or Judge must take into account all the

circumstances of the case including the wishes of the witness and whether the

special measures applied for are likely to inhibit the evidence being

effectively tested by any party.

i

ive video link from a different location to the

Back to Contents

Rules & Continuity of Evidi
Appendix 1 to P&S 5.4 Witness Statement

ce

CONFIDENTIAL
