POL00126360
POL00126360

Curriculum Vitae

Personal Details

Name: JonLongman Current Address: I

Tel (Home):"~

Tel (Work): I GRO

Email: john.longman.

Nationality: British

Marital Status: I

Driving Licence: Full and clean
Profile

I am an experienced and dedicated manager who has always strived to give of my best in whatever
job I have faced. I possess excellent organizational skills and have a real desire to succeed in all
that I do. I accept responsibility for all tasks that I am set and thrive on achieving excellent results. I
am fully able to work as a team player or on my own. I am not afraid to confront others when issues
arise and likewise I am fully receptive to advice when I could have done things differently. I am able
to deal with complex and demanding tasks by prioritizing my workloads and ensuring I engage with
the right people to assist me. I am a fully motivated individual who offers a flexible and “can do”
approach to anything that I am faced with.

I have performed various roles within Post Office Limited which has enabled me to gain numerous
skills and in depth job knowledge including the following;

e Excellent interpersonal skills — key to being an effective investigator is the ability to relate and
talk to Post Office Limited employees and external stakeholders in a timely and appropriate
manner that not only assists me with my aims but also encourages those individuals to want
to communicate with me.

¢ Strong Presentation skills — I have conducted a number of presentations to audiences of
different sizes such as advertising the benefits of “Grapevine” sign up to Post Office
employees and informing Field Change Advisors of best practice when audit deficiencies are
found.

« Problem Solving — when I investigate a crime I always try and put forward recommendations
for consideration so that where possible the chance of that crime re-occurring are greatly
reduced.

« Management information skills — I have to produce monthly case update reports which must
be accurate and reliable so that security resource can be targeted at the most business
critical areas in terms of threats to brand reputation and projected loss.

« Proven numerical skills — I have an accounting qualification which has enhanced my ability to
understand and work with complex data.

e Network knowledge — I have considerable Post Office Limited experience which has enabled
me to maintain a good grasp on the Post Office operating procedures which has been further
POL00126360
POL00126360

enhanced through regular contact with Post Office Limited trainers, agents, other employees
and counter coverage during seasonal and industrial unrest periods.

e Location Independent Worker — I have been an LIW worker for approximately 12 of the last
15 years and fully understand the demands, both positive and negative one has to face with
this type of working.

e Excellent decision making skills — key to performing my current role is the ability to weigh up
all the evidence and provide unequivocal advice to all interested parties

Employment History
2000 — Present Post Office Ltd
Job Title: Security Advisor.

Working within the Post Office Limited Network I am responsible for the prevention and detection of
crime committed against the Post Office by its staff and agents. I also play a crucial role in crime
prevention and physical security.

Main Achievements

e Responsible for managing a varied and demanding caseload where fraudulent activity is
suspected and priorities are ever changing.

e Produce highly detailed and accurate reports following offender interviews so that informed
decisions can be made by Post Office Limited Lawyers, Contract Managers and other key
stakeholders both internal and external.

« Resilient in being able to deal with hostile suspect offenders, solicitors and witnesses who
may not wish to cooperate fully with my enquiries.

e Review and conduct physical and procedural inspections at all estate buildings, physical assets
and agent's outlets to reduce risk and ensure all security standards are being met.

« To maximize the recovery of stolen assets to limit the loss to Post Office Limited through
financial checks on individuals and identifying assets during appropriate searches.

« I defended successfully at Crown Court the first major challenge to the integrity of the
Horizon system. I had to bring together the right team of witnesses which included the design
architect of the Horizon system, Gareth Jenkins.

« Ihave been selected by Senior Management to assist Post Office Civil Litigation Lawyers in
the continued defence of the Horizon system by ex subpostmaster’s who claim that Horizon
is flawed and was the source of their losses. This continues to be a major business critical
project.

e Stakeholder relationships — I have developed excellent relationships with key stakeholders
such as Fujitsu, Plastic Crime Unit (Police), Barristers Chambers, National Federation of
Subpostmaster’s (NFSP), W H Smith Security Manager’s, Contract manager's e.t.c which
has enabled quicker interchange of information and assistance.

e I have experience of project management and have managed many types of projects with
my current one being the Horizon integrity challenge.

e I have liaised with the Post Office Limited press office to provide answers to any questions
that may have arisen when some of my cases have appeared in the media
(television/radio/newspaper).

1990 - 2000 TV Licensing

Job Title: Prosecutor/Area Manager

I was responsible for the enforcement of the Television Licence fee in the North London and Home
Counties areas. I was required to manage a team of Enquiry Officers to ensure set licensing targets

were achieved within budget and also to deal with the prosecution of non-licence payers by
attending and presenting evidence to magistrates.
POL00126360
POL00126360

Main Achievements

e Iled ateam of 14 Enquiry Officers and was responsible for their development, target setting,
safety and dealing with all non conformance issues.

e Strong leadership skills were very much needed in this role to deal with disciplinary issues
that commonly occurred with underperforming enquiry officers.

e I had to constantly plan and relocate officers to ensure that they were in the most productive
areas throughout the day.

« Onoccasions I would invite local newspaper journalists to actively spend part of a day ona
TV detector van with me so that free publicity of the van’s presence could be gained. This
would invariably drive up licence sales.

e Project managed intensive campaigns in high evasion areas.

e Effective presentation skills were required to attend magistrate’s courts and present evidence
of licence evasion to magistrates.

Previous Career History

1988 — 1990 — Mails and Stats Operations

1985-1988 Post Office Finance (variety of roles)

1983 — 1985 - Wages & Salary Clerk

1980 — 1983 — Counter Clerk/Acting Branch Manager

Development/Training

Police & Criminal Evidence Trained — Allows me to interview a person under caution.

Counter Compliance Training — I have completed all training in respect of Financial Services and
Mail integrity so am able to cover counter duties if required to do so.

Qualifications

Diploma in Management Studies (DMS)

Certificate in Management Studies (CMS)

Member of Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT)
Distinction in Motor Vehicle Studies (City & Guilds)

School Qualifications
5 x ‘O’ Levels — Maths, English, Geography, Social Studies, Engineering,
Hobbies

I like to keep myself fit and regularly undertake the following exercises; Running, Circuit Training and
Swimming. I enjoy travelling, photography, DIY, going to the theatre and watching most sports.
