POL00043034
POL00043034

Message
From: Andrew Parsons [1
Sent:
To:
cc:

§ Sherrill Taggart §~

;Knapper, Mike ff GRO
Subject:
Attachments: draft letter - POL to Fujitsu.docx

Sherrill

Thanks. I think the tone is the most important aspect to keeping Fujitsu supporting Post Office. I've made some
amendments in the attached (being the last version of the letter I saw). You will see that I have added an introductory
paragraph and some gentler language to change the emphasis of the letter. I would aiso suggest sending the letter
personally from someone at Post Office (presumably Nick?) fo someone personally named at Fujitsu.

These changes don't I believe water down the legal protection sought by the letter, or lessen the seriousness of having to
write such a letter in the first place, but hopefully might make it land smoother.

That said, I suspect my changes do not reflect the true sense of bad feeling inside Post Office and so the business may
wish to take a stronger tone.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Wombie Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

>) WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND ‘
DICKINSON

From: Emanuel, Catherine I”
Sent: 04 October 2019 16:43
To: Sherrill Taggart”
Ce: Rodric William
Ruth
Subject: RE: GLO - Confidential

G RO ““} Andrew Parsons ¢ H
i Kenneth Garvey <} G RO +; Cowley,

} Knapper, Mike

Sherrill,
No problem. We will get back to you on this shortly.

Kind regards
Kate

POL-0039516
POL00043034
POL00043034

From: Sherrill Taggart!
Sent: 04 October 2019 1
To: andrew.parsons! ~ Emanuel, Catherine:
Ce: Rodric Williams ¢ GRO ; Kenneth Garvey <k....
Ruth ; Knapper, Mike
Subject: RE: GLO - Confidential

Dear Catherine and Andy
lam just following up on your comments this morning on the draft letter to FJ which NRF have prepared.

To provide some context, NRF have been advising PO on possible remedies and causes of action under the Horizon
Agreement which may be available to PO against FJ arising from the Horizon Issues litigation if there is an adverse
judgment. Following on from the disclosure issue on Wednesday we had a call with NRF to discuss potential breach of
contract claims in respect of this issue and PO’s audit and termination rights.

This was obviously a high level discussion but provided Ben with enough information to enable him to brief the Board on
this (amongst other matters) yesterday afternoon. Obviously, it is far too early to make any definitive decisions on this
issue and there is no intention to take any action against FJ at this stage but we want to be able to reserve PO’s rights
under the Horizon Agreement in respect of the disclosure issue — hence the draft letter.

As Andy has pointed out, we have to be particularly sensitive to FJ’s reaction to this letter as we are reliant on their co-
operation and support but at the same time we need to protect PO’s position here. It is an informal letter and the
intention is for PO’s CEO to call FJ’s CEO beforehand to discuss the matter and to give them a head’s up that this letter is
on its way and why.

I would therefore ask if you could all have another look at the letter to see how we may soften it in any way (particularly
the final paragraph).

NRF are also putting together a script for Nick Read to help him position this with FJ.
Thanks for your help on this.
Kind regards

Sherrill

Sherrill Taggart

Legal Director (Interim)
Post Office Limited

20 Finsbury Street
London

EC2Y 9AQ

GRO

Mobil

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact
the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely
those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London,
EC2Y 9AQ.

POL-0039516
POL00043034
POL00043034

From: Cowley, Ruth i

Sent: 04 October 20:
To: Kenneth Garvey
Cc: Sherrill Taggart
Catherine
Subject: RESGLO

>; Knapper, Mike r ~— GRO _

JRodric Williams < 3 Emanuel,

Dear Ken
Thanks for the update.

Understood re the sensitivities with Fujitsu. i'm in meetings most of this afternoon, but will circulate a script iater to this
group.

‘ll give you a cail now about the written advice.
Kind regards

Ruth

From: Kenneth Garvey [mai
Sent: 04 October 2019 13:41
To: Cowley, Ruth; Knapper, Mike

Cc: Sherrill Taggart; Rodric Williams; Emanuel, Catherine; andrew.parsons
Subject: RE: GLO

Importance: High

Hi Ruth/Mike
Thank you for your draft letter which is under review.

Can you also prepare a draft script today please for our CEO to use in a call with his counterpart at Fujitsu (an action
suggested and approved on the call with the Board yesterday). This should be consistent with the letter, but will also
likely serve as a relationship management exercise, warming Fujitsu up to their receipt of the letter.

FYI — there is some concern within our GLO team as to how Fujitsu may react upon receipt of the letter, given that POL
continues to be heavily reliant on Fujitsu’s proactive and prompt co-operation and provision of information, witness
evidence (if required) etc for the remainder of the GLO proceedings. The letter has potential to cause Fujitsu to, at
worst, become uncooperative and withdraw support, or more likely to introduce new internal governance and oversight
measures which slow down their input into GLO going forward. The CEO messaging should mitigate this to some extent
and help land the message correctly.

lam copying Andy Parsons from WBD whose firm are the solicitors on record for POL in GLO and Catherine Emanuel
from HSF whose firm is supporting the Board on the GLO. They will need to review the script also.

Separately, when can we expect to get an advice note on the matters discussed yesterday with our GC and raised in my
emails of yesterday and 2 Oct?

Happy to discuss.

Kind regards
Ken

POL-0039516
POL00043034
POL00043034

Kenneth Garvey
Head of Legal, IT and Procurement

Legal Department
Finsbury Dials.

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

The Post Office Legal Team was recognised as the In-House Commerce & Industry Team of the year at the Lawyer
Awards 2019

From: Cowley, Ruth I
Sent: 03 October 2019 22:48
To: Rodric Williams! -
Kenneth Garvey <GRO! G RO
Ce: Sherrill Taggart <

Subject: RE: GLO

All

it is good to reconnect and thanks for the feedback ~ much appreciated.

I attach a draft letter to Fujitsu. Please can the Post Office team consider the best person/office to address this to. Given
this is not a formai notice of dispute, this is currently addressed to the London office. The notice provisions in the contract
provide for correspondence to be sent te Bracknell. We can of course send to more than one address if preferred.

I note there is a stepped dispute resolution process under the contract culminating in expert determination. We are not
proposing that any formal dispute notice is issued at this stage triggering the formal dispute resolution process until we
know more about the breach and consequences of any breach, and stakeholders are therefore able to make a decision
about next steps. But am happy to discuss.

We think this letter can come frorn the PO and tactically this may be better given you are trying to put them on notice
without escalating this through the formal process at this stage ~ but you will no doubt have a view on their likely reaction.

Kind regards

Ruth

From: Rodric Williams [maiit:
Sent: 03 October 2019 18:18
To: Knapper, Mike; Kenneth Garvey
Cc: Sherrill Taggart; Cowley, Ruth
Subject: RE: GLO

Thanks all.

Ruth ~ we all found your advice on the mid-afternoon call to be extremely clear and helpful, especially on a short
turnaround. Thanks.

Rod

From: Knapper, Mike f
Sent: 03 October 2019 18716777" = ™ _ _
To: Kenneth Garvey

POL-0039516
POL00043034
POL00043034

Ruth
Subject: RE: GLO

Hi Ken
it was our pleasure and I'm glad the briefing went well.
Ruth (now added) will send the draft letter over to you for the morning.

Kind regards

Mike Knapper I Partner
Solicitor, qualified in England & Wales
Norton Rose Fulbright LLP

NORTON ROSE FULBRIGHT

Law around the world
nortonrosefulbright.cot
From: Kenneth Garvey ;
Sent: 03 October 2019 17:58
To: Knapper, Mike

Cc: Sherrill Taggart; Rodric Williams
Subject: GLO

Importance: High

Hi Mike
Thanks again to Ruth and to you for supporting us earlier today. Ben’s briefing to the Board went very well.

Can you send to Rod, Sherrill and myself, by tomorrow morning, the draft reservation of rights letter we discussed on
the call? We will review it first before it goes to our GC for his comment.

Kind regards
Ken

% Kenneth Garvey
Head of Legal, IT and Procurement

Legal Department
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

The Post Office Legal Team was recognised as the In-House Commerce & Industry Team of the year at the
Lawyer Awards 2019

POL-0039516
POL00043034
POL00043034

2A A HC 1 28 2 fA 2 2 1 0 RR a 0 2 a 0 a 0 Ro a

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Pe

“Post Office Limited is committed to Protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This email, including any attachments, is confidential and may be privileged. If you are not
the intended recipient please notify the sender immediately, and please delete it; you should not copy it or use it for any
purpose or disclose its contents to any other person. Norton Rose Fulbright LLP and its affiliates reserve the right to
monitor all email communications through their networks.

Norton Rose Fulbright LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with number OC328697, and
is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. A list of its members and of the other partners is
available at its registered office, 3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ; reference to a partner is to a member or to
an employee or consultant with equivalent standing and qualification employed or engaged by Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
or any of its affiliates.

Norton Rose Fulbright LLP, Norton Rose Fulbright Australia, Norton Rose Fulbright Canada LLP, Norton Rose Fulbright
South Africa Inc and Norton Rose Fulbright US LLP are separate legal entities and all of them are members of Norton
Rose Fulbright Verein, a Swiss verein. Norton Rose Fulbright Verein helps coordinate the activities of the members but
does not itself provide legal services to clients. Details of each entity, with certain regulatory information, are available at
nortonrosefulbright.com.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its subsidiaries and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are separate member firms of the
international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills.

This message is confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. If you are not the intended recipient you must not disclose or use
the information contained in it. If you have received this email in error please notify us immediately by return email or by calling our main
switchboard on nd delete the email.

Further information is available from www.herbertsmithfreehills.cor, including our Privacy Policy which describes how we handle personal

information.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC310989. It is authorised and
regulated by the Solicitors’ Regulation Authority of England and Wales whose rules can be accessed via www.sr2.org.ilk/eode-of-cond .
list of the members and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at the registered office, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London
EC2A 2EG. We use the word partner of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP to refer to a member of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, or an employee or
consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP's registration number for Value Added Tax in the United
Kingdom is GB 927 1996 83.

POL-0039516
