POL00448106
POL00448106

Postmaster support
policy

Version 3.0

(POST
OFFICE

POL-BSFF-104-0000065
POL00448106
POL00448106

Post Office is determined to reset its relationship with
postmasters and has introduced policies that set out
guidelines on how Post Office should support postmasters,
specifically for use across twelve areas.

The policies stand on their own but should be reviewed in
conjunction with each other. Support teams should have an
awareness of all twelve policies and how they link together.

The twelve Postmaster Support Policies are listed in section
2.2 of this policy and can be found on the hub, here.

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 2 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0001
POL00448106

POL00448106

Contents page

LD OverVieW....sssssssssseessseeeesssnnnnnsssseeeseeeeeseeessnnan

11. Introduction by the policy owner...
1.2 Purpose

1.3 Core principles...

1.4 Application...

1.5. The risk.

2 Risk appetite and minimum control standards...
21 Risk appetite...
2.2 Policy frameworl
2.3. Who must comply?
24 Roles & responsibilities...

2.5. Minimum control standards...

3 Procedures ...sescrsssossssssssssssseceseeee

3.1 Operational training...

3.2 Scheduling of operational training ..

3.3 Knowledge articles

4 Where to go for help

41 Additional policies...

4.2 How to raise a concern...

4.3, Who to contact for more information? ...

B Governance ..eccsseeesssssnnessssseeeeeeees

5.1 Governance responsibilitie:

6 Document control.....

6.1 Document version control...

6.2 Oversight committee...

6.3 Company details...

7 Appendices),

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 3 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0002
POL00448106
POL00448106

1 Overview

1.1 Introduction by the policy owner

The Retail Engagement Director has overall accountability to the Post Office Board of Directors for
the design and implementation of a comprehensive operational Training package for postmasterst
and their teams. These training packages support branches in carrying out all Post Office?
transactions via Horizon and associated operational processes accurately and confidently.

This policy is a non-contractual document provided for information. It does not form part of the
contract between any postmaster and Post Office.

1.2 Purpose

This policy is part of a framework established to capture the minimum operational training standards
required relating to: (i) the initial onboarding of postmasters and their teams; and (ii) ongoing
reinforcement and embedding of training procedures to enable proficiency in operating a branch /
operating Horizon.

It is one of a set of policies which provide a clear framework for Postmaster Onboarding.
Compliance with these policies supports the Post Office in meeting its business objectives and
reponsibilities to postmasters.

As many postmasters are limited companies or partnerships (and as individual postmasters may
appoint managers to operate a branch on their behalf) any steps that need to be taken by a
postmaster under this policy can be taken by someone authorised to act on that postmaster's behalf
(such as a director, partner or manager).

1.3 Core principles

Post Office are committed to providing comprehensive operational training to branch staff and are
committed to ensuring they feel confident when they conduct Post Office transactions and processes
using Horizon.

Post Office will provide training in good faith with fairness, transparency, and professionalism (being
the underpinning behaviours of Post Office).

e Post Office will offer a variety of training opportunities to postmasters, including eLearning
modules, in branch training and/or face to face classroom sessions, and will provide
additional support to postmasters in the form of operational guides, work aids and ‘How To’
demonstration videos available on Branch Hub and our Learning Management System,

1 In this policy, “postmaster” refers to a limited company, partnership, limited liability partnership, other entity or individual that
contracts with Post Office for the operation of a Post Office® branch.

? In this policy “Post Office” means Post Office Limited.

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 4 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0003
POL00448106
POL00448106

access to an On-line help functionality on Horizon, and access to a Postmaster Operational
Training Catalogue for ongoing training and support needs.

e Postmasters are responsible for ensuring that branches are operated in accordance with all
applicable laws and regulations. To assist postmasters in remaining compliant and
protecting their customers, Post Office will monitor and review regulatory changes to
products and services so it can provide regular training to applicable branch staff.

e Post Office will evaluate all training feedback received from postmasters and will take
relevant corrective action agreed.
1.4 Application

This Policy is applicable to all Post Office employees? and defines the minimum standards to control
financial loss, postmaster impact, regulatory breaches and reputational damage in line with the Post
Office’s Risk Appetite. The policy sets out guidelines applicable to postmasters and their assistants
undertaking operational training.

1.5 The risk

Post Office is committed to providing comprehensive training to all branch staff who require it.
Failure to do so could create risks to both the Post Office and its postmasters, including risks that:

Discrepancies in the branch result in financial loss;
Customers or Postmasters are impacted and/or reputational damage occurs; and

e Contractual or regulatory breaches occur.

3 In this Policy “employee” means permanent staff, temporary including agency staff, contractors, consultants and anyone else
working for or on behalf of Post Office and, for clarity, does not include postmasters or postmasters’ staff.

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 5 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0004
POL00448106

POL00448106

2 Risk appetite and minimum control standards

2.1 Risk appetite

Risk appetite is the extent to which the Post Office will accept that a risk might happen in pursuit of
day-to-day business transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of activity and levels of
exposure that Post Office is willing and able to tolerate.

Post Office takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has:
e  Averse risk appetite to risks around service and support provided to postmasters.
«  Averse risk appetite to being non-compliant with our statutory and regulatory obligations.

«  Averse risk appetite towards risks around our core operational processes that impact
postmasters.

e  Averse risk appetite for financial crime to occur within any part of Post Office or the
network.

¢  Averse risk appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by Post Office employees.
*  Averse risk appetite to risks around disputes and litigation.

e Cautious risk appetite towards the risk of service interruptions that would considerably
reduce branch availability across the network resulting in the inability to serve customers.

The Post Office acknowledges, however, that in certain scenarios, even after extensive controls have
been implemented, a process may still sit outside the agreed risk appetite. In this situation, a risk
exception waiver will be required pursuant to the exemption process, details of which can be found
here.

2.2 Policy framework

This policy is part of a framework of postmaster support policies that has been established to set the
minimum operating standards relating to the management of postmaster contract* risks throughout
the business and network in line with Post Office's risk appetite. The framework includes the
following policies:

e Postmaster Onboarding
« Postmaster Training (this policy)
«Postmaster Complaint Handling

e Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance Support

* In this policy, “postmaster contract” means contracts which relate to those branches not directly managed by Post Office

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 6 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0005
POL00448106
POL00448106

« Network Cash and Stock Management

e Network Transaction Corrections

e Postmaster Account Support.

e Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution
e Postmaster Contract Performance

« Postmaster Contract Suspension

e Postmaster Contract Termination

e Postmaster Decision Review

2.3. Who must comply?
Compliance with this Policy is mandatory for all Post Office employees.

Where non-compliance with this policy is identified by Post Office personnel, Post Office will carry
out an investigation. Where it is identified that an instance of non-compliance is caused through
wilful disregard or negligence, this will be investigated in accordance with the Group Investigations
Policy.

2.4 Roles & responsibilities

« Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee — is the Committee of the Post Office Limited Board
which reviews and approves Postmaster Support policies.

e Risk and Compliance Committee - is the standing committee of the Group Executive who
review and approve Postmaster Support policies for recommendation to the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee.

e Retail Engagement Director — is the policy owner and is accountable for the implementation
of this policy. They must comply with the governance responsibilities set out at section 5.1.

e Head of Postmaster Training & Delivery — is responsible for the relationship between the
Post Office Counter Training Team (classroom trainers), onsite trainers and the postmaster,
for the production and maintenance of eLearning modules, operational guides and work aids
relevant to the learner journey, and for ensuring that such materials are accessible to the
postmaster and their assistants.

e Learning Technologies Manager - is responsible for the maintenance and improvement of
the Learning Management System (LMS) used by postmasters and their assistants to access
the eLearning modules.

e Learning Design Manager - is responsible for the design, production and maintenance of
the branch compliance learning, distance learning packs, eLearning modules, operational
guides, ‘How To’ demonstration videos and work aids relevant to the learner journey, and for
ensuring they are accessible to the postmaster and their assistants.

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 7 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0006
POL00448106
POL00448106

Scheduling Assistant — is responsible for allocating eLearning modules to postmasters and
for scheduling classroom and onsite training.

Classroom Trainers — are responsible for providing classroom training to postmasters after
they have completed the required initial eLearning modules. They will also provide further
refresher classroom training to postmasters.

Regional Training Lead Manager — is responsible for the line management of the team
leaders of onsite trainers, classroom trainers, for observing and monitoring classroom
trainers on a regular basis and for ensuring classroom training and the facilities used in
relation to classroom training remain at a high standard.

Head of Branch Operations Engagement Team — is responsible to send out stakeholder
engagement updates detailing the changes to make sure they are engaged and informed of
any changes, this will enable the relevant teams such as training to review the change and
highlight any areas of concern. Regular stakeholder engagement updates will be provided
during the lifecycle of a change

Onsite Trainer Team Leader - will be responsible for delivering retail class training, on-site
within the Post Office network & leading and managing a team of onsite trainers. Observations
of the onsite trainers will be fundamental to ensure quality assurance is evidenced on both
content and delivery as well as ensuring onsite trainers are continually developing.

Onsite trainer — is responsible for delivering a comprehensive package of training and
delivering on site support for up to 6 days to new branch teams. They will also assist the
branch staff with the first cash delivery and monthly balancing procedure.

Business Support Manager (BSM) - is responsible for supporting branches during the first 6
months after onboarding. They will reinforce and embed the on-boarding training delivered
by the Onsite trainer, to ensure postmasters are proficient in navigating Horizon, as well as
balancing and cash management.

Area Manager - is responsible for supporting the relationship between Post Office and the
postmaster.

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 8 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0007
POL00448106
POL00448106

2.5 Minimum control standards

A minimum control standard is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the risks, so they remain within the defined risk appetite statements
{as set out at section 2.1). There must be mechanisms in place within each business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum control standards can
cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks are managed to an acceptable level and
within the defined risk appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risks and the required minimum control standards in consideration of Post Office's risk
appetite.

Risk area Description of risk Minimum control standards Who is When
responsible
Postmaster Classroom Trainers who Ensure trainers are fully accredited to carry out Head of Monthly
Training Delivery I deliver classroom training are classroom delivery, by ensuring that quarterly on- Postmaster
not sufficiently trained to be the-job observations have taken place. Training

able to provide the best
possible experience.

Ensure Classroom trainers are fully and regularly Head of Weekly updates,
updated with changes to the system, products and I Postmaster including Regional
anything else which impacts their training delivery. I Training conference calls,

branch focus
updates and any
updates if
applicable from
the Learning and
Design team.
Quarterly product
knowledge
testing.

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 9 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0008
POL00448106
POL00448106

Training materials are not up to

date and do not reflect current Observations to be carried out by the Regional Head of A minimum of one
processes and procedures Training Lead Managers, documented on a formal Postmaster observation per
potentially leading to poor observation form addressing any areas for Training quarter for each
training and regulatory impact development, to ensure classroom delivery by the Classroom trainer
trainers is carried out compliantly and to the
required standard
Any changes to product offerings (including the Head of Weekly
introduction of new products and services), horizon I Postmaster assessment
transactions, back office processes and day to day I Training &
branch operations are channelled through the Head of
Branch Operations Engagement Team who notify Branch
the Learning Design Team of updates required, Operations
which are then actioned. Engagement
Branch staff who are new to working in branches Head of Weekly
should undertake mandatory eLearning modules as I Postmaster
well as spending time in a classroom environment I Training
using the Horizon system. This covers transactions
as well as back office processes and procedures.
Onsite Trainers are not
Postmaster sufficiently trained to be ableto I Observations to be carried out by the Onsite Head of Operational updates
Onsite Training I provide the best possible Trainer Team Leader, documented on a formal Postmaster - weekly
Delivery experience observation form addressing any areas for Training Updates to
development and quarterly product knowledge policy/products etc. -
testing. weekly
Work time learning
sessions for each
region - every quarter
INTERNAL — Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 10 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0009
POL00448106
POL00448106

Ensure Onsite trainers are fully accredited to carry

out onsite training and are regularly updated with Head of Onsite Trainer on the
changes to the system, processes, products and Postmaster job observations and
anything else which impacts their training delivery. I Training coaching — Minimum
of once per quarter
for each onsite
trainer.
Quarterly product
knowledge testing
Postmasters and/or Post Office Each delegate to classroom training is provided
Effectively suffer financial loss as a result of I with an Operational Training Guide containing step I Head of Weekly
preparing discrepancies in branch, due to by step guides in processing transactions and Postmaster
postmasters to I insufficient training back-office procedures. Training
operate their
branch An ‘investigating discrepancies’ refresher training
course is available to attend by postmasters and/or I Head of Monthly
their assistants. Postmaster
Training
Postmasters feel unsupported On Site Trainers will assist the branch staff with
during their first cash delivery, the first cash delivery and monthly balancing Head of Weekly
collection and branch monthly procedure. If the monthly balance procedure falls I Postmaster
balancing procedure outside the initial 6 days support, or scheduled Training
follow up balance, the on-site trainer will note this
on the Branch Contact File and make the Business
Support Manager aware so that they can offer
further support at the scheduled Trading Period
balance. Onsite trainers will also ensure that a
demonstration of both inward and outward
remittance procedures (cash and stock) is
completed as part of the training and the relevant
Business Support Manager will be informed of the
INTERNAL — Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 11 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0010
POL00448106

POL00448106
need for additional early days support in these
areas if any issues are identified.
Regulatory or contractual Necessary compliance training is assigned to each
breaches occur, causing individual who will be working in a branch, for Head of Annually
reputational damage to PO and completion initially and then on an ongoing annual I Postmaster
our clients basis. Records of completion are maintained on the I Training
Learning Management System for the initial
completion during any onboarding training and
then following that are maintained on Horizon
Post training the postmaster or The postmaster or their staff complete their yearly
Ongoing their staff are struggling with compliance modules and tests. Regular updates Head of Weekly
reinforcement transactions or the use of the are given via branch focus, from the Area Postmaster
and Embedding I horizon system Management team & the business support Training &
of training managers and where required an intervention Franchise and
procedures to request is sent by the Business support manager or I Partnering Team
enable area manager for further support either for onsite
proficiency in training, further distance learning via the learning
operating a management system or classroom refresher
branch / horizon training.
Policy non- Non adherence to the policy All members of the Training team will be provided I Head of Once approved and
adherence could result in legal and with training on this policy. Postmaster annually thereafter
regulatory risk as well as Training (or sooner in the
reputational damage to Post event of material
Office and the relationship with changes to the policy)
postmasters,
The Policy should be reviewed, and if necessary Head of As required (but
updated. Postmaster reviewed at least
Training annually)
INTERNAL — Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 12 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0011
POL00448106
POL00448106

INTERNAL — Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 13 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0012
POL00448106

POL00448106

3 Procedures

3.1 Operational training

It is imperative that operational training is not confined to the initial onboarding of postmasters
and/or their assistants but that it is a continuous learning cycle. This will ensure that postmasters
and/or their teams continue to feel confident when conducting Post Office transactions and
processes using Horizon. In support of this, Post Office will provide comprehensive training packages
to support a blended learning approach, throughout the terms of the postmaster’s contract. There
might be occasions where the Area Manager feels the postmaster and/or their teams need further
training, this could be by accessing further eLearning modules, getting further support from an
onsite trainer or attending a refresher training course in a classroom environment. This would be a
joint decision with the postmaster. The postmaster is responsible for ensuring branch staff put their
learning into practice after the initial onboarding training has taken place and is responsible for the
branch staff's continuous learning cycle. The postmaster may feel that they or their teams need
further training on certain aspects of the operation and if this is the case, the postmaster or branch
manager can utilise the self-registration option on Post Office online learning site or contact their
Area Manager to discuss this further. Alternatively, Area Managers or Business Support Managers
may also identify a need for further training and can arrange this by using the Microsoft form link
which is sent each month by the classroom trainers or by completing an intervention request.

A Post Office Operational Training Catalogue is available to postmasters and their staff via Branch
Hub and our Learning Management System which details all training options available. These
options include eLearning modules, classroom training, distance learning packs, ‘how to’
demonstration videos and other additional training modules.

Should a Postmaster decide not to send their new branch staff on a classroom training course, then
the postmaster is responsible for ensuring the branch staff are inducted and trained. To support this,
Post Office would encourage postmasters to make use of learning resources available. We have
developed a ‘Postmaster guide to new starters’ document within the ‘helping you run your branch
folder’ which can be accessed on Branch Hub and provides guidance around areas to focus on.
Sections of the Operational Training Guide can also be downloaded to support with the in-branch
training of assistants. The helping you run your branch folder and the Operational Training Guide are
available to view and download from Branch Hub.

The learner process for new postmasters and their assistants can be seen in appendix one.

Post Office will offer the following training to new postmasters and their assistants (as needed). The
type of training differs depending upon the branch model type (local or main).

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 14 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0013
POL00448106
POL00448106

Online eLearning (10 hours’ time commitment)
Introduction to Post Office and Learning:

° Mails
Mails Basics
Royal Mail: Inland Mails
Parcelforce: Inland Services
Royal Mail: Collections & Returns
Royal Mail: International Mail
Inland Mail Redirections Services
e Travel Money Services
e Banking Services and Automated Payments
o Banking Services
o PES: i-movo voucher services
o Automated Payments
o Postal Orders
o MoneyGram
e Physical Security
Compliance
© Information Security and Data Protection
Anti-Money Laundering and terrorist Financing Awareness
Mails Compliance
Mails Prohibited and restricted items
Modern Slavery

000000

0000

Classroom training — 3 days

Basic transactions course, duration 2 days:

Practical training on the use of the Horizon system and day to day operations, covering:

e Security

* Introduction to Horizon

e Customer experience

e Banking Services

* Automated Payments

e Inland Mail

e End of Day Activities

e International Mail

* Travel Money

e Dealing with difficult customers

Back office course, duration 1 day:
Please note: If local assistants do not deal with weekly or monthly accounting, they do not need to
attend this course.

Practical training on the use of the Horizon system and day to day operations, covering:

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 15 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0014
e Completion of Horizon basic transactions

e Daily accounting activities

e Weekly (Balance Period) accounting activities
Cash Management

« Remittances

# Monthly (Trading Period) accounting activities

The main model

Online eLearning (15 hours’ time commitment)

POL00448106
POL00448106

Introduction to Post Office and Learning covering all elements detailed above in respect of the local

model, with the addition of the following:

* Government Services

o DVLA Services

o Passport Services
Travel Services

o Travel Insurance
Financial Services

o Savings Products

o Car and Home Insurance

o Life Products
Compliance

o Insurance

o Financial Services

Classroom training — 4 days

Practical training on the use of the Horizon system and day to day operations, covering all elements

detailed above in respect of the local model, with the addition of the following:

Basic transactions part 2 course, duration 1 day:

Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) Services
 Parcelforce Worldwide International Mail
¢ Travel Services

o Travel Money

o Travel Insurance
e Passport Check & Send
Introducing Post Office products:

o Financial Services Products

o Customer Referrals
e Information Security and Data Protection
e End of day activities
Weekly Balancing

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0

Page 16 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0015
POL00448106

POL00448106

Additional training available for all model types

On-site training support

Onsite trainers provide 6 days onsite training in the branch, starting on the first day of branch
operation. This training provides support to branches in the live environment and helps to embed the
knowledge and skills gained from the eLearning and classroom training.

They will also assist the branch staff with the first cash delivery and monthly balancing procedure. If
the monthly balance procedure falls outside the initial 6 days support, or scheduled follow up
balance, the on-site trainer will note this on the Branch Contact File and make the Business Support
Manager aware so that they can offer further support at the scheduled Trading Period balance.

Onsite trainers will also ensure that a demonstration of both inward and outward remittance
procedures (cash and stock) is completed as part of the training and the relevant Business Support
Manager will be informed of the need for additional early days support in these areas if any issues
are identified.

Additional eLearning:

The additional eLearning has been created to cover products and services that are not widely
available in all branches.

2 ATM
© Daily activities
© Daily accounting
o Weekly accounting
o Other ATM activities
o Frequently asked questions

Camelot Lottery
o Scratch cards
o Prize Payments
o Lottery accounting

e Monthly Branch Balancing
0 The five key stages of a monthly Trading Period balance
o Stock Unit types and stock discrepancies

BAU learning — distance learning packs

Provide details on specific products and services and examples of conversations with customers.
They assist postmasters and/or their Assistants (as applicable) in confidently introducing these
products and services to customers.

e Savings

» Life Protection

Travel Insurance

Travel Money

» Motor & home insurance

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 17 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0016
POL00448106

POL00448106

e Everyday Banking Services
* Personal Loans

* Customer Referrals
Passport check and send

* DVLA services

* Self Service Kiosks
e MoneyGram

Drop and Go
Inland Mail

¢ International Mail

e Vulnerable Customers
« PCI DSS branch audit

Annual mandatory compliance training

The Compliance workbooks for the below are available via the One website, Branch Hub and
Horizon. The test is available on Horizon.

e Financial Services

e Insurance

¢ Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing
¢ Prohibited and Restricted Items

e Information Security and Data Protection

e¢ Mails Compliance

Additional support materials:

An Operational Training Guide which contains detailed information on how to process transactions
and undertake back office procedures is provided to each postmaster, and/or their staff (as.
applicable) during their classroom training.

Work aids
To provide a reminder of key processes that need to be completed in branch.
Work aids are handed out at classroom training and are available as a PDF on Branch Hub.

ATM

Camelot Lottery
Remittances

Investigating Discrepancies

0000

‘How to’ videos

To provide practical demonstrations on key operational elements of running a branch. There are 23
videos providing guidance on transactions, processes and procedures

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 18 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0017
POL00448106
POL00448106

Further refresher training

Further classroom training courses are available to postmasters to further enhance their learning
journey. Postmasters can ask for support by contacting their Area Manager or Business Support
Manager.

3.2 Scheduling of operational training

Operational training will be organised as follows:

e Training dates will be mutually agreed and scheduled once the agreement between
Post Office and the postmaster is signed (i.e. the time at which the contract/appointment
is confirmed).

e Classroom/onsite training will be discussed with prospective postmasters or their staff
(as applicable) 6 weeks prior to go live for new branches.

¢ In commercial transfer situations, the scheduling team will aim to contact prospective
postmasters within 7 days of receipt by Post Office of the signed contract.

e Atthe point of being booked onto the classroom training, attendees will be registered
through the Learning Management System to enable them to access the eLearning
material online. This should be at least 14 days before the classroom, to allow sufficient
time for completion.

e The relevant branch learners will attend the classroom training as listed in section 3.1
(such training is specific to the branch model).

« Once the classroom course is completed, the attendees will have a debrief session with
the classroom trainer to discuss learning outcomes.

e Branch learners will receive in-branch support and training from the Onsite trainer for 6
days starting on the first day of branch operation.

3.3 Knowledge articles

Information is also available on Branch Hub to help branch staff enhance their training and boost
their knowledge. The following is not an exhaustive list but the information available on Branch Hub
includes:

e Help with Transaction Correction processes
e Help with completing and monitoring reversals
e Help with weekly and monthly stock unit processes

e Help with IT issues

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 19 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0018
POL00448106
POL00448106

Branch Operational Training Catalogue
All Compliance Workbooks

The Compliance Calendar

Operational Training Guide

Distance Learning Packs

Work Aids

How to Videos

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 20 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0019
POL00448106
POL00448106

4 Where to go for help

4.1 Additional policies

This policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found on the SharePoint Hub
under Postmaster Support Policies.

4.2 How to raise a concern

Any postmaster, any postmaster’s staff or any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a
breach of this Policy should report this without any undue delay.

If a postmaster or any postmaster’s staff are unable to raise the matter with the area manager of the
relevant branch or if a Post Office employee is unable to speak to her or his line manager, any person
can bring it to Post Office’s attention independently and can use the Speak Up channels for this
purpose. Any person can raise concerns anonymously, although disclosing as much information as
possible helps ensure Post Office can conduct a thorough investigation.

For more details about how and where to raise concerns, please refer to the current Whistleblowing
Policy which can be found on The Hub under Post Office Key Poli
at: http://speakup.postoffice.co.uk or call the Speak Up Line on}

, accessed here, or report online

Please note that a postmaster may also contact the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters (NFSP)
for help and support.

4.3 Who to contact for more information?

If you need further information about this policy or wish to report an issue in relation to this policy,
please contact the Retail Engagement Director at:

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 21 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0020
POL00448106
POL00448106

5 Governance

5.1 Governance responsibilities

The Policy sponsor, the Group Chief Retail Officer of Post Office, takes responsibility at Group
Executive level for policies covering their areas.

The Policy Owner is the Retail Engagement Director who is responsible for ensuring that the content
is up to date and is capable of being executed. As part of the review process they need to ensure
that the minimum controls articulated in the policy are working or to identify any gaps and provide
an action plan for remediation

Additionally, the Retail Engagement Director and the Head of Training are responsible for providing
appropriate and timely reporting to the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee as required.

The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting Post Office’s risk appetite.

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 22 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0021
POL00448106
POL00448106

6 Document control

6.1 Document version control

Summary

GE policy sponsor Standard owner Standard implementer Standard approver
Martin Roberts (Group Tracy Marshall (Retail Ranjeet Jouhal (Head of R&CC/ARC

Chief Retail Officer) Engagement Director) Training Delivery)

Document review .
Policy — effective Policy location
period

Postmaster Support
3.0 Annual 1/2023 Policies on SharePoint
Hub

0.1 17th August 2020 Draft Version Marie Pyatt

0.2 25th August 2020 Edits after review round Marie Pyatt

1.0 2nd September 2020 _ Signed off by Head of Retail Operations Marie Pyatt

11 18th March 2021 Amendments to align with postmaster support Jo Milton
policies

12 22nd March 2021 Updates following operational review Tracy Marshall

13 30th March 2021 Addition of Minimum Control Standards table Tracy Marshall

Final approved by ARC
14 28th April 2021 Further references to branch staff included Jo Milton

Alignment with other postmaster support policies
15 25th May 2021 Added linked policy statement to front page Jo Milton

Added reference to the Group Investigations Policy
to section 2.3 Who Must Comply?

Updated link to section 4.1
16 18 February 2022 Annual review Tracy Marshall
1.2 Addition of section stating that a postmaster _Ranjeet Jouhal
may authorise someone to act on theiits behalf
1.3 Additional support for ongoing training needs
added
2.1 Updated risk appetite statements to include
Operational statements
2.4 Updated Quality Assurance and Training leads
to Classroom Trainers. Addition of compliance
learning, distance learning and “How To” videos to
Learning Design Manager role. Addition of Head of
Branch Operations Engagement Team role. Cash
remittance and balancing support added to Onsite
Trainer role.

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 23 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0022
POL00448106

POL00448106

2.5 Updating Classroom Trainers, observations by
Business Support Managers, accreditation and
regular updates to Onsite trainers and the ongoing
reinforcement and embedding of training
procedures for branch added
3.1 Additional paragraph on resources for training
new branch staff, if they are not sent on a
classroom training course. Updated content of
training courses. Addition of information on Work
Aids and ‘How to’ videos.
7. New image
2.0 1* April 2022 Amended version number following approval Jo Milton

2.1 5 July 2022 1.1, 2.4, 4.3, 5.1, 6.1 Updated owner and sponsor —_ Jo Milton
6.1 Updated Implementer
Font updated to Nunito Sans
2.2 14% November 2022 2.4 Addition of Onsite Trainer Team Leader role Ranjeet Jouhal
and adjustments to reflect the role of onsite
trainers
2.5 Addition of Quarterly product knowledge
testing
3.1 Increased focus on self-help and self-learning
Training duration and content updated throughout
3.1 and 7 Removal of reference to Online
assessment videos
23 30" November 2022 __2.5 Clarification and change of frequency for Ranjeet Jouhal
controls standard of trainer accreditation.
5.2 Added Speak Up contact details
3.0 27" January 2023 Updated to full version number following approval I Jo Milton
at ARC

6.2 Oversight committee

Oversight committee: Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee

Committee Date approved

POL R&CC 10 JAN 2023

POL ARC 23 JAN 2023
Next review: 31 JAN 2024

6.3 Company details

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers 2154540 and
08459718 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ,

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is ZA090585.

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its information Commissioners
Office registration number is 24866081,

VAT registration number GB 172 6705 02. Registered office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, England EC2Y 9AQ

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0 Page 24 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0023
7 Appendices

POL00448106
POL00448106

Appendix One: Learner Process for new postmasters and/or their assistants (as applicable):

INTERNAL Postmaster training policy V3.0

Before go-live Go- live After go-live
Online Additional Optional
eLearning eLearning eLearning modules
modules: [I —»! Classroom modules: In-branch :
Products training If required training Optional
pelMies ATM classroom training
Compliance lottey
. J Annual Compliance
Auto- Operational
assigned Training Guide Customer Experience
apuonal University
eLearning J
Monthly Work aids Distance Learning
branch
balancing

‘How to’ Videos

Business Support
Manager then
Area Manager

Page 25 of 26

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0024
POL00448106
POL00448106

POL-BSFF-104-0000065_0025
