POL00166566
POL00166566

From: Tony Marsh[CN=Tony Marsh/OU=e/O=POSTOFFICE]
Sent: Fri 17/10/2003 9:59:31 AM (UTC)
To: Adrian Morris{f_ GRO

Christina
Knightf.

ie Hutton[¢
Deborah M

Edmunds[
Matthews[i

Jenkinson[f
John McKennyfi

Lynne Eastwood[

POL00166566
POL00166566

Dummett
Parul Patellf

, Paul Southinff

Pauline Hud

Richie Simsfi
Fitzgerald

Stephen
Steve A NewmanI
Steve Bradshaw.

Attachment:

Dear Colleague

As you will be aware from recent communications from both the Chief Executive, David Mills and the
Personnel Director, lan Anderson, Post Office Ltd must make further headcount reductions to support
Royal Mail Group in its drive back to sustainable profitability.

As part of this exercise the Security Team was asked to review its structure and to establish what
further savings it could make and what the impact of these would be on its key customers and
POLO00166566
POL00166566

stakeholders.

The Security Lead Team and I examined a number of options and came to the conclusion that the
structure could be further streamlined in the following ways:
. Collapsing the Risk and Commercial Security function into the Internal and External Crime
functions, thus saving a senior

manager (BPC8) post.
. Removing the Training & Support Manager role, formerly within the Risk & Commercial
Security area, with the remaining

functions taking direct responsibility for provision of professional training and liaison
with communications, thus saving a CM1

post.
. Amalgamating the Security Investment Manager and External Crime Information Manager's
jobs into one, thus saving a CM1

post.
. Removing the Banking Fraud Manager's job from within the Internal Crime function, thus
saving one CM2 post.
. Removing the following support jobs

° External Crime - 1

° Internal Crime - 2

° Risk and Commercial Security - 1

thus saving 4 PO posts.

The collapsing of the Risk and Commercial Security function will also involve the following changes
to reporting lines:

. The 2 Commercial Security Managers will become direct reports to the National Internal Crime
and Investigations Manager

. The Security Risk Manager will become a direct report to the Physical Security Policy &
Standards Manager

. The remaining Postal Officer support from the Risk and Commercial Security function will join

the support team under the
External Crime Information and Investment Manager

This leaves the Audit and Inspection function and the Money Laundering Team. You will be aware
that Post Office Ltd recently enhanced its risk management approach with the recruitment of a Head
of Risk and Control, a job based within the Finance Directorate. Audit Managers and Inspectors will
know that we have already explored expanding the remit of the Audit & Inspections team to look
more closely at accounting systems, processes and compliance. Having held initial meetings with
the Head of Risk and Control this is clearly a direction on which he is focussing as well.

It has therefore been agreed that the Audit and Inspection function will separate from Security and
will move in its entirety to form part of the new Risk and Control function. Consequently there have
been no headcount reductions proposed by Security that would impact on Audit & Inspections,
although this must not be taken to mean that there will not be opportunities identified for reductions
at some point in the future.

Discussions are also taking place with regard to the Money Laundering Team, which is likely to be
transferring from within Security to a position either within the Risk and Control function or within
Banking. For the present time the Money Laundering Team will report directly to the National
Internal Crime and Investigation Manager.
POL00166566
POL00166566

There is no suggestion that any of the jobs that have been removed were superfluous. Each job
added value to the team in its own way and for each one the team will need to be open to exploring
different ways of working to absorb the loss. We have calculated however that with the removal of
these jobs we can make savings which will not immediately impact on the service that we provide to
our customers, primarily the Retail and Cash Logistics front line, Sales and Marketing teams,
subpostmasters and branch staff.

The intention is that the job reduction changes and the transfer of Audit & Inspections will take place
by 01 December 2003. Discussions are still underway regarding the move of Money Laundering and
further details on this will be communicated as soon as possible. An outline organisation chart is
associated with this communication that shows the likely structure following the round of reductions
and reorganisation.

All those individuals directly affected will already have been made aware of the personal impact of
the changes by their managers, any further queries should be addressed to your line manager,
functional leader or to myself.

The lead team and I would like to thank all those individuals who are leaving the Security Team,
including the whole Audit and Inspections function, for their commitment and dedication whilst we
have worked together and wish them all the best for the future in whatever role they next take on for
Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group.

Best wishes

Tony Marsh
