POL00091394
POL00091394

Message
From: Melanie Corfiel
Sent: 13/10/201413:5839 0
To: Belinda Crowe f
Den-Boger<
cc: Parsons, Andre\
Patrick Bourke § GRO
Subject: RE: MOS3: revised draft CRR

Our current line if we are asked about remote access potentially being used to change branch data/ transactions is
simply: "This is not and never has been possible."

This line holds but if we are pressed regarding SS's points about "admitting" there is remote access etc, we can say:
"There is no remote access for individual branch transactions."

We might get pushed further on it and be asked by media to confirm whether or not there is any remote access. We will
need to make the distinction re access as straightforward as we can so suggest: "There is no remote access for individual
branch transactions. Fujitsu has support access to the 'back-end' of the system used for software updates and
maintenance. This is of course strictly controlled with security processes in place, but could not, in any event, be used for
individual branch transactions - there is no facility at all within the system for this."

T'll get a view from Fujitsu comms but let me have any comments.

Mel

From: Belinda Crowe
Sent: 13 October 2014 10:59

To: Rodric Williams; Melanie Corfield; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Andy Holt

Cc: ‘Parsons, Andrew’; Chris Aujard; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; Belinda Crowe
Subject: RE: M053: revised draft CRR

ls this the first which references remote access?

i think we need to pick this up very robustly in our response as this could become public and Second Sight seer to be
asking for proof that something didn’t happen.

Mel, could we dust off our lines on this as this will be with the applicant and advisor tomorrow.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

From: Jessica Barker

Sent: 13 October 2014 11:46

To: Chris Aujard; Belinda Crowe; Rodric Williams; Jonny Gribben; Melanie Corfield; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Andy Holt;
Shirley Hailstones; Kathryn Alexander; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; Mark Underwood1

POL-0090416
POL00091394
POL00091394

Cc: Eames, Amy; Lucy Overhill; ‘Parsons, Andrew’; Ward, Alexandra
Subject: M053: revised draft CRR

Dear all

Second Sight have released a revised version of their draft CRR for case M053.

Some background to this: you will remember that SS originally uploaded a draft CRR some weeks ago, but it transpired
that there were some exhibits they had not shared with PO. With the new exhibits, PO reinvestigated and produced an
updated Investigation Report and so SS have subsequently produced a new draft CRR.

Both the updated PO Investigation Report and Draft CRR are attached to this email.

Bond Dickinson will produce the draft response and settlement analysis by COP Thursday 16 October (Lex, please
confirm) so please reply to all with your comments on the Draft CRR by COP tomorrow (Tuesday 14 October) so that
they can be incorporated into the response.

Please note that the deadline for our response is Tuesday 21 October.

I will send a meeting request shortly to discuss the response. Given the heavy workload that many of us have this week,
particularly preparing for the WG face-to-face on Friday, I am going to look at scheduling this meeting for Monday 20
October.

Many thanks

Jess

Jessica Barker

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V SHQ.

POL-0090416
