POL00448272
POL00448272

CTO2024 July 2023 SECTION 14 Cash & Stock Management V4.0

Cash and Stock Management

Cash declarations

Cash declarations are important because at 7pm each evening the information is taken from Horizon and the
daily cash usage for the branch is calculated. This daily information is then used by the cash management
system to forecast the next Planned Order for your branch.

Having accurate daily figures allows Post Office to see how much cash is needed day by day, by
denomination and then make sure they supply the right amount of cash, in the right denominations, to your
branch or tell you how much cash you should send back.

The Horizon working day runs from 7pm, when the cash declaration figures are taken, to 7pm the next
working day, when the figures are taken again.

Here is a list of the key things to remember about completing cash declarations in your branch.

Make an accurate cash declaration as close to (but not after) 7pm every day for every stock unit that has been
accessed that day.

Its important because if one stock unit is not declared on time, the system shows that the whole branch declaration is
incomplete and the branch figures cannot be taken from Horizon into the cash management system.

What's meant by every stock unit that has been accessed that day? It includes:

All stock units you have completed work in that day

A stock unit you attached to by mistake — even though no transactions were done

A stock unit you accessed to complete a transfer or stock only transaction, even if no cash was moved
A stock unit that has no cash in it— a zero cash declaration is still needed

A stock unit that you only use for Transaction Acknowledgments

A stock unit used for other accounting, often called, ‘OOH’ meaning ‘Out of Hours’

A dormant stock unit that has been accessed that day

It’s best practice to always complete a cash declaration at the end of your working day, even if you have made an
accurate declaration for the 7pm cut-off. Here's why:

If you complete a cash declaration at Spm today and carry on serving until 6pm, Horizon will accept the 5pm

3, declaration as today’s figure for that stock unit. However, if you don't use that stock unit tomorrow, and you fail
to make another cash declaration for that stock unit, then tomorrow the whole branch declaration will fail. This is

because Horizon looks to see if any transaction has been made by a stock unit since the last declaration. If it has,

then Horizon is expecting a cash declaration from that stock unit. The branch declaration will fail every day until a

new declaration is made.

If your branch is open after 7pm:
» Make sure every stock unit has completed an accurate cash declaration as close to (but not after) 7pm. You can
4 then continue to serve until your branch closes

» At the end of your working day, if the stock unit won't be used before 7pm the next day, complete another cash
declaration

If someone logs back into a stock unit after a cash declaration has been done, the system identifies them as a
5 I new user and wants to know what business has been conducted. As a result you need to complete another cash
declaration, even if no transactions or cash movements were made.

g__fthe Horizon system times out while completing a cash declaration, the user will need to log back in and make a
new cash declaration.

document are:
e and for the

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this
intended, is not permitted.

;cument to any third-party not working

POL00448272
POL00448272

SECTION 14 Cash & Stock Management V4.0 CTO2024 July 2023

Cash Management

Cash declarations continued

Ona balance day each stock unit should complete a daily and a weekly cash declaration.
On any other day each stock unit should only complete a daily cash declaration.

7 I Completion of the weekly cash declaration on a non-balance day will adversely affect the reporting. For example,
if you have a stock unit which is balancing on a Tuesday and will not be used again until Friday, please make sure
that the daily cash declaration is completed as well as the weekly declaration.

If you have an inactive stock unit, you'll need to make a zero cash declaration before you can roll it into the next
Trading Period, then you can close it down and make it inactive.

8 I Once an inactive stock unit has been rolled into a new Trading Period and remained untouched, you can delete it.

Remember! If anyone attaches to an inactive stock unit, it should have a daily cash declaration made before being
closed and declared inactive again.

g__ I* Transaction Acknowledgements are linked to a stock unit that is not typically used every day, you will have to
log in and complete a cash declaration every day in that stock unit.

The value of any cash in pouches awaiting collection is automatically added to a cash declaration.
19, TY to make up any cash in pouches prior to declaring cash.

If you do prepare cash pouches after your cash declaration, re-declare your cash and don't include the cash
pouches in the figures.

Planned orders

The Planned Orders report is available at a branch level.

It provides advanced notification of the content and proposed delivery date of your next cash remittance in.
It also provides notification of how much cash needs to be returned if you are holding too much.

You can use the information on this report to let the Cash Centre know of any alteration you require.

To print the Planned Orders report

* Go to ‘Back Office’, ‘Reporting’, ‘Reporting Rems’, and then ‘Planned Orders’

» Select the line in the picklist for the Planned Order that you want to print

» ‘Planned Orders’ — ‘Office Copy Print’

» Press ‘Enter’

To change a Planned Order
If you need to change your planned order, call the Cash Management team oni

GRO

Also contact them for:

» Cash enquiries

» Special requests for a cash delivery on a non-scheduled service day

» If you need to discuss changing business patterns

Please note: Large increases to planned orders and special requests will be passed to the Support Team for

clarification. These calls will take slightly longer so make sure you know what you want to order before you
telephone. This will help them process your request efficiently.

‘The contents
fon behalf of Pe

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office ~ Operational training guide

document are cl
Office and for the pur

Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
intended, is not permitted,

CTO2024 July 2023

Cash Management
Counterfeit notes

POL00448272
POL00448272

SECTION 14 Cash & Stock Management V4.0

Neither Post Office, Bank of England nor the Scottish and Irish issuing banks can reimburse for any UK
counterfeit notes that have been accepted at the counter.

Key security features

All genuine notes have a number of security features you can look out for. Here are some common security
features of polymer notes from all UK issuing banks, with some example images:

Clear window

Each family of notes has
its own see-through
feature and clear
window design that you
can look through.

oe

Holographic foil

Specific areas of the
banknotes incorporate
a pattern which is
highlighted when the
note is moved around.

Royal Bank of Scotland £20

Bank of England £20

Ultraviolet image
When observed under

Raised print
Raised print can be

UV light, there are areas felt with the fingertips
of the banknotes which across each banknote.
appear as glowing This also assists the
colours. visually impaired.

as)

Danske Bank £10

Clydesdale Bank £20

What to do with counterfeit notes
If your customer has handed you a counterfeit note:

» Do not hand it back to your customer. It should be
taken out of circulation

* Complete a P1091 Miscellaneous receipt
{available to order on Branch Hub) if your
customer requires one

» Obtain an incident number from the Branch
Support Centre

The counterfeit note needs to be included with your

next remittance, but not as part of the remittance

total. To ensure the cash centre can easily identify the

notes as impounded:

* Complete a ‘Counterfeit Notes or Discrepancies
Found in Banknote Envelopes’ form P6005

«Place the note in an envelope and mark the
envelope ‘Forged’ or ‘Counterfeit’, then attach the
envelope to the P6005 form

» Send the note and the completed P6005 form on
your next cash remittance service day

' ey security features for UK '
' polymer notes and paper notes are available '
1 0n Horizon Help. You will also find further rT
1 guidance on the process for dealing with 1
1 counterfeit notes, including if you suspecta I
! counterfeit note is in a cash remittance, or if '
i you suspect a customer is deliberately trying to ;
1 Pass off counterfeit notes. 1

a oe Ro

I Key points when completing a P6005 form:
1° If the note is impounded only on suspicion

1 that itis counterfeit, additionally completing
1 section 2 of the P6005 form means the

' customer can be reimbursed if the note is

i found to be genuine

I+ Recording a description of the customer

; presenting the note can be useful if there is
I a police follow up

.

intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide

SECTION 14 Cash & Stock Management V4.0

Stock Management

Ordering the correct amount of stock

Please order all your value and non-value stock either via
Branch Hub or Horizon. This should be your first port of call
when ordering stock.

You only need to hold 8-12 weeks’ worth of stock in branch.
Holding surplus stock means you have more to count and
manage, and is also a security risk.

To work out how much stock you need to order, check how
much you have sold over the previous 8-12 weeks, and
compare it to what you are currently holding. To do this you
will need to print a Sales Report and an Office Snapshot
report.

To print a Sales Report:

» From the Back Office Home Screen select ‘Reporting’,
‘Reporting Office’, ‘Sales’

* Input the date range from and to (the dates are
inclusive), select ‘Print’ and the sales report will print

To print an Office Snapshot:

» From the Back Office Home Screen select ‘Reporting’,
‘Reporting Office’, ‘Office Snapshot’

» Select ‘Print’

Pe ee eee eee eee eens

I Important: Please make yourself aware of your order day

land cut off times.

Correcting a stock remittance error

If you have not remitted in enough of an item, you can

simply add the number required to correct it:

» From the Back Office Home Screen, select ‘Rems &
Transfers’, ‘In from ADC’ and remit in the extra quantity
required

» Settle the transaction and attach the Horizon receipt to
the original pick list

If you have remitted in too many of an item, or an

incorrect item, you will need to reverse the remittance and

add the correct number/item:

» From the Back Office Home Screen, select ‘Reversals
- Existing’

* Input the Session ID and the date of the transaction (you
can find these on the Horizon stock remittance receipt)

» Select the item that you need to correct and complete
the reversal on the item/s

» Settle the transaction and attach the receipts to the
original pick list

» Remit in the correct item/quantity

POL00448272
POL00448272

CTO2024 July 2023

' Top tips for stock management

1» When inputting your stock remittance

! on Horizon, check the quantities you
have entered on the screen match the
physical quantities of stock received,
before settling the transaction

» Staple the Horizon stock remittance
receipt to the pick list and store with
your weekly paperwork

» Return all surplus stock to the National
Stock Centre (the Rem work aid is
available on Branch Hub)

« Check Branch Focus each week for any
planned stock product withdrawals.
Not returning stock which has been
withdrawn could result in a cash
discrepancy

» Is your planned delivery of special
issue stamps too big? Contact Branch
Support Centre to amend this

» Keep a local calendar for recording
planned special stamp issues and
planned stamp withdrawals

» Please sell stamps using the correct
Horizon buttons

» Count your stock on hand each week
» For support on resolving issues linked

to obsolete stock, contact the Branch
Support Centre

SS oe oe eee

‘The contents
on behaif

9f this document are cl
fice and for th

intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide
