POL00104826
POL00104826

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

APPENDIX 2 to P&S 5.4 — MANAGING THE WITNESS AND STRUCTURE Version 1 Jan
& CONTENTS OF WITNESS STATEMENTS 10

CONTENTS

Section 1 Managing the Witness

Section 2 Structure and Content of a Witness Statement

1. MANAGING THE WITNESS

1.1 When taking a statement Investigators may find that not everybody will want to
be completely open and frank with them, Their reasons may be many, but the
ability to understand and empathise may assist in breaking down the

‘barriers’. Examples of such barriers are;
a. A natural dislike for b. Fear of going to court.
authority
c. Fear of intimidation d. Negative previous experience.
e. Sympathy for the suspect. Language difficulties.
g. A ‘too trivial’ crime h. Hearing or speech impairment.
i. Too busy to allow interview. j. Sign language user.

1.2 Handling a witness well and breaking down any barriers draws on all the
Investigators’ skill as a good communicator. Witnesses are likely to be more
co-operative if the relationship is friendly and relaxed. An essential task
is to make the witness feel at ease, as people who are relaxed speak more
freely and it will help them calm down if they are anxious or traumatised.

1.3 Investigators must be open-minded and information obtained from the witness
should always be tested against what the Investigator already knows or what
can reasonably be established. Witnesses may be economical with the truth or
even dishonest. Where there is good reason for suspicion, it is right to be
persistent on these grounds alone. Equally, Investigators may be persistent
because they feel there is more information that could be provided. Careful
and continued questioning may ensure all the relevant information is provided

1.4 Vulnerable & Intimidated witnesses must be treated with particular
consideration at all times. For full details on the treatment of vulnerable
and intimidated witnesses see Appendix 1 Rules & Continuity of Evidence to P&S
5.4 Witness Statements.

Document Title: Managing The Witness And S: o nts Of Witness Statements
P&S Doc. Ref.: Appendix 2 to Pas 5.
Jan 2010

Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104826
POL00104826

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

1.5 There is a set of techniques for obtaining a good statement via an interview

as detailed below;

1. Arrangements to interview a witness should be made at a mutually convenient
time for all parties, ensuring that there will be sufficient time for the
statement to be completed.

2. Any special needs of the witness must be established & catered for.

nvestigators must plan and prepare for the interview by ensuring they
have, if possible, a private location, absent of distraction and conducive
to providing best evidence.

4, Investigators should have a good knowledge of the facts of the case,
understand the points to prove and be in possession of all the relevant
exhibits and documents.

5. When first meeting the witness it is important for the Investigator to
introduce themselves and let the witness know how the Investigator wants to
be addressed. Having done this, Investigators should find out how the
witness would like to be addressed.

6. Investigators should let the witness know that they are genuinely
interested in theiz comments, views and statements. Maintaining eye
contact, using non-verbal signs of encouragement, effective listening and
summarising all help to demonstrate the Investigators interest.

7. In order to obtain good evidence from eyewitnesses, Investigators should
use Cognitive Interview techniques, encouraging free recall of events and
using active listening skills.

ture & Conter
s Statements

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104826
POL00104826

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

8. investigators should check understanding by summarising at appropriate
intervals. They should then decide what is relevant for the statement. Any
notes made are ‘relevant’ for disclosure purposes in England Wales &
Northern Ireland and may be relevant in Scotland and must therefore be

retained.

9. The witness will want to know about possible future events. Investigators
should tell them.

10. When obtaining evidence from witnesses properly structured open

questions should be used, avoiding closed or leading questions, except to
confirm what the Investigator has already been told. The Investigator
should also avoid the following;

a. Using their opinions b. Speculating why the offence was
committed

Jargon

Force choice questions

Topic hopping.

c. Value judgments
Double negatives
g. Multiple questions

o
rine

Back to Contents

2. STRUCTURE & CONTENT OF A WITNESS STATEMENT

2.1 There is a five-part model to remember when an Investigator is structuring his
ox her own or an eyewitness’ statement. This model can be remembered by the
mnemonic “INSIDE” .

2.2 [Part 1 - Introduction or Opening Paragraph
Open with time, day, date, location of the witness at the time of the incident
and if applicable the responsibilities of the witness.

2.3 [Part 2 - Set the scene.

Setting the Scene may include the following information.

1. Background information. This should include such things as what the
witness was doing, as well as physical and descriptive features of the
scene.

2. Arrival of the suspect, including an “Identifying description”. Peo
referred to in the statement should be named if the witness knows their
names. Otherwise they must be described in a way that identifies them
clearly, e.g. ‘the overweight woman in the blue jacket’. Experience has
shown that physical identifications enable the reader to follow movements
of people and suspects more clearly. Full descriptions of suspects should
not be given until Part 4 of the statement as it interferes with the
telling of the story.

3. Where the suspect came from? In order to assist the reader it is advisable
to use fixed locations rather than points on a compass to denote directions

ocations. For example. “The postman came in my direction, down the
hill from Anytown Railway Station.

In what manner? Was the suspect running or looking around?

. Was anyone with them?

Did they have anything with them?

. What route did they take?

. What did they do on route?

or

oda

2.4 [Part 3 - The Incident

A full description of the incident itself may include the following?

1. What did the suspect actually do? Including as much detail as relevant to

the enquiry.

2. What did the suspect say? Anything said by the accused must be recorded in
direct speech if possible, exactly as they said it. Record anything the
witness said to the accused in the same way (or what the Investigator said
to him if it is the Investigators’ statement).

: What did they use?
. What was the result of what they did?

aw

Document Title: Managing The Witness And S: Of Witness Statements
+ Ref.: Appendix 2 to PaS 5.4 Witn
Jan 2010

Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104826
POL00104826

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

. Were they assisted by others?
In what manner?
How did the suspect leave the scene?
Did the suspect leave anything behind?
What did the witness do? If appropriate produce items of evidence.
2.5 [part 4 - Descriptive or identification issues
Following a narrative of the incident full descriptions should be recorded.
When identity and descriptions are issues in the case the following models
should be used;
1. The mnemonic ADVOKATE should be used to describe “eyewitness” events, (the
mnemonic ADVOKATE comes from a stated case of R v Turnbull and others
1976).
2. The ten-point description should be used to descr
3. The six-point description should be used to descr

wor94H

2.6 ADVOKATE
Amount of time under observation?
Distance between the eyewitness and the event?
Visibility: including time of day, street lighting etc?
Obstructions: was there anything obstructing the view?
Known or seen before: did the witness know, or had they seen the suspect
before and if so when?
Any reason to remember: was there something specific that made the pezson
memorable?. This might be a distinguishing feature or peculiarity of the
person, or the very nature of the incident itself that made the person
memorable. This can relate to a previous or the present sighting.
Time lapse: between the first and any subsequent identification?
Errors or material discrepancies should be explained?

2.7 10 Point Person Description
1. Colour?

2. Sex?
3. Age?
4, Height? - Use ‘between’ heights or ‘about 1.75 meters or about 5 feet 8

inches, rather than a precise height. It is useful to relate height to a
fixed object, e.g. the person was ‘shorter than me’ or ‘taller than the
fence’. You can then find the height of the witness or the fence. All
measurements in Investigators statements should be in metric units. Height
is an exception to this and should be more in the terms of the unit that is
most familiar to the author of the statement.

5. Build?
6. Hairstyle and colour?

7. Complexion?

8. Distinguishing features, e.g. tattoos, scars, beard etc and include if they

wore spectacles?
9. Clothing (always work from head to foot)?
10. Carrying anything?

2.8 Six Point Vehicle Description

Colour?

Make, e.g. Ford?

Model and whether a saloon, hatchback, estate etc?

Type, e.g. motorcar, car derived van, motorcycle, minibus etc?
Registration number or part registration?

Features of vehicle, e.g. different colour door, damage, spoilers, roof
rack etc?

AURwWNH

2.9 [Part 5 —- Ending — signatures and administration
The statement should be signed as appropriate then ensure that all other
relevant details on the front, reverse and all continuation sheets are

completed.
Back to Contents
Document Title: Managing The Witness And Ss 5 Of Witness Statements
. Ref.: Apps x 2 to P&S 5.4 Witness
Jan 2010
Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104826
POL00104826

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

ructure & Contents Of Witne
atements

tatements

CONFIDENTIAL
