POL00027 126
POL00027126

Patrick

Sent: Thur 01/10/2015 4:42:20 PM (UTC)
Subject: FW: Project Sparrow

Tony Peto QC cv{1].pdf
JonathanSwiftQCev.pdf

Please see below email just sent to Tim re selection of QC to advise him on Sparrow.

Jane
i Jane MacLeod

General Counsel

Ground Floor

GRO

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 01 October 2015 17:42
To: Tim Parker

Subject: Project Sparrow

Dear Tim
Project Sparrow

At our meeting on 25 September, you asked me for recommendations as to leading barristers who would be well placed to advise
and assist in your enquiry into the Post Office’s handling of this issue, together with suggested wording to describe the scope of
your enquiry.

Qcs

Attached are the CVs of two leading QCs. Both are currently available and, would in my opinion, be suitable to advise you having
regard to the nature of the issues raised by Project Sparrow, Post Office’s position as a corporate entity in public ownership, and
your responsibilities as a new director and Chairman of Post Office Limited. So far as I am aware, neither of these QCs have
previously advised Post Office.

Subject to your views on these candidates, I recommend that we approach your preferred candidate on your behalf next week
such that he is available to advise you on the question of scope on your return from holidays.

Suggested Scope
The following is my suggested text to describe the scope of your enquiry:

“To review the Post Office’s handling of the complaints made by sub-postmasters regarding the alleged flaws in its Horizon
electronic point of sale and branch accounting systems, and determine whether the processes designed and implemented by Post
Office Limited to understand, investigate and resolve those complaints (including through the Complaints and Mediation Scheme),
were reasonable and appropriate.”

In order to provide your selected adviser with sufficient background to advise on the scope, I suggest that we provide to him a copy
of the letter from Baroness Neville-Rolfe, and a selection of materials produced by both third parties and Post Office which outline
the nature of the concerns that have been raised by interested parties including Lord Arbuthnot and the Justice for Sub-
POL00027 126
POL00027126

postmasters’ Alliance, as well as details of the process that has been followed.
On your return from holiday, the QC should then be in a position to provide you with advice on the scope of the enquiry, how this
is framed, the process by which such enquiry should be conducted, and the nature of your final report to the Minister. To this end,

I note your desire that the review be completed by Christmas.

I look forward to hearing from you which QC you would prefer to brief, and whether the draft scope of the proposed enquiry
seems appropriate at this stage. My direct line is set out below if you would like to discuss any of this first.

Kind regards,

Jane

% Jane MacLeod
General Counsel

Ground Floor

