POL00243580
POL00243580

From: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)f.
Sent: Fri 22/07/2016 212 PM (UTC)
To: ‘Parsons, Andrew Keating, Lewis (UK -
Cc: 'Rodric Willi
Underwood __ GRO i
Subject: RE: Remote access - subject to litigation privilege [BD-4A.F1D26859284]
Hello Andy,

I'm out the office today but have had a look on my iPhone. Seems to reflect our understanding, although I'm
not sure we got to the bottom of whether balancing transactions were available pre Horizon online.

Mark

Sent from a mobile device

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is 2, New Street
Square, London EC4A 38Z, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited ("DTTL"), a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL
and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. Its for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient{s), please (1) notify it.security.uk by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
oe Original Message-----
From: Parsons, Andrew I,
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2016 07:59 PM GMT Standard Time

UK - Manch ; ing, Lewis (UK - Leeds)
); Mark Underwood

Q
re)
°

{ GRO

Subjec Remote access - subject to litigation privilege [BD-4A .FID26859284]

Ce: Rodric Williams

Mark, Lewis

I should be grateful if could review the attached very short document, which will form part of our response to the Letter
of Claim. It addresses a very specific point around Post Office's / Fujitsu's capability to change branch data (which
overlaps with your work).

Apologies for the short notice but please could you again come back with any comments by close tomorrow.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
POL00243580

POL00243580
Partner
Follow Bond Dickinson:
www.bonddickinson.com
Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?
The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law. markwestbrook, GRO only is authorised to access

this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not markwestbrook{_ GRO} please notify andrew.parsonsf” GRO, Jas soon as possible and delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661, Our registered office is 4 More
London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP. or an employee or
consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
