Robert Daily
Investigation Manager
Northern Team (Glasgow)

I would like to be considered for the post of Investigation Manager
in Glasgow a role I have held for the last eight months. During this
time I have built up my experience within the Investigation Team,
initially through pre course work studying the twelve Security
Foundation Programme modules then attending weeks one to four
of the Introduction to Investigation workshop that incorporated
P.A.C.E. Codes of Practice

Theft Act

Search Training

Suspect Offender Interviews

Cognitive witness interviews

Witness statements

RIPA

IIMARC.

e NPA

I am due to attend weeks five and six of the workshop in June. I
have gained a wealth of experience being hands on over the past
few months and have on several occasions been successful in
gaining admissions of dishonesty from suspect offenders. I have
worked on a varied type of case, DMB shortages, audit shortages
in Multiples and sub offices, pension and allowance overclaims and
Cash Centre enquiries carrying out various tasks including,
conducting and assisting in suspect offender interviews, second
interviews, witness statements from external customers, statement
taking, including prosecution work and meeting with the Procurator
Fiscal, house and vehicle searches, and liaison with the DWP and
Trading Standards. I have prepared and set up files, undertaken
analytical analysis, tape transcribing, report writing, case
preparation and the closure of cases. I have found my period in the
role extremely enjoyable, stimulating and challenging through the
variation of the tasks and the responsibility involved. I have a
logical approach to work and an inquiring and analytical mind,
meaning that I have a natural inclination to look at the detail as well
as the bigger picture, drawing conclusions and judgements from the
facts rather than from perceptions and assumptions. I am a self
motivated, flexible individual, who constantly strives to improve and
maintain professional work practice with excellent listening,

POL00129121
POL00129121
communication and interpersonal skills which I utilise within my
working day. I am an enthusiastic and committed member of the
Northern Investigation team who over this time has established a
good rapport with my colleagues, and individuals within the wider
community. I am willing to take on any task and keen to learn new
skills and challenges. I will take on board advice given to me,
however I am not afraid to make my own decisions and will put my
point of view across in the decision making process.

POL00129121
POL00129121
