POL00040077

POL00040077
From: Ben Maddison
Initial Complaint Review and Mediation
Scheme
04/02/2014

To: Programme Board

INDEPENDENT RESOLUTION OF FUTURE CASES POLICY — PROJECT BRIEF

Summary

This note sets out the project brief proposal for agreement to deliver an options paper to the
Post Office on a future independent complaint resolution system for contractual-related
unresolved complaints.

Recommendation

That the Programme Board comment on and agree the proposed scope of the project and
note the timescales.

In particular the Board is asked to provide views on:

1. Should the system deal only with contractual breach complaints/disputes and no
other types?

Is the system to be the last resort after all other internal channels have been
exhausted?

Should it have a gate process to enter the system?

Should it to have an investigative capability?

Should it to pursue emerging thematics?

Should it to have a feedback/reporting mechanism into BIP?

Should it be taskable in the future if sanctioned by ExCo?

N

NOARwW

Background

In July 2013 the Post Office proposed to respond to the Second Sight report with three new
initiatives aimed at 1) addressing the issues raised, 2) improving future processes and 3)
examining potential structural changes to support sub-postmasters.

In terms of improving future processes, POL stated:

‘A review chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety net
might be introduced to adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. Again the JFSA and other
stakeholders will be invited to take part in this process.’

The driver underpinning this activity was captured by Post Office chief executive Paula
Vennells when she said: “The people who work in the post office network in communities
across the country are the lifeblood of our business and we take our responsibilities to them
very seriously.”
POL00040077
POL00040077

Project objet e

Design and implement an independent complaint handling system for the network that will
operate effectively within the future business operating model by 2015. The system is to be
focused on the timely resolution of contractual-related complaints/disputes raised (directly or
indirectly) by subpostmasters with POL after all other internal channels have been
exhausted.

Phase 1: Scoping options (complete by 31 March) — (N.B. PA engaged to end of Phase 1)
Phase 2: Consultation and final option decision (complete by early June)
Phase 3: Detailed blueprint and implementation of system (complete by Q1 2015)

Scope
IN
1. Complaint types: contractual
2. Complaint source/channel:
o Directly: Subpostmasters
o Indirectly: Network Correspondence Unit, NBSC, Executive Correspondence
Unit, Branch User Forum, SSM's.
3. Process for entry into the system
4. Complaint lifecycle management in the system and reporting
5. Assurance of system
6. All best practice systems in settlement of disputes, complaints and issues to be
considered (e.g. arbitration, early settlement, mediation, inspectorate)
QUT
1. Complaint type — financial, support, IT, training, criminal (fraud, theft), thematics
2. Complaint source/channel — Crown (292 branches), POL HQ staff, Subpostmaster’s
staff, contractors, Public, new local style Post Office branches (convenience stores —
multiples & symbols)
3. Prosecution
4. Appeal

Constraints

System is independent and reports into POL Board

System will have an external independent assessor

System cost (implementation & maintenance) must not exceed £xxx

System needs to be operational by Q1 2015

Embody POL values — Care, challenge, commit

POL reputation positive and enhanced with stakeholders (e.g. JFSA, Unions)
Aligned with 2012-2017 business strategy

Needs to function within business operating model

Needs to be future proof

OHNDMANRWN>
POL00040077
POL00040077

Assumptions

1. POL board support and endorsement of project

2. The system is the final and last resort after all other channels have been exhausted

3. A low volume of complaints/disputes

4. Network users support new system

5. No change in legislative position

6. System is for internal escalated contractual-related complaints/disputes only

7. Full collaboration and interaction with business improvement programme (BIP)
Resources

Current (until 31‘ March) — 1 FTE plus ad hoc support from Programme team
Future resource — being considered by Programme Board

Deliverables (2014)

Deliverables

1.

Project brief agreed by 7" February

2. Key learnings and themes from mediation scheme captured and documented as
input into design principles by mid-February

3. Benchmarking to capture best practice elements as input into design principles by
late-February

4. Key design principles identified and documented by 7" March

5. Paper outlining no more than 3 options by 31%' March

6. Consultation with targeted groups and feedback captured for determining final
system design option by 1° May

7. Final option proposal paper by 1%! June

8. Detailed system plan and implementation plan by mid-July

9. Post-launch review summary 6 months after Go Live in 2015.

Milestones

1. Project remit and scope agreed by 7" February

2. Data collection completed by end of February

3. Complaint handling system options defined by late March

4. Consultation launched by early April

5. Consultation close by end of April

6. Revised system design option completed by 1% June

7. Detailed design (blueprint) and implementation planned by mid-July

8. Implementation and Go Live by Q1 2015

9. Post-launch review 6 months afterwards (Q3 2015)

Key decision points

1.

3.

Programme Board approves project remit and scope by 7" February

ExCo approves project remit and scope by 14" February

Programme Board review and approval of Options paper for consultation by 31%
March

ExCo review and approval of Options paper for consultation by early April
POL00040077
POL00040077

5. Programme Board approval of final system for submission to ExCo by 1* June
6. ExCo approval and endorsement of new proposed system and implementation plan
mid-June

Ben Maddison
31/01/2014
