POL00339652
POL00339652

Message

From: Lesley J Sewel

on behalf of — Lesley J Sewell I

Sent: 09/09/2012 15:21:16

To: Kevin Gilliland I

Subject: Re: Horizon service - RE: Baughurst Post Office

That's useful to know Kevin and I'll follow up with my team and Fujitsu.

I'm seeing Stephen Long tomorrow and I'm going to raise this with him - not only the case but what we
discussed this week.

L
Sent from my iPad

On 9 Sep 2012, at 16:16, "Kevin Gilliland"

Thanks Lesley,

She contacted me again on Friday. Apparently she's been having more issues which she's going
to let me have a report.

Before the engineer arrived she was contacted by the Helpdesk to say that she was getting a
courtesy visit and that's also what the engineer said when he turned up but when she explained
the situation he investigated and came up with the diagnosis?

Thanks for your help with this. I really appreciate it.

Regards,

Kevin

Sent from my iPhone

On 9 Sep 2012, at 15:51, "Lesley J Sewell" + wrote:

Kevin

T've had a think about what you raised with me last week on issues which seem to
be taking some time to resolve and the frustrations which the sub post master
raised with you.

This is just a brief note to let you know that I've kicked off a piece of work to see
what sort of stats we could get on repetitive calls from SPMO's. And generally
looking at the quality/detail of the MI we do get. I'll let you know the

outcome. To your point we need to satisfy ourselves that these cases shouldn't
fall through the cracks and we don't have any systemic issues.

T've got the details of the case you passed over to Brian - update as follows from
the Duty Manager:
POL00339652
POL00339652

Fujitsu confirmed that the engineer attended site Wednesday and believes he has
identified the issue.

The engineer believes the cause is the splitter cable at the back of the PHU
(luggable horizon kit). The PHU the site uses does not have a permanently fitted
cable but one which needs to be plugged in at each outreach site. Because they
move from site to site the cable was not being plugged in far enough causing the
purple screen.

The engineer recommended that the site be provided with a PHU which has a
fixed splitter cable. Fujitsu couriered a new PHU to site and has called the branch
confirming that the new PHU has been received. Fujitsu are now arranging for an
engineer to attend and set up the new PHU this could be next Monday 10
September 2012, however we will not know for definite when engineer is going
out until Monday as site has just confirmed courier has delivered the new phu and
current engineering allocations have to be taken into account.

Fujitsu will contact us and the branch on Monday to confirm the engineer eta.

Regards Lesley

Sent from my iPad
