PIR(02)08

POL00439186
POL00439186

POST IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW BOARD

Horizon Implementation

Extract

Lessons Learnt

With such a large and complex project it is only to be expected that a considerable number of
learning points have been captured.

30.

The progress made during the period covered by this PIR is in stark contrast to that
made in the earlier stages of the programme. A number of significant factors explain
this, each of which ought to be considered as key learning points. They are:-

@

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(vy)

ICL was jointly managed by Post Office Counters Ltd and the Benefits Agency.
The decision to transfer responsibility for managing ICL to Post Office Counters
Ltd, with it, in turn, reporting on progress to the Benefits Agency, was a key
factor in getting the programme under control and delivery on track.

At the point of transfer of responsibility for managing ICL to Post Office
Counters Ltd a single point of accountability for the programme within Post
Office Counters Ltd was established with Executive Committee status. The clear
lines of command and sharp delivery focus that this created were critical to
successful delivery. This single point of accountability with EC status was
maintained through the creation of Post Office Network.

The contract was let before requirements were completely tied down. This led to
a considerable gap in ICL’s understanding of what had to be delivered which, in
turn, led to delays. Once requirements had been tied down and suitable
governance put in place, progress proceeded to plan.

There were gaps in the approach to risk management. The extent to which parties
attempt to transfer risks between them significantly shaped subsequent behaviours.
Although Horizon was rolled out to plan and has proven robust in operation, ICL
have taken a consistently risk averse approach to developments on the platform.
During this phase of the project considerable Post Office resources were
employed managing the performance of ICL and its sub-contractors. This
ensured that ICL met its contractual requirements and that any gaps were
aggressively followed up. Without such investment in supplier management, it is
unlikely that the progress of roll-out and the delivery of CSR+ would have been
as successful as they were.

Other learning points are detailed in Annex F and the numerous lower level learning
points will all be captured on the Lessons Learnt Intranet site.
