POL00116097
POL00116097

From: Alasdair Marnoch:
Sent: Mon 22/07/2013 11:12:26 AM (UTC)
To: Paula Vennel

Ce: Susan Cri
Edwards.
Preston:

Subject: RE: JFSA/SS

; Jorja

Thanks Paula and that looks fine and ok with the approach. We will monitor my involvement to ensure that I
am not compromised and revert if this is becoming an issue.

Hi Susan

In terms of a meeting Wed am would be ideal - Jorja is setting up a couple of other meetings on Tue/Wed and I
have asked her to coordinate with you. Happy to be guided by you on who should attend our meeting also.

If there is any further background reading that would be ideal also.
Thanks

Alasdair

From: paula.vennells—G
To: alasdairmarnocl
CC: susan.crichtonI
Subject: Fwd: JFSA/SS

Date: Sun, 21 Jul 2013 22:26:55 +0000

Iwen.lyonsI___ GRO)

Dear Alasdair, we touched briefly on JFSA/ Second Sight and how you might help here. You will see point 2
below. I hope this is sufficiently vague (ie., challenge and support, rather than any direction) to allow for you to
participate without compromising your role as Chair of ARC.

Martin and/or Susan will be in touch. Thank you for your willingness to get involved at this stage. I am sure we
will benefit as it is early enough in the planning to respond.

Kind regards, Paula
Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: <paula.vennells:
Date: 21 July 2013 23:
To: Susan Crichton

>, Simon Baker

Mark Davies
__..P, Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

POL00116097

POL00116097

land <

ecco enen en ORO.
Subject: JFSA/SS

I

hi there, I do hope everyone has had a great weekend and is well rested after a difficult end to
the week.

a couple of notes re priorities for early this week:

1) JA meeting and our proposed process:

Thanks to Simon for his late work on Friday evening and to all of you for the difficult call. I think
we got to a reasonable place: Simon's next steps and flow chart, and the lawyers mitigation
scenario, are all the right focus for you to work through tomorrow (Monday) am. This now
needs to be brought together into a coherent programme plan of how we will work, inc with the
various stakeholders.

Could we get together at 13.15 to review what we will be presenting to the JA meeting at 15.30.
Susan as I said last week, you should come in to lead this. If you want to bring in others, let's
discuss the tactics at 13.15. Alwen, it would be good to keep you in for continuity - is that ok?

Susan, if you need to 'borrow' Martin to do a challenge/ check on the content with a fresh pair
of eyes, please do.

2) Programme planning and horizon scan:

Alasdair Marnoch has offered to cast an eye over our proposals. I am grateful to him. This will
be helpful for two reasons: he has exceptional experience in over-seeing complex high profile
programmes, so I would want to give him the opportunity to challenge us; secondly, as Chair of
ARC he will need to be very closely briefed and it will be important there are no surprises.

I would like Susan to lead a team to take Alasdair through where you are - on Tues/Wed. It will
be as important that we can demonstrate concrete proposals for how progress will be
monitored, dates for meetings, Board updates, etc. le., reassurance on the programme
management, as well as the process itself. And I know you will have this logged - but it needs to
be the whole programme plan, which is wider than what we are presenting to JA. (le., including
costs, prosecuting authority review, compensation/insurance, the breadth of what Angela will
be looking at - internal policies, training etc.)

Martin, can you see if you can fit this into Alasdair's schedule for Tues or Wed? If not, just as
soon as possible thereafter.

Plus, I have asked Alasdair (probably next week), to ‘horizon scan' with you to make sure we
have started to scenario plan and consider contingencies. I suggest you discuss this with him

when you meet this week.

3) If anything isn't clear, please try and catch me before 9am.
POL00116097
POL00116097

4) Board update: this was a major discussion at the Board and I would like to be in a position to
update them before I go on leave on Wednesday evening. (Martin to lead.)
thanks, Paula

Sent from my iPad

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
