POLO00028031
POL00028031

MISC2012 Dec 2020 1 Section 2 Getting Started V1.1
.
Getting Started

Login

You will be given a Horizon username and a temporary
password. The username is unique to you and is linked
to your Smart ID. You can find out more about Smart
ID on the next page.

+ Type in your user name and password and press a
‘Enter’ Quantity

+ Amessage will pop up requesting you to create
a new password. This has to be at least 7 digits
long, but no more than 14, and has to contain
one letter and one number

fet

+ You will see a message telling you that you have
successfully logged in, press ‘Enter’ to exit
screen

ee oe te ee ee

1 Remember! Never share your password with anyone, including your manager. !
4

be, et ss ms ey ft Gy We lem sl

Attaching to a stock unit

In order to serve customers, you need to be
connected to a stock unit.

+ From the 'Home Screen' press ‘Back Office’
then ‘Admin’

+ Select ‘Attach User’

+ Use the down arrow until you find your
username - Select your username and then
press ‘Enter’

+ On the next screen select your stock unit and
press ‘Enter’

+ You are now attached to your stock unit

You won't need to do this every time you login, but
always remember to check you're attached to the
correct stock unit by looking at the bottom of the
Horizon screen.

poo eee ge ee ee ee ee eH eH eH eH HHH

I Remember! Always complete a cash declaration when you take over a stock unit.
You can find out how to do this in Section 10.

ee I

Delivering Operational Excellence &

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.
POL00028031
POL00028031

Section 2 Getting Started V1.1 2 MISC2012 Dec 2020

Smart ID

The Smart ID system links each Horizon user's ID to their training and HR record. If you are recruiting a new assistant,
they need to have passed the necessary vetting checks and the compliance training before they can serve customers.
Here is an overview of the process to follow:

New assistant &
postmaster Vetting successful.
> complete P250 & Assistant's Smart ID}

return it to is created
Post Office

Ring the Branch
Support Centre to
let us know of your
intention to recruit

a new assistant

Post Office sends
P250 to the branch
{not Directly
Managed Branches]

New assistant
completes New assistant logs
compliance in using Horizon ID +
training and test. and changes
They are compliant password

Smart ID is used to

generate Horizon Smart ID sent to

ID and temporary branch email

password for new address
assistant

and ready to serve*

Key:

*Directly Managed Branch assistants complete compliance training and test before attending the classroom training.

How does the postmaster/branch manager create a Horizon ID using a Smart ID?

+  OnHorizon Online go to ‘Back Office’, then ‘Admin’ and select ‘Create (User)’

+ Follow the on-screen prompts and enter the user's Smart ID, check the name displayed belongs to the user
+ The Horizon ID (Smart ID + 2 digits) will be generated

+ Create a password for the user, add a role to their Horizon ID, and attach them to a stock unit (if required)

+ Tell the user their Horizon ID and temporary password. They can now log in using their Horizon ID and
temporary password which they will be asked to change when they log in

For full details go to Horizon Online Help: ‘Back Office, ‘Smart ID’ ‘Create User’ ‘Counter Process’

What happens if temporary cover is needed in branch?

If the temporary assistant has a Smart ID, follow the process to create a new user. If they don't, follow the process for
recruiting a new assistant. It's important to make sure the temporary cover has been vetted and passed their
compliance training and tests so that they are compliant to serve in branch.

How long does it take to get a new assistant live on Horizon and ready to serve?

Once the completed P250 has been sent to Post Office, it can take up to 3 weeks for vetting to be completed. After
vetting is complete, the assistant’s Smart ID will be sent to the branch email address.
peewee ee ew ee ee ew ew ew ee ee ew ee eH He HK

L Top Tip! When planning extra resource for Christmas, allow plenty of time for vetting. I

sa SSS eS SSS SS aS See SSS Se Se Se a

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
POLO00028031
POL00028031

MISC2012 Dec 2020 3 Section 2 Getting Started V1.1
Transaction Acknowledgements (TAs)

What is a Transaction Acknowledgement?

Transaction Acknowledgements (TAs) are an
automated way to account for transactions carried out
on the Paystation or Camelot Lottery terminals each
day.

Transaction Acknowledgements are sent electronically
overnight and are processed by the first person who
logs into Horizon Online after it has been sent.

A pop up message appears on Horizon and you won't
be able to serve until the outstanding Transaction
Acknowledgements has been processed.

You need to:

+ Check the cash received for your Paystation
and Lottery transactions against the list of
outstanding Transaction Acknowledgements

+ ‘Process TAs’ to accept all entries on the screen

+ Physically move the cash in or out of the stock
unit where the Transaction Acknowledgements
were accepted. This ensures that your stock
unit will balance

Viewing accepted Transaction
Acknowledgements

There may be occasions where an assistant needs to
serve customers quickly, so they process the
Transaction Acknowledgements without checking or
physically moving the cash in or out of the relevant
stock unit.

On those occasions, you can print a report to show
what was accepted, on Horizon go to:

+ ‘Back Office’, then ‘Reporting’, then ‘Reporting
Office’, then ‘Outstanding and Processed’

+ Enter dates from (yesterday) and to (today)

This report prints on the back office printer, so
remember to switch it on.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

POL00028031
POL00028031

CUSTOMER ‘xm

EXPERIENCE

ea] JeuoNesadG,

a2ua}}a2xq jouoROLadG Sujaayaq

quawidojanag g 3u

paniuuad you s1 ‘papuarul asodind ayp 404 pue 2244 380g Jo JyPYaq UO BuNJIOM r0U Aued-Pul4y Aue Or

uauin2op si42 UIyaIm pauleiuo> UoReWHOjU! ay unAgusip *BuIAdo> *BUISO}>SIQ “TYNUIINI 22YO 150d Paylsse]> a1e UAWINZOP sI4p Jo s1Ua1U0> sy)

The Basics of CX

Our Customer Experience Drivers and Behaviours help us deliver a great experience. These underpin our

values and help us focus on the things we know that are important to our customers. Our behaviours in

these Drivers define how customers rate our customer experience. Being friendly, acting, and presenting

ourselves professionally while displaying good levels of knowledge are very important to customers, as

well as understanding their needs and meeting their expectations in an efficient way.

Here you will find the Key Basics a customer would expect from us, each and every time they visit us.

Remember, these are the basics, we should always be actively looking for ways to delight our customers.

Friendly Knowledge Understanding Expectations

‘+1.am prepared and
organised, ready to do

*Greet customers with
asmile

Thank customers for
waiting where
appropriate

*Give my full attention
throughout their visit.

‘+1 use good manners at
all times.

+1 build rapport with
customers

Listen and talk in a
pleasant, good-

natured, easy manner.

Treat my customers
with warmth and
respect, caring about
the experience I
provide

+ Always say goodbye
and thank you as.
customers leave.

Customer.Experience ge) to aaa

*1 look smart at work,
taking pride in my
appearance.

Respond
appropriately and
build rapport wi
customers, providing
relevant information
with respect and
integrity.

+lam able to
understand the
different needs and
priorities of
customers.

sl engaging
appropriately with
different customer
types whilst
remaining calm under
pressure.

shave a good
understanding of the
transactions, products
and services we offer
and keep myself up to
date with changes.

+1am aware of my
surroundings and how
to use the technology
relevant to my role.

+1 perform a wide
variety of tasks and
learn new skills quickly.

+1 share my knowledge
with colleagues and
am comfortable
observing others to
learn new things.

*1 offer a personalised
customer experience
by asking relevant
questions to help me

jentify what is
important to my
customers.

+1 know how to fulfil
my duties and
understand the

attributes that lead to

great customer
satisfaction such as
being easy to do
business with.

*We have a variety of
product experts and
refer customers to
these where
appropriate

my job in the best
possible manner with
the least waste of
time and effort.

+1 make sure I have

‘everything I need to
do my job before
starting each shift.

*1am capable and

confident and can
work at pace to meet
‘customer flows and
demands with a
flexible attitude.

‘+1 focus on important

tasks first, limiting
distractions, so my.
customers can see I
value their time.

+itake the time to build
relationships with my
customers to help me
get to know them and
understand their
needs.

+I listen and ask the
right questions to see
if my customers have
additional related
needs to go beyond
their expectations.

+lam honest, authentic
and try to look at my
branch through the
eyes of my customers
to look for
improvement
‘opportunities.

[LA pavers Bunie9 Zz uon2as

0202 28d ZLOZOSIN.

