POL00397899
POL00397899

Confidential

POST OFFICE LTD — Risk & Compliance Committee

2011/12 IT annual audit update

1. Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to:

1.1 Update the committee on the IT audit rectification plan from the 2011/12 Ernst &
Young audit.

1.2 Request endorsement from the committee of a number of observations that Post
Office have mitigated against or where Post Office IT suggest Post Office accept
the risk

2. Background

2.1 The 2011/12 IT audit identified seven areas that required either: actions to rectify
them, to mitigate against them, or for Post Office to accept the risk against them.
These seven areas were further broken into 22 specific actions based on the
observations and allocated across Post Office and our suppliers to rectify.

2.2 The scope of the IT audit was based on the controls adopted for HNG and
POLSAP

2.3 As a further step to determine the success of the remedial actions an
independent review by Deloitte was commissioned by IA&RM of the actions
related to POLSAP which has provided assurance that the controls implemented
are effective. A similar audit of the HNG actions is currently underway and due to
complete at the end of November 2012.

2.4 A further audit of actions still underway at the time of this paper has been
requested of IA&RM currently planned for January 2013.

3. Actions Update

3.41 Of the 22 actions issued in last year’s audit, 12 are complete in full (see annex
A).

3.2 The outstanding actions require the R&CC to sign-off the mitigating actions or to
accept the risk. These are detailed in annex B and summarised below:
3.2.1 Privileged access: Post Office was asked to consider various

improvements to the management of privileged access accounts. This

2011/12 Annual Audit Update Andy J Jones Page 1of7 16 Nov
2012

POL-BSFF-0224569
POL00397899
POL00397899

Confidential

access is required by the IT suppliers to operate the systems. Post Office
believes the controls in place are adequate to mitigate the risk of
unauthorized changes, they are:

1. Post Office reviews all privilege access requests.

2. Usage is monitored and reviewed.

3. Changes to IDs are reported immediately to the Post Office.

4. Periodic reviews take place to re-approve all such IDs.

3.2.2 Employment Termination: Post Office was asked to consider
strengthening the revocation of system access after employment
termination. The Post Office has reviewed the process and believes it is
appropriate.

3.2.3 Administrator Password: Post Office was asked to consider changing the
Administrator account to one with a stronger password. Post Office does
not believe this necessary as the current password is set to the supplier's
corporate standard which meets the Post Office standard.

3.2.4 Review Password Policy: Post Office was asked to review password
policy and consider unifying HNG and POLSAP password standards.
Post Office confirms that HNG and POLSAP security policies have been
reviewed and are appropriate for the respective systems. Policy
standards will be kept up-to-date through periodic reviews.

3.2.5 Network and Infrastructure Passwords: Post Office was asked to
consider configuring network and infrastructure passwords in line with the
Post Office security policy — as some are configured to the policies of
third party system suppliers and reflect system restrictions. Post Office
has considered this and will implement this going forward as new
infrastructure is implemented. Post Office believes that it is acceptable for
existing infrastructure passwords to continue to comply with the policies
of the third party system suppliers.

The committee is asked to ‘endorse’ IT’s acceptance of the risks and remaining actions.

4. Conclusion
The observations identified through the E&Y audit have either been completed,
mitigated or we accept the risk. On acceptance of the mitigated and accepted risks and
confirmation that those complete are acceptably closed and independently assessed,
we look to sign off that all the actions raised against the IT audit 2011/12 are concluded.
5. Recommendations
The Board is asked to:
5.1 Endorse IT’s acceptance of the mitigated and accepted risks
5.2 Confirm conclusion of the completed action’s
Andy Jones
20 November 2012

2011/12 Annual Audit Update Andy J Jones Page 20f7 16Nov
2012

POL-BSFF-0224569_0001
Confidential

Appendix A

Completed actions from the E&Y report
(Note: numbers in brackets are the Post Office reference number)

POL00397899

POL00397899

Area Observation 1A&RM comment from the POLSAP audit @ end Current Status
September 2012
Privileged Conduct a review of privileged access to determine I An annual review of user access will be performed in I Complete. This review has
Access if the level of privilege is appropriate (1) Q3 FY13. As this has not yet been performed the now been completed and fully
issue remains outstanding. documented
Privileged Implement monitoring controls to ensure 3” party Monitoring controls have been implemented over third I Complete. The scope of these
Access controls are in place and in operation. (POLSAP, parties. Further work is required to ensure that the reviews is agreed and
Cash centres) (5) scope of such reviews is approved by POL approved by Post Office and
management and that these reviews are formally formally documented
documented.
Privileged Conduct a periodic review of activities executed by I Monitoring controls have been implemented for Complete at time of the IA&RM
Access accounts granted permanent SAP_ALL and SAP_ALL and SAP_NEW privileges and follow up audit
SAP_NEW access. (4) activity is undertaken with the third parties.
Generic Consider implementing monitoring controls to N/A for the POLSAP audit as related to HNG Complete and forms part of the
privileged ensure that robust security practices are in place Information Management
access (15) Security Forum

Periodic User
Access reviews
and monitoring

Implement a Post Office owned periodic review of
appropriateness to determine if there is any
inappropriate access (13)

An annual review of user access will be performed in
Q3 FY13. As this has not yet been performed the
issue remains outstanding.

Complete. This review has
now been completed and fully
documented

controls

User Admin Strengthen the process so that documentation Although work has been undertaken to strengthen Complete. The controls were
Process supporting the request is retained. (HNG, Fujitsu) these controls, sample testing identified that strengthened but one sample

(6) documentation for one request sampled was was discovered in the audit as
completed incorrectly. not correctly documented as
approved.

User Admin Strengthen the process so that documentation Although work has been undertaken to strengthen Complete. Documentation is
Process supporting the request is retained. (7a) these controls, sample testing identified that retained.

documentation for one request sampled was
completed incorrectly.

2011/12 Annual Audit Update

Andy J Jones Page 1 of 7

16 Nov 2012

POL-BSFF-0224569_0002
Confidential

POL00397899

POL00397899

User Admin Strengthen the process so that the standardised Although work has been undertaken to strengthen Complete. The controls were
Process process is followed. (7b) these controls, sample testing identified that strengthened but one sample
documentation for one request sampled was was discovered in the audit as
completed incorrectly. not correctly documented as

approved.

User Admin Implement monitoring controls around the activities I Monitoring processes do not include a review of Complete for all privileged

Process of privileged users where the process is controlled I SU01 access. users. The SU01 is a ‘role’ and

by 3° party suppliers. (8) not a user. However, IT will

review the usage of this role
going forward.

Change Define the responsibilities of all parties involved in Although controls have been strengthened in this Complete. The controls were

Management the authorisation, testing and approval of changes area, an issue was identified with one out of six strengthened but one sample

Process deployed into production. (11) changes sampled. was discovered in the audit as
not correctly documented as
approved.

Change Documentation to be retained to evidence the Documentation for the change management Complete.

Management authorisation, testing and approval of changes procedure was in place.

Process made to the applications. (10)

Change Implement monitoring controls to ensure controls POL need to define responsibility for the end-to-end Complete. The change

Management operated by 3” party suppliers are in place and in change management process. management policy has been

Process operation. (Operational Change Process) (12) written and is going through

approval.

2011/12 Annual Audit Update

Andy J Jones Page 2 of 7

16 Nov 2012

POL-BSFF-0224569_0003
Confidential

Appendix B

Actions from the E&Y report that require R&CC endorsement
(Note: numbers in brackets are the Post Office reference number)

POL00397899
POL00397899

Risk E&Y Action Mitigation Why acceptable

There is a risk that Revisit the need to grant the level of Mitigated Risk e IT suppliers require this level
people make privileged access through SAP_ALL and e The supplier along with the Post Office of access to run the system
unauthorised SAP_NEW profiles (2) initially ‘approves’ the user as authorised and this is not unique to the

changes to the
systems and affect
our data integrity.

Consider creating system accounts to run
scheduled jobs so manual login is not
allowed where privileged access to
POLSAP accounts are used (3)

Consider a review of generic privileged
accounts and determine if these can be
replaced with individual user accounts
(14)

and then on an on-going basis (monthly)
reviews the users.

e Allusage is monitored by the supplier and
the Post Office monitors this usage monthly
through reports.

e  Alluser ID changes are reported to the Post
Office immediately and Post Office review
these monthly at the Information Security
Management Forum.

e Semi-annually the Post Office re-approves
all ID's and this was completed this
November. All of these are auditable.

e To date no inappropriate activity has been
noted.

Post Office solution.
e Unauthorised changes will be
detected through monitoring
« In November Post Office
reviewed all users.

There is a risk that
users may remain
live on the system as
a ‘user’ after they
have terminated their
employment with the
supplier or move
away from the Post
Office account.

Strengthen the revocation of access
process such that IT is notified timely
when a terminated employee no longer
requires access. Perhaps through a
periodic report from HR to IT for validation

(9)

Accepted Risk.

e There is a documented process within
Fujitsu that details the process for adding,
deleting, removing and modifying users.
within the Post Office account.

e This process has been reviewed by Post
Office information security forum members
as part of this audit and deemed
appropriate.

e The supplier Operational Security team
have processes in place through this
document that ensure individuals are
removed from the directory as they leave.

e To gain assurance the leaver numbers are
reported to Post Office monthly

¢__ To strengthen this Post Office will receive

e This process has been
reviewed by Post Office
information security forum
members as part of this audit
and deemed appropriate.

e Through the last audit there
was one incident that was
identified through the sample
where a leaver was not
removed from the directory in
a timely fashion. This user
did not access the system
following their leaving.

¢ Post Office deems that the
existing revocation process
and the level of control is

2011/12 Annual Audit Update

Andy J Jones Page 3 of 7

16 Nov 2012

POL-BSFF-0224569_0004
Confidential

POL00397899

POL00397899

data with ID's going forward.

appropriate based on this
single deviation. We will
monitor the situation and
should the status change we
will act on that accordingly.

There is a risk that
the existing
password for the
default administrator
account is not strong
enough

Disable the default Administrator Account
and replace with an Administrator
Account with a stronger password (20)

Accepted Risk.

The current password is set in line with the
Fujitsu corporate policy the standards of
which are stronger than the requirements
agreed with Post Office

Considered with the supplier
replacing the Admin Account
and including a stronger
password but not required as
the current password is set to
Fujitsu corporate and not the
Post Office Account policy
standards which is stronger.

There is a risk that
access could be
made to the
LISTNER.ORA file,
which checks for
inappropriate activity
and the potential for
changes made to its
integrity.

Assess the setting of an encrypted
password for the LISTENER.ORA file on
all Oracle databases (19a)

Set the encrypted password for the
LISTENER.ORA file on all Oracle
databases (19b)

Mitigated Risk.

This observation was assessed and was
mitigated through the upgrade of all Oracle
databases to version 10gR2. This upgrade
enabled the encryption of passwords on this
file.

Redundant as an action as
mitigated through the
upgrade of the Oracle
databases

There is a risk that
certain password
parameters have not
been defined

Review and update the ‘RMG security
policy’ to meet generally accepted
password settings and consider having
one policy outlining the password
guidelines for HNG and POLSAP (16)

Accept the Risk.

Post Office has two security policies, one
for HNG and one for POLSAP as these are
two functionally separate systems.

These policies are periodically reviewed
and updated as appropriate.

Post Office does not own the RMG security
policy and therefore cannot amend it.

The two security policies
within Post Office for HNG
and POLSAP are maintained
and up-to-date through
periodic reviews.
Additionally the PCI audit,
report completed 31 July
2012, reviewed and
acknowledged that the
password strengths were
appropriate.

There is a risk that
the network and
infrastructure
passwords have not
been configured in

Configure all network and infrastructure in
line with the security policy (17)

Consider implementing monitoring
controls to ensure that robust security

Mitigated Risk.

The network and infrastructure system
passwords may not be set to the standards
defined in the policies because in certain
areas of the system, passwords are defined

All new architecture design
takes into account the
required security policies and
signs off its design.

Existing network and

2011/12 Annual Audit Update

Andy J Jones Page 4 of 7

16 Nov 2012

POL-BSFF-0224569_0005
Confidential

POL00397899
POL00397899

line with the policies

settings are in place (18)

by third party suppliers e.g. Oracle, and do
not match the ‘generally’ accepted
password parameters. These are system
restrictions.

infrastructure passwords may
be set to third party system
standards but these are
consistent with that provider
needs.

e This will be reviewed as part
of any future HNG upgrade

2011/12 Annual Audit Update

Andy J Jones Page 5 of 7

16 Nov 2012

POL-BSFF-0224569_0006
