POL00115849
POL00115849

4" Floor

148 Old Street
LONDON.
ECV 9HO

E paula.vermellg

"The Rt Hon Oliver Letwin MP
Cabinet Office
70 Whitehall
LONDON
SW1A 2AS

4 April 2012
Dear Oliver

! understand you raised a query on’ the robustness of the Post Office Horizon system yesterday
with Moya Greene, I am grateful to Moya for passing this query. on to me.

The Post Office takes very seriously any perception that:there is an issue with the accuracy of
the Horizon system: there isn't, The Horizon system has-been rigorously tested using
independent assessors and robust procedures.

Therefore when queries.are raised, my team will work with Subpostmasters'to help identify the
problem. Very often the ‘missing’ funds are a Keying or balancing error that can be put right,
and training given to ensure It doesn't happen again. These checks and procedures resolve
virtually all discrepancies satisfactorily. However, in some cases, Which fortunately are very few
and far between, we have had to prosecute Subpostmasters for theft or false accounting and
provide evidence which substantiates our legal position, In every instance, the courts have
found in our favour, This is a particularly difficult and sensitive situation when it.arises.

As I think you are aware, your colleague James Arbuthnot ralsed’a similar quety.on behalf of
one of his:canstituents at a recent meeting with Alice Perkins, the Post Office Chairrnan; James.
also wanted to-understand the wider issues'raised by the action group Justice for
‘Subpostmasters Alliance,

Alice has'since invited James to: our head office, where we.cah show him In detall how the
Horizon system works. I would like to extend the sama invitation to you, 'elther with James or
independently,

My office will be in touch to arrange a meeting but. in the meantime, if you-could provide me:
with details of the Post Office in your‘constituency that is encountering problems, I will ensure
We look into it-as soon as possible.

Yours siearals nnn :

Paula Veinans
Chief Executive

WWW. postafilca.co.uk I

Post Olfice Ltd is reuistered in England! and Wales, Registereal No, 2184540, Registered (nce! 148 ON Strent, Lofdiun, ECAV 9H.
Post Office arnd, the Post Office loyo are registered (ale marks of Post Office Lid,
