POL00314730

POL00314730
Sent: Sun 19/04/2015 6:53:23 PM (UTC)
To: Mark R Davi “? Charlotte
Hayward _
Ce: Melanie Corfieldf LauraCooperI =~=GRO—s,
Gilly Orr GRO ee
Subject: RE: Second Sight report and Post Office response

Thanks for this Mark

We are planning to do the story tomorrow because — having seen the Second Sight report today — we think it’s very
interesting to our audience, and newsworthy. There is no embargoed date to the report and that’s probably why our
planning desk didn’t flag it up with us today.

I appreciate it’s now frustrating on your part given you tried to speak to us about the story last week. Apologies for
this.

However, we are planning to go ahead tomorrow, particularly as it’s now likely to be covered by other news outlets.
Would someone from the Post Office be available for the Today programme?

’'m copying in Laura Cooper who's night editing tonight, and today’s Day Editor is Gilly Orr.
The programme’s overall editor is Jamie Angus who’s email is

Best,
Purvee Pattni

From: Mark R Davies! _
Sent: 19 April 2015 19:36

To: Charlotte Hayward; Purvee Pattni

Cc: Melanie Corfield

Subject: Fwd: Second Sight report and Post Office response

Dear Charlotte and Purvee

T attach copies of both the Second Sight report which - to stress - we are making available to you , and our full
response to it.

I would like to know why it is that it necessary to broadcast on this issue tomorrow, and only to provide
notice of that to us now, when it was offered to the BBC on Thursday?

This does not reflect fair treatment of our organisation, particularly as we acted in good faith in offering to
provide copies of both reports last Thursday.

Best wishes

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Begin forwarded message:

From: "Louise Chatfield" {SS GRO

POL00314730
POL00314730

To: "Mark R Davies’
Subject: Second Sight report and Post Office response

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
