POL00091411
POL00091411

Chronology of statements made by Post Office, in respect of “Remote Access” Allegation

Confidential & Subject to Legal Privilege

DATE

EVENT / DESCRIPTION

RELEVANT STATEMENT(S)

January 2015

POL response to the Westminster Hall
Debate of 17 Dec 2014

“During the debate it was suggested that Subpostmasters’ accounts can be amended remotely, in Horizon, without
their or their staff’s knowledge. There is no functionality in Horizon for either a branch, Post Office or Fujitsu
(suppliers of the Horizon system) to edit, manipulate or remove transaction data once it has been recorded ina
branch’s accounts. It is possible for Fujitsu to view branch data in order to provide support and conduct maintenance
but this does not allow access to any functionality that could be used to edit recorded transaction data”.

17/02/2015 Supplementary evidence to the “In response to the allegation Post Office also provided Second Sight with a witness statement from a key member of
Business, Innovation and Skills staff who worked at Bracknell. This confirmed that the basement was a secure test environment; there was no
Committee, who took evidence on connection with any live transaction data; live transaction data could not be accessed from the basement and the
‘the Post Office mediation scheme basement was never used to access, change or manipulate live transaction data in branches, which cannot in any
and Horizon IT system’ on 03/02/2015 I event be edited, remotely or otherwise. In addition, Post Office provided Second Sight with a considerable amount
of policy documentation relating to the Bracknell Office covering systems access, building access and security”.
09/04/2015 Post Office produce their Reply to. “To be clear, Horizon does not have functionality that allows Post Office or Fujitsu to edit or delete the transactions
Second Sight’s Briefing Report — Part as recorded by branches”.
Two (April Edition)
“For clarity, neither Post Office nor Fujitsu can edit the transactions as recorded by branches. Robust safeguards are
in place to ensure the integrity of the data sent by branch terminals to the Post Office data centre”.
“It has always been possible for Post Office to correct errors in and/or update a branch's accounts. This is most
commonly done by way of a transaction correction. However, it could also be by way of a balancing transaction or
transaction acknowledgement”.
“All of these processes for correcting / updating a branch's accounts have similar features. All of them involve
inputting a new transaction into the branch's records (not editing or removing any previous transactions) and all are
shown transparently in the branch transaction records available to Subpostmasters (as well as in the master ARQ
data)”.
17/08/2015 Post Office statement to the “Neither Post Office nor Fujitsu can edit the transactions as recorded by branches. Post Office can correct errors in

Panorama Programme

and/or update a branch's accounts by inputting a new transaction (not editing or removing any previous
transactions). However, this is shown transparently in the branch transaction records. There is no evidence that any
branch transaction data was inappropriately accessed from a remote access point”.

Strictly Private & Confidential: Subject to Legal Privilege

