POL00423462
POL00423462

POST OFFICE LIMITED RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Minutes of a Risk and Compliance (“RCC”) meeting held at
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ
on 4 July 2019 at 13.00 pm

Present: Alisdair Cameron (Chair) (AC) Interim Chief Executive Officer
Chrysanthy Pispinis (CP) Senior Strategy Manager
(on behalf of Owen Woodley)
Ben Foat (BF) General Counsel
Rob Houghton Group Chief Information Officer
Mo Kang Group HR Director
Cathy Mayor (CM) Finance Director, Retail
(on behalf of Debbie Smith)
In David Parry (DP) Senior Assistant Company Secretary
Attendance:
Johann Appel (JA) Head of Internal Audit
Jenny Ellwood (JE) Risk Director (via telephone)
Jonathan Hill (JH) Compliance Director
Mark Fabes (MF) Interim Group CIO (items 1-3)
Tony Jowett (TJ) Chief Information Security Officer (item 4)
Tim Armit (TA) Business Continuity Manager (items 4,
Ben Cooke (BC) IT Director — Back Office (item 5)
Barbara Brannon (BB) Purchasing Director (item 7)
James Scutt (JS) Head of Customer Experience, Retail (item 9.3)
Apologies Debbie Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Retail, Owen Woodley, Chief Executive Officer, Financial Services,
Telecoms and Identity, Group Marketing and Group Digital & Innovation.
1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Actions
AC opened the meeting and remarked that the pack was too large and should be halved in length. Papers
should be condensed to identify the most significant risks and issues faced by the Post Office, the
mitigating actions that were being completed and the timeframes for doing so.
2. Minutes and Action Lists
The minutes of the RCC meeting held 5 May were APPROVED. Progress on completion of actions as shown
‘on the action log were NOTED.
3. PCI-DSS Update

The paper was taken as read.

RH outlined that there are two types of transactions; retail and banking. Both transactions require pinpad
upgrades with the banking transaction requiring a solution that avoids PAN data being brought into the
POL environment (called the “banking solution” for ease).

AC sought and received confirmation from RH that no definitive plan had been received from Ingenico
regarding the banking solution. A plan for collection, shipment and firmware upgrade and in-branch
device swap had been agreed, and a pilot to update the pin-pad devices was scheduled to begin at the
end of August, with a full roll-out planned in September on successful completion of the pilot.

Strictly Confidential Page 1 of 8
41

POL00423462

POL00423462
It was noted that the pin-pad devices could only be upgraded by trained specialists and not in-house. For
the banking solution, resource to commence the design activities had been provided by Vocalink and
Fujistu, Ingenico had advised that they could not provide suitable resource until late August/early
September.
In order to avoid further delay, AC requested that escalation with the senior executive of Ingenico be RH

accelerated.

The RCC discussed further the banking solution and the two opportunities to improve POL’s PCI
compliance status currently being explored. Firstly, to identify whether there were any alternative
providers (such as Global Payments) who could process banking transactions reducing POL’s reliance on
Ingenico, and secondly, to explore whether banking transactions could be excluded from PCI-DSS
regulation. RH commented that POL’s legal team had engaged with CMS (Solicitors) and the Payment
Service Regulator (PSR) to confirm this position, and that feedback was expected by the end of July/early
August.

The RCC noted that whilst banks comply with PCI, they are not certified/subject to PCI compliance,
whereas merchants are. Additionally, PCI was recognised as a good industry standard to meet, and POL
would strive to meet this as business as usual.

The recent Data Audit had now been completed and no further instances of PCI related data had been
identified. A full report was expected by the end of July.

AC requested that a condensed paper of two sides be prepared ahead of the next ARC meeting (29 July)
clearly communicating the current position.

MF left the meeting.

Security Strategy

The paper was taken as read.
TJ and TA entered the meeting.

TJ explained that the purpose of the paper was to provide an update of the current position. Inline with
best practice and to meet the recommendations of the Deloitte Review, the Cyber Security Team had now
been expanded to cover IT Security and Business Continuity Management. Prioritisation had been given
to meetings with key third parties to understand and align on security provision.

AC questioned when POL’s position could be considered ‘Good’. TJ responded that the process of
designing ‘Good’ was in train, and that seven of the ten key recommendations from the Deloitte Review
had now been met. Additionally, a number of initiatives throughout the year had identified POL’s ‘Crown
Jewels’ i.e. the business critical data/systems, its location and the controls in place to protect this.

CP questioned whether agent related data (such as agent pay) was considered part of the crown jewels.
BF believed this should be treated as part of the ‘Crown Jewels’ and noted that the Secretariat
department had good governance controls in place regarding the storage of business critical data such as
financial data, litigation material and business reports. A cultural piece was required across POL to ensure
that business critical data was treated with a greater sense of security.

He suggested that as a starting point, the team should review the document retention programme listing
all corporate documents, owners and the retention period.

AC requested that the term ‘Crown Jewel’ be more clearly defined. Regarding third party data, this should
clearly identify the type of data held/stored, the audit rights and when they can be exercised.

Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 8
4.2

POL00423462
POL00423462

Further, it would be useful for the RCC to see a report that identified:

© What POL does well;

© What is at risk; v
© What is POL doing about it i.e. mitigating actions;

© When will it be completed by.

AC reiterated that further resource could be provided if required and that due to the varying numbers of
standards, one clear view should be established. Any issues should be escalated to him.

He requested a crisper report be published for ARC (29 July) identifying the current position.

Cyber Risk Appetite

AC questioned TJ’s request to withdraw the Cyber Risk Appetite paper ahead of the meeting.

TJ commented that following discussions he and RH had had with Shirine Khoury-Haq (NED), and later
conversations with JE and David Mann (Head of Information Security & Supplier Risk), it was agreed that
the current proposal would be reviewed with further consideration given towards data criticality. An
additional request was made to simplify the approach particularly around the key risk indicator element.
AC requested that a real world interpretation should be applied to show POL’s risk appetite. He
recognised that breaches such as hacking did occur and questioned what would happen to any data lost.
JH remarked that in such circumstances, a financial penalty would be likely. Further, the regulator (ICO)
expected companies to have established risk processes and controls in place.

The RCC discussed the potential of POL being attacked by hackers and felt that although this scenario was
quite low, an attack on Horizon could have significant impact on POL. Having assurance from suppliers
about the security of POL’s data was critical, especially if POL is the data owner/processor.

Of greater concern to the team was the need to modernise the data centre.

AC thanked the team for their honest assessment and frank conversation. He requested that an updated
paper be presented at September's RCC meeting and suggested JE and RH review the scores and the
language used. Mitigating actions should also be highlighted/in place.

TJ and TA left the meeting.

Transtrack, Back Office Transformation

The paper was taken as read.

BC entered the meeting.

He explained that whilst Transtrack provided POL’s supply chain capability for cash and logistics, he
questioned the decision to appoint them in 2016 to manage this process.

The financial reconciliation issue (where not all financial transactions recorded in Transtrack are sent to
POUs financial system) remained unresolved, but had significantly improved since Go-live, with the team
ensuring that financials were robust enough to avoid any branch impacts.

At its peak, around 29,000 transactions (equivalent to c.£.250m) had been missed and the project team

had now reduced this amount to c.20 missed transactions a day. The bulk of the missing historical
transactions had also been processed.

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 8
POL00423462

POL00423462
Anumber of financial controls had been established to prevent further repeated occurrences which had
also helped identify any technical issues requiring remediation before they arose. Further, Transtrack had
strengthened their team in areas of weakness however it was noted that significant manual overhead was
required by POL to ensure that there no impact is felt by the Post Masters or the financials.
Regarding Back Office Transformation, operational noise remained in place and any issues identified
regarding Transtrack application architecture, development capacity, deployment approach and skills was
circulated to the GE on a weekly basis.
The Committee questioned whether issues how branch incidents were escalated to the RCC but
recognised that cultural change was required.
Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update
Risk
The report was taken as read.
JE reported that the top risks to POL included PCI compliance, the Group Litigation Order, Brexit, People
Change and Payzone Payment Device Vulnerabilities.
PCI Compliance
PCI continued to report red. Ingenico had not provided a definitive plan regarding the banking solution
and challenge remained with the timeline and costs of the new schedule.
Horizon trial
The second High Court trial relating to Horizon was due to conclude this week (week commencing 1 July).
Deloitte had provided support via workshops to identify the risks, mitigation and owners, of the risks
raised from the trial. Output from these sessions would be reviewed by Central Risk.
Brexit
Planning remained ongoing with continued and regular dialogue with BEIS. BEIS had confirmed that ‘No
Deal’ plans should be ‘shrink wrapped’ and that businesses should plan for a ‘Deal’. However, JE believed
POL should continue to work on contingency plans for ‘No Deal’ particularly as it was felt the risk for ‘No
Deal’ had not diminished. Brexit (and the associated risks) would continually be reviewed throughout
September and October and the Brexit Operations Group would be re-established.
People Change
People change remains a key risk to POL in light of recent significant people changes and future planned
organisational changes. The review to assess capability of senior positons including the identification of
critical roles continues.
Payzone Payment Device Vulnerabilities
Work to remediate the security vulnerabilities identified following the Payzone Payment Device
Penetration Test continue and are on track. It was expected that remediation would be completed by
October from the recent work completed with Payzone and Information Security.
The current exposures were at device level and it was felt that this was holding at an amber position
rather than red as previously thought.
BF questioned whether the risk reporting lines for Payzone should report to POL ARC, considering that To do:

Post Office Insurance did so. It was noted that whilst Payzone had a risk framework in place, it wasnot as  JE/BF
comprehensive as Post Office Insurance. AC requested JE and BF discuss this outside of the meeting.

AC further requested sight of the monitoring data (page 3 of the report) on retail partners and JE To do:
proposed that a deep dive be carried out in September. JE to send information to CM. JE/CM

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 8
6.2

6.3

POL00423462
POL00423462

Compliance
The report was taken as read.

Text Relay

POL provided a response to the second part of Ofcom’s investigation on 21 June. He noted that Ofcom
had recognised the actions POL had taken to date and the commitment to reimburse impacted customers.
Where data is available, customers will be reimbursed. Where there is no data, a contribution will be
made to Action for Hearing Loss.

GDPR

The programme was formally closed at the end of Q1. Compulsory data protection training has been
rolled out for all employees, contractors and agents, with further mandatory training being developed for
staff members who have high levels of daily access to sensitive personal data.

Fit & Proper

The team remains focused on gathering F&P returns, with fortnightly updates being provided to HMRC. It
was noted that 29 of 43 of POL’s commercial partners have responded in full; regarding non-commercial
partners, 64% are fully compliant and a further 21% have submitted responses that now require review. A
concerted final push is planned for late June/early July for the remainder returns.

A meeting is planned with HMRC next week to discuss the progress made to date, although it was noted
that some commercial partners had not responded at all. One solution proposed should no return be
forthcoming, is to switch off the branches capability to sell travel money.

Moneylaundering

The team continued to see a number of high value and complex cases relating to business banking
deposits, where deposits are then used to purchase crypto currencies. Concern being the link between
crypto currencies and money laundering. BF remarked that the legal risk lay with the banks rather than
POL.

JH agreed that for Banking Framework transactions, so long as POL carried out its responsibilities, which it
is, the banks hold the regulatory risk. However, POL does have duties and is also exposed to reputational
risk should POL’s network be caught up in money laundering by the banks’ customers. It was AGREED
that a money laundering analysis and risk appetite review should be conducted.

Internal Audit
The report was taken as read.

JA advised that 24 of 26 reviews planned reviews had been completed in the year and that the following
recurring control themes had been identified:

Internal controls not deployed through policies, procedures and systems and/or internal
controls not yet designed or operating effectively enough.

e Ineffective identification and/or management of operational, fraud and change risk.

~~ Unavailability (or ineffective communication) of relevant, quality information to support the
internal control function and decision making.

© Lack of clarity of structure, authority and responsibility.

The RCC recognised that progress had been made with regards to reporting clearance lines and the
establishment of a clear escalation process to address any significant delays, however report turnaround
{in terms of drafting the report and management review and comment) was below the requested internal
service level agreement of clearing audits within 20 days. 10 days was considered ample time in which
management should respond.

To do:
Strictly Confidential Page 5 of 8
A number of changes to the content of the IA report summaries was requested by the RCC. These
included:

© Theuse of shorter, simpler and clearer report summaries.

e — Identifying the severity of any issues raised.

Providing a broad recommendation such as the development of a new policy/system.

© Identifying whether current policies are suitable for purpose and if so, explaining how they are

suitable.
* Tohave management responses prominently displayed as a headline.

Supplier Contracts out of Governance

The paper was taken as read.

The RCC noted that overall, the non-compliance value had dropped slightly since January from £26.4m to
£26.1m, which was felt to be tolerable risk. The reduction had been primarily driven down by the closure
of some material risks through compliant procurement awards, and contracts reaching a statute of
limitation on a challenge period.

BB remarked that £17.5m of the £26.1m of non-compliance value had been planned/managed over the
last six months, however some of this was unmanaged such as the appointment of professional services.
She remarked that the risk of non-compliance could be further reduced with the appropriate quote
process being used. Additionally, a new panel for procurement was being developed to reduce non-

compliance.

The RCC commented that staff should use the CAF process as a matter of standard with appropriate
consequences for staff who did not follow protocol.

The RCC requested a number of changes to the format of the report:

* Add a risk indicator to the table of high value open items

© Identify categories of non-compliance

* Remove POI data as this is subject to internal governance only.
BB left the meeting.
Business Continuity Update and Policy

The paper was taken as read.

TA remarked that whilst he was happy with the current position, an element of complacency had recently
been observed. AC advised that appropriate support would be provided to avoid any slippage.

Evacuation tests had been successfully completed for all sites and IT tested in Swindon was found to be
resilient, although he questioned the benefit of moving IT to Swansea. AC requested another evacuation
test should be planned for Finsbury Dials.
The RCC requested that the following changes be made to the paper:

To identify what was currently in place

* To identify what was not currently in place and how this would be fixed

* Description of actions taken to date.
Business Continuity Policy

The Business Continuity Policy was APPROVED for submission to the ARC on 29 July 2019.

Strictly Confidential Page 6 of 8

POL00423462
POL00423462

To do:
TA
91

9.2

9.3

10.

11.

12.

13.

POL00423462
POL00423462

TA left the meeting.

Policies for Approval

The policies were taken as read.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality) was APPROVED for submission to

the ARC on 29 July 2019.

Whistleblowing Review and Policy
The Whistleblowing Policy was APPROVED for submission to the ARC on 29 July 2019.

Modern Slavery Statement
The Modern Slavery Statement was APPROVED for submission to the ARC on 29 July 2019.

The RCC noted the statement required publishing on the POL website by 1 October 2019, and discussed
the volume of work required to meet Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.

It was felt that greater communication (to be led by the retail lead team) was required between the
network and supplier base to ensure that suppliers were fulfilling their legal requirements. Vetting
processes and cultural behaviour would also need to be improved.

JS left the meeting.

GDPR Update

The paper was taken as read.

JH reported that the GDPR programme (now closed) had established appropriate controls which gave POL
the confidence that operational practices are compliant with GDPR. Some work remained outstanding on:

contract remediation;
records retention;
data classification; and
data storage.

eeee

He commented that the Data Protection Team was confident this work would be completed within the
calendar year, and noted that GDPR would be reviewed by Internal Audit in Spring 2020.

The RCC questioned whether POL was fully compliant with GDPR. JH assured the RCC that POL was
operationally compliant and could show the regulator (ICO) that established systems and processes were
in place.

Corporate Insurance Renewal

The paper was taken as read.

The RCC noted the current position regarding the renewal process and that a further update would be
provided to ARC in September.

Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda
The draft ARC agenda for 29 July 2019 was NOTED and discussed.

Any other Business

Strictly Confidential Page 7 of 8
POL00423462
POL00423462

@

13.1 Meeting dates

It was noted that the next scheduled RCC meeting was on 3 September 2019.

Strictly Confidential Page 8 of 8
