POL00091438

POL00091438
Confidential and privileged legal advice
Do not disclose, forward, scan or copy WOMBLE
18 February 2019 BOND

DICKINSON

Horizon Issues Trial

Risk Assessment Table updated with potential Post Office responses (as identified by Angela VDB
18.9.19))

INTRODUCTION

This document summarises our views on the strength of the evidence for the Horizon Issues so that Post Office may make decisions about how to mitigate any
related risks. By its very nature it is a simplistic assessment of over 1,200 pages of expert reports and witness statements.

The subject matter of the Horizon Issues Trial is the complex technical architecture and functionality of the Horizon system over its 18 year life. As a law firm we can
only offer a view on the relative weight and persuasiveness of the evidence presented by the witnesses called by the Claimants and Post Office and the experts who
have inspected Horizon. We are not in a position to determine whether that evidence is correct or not because we are not IT experts.

This risk assessment is on the assumption that the evidence of both parties withstands cross-examination and the evidence, as currently written, is accurate. It
should however be noted that this trial turns heavily on the performance of witnesses in giving evidence. Given that witnesses are being asked to comment on
intricate points within a complex topic, sometimes going back more than a decade and sometimes being asked to speculate on unusual scenarios, there is a real risk
that any one of either party's witnesses may not come up to proof. This risk assessment will therefore need to be kept under review as the trial progresses.

The Horizon Issues Trial is a stepping-stone to other decisions. The reliability and functionality of Horizon is not, in the context of the litigation, an end-result in itself.
It will however set a foundation on which decisions in relation to specific Subpostmasters, both historically by Post Office and in the future by the Court, will be
adjudged. It may tip the scales for or against Post Office but it will not be determinative of any individual claim. The full extent of the outcome of the Horizon Issues
Trial will not been known until at least the end of the Further Issues Trial scheduled for November 2019 where it is expected that the findings on the Horizon Issues
will be applied to particular cases. We have however flagged below where we can foresee an immediate impact.

On 1 February 2019, the Claimants served their Supplemental Expert Report. This report radically changed the Claimants' case, raising many new points that are
adverse to Post Office. WBD and Fujitsu are rapidly investigating these new issues. Early indications are that Post Office will have counter-points to many of these
new issues but investigations are not yet complete. This assessment assumes that (i) Post Office (via Fujitsu) is able to present adequate responses to the
Claimants' Supplemental Expert Report before the trial begins and (ii) that Fujitsu can provide any required further evidence and the Court will allow that evidence at
trial.
POL00091438
POL00091438

RISK ASSESSMENT
There are 15 "Horizon Issues" to be decided at trial. These can be grouped together under four categories:
A. Reliability of Horizon. This question also encompasses the extent to which Horizon was the root cause of shortfalls in Subpostmaster branches.

B. Remote access. This question seeks to determine the capability of Post Office and / or Fujitsu to access, edit or delete transaction data recorded in
branches.

Cc. Reconciliation and transaction corrections. These questions seek to determine how Horizon compares its own transaction data against other data
sources.

D. Information available to Post Office and Subpostmasters. These questions will help inform later trials when looking at the responsibilities and actions of
Post Office and Subpostmasters when dealing with shortfalls.

The above represents convenient groupings for this risk assessment. The experts have grouped the issues slightly differently and the Court may adopt a different
structure. There is also some interplay and overlap between Categories A, B and C. The tables below are our best effort to identify the risks in a useful structure.
There are however innumerable permutations of outcome from the Horizon Issues trial.

Post Office is very likely to lose A significant adverse impact on the business that could threaten
its existence.

A major adverse impact on the business that will have
considerable long-term commercial harm.

Post Office is more likely to lose than win

3 50/50 3 A material impact on the business that will cause some
commercial detriment / increased costs.

Some impact on the business but the additional burdens / costs
will be manageable.

Post Office is more likely to win than lose

Post Office is very likely to win Negligible impact on the business.

2 18 February 2019
RISK ASSESSMENT TABLE

POL00091438

POL00091438

fi

es thal

A._Reliability of Horizon

Issue 1: To what extent was it possible
or likely for bugs, errors or defects of
the nature alleged at §23 and 24 of the
Generic Particulars of Claim (GPOC)
and referred to in §49 to 56 of the
Generic Defence to

have the potential to (a) cause apparent
or alleged discrepancies or shortfalls
relating to Subpostmasters' branch
accounts or transactions or (b)
undermine the reliability of Horizon
accurately to process and to record
transactions as alleged at §24.1
GPOC?

Issue 3: To what extent and in what
respects is the Horizon System "robust
and extremely unlikely to be the cause
of shortfalls in branches?

Issue 4: To what extent has there been
potential for errors in data recorded
within Horizon to arise in (a) data entry,
(b) transfer or (c) processing of data in
Horizon?

Dr Worden, Post Office's expert witness, has reached
the conclusion that "Horizon has been a very robust
system, compared to other major systems I have
worked on in sectors such as banking, retail, telecoms,
government and healthcare" and that "the robustness
of Horizon made it extremely unlikely to be the cause of
shortfalls in branches".

The Claimants’ expert witness, Mr Coyne, concluded in
his original report that "whilst the present-day version of
Horizon, supported by manual human support may now
be considered as relatively robust in the spectrum of
computer systems used in businesses today it has
undergone major modifications in its history. It is likely
that in 1999 when it was first commissioned, and in
2010 when it was significantly upgraded (to Horizon
Online), it was less robust."

In his Supplemental Report, Mr Coyne says that "/ have
reached the conclusion that Horizon is less robust that I
initially considered...". He does not go on to say how
robust he now considers the system to be.

Above are extracts of what was said pre-cross
examination. It would be helpful to document here any
change of position from the cross examination [WBD to
provide]

To document the known Horizon issues/bugs with
potential to impact on branches ~ ie when they occurred;
how many branches were affected and how; what the
characteristics of the bug were. And importantly the date
of the fix.

To make the bug information (as detailed above) public
to postmasters on the Branch Hub (agent portal).

To set out the context ie number of bugs/issues across a
network of 11500 post offices, processing xx billion of
transactions over xx years [did Worden or Coyne apply
ratios in any way? [Do we have info to support saying a
post office has a 1 in a million chance (or whatever the
actual is) of being exposed to a bug/issue?]

To set out and make public to postmasters the KEL,
PEAKs, BIMS process to demonstrate the behind the
scenes approach by FJ to identify any failed branch
transaction (eg non recovery of transaction already
authorised on disconnected receipt) and the hand off to
POL to issue a TC to correct the branch account.

To implement a revised Horizon Recovery Approach
[Shirley has already worked up a proposal. This has
been added to the Horizon Quick Wins Back book but
should be accelerated now]

18 February 2019

POL00091438

POL00091438

Issue 6: To what extent did measures
and/or controls that existed in Horizon
prevent, detect, identify, report or
reduce to an extremely low level the risk
of the following:

a)
b)

°)

qd)

e)

data entry errors;

data packet or system level
errors (including data
processing, effecting, and
recording the same);

a failure to detect, correct and
remedy software coding errors
or bugs;

errors in the transmission,
replication and storage of
transaction record data; and
the data stored in the central
data centre not being an
accurate record of transactions
entered on branch terminals?

If Horizon is found to be unreliable and a material cause
of shortfalls in branches, this will have profound effects
on Post Office's ability to recover shortfalls from
Subpostmasters without an investigation into Horizon in
each case. It will also likely give rise to concerns and
challenges from clients who are reliant on Horizon's data
to process transactions. In the context of the litigation, it
would materially heighten the risk of successful claims
by Subpostmasters.

It should be noted that there may also be intermediate
outcomes that sit on the spectrum from Horizon being
unreliable to Horizon being very robust. It could be that
the Judge finds that Horizon is generally very good but
has weaknesses in particular areas of operation.

Investigation Approach

Develop an end-to-end process to manage/investigate
claims of shortfalls arising from Horizon bugs:

« Spmr provides detail of issue (as specified by
PO)

e Checked against ‘known issues/bugs’

e PO carries out investigation and shares findings
with Spmr

e If investigation determines that the branch
shortfall was not caused by any Horizon
bug/issue then Spmr is required to comply with
contract obligation to make good

e If Spmr refuses to accept the findings of the
investigation but can produce no further
evidence to support their claim then Post Office
will either (a) reiterate to Spmr the
consequences of not complying with their
contract with ultimate sanction being contract
termination for breach. (b) refer to independent
appeals process eg Ombudsman type process
[depends on whether decision to implement this
is taken]

Issue 6 — to implement a bug detection and fix process.

To introduce a more rigorous proactive scanning for
bugs/issues approach with FJ

To implement a transparent end to end approach to
managing bugs/issues that focuses on identifying the
extent of the bug/issue; notifies the affected branches
immediately and informs them on action being taken to
fix the bug and correct any impact on their branch
account, whilst simultaneously putting out a network
wide comms to raise awareness of the issue and what to
look out for.

To stand up a quick fix IT/FJ team that can identify and
apply the fix as quickly as possible

18 February 2019

POL00091438

POL00091438

Training

e Training and on-boarding content to be
refreshed with key facts and messages to
ensure new postmasters/assistants understand
how the Horizon system works ie what it does
and what it doesn’t do; how we maintain it and
deal with issues to ensure integrity

e The new investigation process will be covered
as part of the training and on-boarding approach

e Post Office Training Team to be trained on the
Horizon system capabilities and key facts to
ensure a consistent level of understanding

e Post Office Support Functions to be
trained/briefed on the Horizon System and the
key facts and processes

B. Remote access

Issue 7: Were Post Office and/or
Fujitsu able to access transaction data
recorded by Horizon remotely (i.e. not
from within a branch?

Issue 10: Whether the Defendant
and/or Fujitsu have had the
ability/facility to: (i) insert, inject, edit or
delete transaction data or data in
branch accounts; (ii) implement fixes in
Horizon that had the potential to affect
transaction data or data in branch
accounts; or (iii) rebuild branch
transaction data:
a) atall;
b) without the knowledge of the
Subpostmaster in question;
and

On face value, the answer to many of these questions is
"Yes". Post Office (via Fujitsu) has always had "remote
access" capabilities and this has been admitted in earlier
Court documents.

There is a material dispute as to the extent that "remote
access" was used to alter branch data and whether such
access was properly controlled. Post Office's case is
that "remote access" is a rare event and only used
following strict protocols. The Claimants look to paint a
picture of frequent unregulated use of "remote access" to
change branch information in a clandestine manner.

Both experts agree that Post Office had no ability to
remotely delete or edit data within Horizon. The tools for
deleting and editing branch data were held exclusively
by Fujitsu. Post Office is therefore reliant on Fujitsu for
evidence of its use and control of these tools.

Fujitsu's evidence on this subject has been less than
satisfactory. During the mediation scheme, Fujitsu told
Post Office that it could not edit branch data (only that it

Communication will be key to mitigate the risk of
reputational damage that could result of the claimants’
conspiracy theory.

External Communication Approach

e Strong response to de-mystify subject and
provide context.

e Rebuttal re possibilities of malicious tampering

e Underlining of safeguards and countermeasures

internal Communication Approach

e Factsheet briefings to Post Office — factual
explanations of what can and can’t be done and
the controls in place to prevent misuse

Training

e Training and on-boarding content to be
refreshed with key facts and messages to
ensure new postmasters/assistants understand
how the Horizon system works ie what it does

18 February 2019

POL00091438

POL00091438

¢) without the consent of the
Subpostmaster in question.

Issue 11: If they did, did the Horizon
system have any permission controls
upon the use of the above facility, and
did the system maintain a log of such
actions and such permission controls?

Issue 12: If the Defendant and/or
Fujitsu did have such ability, how often
was that used, if at all?

Issue 13: To what extent did use of any
such facility have the potential to affect
the reliability of Branches’ accounting
positions?

could inject new transactions). Further investigations
revealed this not to be the case — Fujitsu do have the
ability to edit transaction data by accessing and
amending the underlying database tables within Horizon.

This shifting position has continued during the litigation
and has resulted in Post Office having to file a second
witness statement to correct some errors in the primary
evidence of one Fujitsu witness. In light of this, there are
material concerns about whether the Fujitsu witnesses
will come up to proof under cross-examination.

Further, Fujitsu's record keeping around use of its
remote access tools is incomplete. Some of this is a
product of time and document retention policies,
particularly in relation to the old version of Horizon (pre-
2010), but some is due to a lack of structured
documentation around the use of these tools (including a
lack of automatic access logging software within
Horizon).

Mr Coyne has placed considerable emphasis on "remote
access" in his Supplemental Report and Fujitsu's
answers to these points will be vital to the outcome of
this issue. Investigations in this regard are continuing.
This is an area where further evidence from Fujitsu, if
reliable and allowed by the Court, would be useful and
could affect the overall merits on this topic.

Even if remote access is possible, it is very unlikely that
Fujitsu are acting maliciously or carelessly causing
shortfalls in branches through remote access. They
would have no motivation to do so and the reputational
damage to it of doing so through poor practices would be
severe. The challenge at trial will be persuading the
Judge of this and avoiding him getting drawn into the
Claimants’ conspiracy theories.

In terms of impact, the Claimants are seeking a finding
that there is frequent uncontrolled remote access and
that that undermines Horizon being reliable. They are

and what it doesn’t do; how we maintain it and
deal with issues to ensure integrity

e Post Office Training Team to be trained on the
Horizon system capabilities and key facts to
ensure a consistent level of understanding

e Post Office Support Functions to be
trained/briefed on the Horizon System and the
key facts and processes

Relationship with Fujitsu

The Judgment and indeed the court process itself could
put a strain on the working relationship of Post Office
and Fujitsu; and potentially the broader IT supplier eco-
system Therefore we need to:

e Review our contract with Fujitsu and any SLAs
etc to ensure we understand the key clauses
should we need to enforce/manage to the
contract

e Ensure the relationship (key interaction points) is
given the right level of attention

e Identify key process pinch-points and potential
workarounds/alternatives

18 February 2019

POL00091438

POL00091438

looking for a crossover effect to Category A above. This
link is not however obvious and the Claimants' expert
has not explained how one issue affects the other.

Given the scale of Horizon, we will argue that the level of
uncontrolled access (if any) would need to be significant
for one to lose confidence in the system.

The above factors could lead to a number of different
outcomes. For example, Post Office (or Fujitsu) could
be found to have poor access controls but it be accepted
that Fujitsu did not misuse those controls. Or, that the
remote access tools were misused but on such small
scale that there is no overall impact on Horizon or the
litigation.

The comments above are pre-trial. It would be helpful to
document here any change of position from the cross
examination [WBD to provide]

In our view, it is likely that the Judge will make some
form of adverse finding against Post Office on this topic,
but it is much more difficult to assess the impact of that
finding on the reliability of Horizon or the litigation.

Regardless of the outcome, we anticipate that this issue
will attract media attention and poses the greatest risk of
reputational harm.

C. Reconciliation and Transaction
Corrections

Issue 5: How, if at all, does the
Horizon system itself compare
transaction data recorded by Horizon
against transaction data from sources
outside of Horizon?

Issue 15: How did Horizon process
and/or record Transaction Corrections?

The comparison of Horizon data against third party
data is called "reconciliation". The identification of
discrepancies in branch accounts through reconciliation
is a key control in the operation of Post Office's
accounting systems. Where a discrepancy is identified
it can give rise to a transaction correction being sent to
abranch. The transaction correction should neutralise
a previous accounting error but can, in theory, cause a
loss in a branch.

These issues were designed to be uncontroversial
factual questions about how Horizon conducts
reconciliations and processes transaction corrections.

Set out the reconciliation process for each client to
demonstrate that customer to client reconciliation is not
dependent on Horizon

Review the TC process and all associated material
making improvements as appropriate

Produce a document that sets outs the TC end to end
process and explains to postmasters how they can

validate the TCs issued to them and what the dispute
process is. This to be made available on Branch Hub.

18 February 2019

POL00091438
POL00091438

Their aim was to lay down a foundation on which to
determine more specific issues in particular cases.

The scope of these issues has however shifted. Mr
Coyne mounts an attack on the quality of the
reconciliation processes. We say that this opinion is
outside the scope of his work given the wording of the
issues to be addressed are purely factual and do not
invite comment on adequacy or sufficiency. Indeed, we
specifically negotiated the wording of these issues for
this exact purpose.

If the Judge stays within the scope of the questions
posed, then these points are uncontroversial and may
well be agreed between the experts before trial. We
would class this as a successful result.

As a contingency plan, Dr Worden has analysed and
concluded that the likelihood of there being an incorrect
transaction correction is small. He has done this also
to reinforce his view that reconciliation is an effective
control against bugs in Horizon and so this issue also
feeds back into Category A above. If the Judge strays
into assessing the quality of the reconciliation
processes and finds vulnerabilities in them, this will
weaken one line of argument on which Dr Worden has.
found support for his view that Horizon is reliable. It
would not however be a fatal blow.

In terms of business impact, any adverse views from
the Court on Post Office's reconciliation processes,
whether central to the Horizon Issues or just passing
comments, could undermine branch confidence in the
transaction corrections being issued to branch. This in
turn might lead to an uptick in transaction corrections
being challenged.

18 February 2019
POL00091438
POL00091438

D._Information available to Post

Office and Subpostmasters?

Issue 2: Did the Horizon IT system
itself alert Subpostmasters of such
bugs, errors or defects as described in
(1) above and if so how.

Issue 8: What transaction data and
reporting functions were available
through Horizon to Post Office for
identifying the occurrence of alleged
shortfalls and the causes of alleged.
shortfalls in branches, including whether
they were caused by bugs, errors
and/or

defects in the Horizon system?

Issue 9: At all material times, what
transaction data and reporting functions
(if any) were available through Horizon
to Subpostmasters for:

a) identifying apparent or alleged
discrepancies and shortfalls
and/or the causes of the sam:
and
accessing and identifying
transactions recorded on
Horizon?

Issue 14: How (if at all) does the
Horizon system and its functionality:
a) enable Subpostmasters to
compare the stock and cash in
a branch against the stock and
cash indicated on Horizon?

These questions were posed so to inform decisions to be
made at later trials when looking at the responsibilities

I and actions of Post Office and Subpostmasters in

particular cases.

The experts broadly agree on most of the answers to
these questions. There are some minor points of

I dispute.

There will be only minimal impact on the litigation or the

I operational practices of Post Office arising from these
issues.

There is however the possibility of some negative media
coverage. The Claimants will attempt to position these
issues as showing an asymmetry of information between
Post Office and Subpostmasters, which there is because
Post Office, as the owner of Horizon, naturally has

I access to more information about it than

Subpostmasters. The Claimants will try to play this into
their wider narrative about Post Office acting unfairly
towards Subpostmasters. We have attempted mitigate
this attack through Dr Worden's report where he explains
that there is no need for Subpostmasters, as users of an
IT system, to have detailed technical information about
Horizon.

issue 2 - New Horizon Recovery process with easy to
understand receipts/directions given to the Horizon
user to be put in place.

Issue 8 — develop a guide that sets out what reports
are available in branch from the Horizon system and
how they should be used

introduce training sessions/events to train
postmasters on the reports that they should use to
ensure they have good oversight of and insight into
how their branch is operating. Particular focus on
the reports that can assist in identifying any
discrepancies in branch. Hints & Tips Guide;
Balancing Troubleshooting Guide.

issue 9 ~ Set out the list of reports available from
Horizon and what the purpose of that report is.

Issue 14 (a) ~ set out the approach to counting and
declaring cash and stock in branch and the
instructions on how to identify any discrepancies

Issue 14 (b) - to review the end to end process for
postmasters who wish to raise a dispute.

To introduce functionality on Horizon ie Disputes
button

issue 14 (c) — new approach detailed in Branch
Discrepancies and TC papers from Julie.

18 February 2019
POL00091438
POL00091438

enable or require ;
ibpostmasters to decide how
Ih

corded on the
_ Horizon system as a

10

18 February 2019
