POL00423456

POL00423456

Whistleblowing Overview

T have listed some key points of various aspects of the Whistleblowing service
within Post Office. I intend to go through each section during our meeting on the
20" May 2019. Where possible, I have embedded the relevant files. If I will talk
through each area and demonstrate on screen, where required.

Policy
« The Whistleblowing Policy V3 is the current policy and was agreed in
September 2018.
e The annual policy review will commence in July 2019.

j

Whistleblowing Policy
v3 July 2018.docx
Reporting Channels
The main reporting channels are as follows:
- Speak Up web form — https://wrs.expolink.co.uk/postoffice
- Speak Up phone line - ¢. a
- Direct to the Whistleblowing Officer (email, post or other)

Due to the nature of our branch network, Post Office recognises that in some
cases Postmasters, Agent Assistants and members of the public may be best
placed to identify wrongdoing. A process (see below) has been put in place if a
Whistleblowing report is received by Grapevine, Customer Support, NBSC and
Executive Correspondence Team (ECT).

Whistleblowing
Overview v4.docx

The Speak Up reporting channels will be shown in the meeting.

Whistleblowing Log
e All Whistleblowing reports are logged on this spreadsheet, as well as
details of who the case was referred to and the outcome of the
investigation.

To be shown in the meeting and overview of open cases to be given.
Process Document

e Currently the day-to-day management of reports is carried out by Vitor. A
process document has been drafted and is work in progress.

ie

Whistleblowing
Process v0.1-DRAFT.d

INTERNAL
POL00423456

POL00423456

Communications and Awareness

e The first set of communication and awareness was launched in May 2018.
This comprised of Whistleblowing posters (attached below) printed and
distributed to all back office, supply chain and DMB locations.

e Since then we have published regular articles to increase awareness.
Recent Branch Focus Article attached below.

e In February 2019, a survey was launched on the intranet to understand
the level of whistleblowing awareness throughout the business. Survey
results attached below.

e The survey results have been reviewed and initiated conversations with
Lee Kelly and Amber Kelly.

& & &j

Whistleblowing Intranet-We protect Whistleblowing
Survey Results.docx whistleblowers final.d: Poster_A4.pdf

To be discussed further in the meeting.

Teams Page

e Previously all files relating to Whistleblowing was saved on Jane’s One
Drive with restricted access.

e All files have now been moved to a recently created Microsoft Teams
page.

« The Teams page is private and currently Jane MacLeod, Sally Smith, Paul
Blackmore and Vitor Camara have access.

e https://teams.microsoft.com/_#/files/General?threadId=19%3A1f0177ac
925643168dc365e83c479e36%40thread.skype&ctx=channel

To be shown in the meeting.

Internal Audit
e An internal audit into whistleblowing was completed in January 2019 and
was scored as satisfactory, attached below.
e There were several actions from the audit and steps have been taken to
address these.

Results to be shared in corresponding email.

Expolink contract

« Expolink Europe Ltd (formerly Intouch MCS Ltd) provides the external
Speak Up service (web form and phone line).

e Neither Post Office nor Expolink hold a copy of the signed contract.

e The latest version of the contract located states that the contract expired
in April 2018 and needs to be renewed.

e There are on-going discussions between Post Office and Expolink to renew
the contract and add our GDPR contractual clauses.

e The cost for this service is c. £22,000 pa and is paid in two instalments.

Contract to be shared in corresponding email.

INTERNAL
POL00423456
POL00423456

Monthly MI
Monthly MI is produced and shared at the beginning of the month.

Monthly MI is shared with the Whistleblowing Officer, Sally Smith and

Jonathan Hill.
It was recently agreed to include Lee Kelly, Amber Kelly and Leaf Norwood

to the circulation list.
The first slide from the Whistleblowing MI is included as part of the

Financial Crime Team’s monthly MI.

Last month’s MI was previously shared.

INTERNAL
