POL00094144
POL00094144

THE COGNITIVE WITNESS INTERVIEW PROCESS

ENGAGE AND EXPLAIN

The initial introduction and the subsequent explanation of what is to happen during
the interview are very important.

ENGAGE

All interviews must start somewhere. The first impression given by the interviewer
is very important as it is often the longest lasting.

The successful opening of an interview is dependant upon an_ introduction
appropriate to the circumstances. It is desirable that a proper relationship is
formed. This is done by being aware and able to respond to a number of factors
which may include the short and long term welfare of the interviewee and their
particular needs, fears and expectations.

Courtesy

Common courtesy is the key to all interviews. Introduce yourself and establish
what the interviewee would like to be called. Once this has been done, use the
suggested name throughout the interview. This helps to personalise the process.
How you establish this relationship will depend on you and the interviewee. The
following paragraphs will help you to provide a basis.

Reassure the witness that they are, in fact, a witness and not a suspect. An
interviewee’s character and the circumstances can determine the approach you
should take. If witnesses or victims are very nervous, they will need reassurance.
If they are irate, they will require calming down. In all cases give assurance that
you have their best interests at heart.

Remember, it may be your fifth interview of the day, but it is likely that it will be
the interviewee’s first. Do not let any fatigue or boredom show.

Individuals
Interviewees should be made to feel individual and that their information is wanted
and valued. It is important to show that the interview is not just another job.

Language

During the interview, use appropriate language. Speak to people in a manner
which they will understand. Be polite at all times. Avoid using jargon which may
detract from the personalisation of the interview. Avoid judgmental statements.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 1
Ref: Cognitive witness interviews IIW/11.
Cognitive witness interview handout

POL00094144
POL00094144

POL00094144
POL00094144

Welfare
In all interviews you must consider the welfare of the interviewee. Arrange things,
such as refreshments, if the interview is lengthy.

What is the condition of the interviewee? Is this an appropriate time to actually
conduct the interview?

EXPLAIN

This stage is concerned with the information given to the interviewee in order that
the purpose and direction of the interview can be fully understood.

What follows is not designed to be used as an approach for every occasion but as
information that will help you to explain the procedure and formalities of the
interview process.

Reason For The Interview

The interviewee is, by now, aware who you are. The next logical step is to explain
why the interview is necessary, that you understand that he has witnessed an
incident and you are there to obtain a more detailed account.

Routines

You may be familiar with the interview situation and the routines to adopt.
However, the interviewee may not be. Care should be taken to explain some of the
more basic things that may happen. These might include:

- how and why notes will be taken and who by
- the introduction and reference to exhibits or other notes
~ the writing of a statement.

Basic Outline Of The Interview

By providing a basic outline of the interview, the interviewee has an idea of how it
will progress. How you introduce this will depend on the choice of method of
interview which is described in the next section. Essentially you should tell them
what you want of them and how the interview will be structured. Take your
guidance for this explanation from the advice in the next section.

Be realistic and tell the witness how long you expect the interview to take. Do not
underestimate the time required. If you estimate half an hour, but an hour later
you are still conducting the interview, the interviewee may try to hurry things along
and any further information not yet disclosed may be lost.

Summary
In the ‘Explanation’ phase, remember:

- Outline the reason for the interview

- Explain the routines that will be adopted during the interview
Introduction to Investigations Workshop 2

Ref: Cognitive witness interviews IIW/14.
Cognitive witness interview handout

POL00094144
POL00094144

POL00094144
POL00094144

= Provide a basic outline of the interview
- Be flexible

INTRODUCTION
This stage of the interview is where you obtain and deal with the interviewee’s
recollection of the events.

THE ‘COGNITIVE APPROACH’

The interviewee is asked to think back to the event and mentally re-live what
happened therefore telling everything that is initially remembered with minimal
interference (known as “Free Recall”). This is followed with at least one more
attempt at ‘Free Recall’ using a different order or perspective. Areas of specific
interest can be pursued when the ‘Free Recall’ attempts are concluded. This
approach is designed to make use of how memory works and the way in which
information is stored and retrieved. It also provides an inbuilt means of checking on
accuracy and developing detail. It is, however, dependent upon an interviewee who
responds freely.

The cognitive approach starts by creating the right environment for the interviewee
to re-live the events he is going to be asked to recall. This requires you to explain
what is going to happen, put the interviewee at ease, encourage concentration,
hard work and the recounting of everything, however trivial.

- Encourage the interviewee to ask questions at any time, rather than to have
doubts or uncertainties.

- Explain what you require of them. For example, you will be asking them to
describe the incident they witnessed or suffered. This will involve them
mentally re-living the time and place of the incident and recalling what
happened.

- Ask them to speak slowly. This will not only assist recall, but it will help you
to take notes without asking them to repeat themselves.

- Put the interviewee at ease. This is an important part of the process of
obtaining information from a person’s memory. It assists recall.

- Ask them to concentrate. The greater the focus and concentration, the
more detailed will be the recall of information.

- Tell them to work hard. This will be necessary if the interview is to succeed.

- You will also have to work hard. You will have to process the information
and note the areas to be probed.

- Explain that you will allow them to do most, if not all of the talking in the
early stage of the interview. The idea is for them to exhaust their memory
of the incident before you speak again.

- Explain that the questions you then ask will allow them to talk again.
Reassure them that you will be actively listening to every word that they are
saying.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 3
Ref: Cognitive witness interviews tIW/11.
Cognitive witness interview handout

POL00094144
POL00094144

POL00094144
POL00094144

GET THE INTERVIEWEE INTO CONTEXT

Start the cognitive approach by asking the interviewee to think back to the event
under investigation and to picture it in their minds. Encourage them to feel again
that they are part of what is taking place.

How did they feel, e.g. happy, sad, frustrated?

How did they picture their surroundings?

What sensations did they feel, such as the warmth of the sun or the
coldness of the wind?

FREE RECALL

Ask them now to tell everything and not to edit anything out. What they may
consider unimportant or unworthy of mention, may in fact be a vital piece of
information. If you think it appropriate, suggest that they imagine they are
speaking to a close friend or relative. Let the interviewee control the flow of
information. Your task at this stage is to listen.

EMOTION

In cases where the interviewees have experienced a traumatic event, you should be
prepared for them to become distressed. You may need to deal with their
emotions before being able to continue.

Do Not INTERRUPT

Interrupting the flow may cause information to be lost. Wait until the interviewee
has completely finished before raising any points. ‘Not interrupting’ can be very
difficult. The natural thing to do when you want certain information, is to keep
asking questions. Try not to. It has been proved to disrupt flow, hinder the recall
process and interfere with accuracy.

EFFECTIVE Use OF PAUSES

When interviewees think that they can remember no more, they stop speaking.
This is the point at which many interviewers would naturally intervene and take
control of the interview again. Instead, if a pause is allowed to develop, the
interviewees may well continue to think and reach deeper into their memory. They
may well remember new information.

The importance of not interrupting during these pauses cannot be over
emphasised.

WrITTEN NoTEs

Whilst you are taking notes, care should be taken to identify areas that will require
further probing. (Remember to retain notes made, they may be required in the
event of a prosecution.)

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 4
Refi Cognitive witness interviews IIW/14
Cognitive witness interview handout

POL00094144
POL00094144

POL00094144
POL00094144

SECOND FREE RECALL

We are all capable of remembering more than we initially recall. Interviewees who
believe that they have exhausted their recall, even after many pauses, should be
encouraged to try again, but in a different order.

For example, start at the end of the incident and work backwards to the beginning.
Alternatively, you could ask the interviewee to start at the most outstanding
feature and work backwards and forwards from this point. Again, you should be
careful not to interrupt but to use the effect of pauses to encourage them to
continue.

THIRD FREE RECALL

In many cases a change of perspective, either sensory or physical, may encourage
further recall of information. The more attempts that are made at recall, the more
an interviewee will remember.

PROBING

At the conclusion of these various recall attempts, you will have obtained
comprehensive information from ‘Free Recall’. Such information is usually more
accurate than answers given to specific questions. However, it is at this stage that
you can use open questions to clear up any ambiguity arising from the free recall.
Differences in detail arising from the various accounts must be clarified. Questions
at this point can also be used to prompt the interviewee to recall details of
previously unmentioned features.

It may be an advantage to introduce points by using the interviewee’s own words.
For example, “You said that the car was a hatchback. What can you tell me about
it?”

Open questions such as, “What can you tell me about his eyes?” will prompt a fuller
and more accurate answer than, “Did he have blue eyes?”

By using open questions, you are less likely to contaminate or interfere with the
interviewee’s response.

LEADING QUESTIONS AND NEGATIVE PHRASING

Care should be taken at all times to avoid using words or phrases that might
indicate the anticipated answer. Ask questions such as, “How would you describe
his build?” rather than, “Was he stocky?” By using the latter, there is a subtle
implication that the suggested description is correct. It also might interfere with
the interviewee’s memory and subsequent recollection.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop: 5
Ref: Cognitive witness interviews IIW/11.
Cognitive witness interview handout

POL00094144
POL00094144

POL00094144
POL00094144

Similarly, use of negative questions such as, “You don’t remember his build?”
instead of “Do you remember his build?” can subtly imply that you believe that the
interviewee does not know the answer to your question. This may invite the
negative response, “I don’t remember”.

QUESTIONING SEQUENCE

It is better to start with questions of a general nature and progress step by step to
specifics.

When questioning about one particular feature of the event or person, keep your
questions confined to that area. This will assist the interviewee to retain a mental
image of what is being described. You should not jump from one unrelated area to
another. For example, if a person’s hair is being described, do not then ask for a
description of the shoes.

If, however, the interviewee moves from the area to another which is unrelated,
because of a suddenly remembered detail, then concentrate on that area until
exhausted, and then move logically back to the original area.

REVIEW

Once you have exhausted the interviewee’s memory through the use of free recall
and open questions, a review of the information given may prompt one more
retrieval attempt, and allow you to check that you have accurately recorded every
detail.

During reviews, be careful not to put words into the interviewee’s mouth. Where
possible, use. their own words. In interviews where the initial recall is lengthy, it is
useful to conduct a review stage before proceeding to the next recall attempt.

WRITING THE WITNESS STATEMENT

By now, both you and the interviewee will have been working very hard. You will
have obtained a full account of everything which can be remembered. However, it
will not necessarily be in a neat chronological order. From your notes, a detailed
statement can be written.

Statements are generally produced with information in a chronological flow. Be
careful that your wish to put the information into order does not lead to a
sequence that the witness’ memory cannot support.

Introduction to Investigations Workshop 6
Ref: Cognitive witness interviews IIW/11
Cognitive witness interview handout

POL00094144
POL00094144

POL00094144

POL00094144
Scenario Considerations:
No I Consideration Scenario I Lead Support
Number I Officer Officer
1 (I Friend required .
(ister seeks) b I Aas I ed,
2 I Solicitor required
&% 0% Gode I Pody,
3 I Appropriate adult required oe ee an ae
I_—+
4 I No comment interview
ye o7 ptrels brad ber,
5 Full admissions interview (before and/or during) ! i
oy. Boog
6 I Refusal to admit in interview (denial: 5 g
‘efusal to admit in interview (denials) re ds ~
7 I Search during interview lor i .
¥« on I pbpgres I Asia
8 I Change of mind — yes solicitor (any stage! «
ys 8 " (eny stage) 10 pele Gort.
9 Change of mind — no solicitor (any stage) .
No bine b Dude I Afials
10 I Person enters during interview +
Ye of I Belle, I Ashle
11 I Only engages with Support Officer in interview nn’
ly engag pp 1 Caddy Duds,
12. I Goes to walk out during interview .
13 I Wants a break in interview
h pra I Gordo -
14_I Wants ta smokeiin i few
ed a ae
15 I Doesn't understand caution in interview
1 I Gecbw I God.
16 I Incomplete 001 or 003 in interview
in} pero Cort Dou
17 I Objects to interview being tape recorded .
) 6 rap 3 Andy Asis a
18 I Solicitor is Conveyancing, not Criminal
a venens oy I Awd I PF tobe
K 19 I Pre-prepared statement (any stage) 07 Att. Cradle
nd
20 I 2' tape n NG 6 Jo-s
21 I Shake head & nod (non- verbal answers) r
3 Aud, Polilu ea
dr Iwhder i fod. gard
23 Ray A Wee u fies (orden -
‘
Le (pfdee (yarns) a nO
2s Tope reoaler ptigssa]

POL00094144
POL00094144

oF

0?

oY

AY cerns’
Seems ir Over 2d Oltual om
Ist
Ye
Sed
Ld
SUL
Samtth Aes wl &
. Asylea odo ‘t
Supply Chow Psu! °
saat badly Wide Adie
buth Redhes Grodan, ‘
Swede ds ;
Phy Atel. ,

