POL00132936
POL00132936

From: Belinda Crowe[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FY DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=BELINDA+20CROWE79B93F 1 1-569F-4526-A078-
F5B4958A8917220@C72A47 ingest.local]

Sent: Thur 22/01/2015
To: i
Ce:

Subject: RE: Sparrow

I agree that we should work on the basis that it will proceed as planned. Regardless of the timing of the meeting with
Second Sight, we need to have all the answers ready. Therefore the Friday session should go ahead. I also think that

Andy Parsons of Bond Dickinson should be invited to attend. He has, alongside Angela, been working with Rod Ismay
‘on this — who I assume also will be required.

I suggest that Ruth is best placed to organise diaries and would be grateful if she could do so.

I have been in touch with Rod, Andy and Angela who spoke again yesterday with a view to pulling together the
answers to Second Sight questions so that we can see what that looks like and aim, is possible, to get at least some
information to them before the meeting. We need to take a view on that when we see what that looks like over the
next couple of days. Rod should be getting something to you both (Al and Chris) within the next couple of days.

I agree that this is an issue that is likely to arise. It will be one of a series of allegations about us not providing Second
Sight with information.

I think in terms of choreography for the planning session, as I will not be there, I suggest that we use Angela, you,
Chris and Andy P to pose the difficult questions that Ron and lan will ask. These are the three who have had most
dealings with them both inside and outside of the Working Group and are familiar with the approach. They can agree
a list of challenges before the meeting — I assume that Andy Parsons would be best placed to hold the pen on that.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

GRO

From: Chris Aujard

Sent: 22 January 2015 08:13

To: Alisdair Cameron

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Ruth Phillips; Jane Hill; Mark R Davies; Patrick Bourke; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Rodric Williams
Subject: RE: Sparrow
POL00132936
POL00132936

Thanks Al — Second Sight haven’t yet responded to our proposal of a meeting on Monday the 2", but for a variety of
reasons, our planning assumption must remain that it will go ahead.

I have copied in the rest of the team so that where relevant they can arrange to keep their diaries free for the
morning of Friday the 30" (which incidentally is the day of the quarterly leadership event). In particular, I think that
Rod, Angela and Patrick should make themselves available, if possible. Patrick/Belinda: can you choreograph this?

For what it is worth, I think that this issue will feature in the question asked by the select committee: see below for
the statement that appeared on the select committee’s website:

The Business, Innovation and Skills Committee holds an evidence session on the Post Office mediation scheme on
Tuesday 3 February. This considers alleged issues with the Horizon IT system and the mediation scheme set up by the
Post Office to address these claims

Chris

From: Alisdair Cameron

Sent: 22 January 2015 07:56
To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Ruth Phillips
Subject: Sparrow

Chris, I need to change my work diary if we are going ahead to talk about suspense accounts on Monday week. I
would plan to spend Tuesday in Chesterfield and Friday morning with your team doing a rehearsal.

That’s a far amount of diary carnage and it would help if I could know sooner rather than later if its needed.

Any thoughts? Thanks Al
