POL00044828
POL00044828

Witness Statement

(CJ Act 1967, s9; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a)
and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r 70)

Statement of Samantha Alice Callaghan

Age if under 18 Over 18 (If over 18 insert ‘over 18')

This statement (consisting of One pages each signed by me) is true to the best of my knowledge and
belief and I make it knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I shall be liable to prosecution if I have
wilfully stated in it anything which I know to be false or do not believe true.

Datedthe 15% dayof November 2004

Signature S. A Callaghan

I currently work at Riby Square Subpostoffice in Grimsby and have done so since July 2001. Between that
date and May 2004 the Subpostmistress of the office was Gillian Blakey. When Mrs Blakey was the
Subpostmistress my hours of work were the following Monday to Friday mornings one week, the following
week Monday to Friday afternoons then back to mornings and so on. Eventually these hours altered to
mostly mornings. My duties at the Subpostoffice were the serving of customers and answering any
queries, which those customers may have had. All of my work was directed at serving customers and at
no time was I involved in producing the office balance or cash account. On very rare occasions I would
perform the daily cut off for Green Girobank Cheques. This would involve me verifying the amount paid in
Green Giro cheque transactions through the office in order that they could be despatched correctly.
However I never actually despatched these items, instead I had been instructed to band the cheques and
paperwork together and place them in the safe. I can confirm that each day at around 4 o'clock to 4.30 pm
David Blakey, the subpostmistress' husband attended the office. At this time Mr Blakey would perform the
end of day cut off for the Subpostoffice, this would involve him entering on the accounting system,
finalising and bringing together all of the information and paperwork relevant to certain Subpostoffice
transactions which are despatched daily to organisations such as Girobank, National Savings Bank etc. I
can also confirm that each Wednesday David Blakey produced the office balance. Whilst from time to
time he would ask staff members to count cash or stock, these figures would be noted on paper by staff
members and given to David Blakey. To my knowledge at no time were figures in relation to the office
balance entered onto the Horizon Accounting system by anyone other than David Blakey. I can confirm
that I have never stolen any cash form the Subpostoffice at Riby Square or falsified any of the accounts in
any way.

Signature S.A. Callaghan Signature witnessed by P.Whitaker

CS011 (Side A) Version 3.0 11/02
