POL00306722

POL00306722

From: Melanie Corfield[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MELANIE CORFI1DE623C2-38B2-49FB-AEQA-
12E4B20D626720C]

Sent: Tue 23/09/2014 3:59:38 PM (UTC)

To:

Ce: Mark R DaviesI

Subject: Sparrow latest

Attachment: Rebuttals updated September 2014.doc

Attachment: Response toSecond Sight Part 2 report FINAL. pdf

Just a quick update on the comms front.

The Part Two POL Reply (attach in PDF) has started going out to relevant applicants. It is of course a confidential
document — but probably less likely to leak than the Second Sight Report because it is a robust defence of POL’s
position on various points, so less newsworthy - and the ‘report’ story is over I think.

Attached is the latest draft rebuttals document which Belinda, David O and Patrick all have copies of and which
covers all current likely themes that could come up.

Two key issues at the moment are:

- Criminal cases. Further legal advice is being obtained but we are likely to remain in position where we will
not be mediating cases - against Working Group recommendation (Tony Hooper’s new ‘mediation test’
means he is likely to vote in favour of mediating some criminal cases and indeed he has already done so in
one case). Suitable wording will be drafted for each of the relevant applicants re our rationale for not
mediating - this will reflect our “case by case” positioning so we are clear there is no “bad faith” by allowing
criminal cases into the scheme but not mediating them.

- Debt. Around a third of the caseload carries debt. The team is doing some analysis of the cases so we will
have an idea which cases where we will look at recovering the debt (or part of it). Clearly this is potentially a
PR issue so I’ll work closely with the team on the risks and be putting some lines together.

In addition, I am liaising with Ruth about an announcement that is likely to be made within the next couple of
weeks about the preferred bidder for replacing all point of sales equipment and to meet POL's administrative
computing needs. Ruth has a meeting tomorrow on this so will brief me Thursday, but clearly there is
potential for the media to make a link with Horizon so we will be prepared for that.

See you Thursday

Mel
