POLO00096804
POL00096804

Message

From: Paula Vennells‘

on behalf of — Paula Vennells {~

Sent: 09/07/2012 21 .

To: Kevin Gilliland db

cc: Theresa Iles I; Mark R Davies [7 “}; Alana Renner
Subject: Re: james Arbuthnot correspondence

Great response Kevin. Thanks for keeping me in the loop and not least because it gives me better messaging
around how we explain this too.

I've copied Alana and Mark for info.

Theresa, ppo and BF for Alice 121/Oliver Letwin

Thanks Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 8 Jul 2012, at 05:55, "Kevin Gilliland" <i

wrote:

Hi Paula,

FYI. Please let me know if you require any further detail of clarification.

Regards,

K

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Jackie Meylak <
Date: 7 July 2012 10:

To: Kevin Gilliland <
Subject: FW: James A:

thnot correspondence

Hi Kevin - yes sent it yesterday - it was sitting in my sent box - even though I

sent it from your account (see below).
J

Jackie Meylak
Personal Assistant to Kevin Gilliland

POL-0096387
POLO00096804
POL00096804

jackie.

Royal Mail Group's charity of choice is Barnardo's. Please visit the following
website to find out how you can make a difference:
www.royalmail groupcharity.com

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may
contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please
contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Jackie Meylak On Behalf Of Kevin Gilliland
Sent: 06 July 2012 20:20

To: Alice Perkins

Ce: Glenda C Hansen

Subject: RE: James Arbuthnot correspondence

Hi Alice,

I'm sorry we didn't get a chance to discuss this on Wednesday. I've now seen the
draft letter and arranged for some suggested changes to be made (please see
attached for your approval).

To pick up on your specific points:

The local model works best when it is integrated into an existing retail business
such as a convenience store, where customers can access their retail goods and
Post Office services at the same time. For this model to be attractive to retailers it
is important that Post Office transactions are simple so that staff behind the
counter can focus on serving customers quickly and efficiently. To achieve this,
transactions need to be automated and require no end of day processing otherwise
operators believe this will lead to their staff making errors and losses, (hence why
most convenience retailers will no longer accept cheques).

The vast majority of banking transactions are available in our local branches. All
automated banking transactions are available (including the Post Office Card
Account service which enables customers to withdraw pensions and benefits
payments) as well as enveloped cheque deposits for banking customers (which is
a service we've recently added to the model).

Manual banking deposits are not available in local branches however these are
low in volume (typically less than 2 per day in a local branch). Our main client
for manual banking transactions is Santander who have a number of their
customers continuing to use the manual transcash service and holding supplies of
these 'paying in’ forms. Santander recognise the need to automate this transaction
and as stocks of forms are gradually depleted, customers will be required to move
onto an automated solution.

POL-0096387
POLO00096804
POL00096804

In addition, the local model does not accept cheques as a method of payment, (for
the reasons outlined above) except as payment for DVLA car tax discs (and now
enveloped cheque deposits. However, as the banking cheque guarantee card
scheme is no longer in operation the number of cheques presented as payment in a
typical local will be very low at less than 1 per day.

The roll out of new pin pads across the Post Office estate is expected to be
completed by late Autumn and will allow contactless payment to be accepted in
all Local branches, further enhancing both the efficiency and customer experience
in the local model.

I hope this makes sense but please let me know if it doesn't or you require further
information.

Best regards,

Kevin

From: Alice Perkins [mailto
Sent: 04 July 2012 08:30

To: Kevin Gilliland

Subject: James Arbuthnot correspondence

Hi Kevin,

I'm not sure whether you are aware that James A has written to me about Odiham
in his constituency.

I decided to reply personally for obvious reasons.

I saw a draft reply yesterday which didn't really answer the questions re lack of a
facility to do business banking and tax discs. I've asked them to have another go
at it but it has left me confused about the locals offer. I thought we had a solution
to handling cheques but I was told yesterday that that was only agreed in relation
to tax discs, not more generally in relation to business banking.

If we get a minute perhaps we could have a separate word about this this
morning?

Thanks

Alice

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

<ECT 118-12(3) James Arbuthnot MP re Odiham -revised draft for Alice Perkins doc v8 (2)
(2).doc>

POL-0096387
