POL00071137
POL00071137

Stephen Dilley

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent: 27 June 2006

To: ‘mandy.talbot:

Ce: Tom Beezer

Subject: RE: Post Office -v- Castleton: disclosure
Attachments: LETTER_1180724.D0C

LETTER_1180724.D
OC (64 KB)
Dear Mandy,

Thanks for your email of 21 June.

We have today received part of Castleton's disclosure which we are reviewing.

In the meantime, I attach a copy letter that I am sending to Castleton's solicitors, just for your information. As
they've failed to provide their documents on time, I think we should put back the remainder of the timetable for

exchange of statements etc just to give ourselves ample opportunity to review their docs. This would not affect
December's trial date.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

I
I
I
I will keep you updated.

www.bondpearce.com

Please note our new contact details from 8 May 2006 as set out above.

nono Original Messagi
From: mandy.talbot;
Sent: 21 June 2006 17:04
To: Stephen Dilley

Subject: Re: Post Office -v- Castleton: disclosure

Yes I think that an application especially if not complied with and a costs order against them would be just what I
we want to remind Castleton of what his little journey into litigation might actually cost him.

Mandy Talbot

Litigation Team Leader
Company Secretary's Office
Royal Mail Legal Services
148 Old Street

London EC1V 9HQ

POL00071137
_POL00071137

cc: "Tom
<cath.oglesby!
21/06/2006 16:12 <vicky Hi
Subject: Post Office -v-

Dear Mandy,

1. Following helpful feedback from Vicky and Cath, I attach the reply which I will send to Castleton's solicitors
today, dealing with their disclosure requests, unless you have any objections.

2. 1am concerned that they have still failed to deliver us their documents. I have chased them repeatedly. We
need them to help clarify the issues we need to deal with in witness statements. My advice is that unless we get.
them very shortly, we should issue an application to Court to compel them to do so. Do you agree?

3. Vicky - please could you update me on the P242 point?
I look forward to hearing from you.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

for and.nn_behalf.of Band.Rearce LLP
DDI: L. GR

Main.
Fax:
www.bondpearce.com

Please note our new contact details from 8 May 2006 as set out above.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number OC311430. I
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

>>>> LETTER_1177178.DOC attachment was removed from this email <<<<

>>>> DOC_1176817.XLS attachment was removed from this email <<<<

JE ISI GBI OIE ISIE O RI DRI OROKIOKIE IO EOS OROS OC ECOKIOK IESE ORI IKI OIA III II AIA
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JERE ORBEA IED SRI CI SISSIES OOK CE OID OITA ICI A HEI AEA AK

