POL00448268
POL00448268

CTO2020 July 2023 SECTION 10 End of Day Activities V4.0

End of day activities: Mail despatch

Mails Despatch Report

Before your mail items are collected, you need to print a
Despatch Report for both Royal Mail and Parcelforce:

» From the ‘Back Office’ Home screen select ‘Daily
Accounting’, then ‘Mails Despatch’

» Under the ‘Despatch’ heading select ‘Branch’, then
select either ‘Royal Mail’ or ‘Parcelforce’

» Check the number of items on hand against the system Bal "Beir
figure, and select ‘Cut Off’ if correct aa I

» Now under the ‘Reports’ heading select ‘Despatch’

«The despatch screen will be displayed — select ‘Print’

«The report will be printed on the A4 back office printer.
When the report has printed, select ‘Cut Off’. This will
clear the despatch report for that collection a a ad I

» You can reprint the report once it has been cut off by ' Missing items: If the number of items does

: p Pacers not match the system figure:
selecting the ‘Despatch Report Reprint’ option «Select ‘Resolve’

1
1
1
* Scan each item i
© Once all items are scanned an ;
‘Exception Report’ will display foreach I
1
1
1
1
1
4

Checking the Despatch Report

When the Despatch Report has printed correctly, it

will print off two copies — one with barcodes and one

without:

» The barcoded copy is placed in the pouch/bag along
with the items when they are ready to despatch

» On the copy without barcodes, complete in words the
number of sealed bags, pouches and loose items (see
example opposite)

» The Branch Despatch Report without barcodes is then
signed by the Collection Officer and kept in your branch
as a record of the collection

missing item

» Press ‘Enter’ to print the report if you
are unable to locate the item

» Print the report and retain in branch for
two years

PETE

Preparing Pouches/Bags

Place the barcoded Despatch Report and the Priority

Service items in either:

© A Priority Services Pouch SS950

*  Agreen Priority mail bag, if available (these can be
requested from your local collections office)

* Anordinary mail bag (only if neither a pouch nor a
green Priority bag is available)

peecees= .
If you use a Priority Services Pouch SS950 4
for the despatch: 1
» Check that the label on the inside of '
the pouch shows the address of your }
1
!
Fy

* Tie and label the bag using a blue plastic seal SP1
Please note: Priority Services pouches and seals are
available through the normal stock ordering process, via
Branch Hub (or Horizon if not using Branch Hub).

branch
«Seal the bag or pouch

document are cl
fice and for th

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
se intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide
POL00448268
POL00448268

SECTION 10 End of Day Activities V4.0 C€TO2020 July 2023

End of day activities: Daily accounting

At the end of every day, there are reports that need to be produced to account for all the product and service
transactions you have completed that day. You will produce these reports and carry out these activities for
every stock unit that has been active that day.

From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Back Office’ to
complete the following reports:

1. Method of payment: Cheque report

(Rem out and cut off) ee ae eee eee

H Important: H
Each day you need to rem out and despatch any I ecVSare pre-printed withyourbrench defais; _{!
cheques you have accepted as payment for goods 1 ender cutonttocly replenished. Onlyuce i
land services: 1 the BCVS printed for your branch you run out!
» From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Cheques’ 1 of BCVs contact the Branch Support Centre 1
» Press ‘Print’ to print the report 1 immediately. i

«Check the report agrees with the number and

value of cheques on hand and press ‘Cut Off’. If Pe 2S See SSS te,
the figures don't agree, see what to do in the red H When cheque figures don’t agree: H
box opposite 1° From ‘Back Office’, select ‘Weekly f
» Rem out the cheques and ‘Cut Off’ 1 Accounting’ and then ‘Adjust’ i]
= Check that all cheques despatched have the 1° Type in‘C’ or scroll down to ‘Cheques’ '
related transaction information on the rear of the 1 and type in the correct amount and select 5
cheque and a clear branch date stamp 1 ‘Enter’ (]
» Complete the relevant cheque Batch Control H » Return to ‘Back Office’, ‘Cheques’ and i
Voucher (BCV) and paperclip cheques behind the complete step 1: Cheque report 1
Batch Control Voucher. Please do not use staples bees eee nee ee ese eee eee ad

» Retain the cheque reports in branch for two years

ll a el I

! Important: Any cheques and/or BCV which are not completed or submitted correctly will delay the value '

I_ of the cheques being added to your branch accounts. Please despatch cheques daily Monday to Thursday}

1 and Saturday. Please note: Branches that do not open on a Saturday should despatch their envelope ona 4

1 Friday. 1
4

1. Branch date stamp (clear @ BCV - CHEQUES
and legible)
2. Sign to confirm the number of
cheques and their value are = 2
correct ae
Date stamp

3. Enter the total number of
cheques being despatched

4. Enter the date the cheques are
despatched

5. Enter the total value of the
cheques attached to the BCV

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide

CTO2020 July 2023

2. Partner bank: Cheque deposit report

Despatch all partner bank cheque deposit envelopes
daily:

From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Daily
Accounting’ then select ‘Personal Banking Cheque
Deposits’

Press ‘Print’ to print report

Check the report agrees with number of cheque
deposit envelopes on hand and press ‘Cut Off’
Complete the Cheque Deposit Envelope Batch
Control Voucher using the additional spaces for
any bank not listed

Paperclip the cheque deposit envelopes behind
the Batch Control Voucher before placing in the
despatch pouch

Retain the cheque deposit reports in branch for
two years

1. Branch date stamp (clear and
legible)

2. Sign to confirm the number of
cheque envelopes despatched

3. Enter the date the
cheque envelopes are being
despatched

4. Enter the total number of cheque

envelopes being despatched
Enter the number of cheque

POL00448268
POL00448268

SECTION 10 End of Day Activities V4.0

£6 SS aS
1 Remember:

» Cheques or cheque deposit envelopes
accepted after the completion of the end

of day reports should be kept secure and
despatched the next working day

Despatch all partner bank cheque deposit
envelopes Monday to Thursday and on
Saturday

Any branch closed on Saturday should
despatch on Friday

Only cheques/cheque deposits (with their
completed BCVs) can be placed in the

i orange and white pouch

1 In Northern Ireland: use envelope MISC 1381
Yor Danske cheque deposits and seal in the

, Danske Cheque Deposit Despatch pouch MISC
11380, and then put it in the 1st Class parcel bag
I daily.

@ Bcv - CHEQUE DEPOSIT ENVELOPES

DATE OF DESPATCH TOTAL VOUDEOF ERRORS

8

No. Bank
Signed 1 [co-op/smieI 8 [aifax
re 2 [Woyds Bank 9 I T56 Gank
3 [Barciays 10 I Yerkshire ark
4 Ieahoot 11I CAF Bank
I 5 [ison
6 [Bank of bet
7 [Oyaesdie Bark
0 nor weir oe whi HEB ETE

envelopes for each bank. Add
any partner banks not listed

3. Despatch to the Processing Centre

The following items should also be despatched in
the orange and white pouch each day, if you have
received any:

Cheques with completed BCV (pink)

Cheque deposit envelopes with completed

BCV (yellow)

Seal the pouch so that the flap does not cover
or go beyond the perforated line. Have it ready
for your mail collection time and hand it to the
Royal Mail Collecting Officer for despatch to our
Processing Centre

el

Y)A

le ll elle lel le
I Important: Despatch the orange and white pouch I
! daily to prevent delays to cheque processing. Please !
' check Horizon Help for up to date Orange and White !
Pouch stock codes.

1 For full details go to Horizon Help: ‘Banking

1 & Financial Services’, ‘Banking Services’,

; ‘Accounting & Despatch’, ‘Daily Accounting &
Despatch’

intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

@

Post Office - Operational training guide

SECTION 10 End of Day Activities V4.0

4. Declare cash on hand

Every stock unit accessed during the day needs an
accurate cash declaration completed as close to (but
not after) 7pm.

Complete an accurate cash declaration at the end of
your working day or as close to (but not after) 7pm
if you work later than 7pm. See Section 14 Cash
Management for full details.

» From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Cash’, then
‘New declaration’ and press ‘Enter’

» Now count your cash and enter the amounts.
Note: press ‘TAB’ to move to the next line and
‘Page Down’ when at the bottom of the screen

» Once you have entered all the cash you have
‘on hand (including anything that may be in the
Rollercash safe) press ‘Enter’

» For Individual Stock Units: The system will
automatically display any cash discrepancy

» For Shared Stock Units: It is recommended that
you compare your cash declaration with the
system derived figure, select ‘Variance (66)’ to
view any differences that may occur. It is easier to
rectify any discrepancy on a daily basis

5. Detaching from your stock unit
(individual stock units only)

lf you work in a branch where you use an individual
stock unit, you should detach yourself from the stock
unit and attach yourself to ‘DEF’ before logging out:

» From the ‘Back Office’ Home screen, select
‘Admin’

« Select ‘Attach User’

» Use the down arrow until you find your Username,
select your Username and press ‘Enter’

» On the next screen select the default stock unit
‘DEF’ and press ‘Enter’

» Anon-screen message will confirm you have
successfully attached to ‘DEF’ now press ‘Enter’

» You are now detached from your stock unit

6. Log out

© Select ‘Logout’ and press ‘Enter’ - you have now
logged out

POL00448268
POL00448268

C€TO2020 July 2023

I Top Tip! Always complete a cash declarationat I
the start and end of your working day and t
remember to lock your screen when you're not 1
serving customers or when you leave your counter I

Fy

-_
ae
;

Dectsre

in i

I Important: If you find a discrepancy during a

' cash declaration, before contacting the Branch

1 Support Centre for support, you will need to

jhave completed a Trial Balance. You can follow 5

ithe steps to complete this in Section 11 Weekly 1

1 Accounting. 1
4

ew we ee ee eee ee eee

' Strategic Partner branches: You should also!
follow the daily accounting processes and H
1 Procedures issued by your company. 1

‘The contents of this document are cl

fice and for th

se intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide

