POL00448228
POL00448228

Postmaster Suspension Decisions Governance Committee
Terms of Reference

Post Office Ltd has policies governing the management of its contractual agreements with
postmasters. These policies explain that, in certain circumstances, there may be situations
where Post Office needs to suspend a Postmaster’s Agreement and provide governance for
how these decisions are taken. To ensure our policies are implemented as fairly as possible,
as well providing the proper support to Post Office colleagues who implement the policies,
additional governance is needed on these decisions.

A. Purpose

1. The purpose of the Postmaster Suspension Decisions Governance Committee
(“Committee”) is to review and provide periodic oversight on decisions taken in respect
of Postmaster contract suspensions, ensuring that any decision taken is done so within
a legally and procedurally compliant, and ethical framework.

B. Duties & Responsibil

2. The Committee shall:

i. Review and approve all decisions to suspend a Postmaster’s Agreement taken since
the last Committee meeting to ensure that a decision to suspend was taken in line
with the relevant contract and Post Office policies;

ii. I Review all ongoing Postmaster Agreement suspensions and approve that it is
reasonable and proper to keep a Postmaster suspended. If not, the Committee will
recommend that steps are taken to either reinstate the Postmaster’s contract or
request that a termination review is triggered;

iii. I Ensure that the relevant team has been engaged with and there is a clear line of
sight on the actions required (for example any discrepancies associated with the
suspension or engagement with external agencies through the Central
Investigations Unit);

iv. Ensure the lessons learnt from the Committee are shared with the appropriate
team(s) and monitor progress to completion.

3. Committee members will be expected to:
is Champion and role model the values and behaviours of Post Office Ltd;
ii. Attend all Committee meetings or arrange appropriate representation if absence
is unavoidable;
iii. Review all material circulated to the Committee in advance of any meetings;

iv. Work collaboratively to achieve the agreed duties & responsibilities;
Version Classification I Description Author Date Status
V1.0 Confidential I Postmaster Suspension Decisions I David Southall I 27NOV23 _I Final - approved
Governance Committee - Terms of by RCC & ARC
Reference

POL00448228
POL00448228

Postmaster Suspension Decisions Governance Committee
Terms of Reference

C. Authority

4. The Committee has authority delegated to it by the Group Executive and, specifically,
the Group Chief Retail Officer to review and approve on matters relating to Postmaster
Agreement suspension decisions.

D. Composition & Governance

5. The Committee shall consist of
i. Head of Contract Management & Deployment (Chair; Non-Voting Member)

ii. Head of Assurance & Complex Investigations

iii. Head of Network Support & Resolution

iv. Retail Operations Director

Vv. Head of Postmaster Engagement

vi. Head of Group Assurance

vii. Head of Legal — Dispute Resolution (Non-Voting Member)
viii. Head of Risk (Non-Voting Member)

6. Members of the Committee may send a nominee to deputise on their behalf with prior
approval of the Chair.

7. The Head of Contract Management & Deployment role is to present the cases at each
meeting and act as chair. This role will not carry a voting entitlement.

8. The Head of Legal and Head of Risk shall attend the Committee to provide advice.
These roles will therefore not carry a voting entitlement.

9. Quorum shall be three members of the Committee of whom at least one must be either
the Head of Central Investigations Unit or the Retail Operations Director.

10. A decision is passed by majority.

11. The Committee will meet once every month, plus at the discretion of the Chair in
circumstances such as the occurrence of an event or escalation of critical risk which
requires immediate action.

12. Should it be necessary to update the Committee on a suspension this can be done so by
correspondence, triggering an additional meeting to discuss (if required).

Version Classification I Description Author Date Status

Vi.0 Confidential I Postmaster Suspension Decisions I David Southall [I 27NOV23 _I Final - approved
Governance Committee - Terms of by RCC & ARC
Reference

POL00448228
POL00448228

Postmaster Suspension Decisions Governance Committee
Terms of Reference

13. Meetings may be held in person or by telephone or other electronic means, so long as all

participants can contribute to the meeting simultaneously.

14. In exceptional circumstances, written requests for approval by the Committee may be

circulated by email, if agreed by the Chair.

15. All papers supporting the meeting will be issued in good time, at least seven working

days in advance of the meeting date.

16. Minutes of each Committee meeting will be circulated to all members of the Committee.

To include:

i. Output of reviews of any new contract suspension;
ii. Output of reviews of any ongoing suspension;

iii. Lessons learned.

17. The attendance of other Post Office employees for part or the whole of any Committee

meeting shall be solely at the discretion of the Chair.

E. Reporting Responsibilities

18. The Chair will provide a quarterly report to the Group Chief Retail Officer. To include:

i. Findings and decisions on cases documented;
ii. List of actions required and the progress of any implementation measures from
the lessons learned findings.

Oversight Committee

Committee Date Approved
POL R&CC 10 NOV 2023
POL ARC 27 NOV 2023
Next review: 30 NOV 2024
Version Classification I Description Author Date Status
V1.0 Confidential I Postmaster Suspension Decisions I David Southall I 27NOV23 Final - approved
Governance Committee - Terms of by RCC & ARC
Reference

