POL00099513
POL00099513

Message

From: Alice Perkins

on behalf of — Alice Perkins
Sent:

To:

cc: Paula Vennells {_
Subject: Re: SS and costs

Thank you for letting me know Chris and all power to your elbow, Susan.

I guess this is realistic but it is disappointing that they are not themselves offering something lower
given their familiarity with the issues now and the unexpected amount of money they have been able to
charge us to date (because of the length of time involved). Is there any mileage in appealing to their
sense of public service? (No need to answer that - just a thought.)

I'd be glad to know when the deal has been done - soon, I imagine.

All the best

Alice

ae original Message -----
From: Chris M Day ff
Sent: Thursday, August 29, 2013 03718 Pw
To: Alice Perkins
Cc: Paula Vennells <_
Subject: SS and costs

Susan Crichton

Hello Alice,

I have discussed this with Susan and asked her to negotiate a monthly cap of £25k with ss (their monthly
costs for the interim report ranged from £25-£43k). In addition, SS have agreed to transition out
(subject to our in house team being sufficiently competent/independent in both carrying on with existing
investigations and supporting SPMRs appropriately) over the coming months; depending on (a) the
incidence of new cases arising, and (b) the rate of take up of the mediation scheme, Susan's view is that
this is likely to be achievable by the end of this calendar year or latest first quarter 2014

Best wishes,

chris

Chris Day I Chief Financial officer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

----- original Message-
From: Alice Perkins
Sent: 29 August 2013 08:24
To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Susan Crichton; Chris M Day
Subject: Re: SS and costs

I would simply like to know what we have agreed with SS about their rate/fee going forward and how this
compares with the basis on which they were being paid up to the interim report

Thank you.

Alice

---- Original Message...
From: Paula Vennells
Sent: Wednesday, August 28, 2013 08716 Pi
To: Alice Perkins
Cc: Susan Crichton <
Subject: Re: SS and costs

Thanks Alice. Useful for me too. And I did receive your other mail, which is the next task in hand

The Horizon costs have been scoped, and a budget is now in place. we have needed to look at the end to
end costs: for instance, the mediation process, as well as internal and external resources to see us
through. I'm grateful to Susan who has led this review and has devised a way of time limiting the Second
Sight costs.

POL-0099096
POL00099513
POL00099513

If I try to remember the exact figure estimated for Ss, I will get it wrong so have copied Susan to
respond, as she and Chris worked on this together. The intention is for Second Sight to have finished
their work by year end (I think calendar year?). And then for any ongoing activity to be handed over to
Angela and her team, so that it becomes a BAU process. Angela will work hand in glove with SS over the
next few months to enable this, and as importantly, to give SS the reassurance that they can safely hand
over to her. So far, I understand this is working well and they have expressed respect for her input and
capability.

susan, could you and/or Chris update re the SS/costs?
Thx Paula

sent from my iPad

On 28 Aug 2013, at 15:24, “Alice Perkins p wrote:

> Hi Paula,

> That was'a useful catch-up this morning, thank you. You should by now have had my thoughts on the TOR.
I realised while I was looking at those papers that I should have asked you where we got to on SS's costs
which had not been fixed by the time I went away. Perhaps you or someone else could let me know?

> Many thanks

> Alice

>

> This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

EEERREREER RRR EH
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

sess iese

seskieseaeaee

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Ten Inna niin iain ini ioral initia ina ieiriicinsiaiieiiraiioirsinie seeder aiaiiraiaeie esate

POL-0099096
