POL00314748
POL00314748

From: Purvee Pattnit”

Sent: Sun 19/04/2015 8:07:54 PM (UTC)
To: Mark R Davies),

Ce:

Subject: RE: Second Sight report and Post Office response

Andrew Verity is writing the bulletins piece —I think he’s been in touch with Mel to get a full response from the Post
Office. I’m sure Mel has this, but just in case, his email address is

From: Mark R Davies [mailto:
Sent: 19 April 2015 20:22
To: Purvee Pattni

Cc: Charlotte Hayward; Melanie Corfield; Laura Cooper; Gilly Orr; Jamie Angus
Subject: Re: Second Sight report and Post Office response

Purvee

Just to add: if you are covering this issue could you please let us know how it has been spun to you by
whoever approached you? As I assume you are pitching it to bulletins I think it only fair to give us the
opportunity to be able to respond directly to whatever accusation is being made against us?

Many thanks

Mark

Mark Davies

Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

15, at 19:53, Purvee Pattni 4

PI

Thanks for this Mark

We are planning to do the story tomorrow because — having seen the Second Sight report today — we
think it’s very interesting to our audience, and newsworthy. There is no embargoed date to the report
and that’s probably why our planning desk didn’t flag it up with us today.

I appreciate it’s now frustrating on your part given you tried to speak to us about the story last week.
Apologies for this.

However, we are planning to go ahead tomorrow, particularly as it’s now likely to be covered by other
news outlets.

Would someone from the Post Office be available for the Today programme?

’m copying in Laura Cooper who’s night editing tonight, and today’s Day Editor is Gilly Orr.
The programme’s overall editor is Jamie Angus who’s email i:

Best,
Purvee Pattni

From: Mark R Davies [mailto:!
Sent: 19 April 2015 19:36
To: Charlotte Hayward; Purvee Pattni
POL00314748
POL00314748

Cc: Melanie Corfield
Subject: Fwd: Second Sight report and Post Office response

Dear Charlotte and Purvee

I attach copies of both the Second Sight report which - to stress - we are making available to you
, and our full response to it.

I would like to know why it is that it necessary to broadcast on this issue tomorrow, and only to
provide notice of that to us now, when it was offered to the BBC on Thursday?

This does not reflect fair treatment of our organisation, particularly as we acted in good faith in
offering to provide copies of both reports last Thursday.

Best wishes
Mark

Mark Davies

ns and Corporate Affairs Director

Begin forwarded message:

From: "Louise Chatfield"
To: "Mark R Davies" <_ GRO.
Subject: Second Sight report and Post Office response

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JES IR IS IIHS III IIS IIS IODIDE III III III IIS IOI III III
