POL00423573

POL00423573
1. Committee minutes and matters arising
RCC 16 MARCH 2015 PAPER ONE
Post Office Ltd — Confidential
Risk and Compliance Committee (R&CC) Reference: R&CC Jan 15
Date: 21 January 2015 [ Venue: Boardroom, 5" Floor, 148 Old Street Time: 14:00 - 16:00
Attending:
Chris Aujard General Counsel - outgoing Chair
Alisdair Cameron Chief Financial Officer Member
Piero D’Agostino Head of Legal - Commercial Report
Fay Healey Head of HR Member
Gavin Lambert Chief of Staff On behalf of the CEO
Alwen Lyons Company Secretary Member
Jane MacLeod General Counsel - incoming Observer
Jessica Madron Head of Legal-Infrastructure & Dispute Resolution I Report
David Mason Head of Risk Governance - outgoing Observer
Henk Van Hulle Acting Director Financial Services On behalf of the FS Director
Arnout van der Veer Head of Risk and Assurance Report
Georgina Blair Risk Business Partner Secretariat
Apologies:
Nick Kennett Financial Services Director Member
Paula Vennells CEO Member

The Chair declared the committee quorate and opened the meeting

ittee minutes and matters at

Agenda Item 1, Com ing

The committee reviewed the minutes from the last meeting and noted the actions.

With regard to action 1642 about vulnerable customers, it was noted that this issue had been mentioned at the
last ARC, and that it was first necessary to define what was considered a vulnerable customer in each area of
the business, and then define the end to end process. The matter of vulnerable customers has been passed to
the Commercial Committee but it was agreed that the Chair would write to the Commercial Committee with these
points, requesting an update for the next meeting (Action 1649). The committee agreed the minutes of the
previous meeting and the attached actions.

Agenda Item 2, RCC terms of reference

The committee discussed the form and purpose of the RCC. It was noted that there was consensus that the
committee had an important role in the enterprise risk framework, with the opportunity to further clarify its remit.
It was also noted that there was a possible role for the RCC in central governance of compliance matters.

The committee requested that the Head of Risk and Assurance gather views from Committee members and
provide an analysis of the key themes and proposed amendments to the terms of reference (Action 1650).

Agenda Item 3 , RCC rolling agenda

The committee reviewed the rolling agenda. It was noted that the review of the annual internal audit plan was
too late in the timetable and that transformation risks should be reviewed more than once a year. The committee
noted that the RCC should review papers going to the ARC, although this could be done via correspondence if
meeting dates did not correspond. The committee requested that the rolling agenda be reviewed in line with
their comments (Action 1651).

The committee received an update on the ERM framework implementation. The committee noted that the
current focus of implementation is on capturing the principal risks, which will be reported back to the RCC and
then ExCo, as part of the risk activity which must be completed before the signing of the annual report. In
addition an approach to embedding the risk appetite statements is being mapped out.

ry

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-16/03/15 2 of 80
POL00423573
POL00423573

1. Committee minutes and matters arising

RCC 16 MARCH 2015 PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd — Confidential

The committee requested that a note clarifying the current approach to compliance with the Corporate
Governance Code be red for use by the Chief Executive (Action 1652).

k incident reporting d values

The committee reviewed the proposed approach to incident reporting. The committee noted that this was a work
in progress and requested that the Head of Risk and Assurance gather views from committee members and
provide an update (Action 1653).

Agenda Item 6, Overview of legal strategy

The committee received the presentation. The committee noted that the level of activity around Business
Transformation produced an increased demand for legal and other support services. The committee requested
that the Head of Risk and Assurance speak to the Business Transformation director and seek assurance that the
resource needed to support Business Transformation had been properly scoped (Action 1654).

Agenda Item 7, Audit update

The committee received an update on significant audit findings. The committee noted the update.

Agenda Item 8, Whistleblowing update

The committee received an update on recent whistleblowing activity. The committee noted that call levels were
very low and that marketing of the whistleblowing line is needed (Action 1655).

Agenda Item 9, Any other business

The committee briefly discussed the proposal to move the Anti-Money Laundering team from the Risk and
Compliance team to the Security team.

The Chair noted that the noting paper on the new Finance Reporting Programme (FRP) did not provide
assurance that the lessons learnt were being picked up by the Business Transformation programme. The
committee requested an update on how the lessons from the FRP are being shared more widely (Action 1656),

3 of 80 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-16/03/15
1, Committee minutes and matters arising

RCC 16 MARCH 2015

PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd — Confidential

POL00423573
POL00423573

ction eal y P'

1655 Prepare and implement a /Arnout van I 16" March I Comms plan has been
communications plan to raise der Veer drafted. The Speak Up
awareness of the whistleblowing line (whistleblowing) policy is

being reviewed and once
signed off comms plan will be
I implemented.

1654 Update on risks and assurance i Arnout van I 16" March I See item 5 on agenda
respect of Business Transformation _der Veer

1653 Gather views from committee Steve 22™ April
members on incident reporting de- Miller
minimis limits and provide an update.

1652 Prepare note clarifying the current Steve 22™ April
approach to compliance with new the Miller
Corporate Governance Code

1651 Review the RCC rolling agenda inline I Arnout van I 16 March I See Item 2 on agenda
with the committee’s comments der Veer

1650 Gather views from committee Arnout van I 16 March I See Item 2 on agenda
members on the RCC terms of der Veer
reference and provide an analysis of
the key themes and proposed
amendments. I

1649 Write to the Commercial Committee Jane 16™ March I Done by Chris Aujard on 4th
with the committee’s comments on Mcleod March. Martin George has
vulnerable customers, and request an acknowledged receipt.
update for the next meeting ACTION CLOSED

1648 Present an update on Project Sparrow in I Jane 46" March
February or March McLeod

1646 Provide a report on the list of policies Jane 22" April A list has been prepared and
that need to be approved McLeod the next steps are being

discussed with the new Head
of Risk and Audit — action
carried over

1645 Run a workshop to try and identify other Steve Miller I 22" April Workshops planned for April.
IT problems that might go wrong.

1644 Hold a scenario-analysis workshop to try I Arnout van 22” April Workshop to be held after
and identify unexpected risks. der Veer year end

1633 Provide an update on the resolution to Ross McGill I 16™ March I Manual fix in place — Horizon
the Travel Insurance problem fix due May. ACTION

CLOSED

1631 Brief the Telecoms team on the Geoff 16" March I BT changes have impacted
importance of registering risks and Smyth the Telecoms team
provide an update on training on significantly with a number of
regulatory matters and the allocation of individuals moving roles/VR -
accountability for compliance with team will be confirmed by
General Conditions within the Telecoms mid- Feb.
team.

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-16/03/15

4 of 80
