POL00321858
POL00321858

From: Flinders, Karl”
Sent: Tue 03/11/2015 1:38:48 PM (UTC)
To: Melanie Corfieldf
Ce: Mark R Davies:
Subject: Horizon problems
Hi Mel

A subpostmaster has sent me this email that they have received from the postmasters branch of the CWU.
It is about a problem with Horizon they claim to have found and have evidence of.

I will be writing a letter about this email and the problem it has found so I request that the Post Office send
me their response to this ASAP. From what I gather this is a potential cause of sub postmasters unknowingly
stacking up losses.

Please send me a response before lunchtime tomorrow.

Thanks

Karl

EMAIL FROM CWU TO POSTMASTERS

NOTE, PLEASE DO NOT REPLY TO THIS EMAIL ADDRESS. SEND ANY RESPONSE TO

IMPORTANT BALANCING INFORMATION

Dear CWU Postmasters Branch Member,

Due to the due diligence of a number of our members, our branch has discovered intermittent duplicating
errors that are caused by Horizon. It is extremely important to note that these are intermittent errors.
Even though you have performed the same transaction successfully many times in the past, this error can
appear at any time.

REMS AND TRANSFERS

We have evidence that horizon has duplicated the accepting in of a remittance (on at least three occasions).
This is despite the barcode having only been scanned in once.

WHAT YOU SHOULD DO

1. If possible and practical, have a separate stock unit for main cash and stock to your normal working stock
unit. This way you can use it for remming in and out, checking the balance before and after.
POL00321858
POL00321858

2. Check all rems and transfer in and out of the branch and between stock units.

3. Duplication of rem acceptance will show up on your event log, or transaction log.

4. Declare your cash at least once a day

5. Check your currency holdings every day (at least every day you receive, send, transfer, buy or sell)
6. Don't leave checking your holdings until rollover.

FORCED LOG OFF

Whilst investigating duplication errors, we have discovered that there is a known (Fujitsu/Atos) error which
can occur after ‘forced log off.

There are two types of forced log off. User and system.

1. User forced log off occurs when you attempt to log on to a terminal whilst already logged in at another.
Horizon warns you that continuing can commit any transactions on the other terminal.

2. System forced log off occurs when you time out. The system first of all will 'lock' you out ( you have to re-
enter your password) after about 10 minutes of not using. If the terminal is not used for a further hour or so,
it will log off altogether.

WHAT YOU SHOULD DO

1. Always log off or lock your horizon when leaving your counter.
2. Make sure you clear your stack after every transaction.

An event log shows when/if forced log off has occurred in your branch.

IMPORTANT

If you notice anything unusual, or would like help or clarification, please contact the branch and we will
endeavour to help.
