POL00344895
POL00344895

Message
From: Alwen Lyons [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF 23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ALWEN.LYONS648EE5C4-F2A8-40E 2-9F55-1B9B1E4F6D52)
Sent: 10/03/2014 11:48:
To: ‘Alice Perkins’!
Subject: RE: Sparrow
Alice

Sparrow is on the ExCo agenda this week and I will make sure everyone realises the Board's views, and
that they need reassurance with clear communications

B48 is the email I send out 48 hours after the Board with the quick updates people have asked for.
The insurance update should have been included and I pushed for it, but Chris and Chris did not have it
ready.

As for the James Arbuthnot and the MP meeting, apologies that you were not kept informed about this, I
think Jorja was also blindsided as Paula's office took over the arrangements, I will have a word with
Martin and Theresa as this is not acceptable, and they should have kept Jorja and you informed

Apologies again, and I will make sure a note comes out to the Board on the insurance asap, and your
questions are covered.

Thanks

Alwen
Alwen Lyons I Company Secretary

148 old st

t, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

-Original Message-----
Alice Perkins [mailto!
:_10 March 2014 11:38
To: Alwen Lyons

Subject: Re: Sparrow

Thanks Alwen.

(what is B48?!)

Maybe you can help by explaining to everyone what the context is here.

The position is intrinsically worrying (to put it politely). The NEDs are really concerned because of the
potential costs to the business, the distraction from implementing our strategy (which is demanding
enough), the reputational issues, and their personal positions. A bad combination made far worse if the
business does not appear to be on top of it. So the paper needs to demonstrate that the Board's concerns
on the latter point are unnecessary - if that is possible. That means it needs to be comprehensive, clear
and professional.

From a personal point of view, it is weird that no-one bothered to tell me that they had decided I should
not attend JA's next meeting with MPs. I am quite relaxed about the decision. I think they're right. But
given that when we were with James a few weeks ago, it was being assumed that I would be and I had been
waiting for it to appear in my diary, I just find it peculiar that I didn't find out until I asked Jorja
last week! Unhelpful given the context.

Alice

original Message
Alwen Lyons [mailto.
Monday, March 10, 2014 10:33 AM GMT Standard Time
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: RE: Sparrow

POL00344895
POL00344895

Alice
Apart from making sure the business are ready to answer these question is there anything else you would
like me to do.

The insurance issue is with Chris D and I did push for clarity to be included in the B48 email without
success.

Thanks
Alwen
Alwen Lyons I Company Secretary

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

-Original Message-----

Sent: 10 March 2014 09:50
To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Alwen Lyons

Subject: Sparrow

Hi Paula,

Following our helpful conversation, I am setting out what I would like on this for a further substantive
discussion at the March Board meeting.

1) The definitive view on all aspects of insurance ie organisational and personal. what policies do we
have; what in practice, do we believe they will cover us for; and what have we been doing to fulfill our
obligations under our policies?

2) Are we safe from legal challenge in what we are/have been doing? What is the position both since we
became independent and before?

3) What is the worst case in relation to costs which could result from this (both admin and settlements)?
4) The position in relation to SS's costs and the absence of an engagement letter - what is the
recommended action and what are the potential consequences?

5) The position on the lessons learned review - timing.

6) what options do we have to mitigate 3) above?

As I mentioned, I think someone should write to the NEDs this week and explain what we are planning for
the 26th, list the questions which we expect to answer more precisely than I have here (taking into
account the ARC discussions last week) and ask them whether we have understood their questions accurately
and if not, what else they would like to see covered. That way we can be sure to cover the right ground.
Finally, I am going to propose a Board Sub-c'tee chaired by me with you and at least one other NED on it.
I_ hope that's clear. Please come back to me on anything that isn't.

All the best

Alice

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

TRAST nnn Ini IT TR II Heiress ined irsrdeiiiteieieiesraisiioieieirar sedate irsrarata
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

‘Ee Ses ee ses sae es ee se ae ee ea ea a esa ee ara es ea eae seas tee
