POL00448820
POL00448820

From: Spencer Johnf__ GRO

Sent: Fri 05/08/2022 12:32:31 PM (UTC)

To: Claire Hamilton:
Cec: Abbie Steele
Subject: EY/Post Office

}; John Bartlett{

Michelle Acton-Phillip

Hi John / Claire

Great meeting you both, and again, thanks for coming to our offices, much appreciated

As discussed, please find below the updated scope of work along with adjusted price overall

Let's catch up next week once you've had chance to review.

Wishing you both a great weekend,

Kindest regards,
Spencer

1. Policy Review

Assessment of relevant policy documents, to include review of the current Speak-Up policy and the Group Investigation
policy. This assessment will compare policies against SYSC 18 regulatory requirements and to best practice, based on
EY’'s knowledge of whistleblowing and speak-up teams in comparable entities.

2. Effectiveness of process via Speak Up Investigation reviews

Review of a sample of five investigation case files to establish whether the Post Office policies are operating as intended.
This sample is to be agreed between the EY and the Post Office Limited teams and will include a representative view of
the high/medium and low risk cases typically encountered by the Post Office Limited.

For each case, EY will follow the path of the case as it progressed from initial report through to conclusion and will
include considerations such as data capture, triage, investigatory steps, communication with and protection of the
whistleblower, reporting and review.

3. Feedback gathering

Interview with a sample of up to six key stakeholders of the speak-up process to establish their views on the process and
possible areas for future development. The interviewees will be agreed between EY and the Post Office Limited team.

Based on the activities at 1) to 3) above, the EY deliverable will comprise a written report to the Post Office, providing:

An assessment of the current state of the Post Office’s whistleblowing policies, processes and controls
An assessment of the Post Office’s whistleblowing investigations and the compliance with internal process,
regulatory standards and industry standards
POL00448820
POL00448820

* A comparison to best practices including relation to both whistleblowing and information gathering
* Recommendations as to the target end state

Total Cost: £40,000 excl. VAT

In addition to the above scope, we will provide a briefing session to the Board and CEO of the Post Office Limited to
cover their speak-up responsibilities, best practice to establish an effective tone from the top and highlighting key
messages and learnings from the EY review.

This e-mail and any attachment are confidential and contain proprietary information, some or all of which may be
legally privileged. It is intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the author immediately by telephone or by replying to this e-mail, and then delete all
copies of the e-mail on your system. If you are not the intended recipient, you must not use, disclose, distribute, copy,
print or rely on this e- mail.

Whilst we have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this e-mail and any attachment has been checked for
viruses, we cannot guarantee that they are virus free and we cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result
of software viruses. We would advise that you carry out your own virus checks, especially before opening an attachment.

EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global
Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee,
does not provide services to clients.

The UK firm Ernst & Young LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered
number OC300001 and is a member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited. A list of members' names is available for
inspection at 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, the firm's principal place of business and its registered office and
at Companies House [https://www.gov.uk/get-information-about-a-company] <https://www.gov.uk/get-information-about-a-
company> under the registration number OC300001. Not all partners are members of Ernst & Young LLP. Ernst & Young
LLP is a multi-disciplinary practice and is authorised and regulated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales, the Solicitors Regulation Authority (authorisation number 614947), the Financial Conduct Authority
(registration number 196203) and other regulators. Further details can be found at https://www.ey.com/en_uk/legal-
statement.<https://www.ey.com/en_uk/legal-statement>
