@

POL00423518
POL00423518

POST OFFICE LIMITED
AUDIT, RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: Compliance and Audit Report Beene 24 November 2020
Jonathan Hill: Director, Compliance Al Cameron: Chief Financial
Author: I Johann Appel: Head of Internal Sponsor: Officer
Audit Ben Foat: General Counsel

Input Sought: Noting

The Committee is asked to:

1. note
.

and;

the Compliance update, in particular:

The Telecoms incident in respect of customer communications, which has been

reported to Ofcom;

The financial crime risk of Capita’s (a Post Office bill payment reseller) MSB customers
and the need to review all bill payment reseller controls;
The temporary suspension of conduct risk branch mystery shopping during the latest

Covid-19 national lockdown

2. note the Internal Audit update, specifically progress being made with delivery of the Internal
Audit programme and completion of audit actions.

Executive Summary

This paper provides an update on key and emerging risks, compliance matters and an update
on the latest internal audit position.

Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

Compliance

Comms incident

1. On17 September 2020, Fujitsu notified Post Office of a P1 incident affecting inbound and
outbound customer communications between February and September. The total number
of affected inbound comms is 7,846 and the number of affected outbound comms is
153,684 (following a deduplication process as some comms are issued in two formats).
The outbound comms has impacted c.107,300 unique customers.

2. Some of the communications are regulated and could result in consumer harm. The Post
Office breach protocol process was followed and Meredith Sharples informed Ofcom
verbally on 27°" September of the incident. This was followed up with a detailed letter on
23” October. Ofcom are now reviewing the content of the letter and deciding on whether
to open a formal investigation. A copy of this letter is attached in Appendix 1.

3. Given the variety of outbound communications that have been impacted, addressing and
rectifying consumer harm has been a complex process as there are 33 different comms
that were impacted which include, but not limited to, cease notifications, overdue payment
reminders, confirmation of engineer appoints. The team have prioritised their work
according to the impact on customers as set out in the table below. Details of the specific
comms impacted was provided to Ofcom.

Priority No. of impacted comms (not customers)
1. Customer's services were ceased 2,877
2. Potential financial impact on the customer 115,830*
3. Customer inconvenienced - communications
3,650
relates to regulation
4, Customer inconvenienced - communications
j 21,133
does not relate to regulation
5. No customer impact 9,551

* Please note that 99,689 of the priority 2 comms are e-bill notification communications where we inform the customer that their bill is
ready online.

4. The final RCA with Fujitsu is still being worked through. However, we understand that the
main cause of the incident is a result of a file that become too large. Once deleted this
appears to have rectified the issue. Fujitsu have put in further checks to confirm that
outbound comms are going out and inbound comms are arriving correctly.

5. Of the 7,846 inbound communications, the Fujitsu team has reviewed 2,644 as at 5%"
November. Where any consumer harm is identified the customers are being made good,
as if the communications failure had not happened. The Post Office team is checking the
remediation work being done by Fujitsu. We are pressuring Fujitsu to confirm when it
expects to have completed this exercise and are pushing for it to be closed by end
November/early December.

Fairness

6. Post Office met Ofcom on 20* October to discuss how Post Office is meeting the Fairness
Commitments we have signed up to. Ofcom view these commitments as “reputational
regulation” whereby they publicly expose Communication Providers for practices that they
believe are unfair. Ofcom expressed appreciation for the work done but continued to

Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

reference Post Office having a high pricing differential between in contract and out of
contract customers. This was explained by the telecoms team as being a result of having
low acquisition pricing, thus driving a larger gap. This is not abnormal for the industry.
Ofcom made no further comment and, as a result, no action is being be taken by the
Telecoms Team other than to monitor the differential. If this became greater we could
expect Ofcom to ask more questions, although we think it is more likely that it will address
this at an industry level.

7. Ofcom plan to issue a statement with press coverage on their review of the market early
next year to “name and shame” the worst providers as well as note good practice. We are
expecting further informal follow up questions. Ofcom were understanding that our current
Position in the sale process meant that we were limited in our ability to make changes
currently. This means that no action needs to be taken right now. However, once the sale
process/RFP status becomes clearer this will need to be reassessed.

Annual Best Tariff Notifications

8. The telecoms team have delayed the implementation of the introduction of Annual Best
Tariff Notifications from October to December2020, within the regulatory timetable. These
letters will inform customers who are currently out of contract that they could save money
by signing up to a new contract and will present Post Office’s best offers. The ABT must be
sent by 14 February 2021 and there is a very low risk to the implementation deadline
however the letters are expected to drive more calls to the contact centre and drive
complaints as people will query why their current price is higher than the new offers in
their communications.

9. Ofcom had previously expressed concerns about the amount Post Office customers who
are out of contract. According to Ofcom the average number of out of contract customers in
the industry is 40%, (the highest is 61% and lowest is 24%)1. Post Office have 58%
customers who are out of contract, however some of these customers are on rolling 30 day
contracts and would not necessarily be better off moving to a longer-term contract. If these
customers were not included, it is estimated that Post Office would be below 50%. As noted
below, we are due to start sending Annual Best Tariff Reminders to customers, which we
expect will further alter the percentage. Of the customers receiving the ABT notifications,
the Telecoms Team anticipate 5% will churn and 35% of customers will re- contract onto
new pricing. The Team will evaluate the effectiveness of the reminders before reviewing
any further action.

Voice only customers

10. Post Office met with Ofcom on 1* October to discuss their plans for the voice only market.
In 2017, Ofcom reached a voluntary agreement with BT to reduce its pricing for voice only
customers by £5. This voluntary agreement is set to end at the beginning of next year and
Ofcom confirmed during the meeting that they are looking to agree a further voluntary
agreement with BT. We are now awaiting the consultation which will detail the agreement
so that we can assess the impact to Post Office. We expect the impact to be minimal as
Ofcom thought the introduction of retail price regulation would be unlikely and are looking to
have a similar basket control that was agreed before.

European Electronic Communications Code

11. Ofcom have now issued their statement and consultation on the European Electronic
Communications Code and detailed the regulations they plan to introduce. This requires
significant changes to be made in telecoms however Ofcom have staggered the
implementation deadlines, with the first tranche not due to be implemented until December

+ https://www.ofcom.org.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0031/199075/bb-pricing-update-july-20.pdf

Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

2021.

12. Please refer to Appendix 2 for a summary timeline of all key regulatory developments.
This has been noted in the Law and Trends Forum.

GLO and Historic Shortfall Scheme

13. Compliance continues to work with the Historical Matters Unit to identify, locate and
provide all data required to support the various ongoing initiatives, in particular:

a. Servicing 220 Data Subject Access requests that vary in complexity from access to
Shortfall information through to full requests requiring extensive searches of Post
Office systems and archives.

b. Considering the implications of information to be provided to the Enquiry which
includes personal data relating to the 2015 Mediation Scheme. We continue to work
with internal Legal on making a representation to the Enquiry to provide pseudo-
anonymised data rather than full disclosure.

14. Post Office continues to receive a higher-than-normal number of complex FOI requestsin
relation to Historic Matters.

15. Given the sensitivity of these requests, Post Office is working with external Counsel, Legal
and Communications on the responses and, where appropriate, decisions on disclosure are
referred to the HMU Steerco. We continue to meet the FOI response timelines as set out in
legislation and we have had no complaints from the ICO in respect of our handling of these
cases.

16. Examples of FOI requests since the September RCC include:

a. The number and value of Transaction Corrections issued by Post Office over the last 12
months
i. The business does not hold the information in the format that was requested by the

individual. by the individual.

ii. FOI does not require an organisation to create new information, neither is it
advisable to do so. to create new information, neither is it advisable to do so.

iii. However, recognising that the information requested would be useful for resolving
HSS claims the Data Protection, HSS and business teams have worked up a
process that will allow for accurate Transaction Correction information to be issued
to HSS applicants and to the HSS resolution team to verify claims. accurate
Transaction Correction information to be issued to HSS applicants and to the HSS.
resolution team to verify claims.

b. Information relating to ‘out of date’ scratch cards and whether Postmasters suffered
any losses as a result of this.

i. Where scratch cards went out of date Post Office should have carried the loss and
not passed it through to Postmasters. However, anecdotally it is reported that some
Post Office auditors who had identified out of date scratch cards in branches
recorded this as a loss against the Postmaster.

ii. Despite extensive searches across the business, we cannot definitively say
whether Postmasters suffered a loss or not.

iii KPMG is working with HMU on the Post Office response to the judgements and this
is one area that it will be examining to give a definitive answer.

iv. We expect that the FOI request will be re-issued by the requester where, given the
KPMG work, Post Office should be better placed to respond.

AWS Move to the Cloud:

17. Good progress is being made from a Data Protection perspective. Questionnaires continue
to be received from upstream clients and are managed on a case-by-case basis. There are
no significant concerns regarding the move to the Cloud and confidence remains high of

4

Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

Client acceptance of the move.

18. The DP team are currently working with the Project to map out the Privacy Impact
Assessments that will need to be completed and remediated against prior to going live. At
this stage we are not anticipating any significant risks that will hinder progress.

GDPR Contract Remediation

19. The Contract Remediation project was formally closed at the end of July as reported to
the previous RCC. Work is ongoing on and the number of outstanding contracts has
reduced from eight to seven since the last RCC

20. Of those seven, four are awaiting execution and will be completed by the end of November.

21. Negotiations on the three remaining contracts (Fujitsu, Santander and Kinto (formerly
Inchcape)) are close to completion with no significant barriers to execution.

22. Monthly CRG meetings continue to monitor progress and support negotiations. This will
continue until all outstanding contracts are finalised.

Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations

23. Following the permanent removal of 3,257 and pausing of 2,679 HMRC branch registrations
in May 2020, it was identified that 6 of the branches that were de-registered as part of this
exercise subsequently completed Travel Money transactions (25 transactions totalling
£6,784.30 between 1* June (HMRC annual registration date) and 28" October 2020). Post
Office was in breach of the regulations in respect of these branches and there was a risk,
given the previous £800K penalty for registration failings that HMRC may have sought to
apply further penalties.

24. However, in recognition of the verbal and written self-notification to HMRC and the quick
remedial action taken by Post Office, we have been advised that it will not apply any penalty
nor take further action.

25. Nevertheless, we are continuing to work with the IT and Data teams to ensure that the
system is robust going forward, including what assurance can be provided to reconcile the
data between Post Office’s Master Data Management system (“MDM”) and Fujitsu’s RMD
system.

26.Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) and investigations continue to rise, with 1,427 SARs and
157 investigations in August & September (up from 566 and 111 in August & September
2019). This is driven by branches raising concerns with large and multiple cash deposits,
particularly relating to money transmission businesses. There is also evidence of changing
criminal behaviour due to Covid and the economic uncertainty which is likely to further drive
up suspicious activity in our Network and result in more SARs. We are working closely with
Network teams to ensure customer-facing staff are made aware of the risks and their
responsibilities.

27. We continue to work with banks through the National Economic Crime Centre Project
Admiralty and the Banking Framework members to address the risks of cash laundering via
Post Office. We continue to discuss particular activity with 2 banks in relation to significant
cash deposits at Whitechapel and Philpot Street in East London where we continue to see
£5-7m per week deposited. These banks are currently analysing these deposits, and we
have been advised that some relationships are being exited by them, but we expect a full
response from them in November. If the banks are unable to provide assurances that the
cash deposited is in line with their KYC, we will ask the banks to make alternative
arrangements for these deposits.

28. From 20‘ August to 26" October, 23 Banking Framework cases were investigated (up 35%
5

Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

on the 2019). A number were complex cash deposit cases involving multiple accounts and
banks. To help with increased workloads, a fixed term contract PO started mid-October,
funded to the end of 2020/21. We continue to monitor volumes and their drivers but suspect
this will need to be a permanent resource in 2021/22.

29. From intelligence provided by us, recent law enforcement activity concerning cash deposits
in South and East London resulted in an individual arrested and money seized at one branch
in connection with money laundering offences, we are aware of ongoing investigations.

30. A meeting was held with our new HMRC regulatory supervisor on 30° September. HMRC
have indicated that they will not be undertaking proactive supervision activity or branch
visits whilst Covid issued continue.

31. A response was submitted to HMT in respect of the Economic Crime Levy Consultation. The
paper indicated that their preferred option is to have a revenue based levy with some
exemptions for small businesses where it is not cost effective to gather the levy. We have
put forward a position that as all POL regulatory revenue is derived via payment of dividend
and commission from FRES, who are also regulated and subject to the levy, this would
effectively be a ‘double-levy’ and therefore POL revenue should be exempt. We are unlikely
to see a response to the consultation, and the draft legislation until the new year.

32. The risk assessment process was presented at the Commercial lead team meeting and have
since seen an improvement in stakeholder engagement.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) update

33. Annual ABC training has been completed in September - overall completion is at 97.2% as
at 12 November 2020.

Whistleblowing Update

34. There has been an increase in new reports during August & September 2020 - 8 compared
to 5 in the same period last year. The majority have been received from agent assistants
and relate to allegations concerning Postmaster activity. There are no trends or issues, and
all investigations are proceeding.

35. We are procuring some initial consultancy work with Protect (UK Whistleblowing Charity) to
benchmark our whistleblowing policy and processes and help us to identify if there are any
control gaps. We are also working with the Postmaster Complaints project to ensure that
there is a centralised view of postmaster complaints or reported concerns. We have provided
copies of our policy and procedures to the HMU Public Inquiry team.

Fit & Proper update

36. There have been a number of teething issues with the new agent F&P system and processes.
A number of technical fixes have been delivered but some issues remain open and subject
to further investigation:
e Errors in Power BI reports produced to drive branch revocation and HMRC reporting
e Data refresh issues

e People data extraction from the Financial Assessment is more cumbersome and labour
intensive than first thought due to missing data on the report

e Legal Status discrepancies are being identified which were not corrected in previous
declarations. They are being managed but are taking time and resource in F&P Ops, the
Contracts and onboarding teams.

e Development of F&P Release 2 to bring in scope MoneyGram only branches and ‘paused’
bureau branches is on track with a view to deploying into production before the

6

Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

November change freeze, but this will require changes to processes and bedding in of
new reporting.

e Self-serve declarations for Sole Traders via Branch Hub is also being developed by
Accenture with the intention to have in place for January 2021.

37. These issues are being managed and overseen by the F&P Ops team manager who has built
up expertise since taking on operational responsibility earlier this year, but his role is at risk
in the new structure and the work is being transferred to another area. The F&P project
has been closed, therefore the project team has now been disbanded and no longer able to
provide any oversight or support. We are liaising with HR to ensure that an appropriate
owner is found and a remediation plan for the aforementioned issues is finalised. This will
be brought back to the next RCC/ARC.

38. There are a significant number of changes to roles and responsibilities. Due to the
consultations, information on the changes has not been available, and therefore keeping
employee F&P tests up to date is challenging. We are working with HR to identify people
leaving the business or moving into impacted roles.

External Threats

39. We have identified a growing trend of suspicious high volume Amazon voucher purchases,
relating to potentially vulnerable customers who fall victim to fraudsters persuading them
to purchase high value/large quantities and send to the fraudster. We have issued a number
of communications to raise network awareness and are supporting the Product Owner to
explore options with Amazon and to strengthen current controls in Horizon by limiting the
number of vouchers that can be sold/the amount or provide additional screen prompts for
staff, currently solutions are being worked on, including timescales for delivery.

40. Following investigation into a suspicious activity report, we identified that high risk
suspicious cash deposits from a Money Service Business (a money transmitter) were being
accepted, via our bill payment reseller client Capita. Money Transmission is assessed by the
National Risk Assessment as high risk for money laundering and such companies require
enhanced due diligence. Our investigation of the deposits and activity identified that there
was a complex structure involving numerous businesses between the customer and the end
recipient, with some activity overseas and a similar structure to known money laundering
typologies. We are actively working with the Product Owner and Capita to cease the
relationship with the businesses involved, and a meeting with Capita is scheduled for w/c
16" November 2020 to resolve. As a result of this case, we will work with the Product team
to undertake a review of the existing contractual and control requirements related to Bill
Payment re-sellers, and this will also form part of the Payzone review.

Supply Chain Compliance

41. One of the 3 FTE has been off with suspected Long-Covid, which together with rising
infection rates across the UK has impacted ability to undertake on-site assessments. A
combination of remote checking, interviews, area manager interviews and site visits to low
risk locations has been implemented.

42. The External Approved Contractor Scheme (ACS) assessment in October was completed
remotely with only one observation identified. The score for ACS was assessed as 104,
which is an increase of 10 from last year and maintains Post Office compliance within the

2 In the AML/CFT context, the term “typology” refers to the various techniques used by criminals to launder money or finance
terrorism

Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

top 5% businesses in the UK requiring this accreditation, indicating that despite the
challenges over the last 7 months, compliance with ACS standards has improved.

43. An independent check of value stock picking accuracy at Swindon was supported. c.13% of
one day’s volume was checked and errors were identified in 1 in 109 items, despite the
items already having been subject to a 100% operational check, i.e. the discrepancy had
not been identified by the unit’s own check. The outcome of the independent check has
been escalated to Supply Chain and the Historic Matters Unit for them to remediate.

Multi Principal Review of 1* line controls (report expected January 2021).

44. Our three regulatory principals, Capital One, Bol and POMS, are undertaking a joint thematic
review on the controls in place in the 1* line, including the work undertaken by the FS
Compliance team. The scope of this work is far reaching and covers, 1% line controls over
training, approvals, governance and compliance monitoring.

45. We are supportive of this review that will be a useful independent challenge and health
check on our controls.

46. We will share any key findings with this Committee.

Compliance Monitoring
47. Mystery shopping had resumed on a small scale from August covering Over 50s cover and
from the start of Q3 covering, savings and travel insurance.

48. Following the UK Government lockdown announcement on 31% October, with the agreement
of our Principals who take compliance responsibility for our FS business, mystery shopping
has been paused. It is expected in any case that sales of FS products will be reduced for
the future period (for example TI sales will be very low/nil).

49. Following the approach of the 1* general lockdown we will use remote measures to review
compliance performance. This includes quality of sales MI that reviews sales peaks,
cancelation and complaints data. Our BAU governance with the regulatory Principals will
continue so that any additional data from them (such as complaints made to the call centre)
can also be reviewed.

50. For the mystery shopping we have undertaken this year the results from protection business
have been generally good and within appetite. For Travel Insurance we will be using the
small number of shops undertaken before lockdown to assess with POI whether any aspect
of the revised sales process needs to be strengthened for future travel insurance sales when
we can hopefully travel again.

FS Regulatory updates
51. Asummary slide of the key future developments is included in the reading room at Appendix
8.

52. The government recently published a call for evidence on Access to Cash, which sets out
the government's aims for protecting access to cash throughout the UK. It seeks views
on:

a. how the government can ensure the UK maintains an appropriate network of cash
withdrawal and deposit-taking facilities over time through legislation, including the
potential role of cashback;

b. the factors affecting cash acceptance; and whether the government should give a single
regulator overall statutory responsibility for maintaining access to cash.

8
Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

c. The Banking team will review the detail and decide how to best respond by the end of
November.

Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

Internal Audit

Progress against Internal Audit plan

53. Delivery of the 2020/21 programme is making good progress, having completed five audits
since the September ARC meeting (4 POL & 1 POI). The advisory review of the Historic
Matters Business Unit (Post GLO Improvement Programme) is nearing completion - an
interim report has been issued and is included in this paper.

54. Current delivery status is as follows:

POL Internal Audit Plan POI Internal Audit Plan
Status -Total Audits = 28 Status -Total Audits = 6 ®

= Completed m= Reporting ™ Completed ™ Reporting
m Fieldwork m Planning
Not Started @ Planning Not Started

(Target number of reviews based on revised plan for 2020/21 approved by ARC (18 Internal control reviews & 10 change assurance reviews). Details
of the audit plan status are included in the reading room (Appendix 10).
p01 ARC approved baseline plan for 2020/21.

55.A re-prioritised Internal Audit programme was approved at the May ARC meeting in
response to Covid-19. It was agreed that a more dynamic rolling audit plan will be adopted
and reviewed at each ARC. Further revisions to the plan was approved at the September
ARC meeting and is included in the reading room (Appendix 10).

56. The following audits are being planned for delivery in Q3:

Review Sponsor Timing I Status
1 I Historic Matters (Post GLO) Set-up and Governance Declan Salter Oct Interim Report
3 I Mails & Parcels Owen Woodley Oct Fieldwork
4 I IT Controls Framework Jeff Smyth Sept Fieldwork
5 I Belfast Exit (Programme Assurance) Phase 2 Jeff Smyth Oct Fieldwork
6 I PCI Compliance (Programme Assurance) Jeff Smyth Nov Fieldwork
7 I Postmaster Reporting (MI, Branch Trading Statements) I Amanda Jones Dec Not started

10
Confidential
POL00423518

POL00423518
Internal Audit reviews completed
57. The following POL audit reports were issued since the September ARC meeting:
1 I Manual Revenue Adjustments 3 I Identity and Access Management
(JML) - Gap Analysis
2 I Effectiveness of Second Line during 4 I Branch Hub (Programme
COVID-19 Assurance)

5 I Historic Matters (Post GLO) Set-up &
Governance (Advisory) Interim Report

58. Our findings and observations from these reports are summarised below, with the full
reports available in the reading room (appendices 5-9).

59. Controls over Manual Revenue Adjustments (Ref.2020/21-14)

In 2019/20 manual revenue adjustments made up £298m (31%) of

& reported revenue. At the May ARC, PwC raised a discussion point
around manual adjustments to revenue made outside of Horizon, to
ensure clients are billed correctly. Subsequently the ARC have
requested that Internal Audit review the controls over this process.

Satisfactory The purpose of this audit was to provide assurance that the design and
operation of the controls around manual revenue adjustments are
robust and effective in mitigating the risk of error and consequential

Sponsor: impact on Postmasters’ remuneration. Our audit also assessed controls
Al Cameron over transaction corrections, which may impact Postmaster accounts

(c.127k corrections made in 2019/20 with a low average value of £37
Audit actions: per transaction).

9 We conclude that the control framework covering manual adjustment
2 processes is comprehensive and well-understood by control owners.
1 Whilst the preventative controls around review and sign-off are working
3 well, there is an opportunity to further strengthen the detective controls
with better explanations of variances and follow-up of aged items.

There is no direct link to, and therefore no impact on, Postmaster
Appendix 5 remuneration for the majority of revenue transactions processed
directly in CFS. For the minority of transactions where Postmaster
remuneration or accounts may be impacted, we found controls to be
effective.

Management Comment provided by Tom Lee (Group Financial Controller)

“I was pleased to see the report confirmed my expectations, that a robust controls environment exists
over what is an important and complex area of the business. The nature of revenue recognition across the
organisation, driven by high volume of low value transactions with numerous interplays across systems
and stakeholders, will inevitably lead to variances arising. The processes and controls in place are designed
so as to keep these variances to a minimum whilst seeking to resolve those that do arise in a timely
manner. We will continue to enhance this area and focus our efforts in the short term on the actions
outlined within this report.”

11
Confidential
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

60. Effectiveness of the Second Line during Covid-19 (Ref.2020/21-07)

Needs Improvement

Sponsor:
Nick Read

Audit actions™!:

6

15

1

2

1 Actions are included in
the individual deep-dive

audit reports and tracked
through the normal audit
process.

Second line functions
in scope:

* CoSec

Data Protection
Financial Controls
IT Governance

TT Risk

Central Risk
Change
Compliance '?
Financial Crime ™
Loss Prevention
TT Security
Health & Safety ‘2

"2 Included in Phase 2
deep dive audits.

Appendix 6

The purpose of this audit was to consider the impact of COVID-19 on
second line of defence functions across Post Office. This report covers
twelve second line functions and consolidates findings from the interim
report issued in July 2020 and three other deep-dive audit reports.

We conclude that during Post Office’s response to the first wave of

COVID-19, all second line functions continued to operate and are

now better positioned to meet the challenges of the second wave. We

also highlight the following key successes:

e« Changes to processes and controls were made quickly but
cautiously - often on a ‘best-efforts’ basis where the new
arrangements were unprecedented.

« Management are monitoring the effectiveness of alternative
controls adopted, particularly those brought about by branch visit
suspensions.

« In response to the crisis, all functions have identified process
improvements and intend to keep what went well.

We noted the following areas for improvement and ongoing

challenges, which should be considered key learnings for the second

wave of the pandemic and resulting regional and national lockdown
restrictions:

e Vacancies and long-term absences mean at least three of the
critical second-line teams cannot absorb additional demands
without compromising effectiveness. Cost pressures mean some
teams are operating at below pre-COVID resourcing levels.

e Restart of suspended commercial and technical development work,
along with anticipated organisational change, could overwhelm
second-line teams if not carefully managed.

« Lockdown fatigue - Good engagement with the business
contributed to initial success, but some functions report thatthis is
dropping off due to lockdown fatigue. This may worsen as we enter
more regional and national lockdowns and adds to the pressures
experienced by the second line.

« Insome areas, clarity is needed of boundaries between first and
second-line responsibilities, especially around process and control
documentation ownership and maintenance.

¢ All second line functions faced increased risk, but the initial fall in
transactions counteracted some of this. Risks may again increase
during the second wave and may be exacerbated as Post Office
enters the busiest time of the year.

« Controls are inconsistently managed. Some functions do not have

Management Comment provided by Nick Read (Group CEO)

“The organisational mobilisation and response to Covid-19 and the first lockdown, was particularly
pleasing. Functions were able to respond to operational change and, in the main, absorb additional
work and perform their own essential controls, at an aggregate level. The long term sustainability
of this response however is not clear and the strain placed on certain areas of the business was
concerning. In part due to vacancies but also due to the fatigue associated with new ways of working
and new practices. As a business we will need to assess alternative sources of assurance and we
have begun an initiative to do this. We will need to be particularly vigilant in the short term as
lockdowns and tiered restrictions come into play in the run up to Christmas and in Quarter 4.”

Confidential

12
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

61. Joiners, Movers & Leavers (JML) (Ref.2020/21-01)

Needs Improvement

Sponsor:
Jeff Smyth

Audit actions:
1

0
0
1

A single overarching P1
audit action was agreed
to update the current
roadmap and action plan
to include the gaps
identified during this
audit.

Appendix 7

Internal Audit previously reviewed JML processes in 2017, identifying
significant weaknesses in overall governance and the identification
of JML triggers. Failures of JML controls havealso been reported by
the external auditors on numerous occasions.

A JML Programme has been initiated by the business to identify and
address control gaps and weaknesses, with regular progress updates
provided to the ARC. JML controls were also covered within Cyber
Maturity Assessments in 2019 and 2020, which showed a marked
increase in maturity between the two reviews, with maturity targets
being met for two of the four domains covering JML related controls.
However, it is generally recognised that additional work is required
to strengthen and automate access controls.

The purpose of this audit was to validate the work undertaken by IT
to support the business in identifying and remediating gaps in the
effectiveness of JML processes and to assess the state of JML
processes across the business, with the intention of ensuring only
authorised users have access to POL systems.

We conclude that IT have been making steady progress in
addressing the JML control weaknesses. Considerable progress has
been made over the last two years to enhance controls, through the
implementation of SmartID, tying the creation and removal of user
access to SuccessFactors, and introducing additional checks over
access to key back-office systems.

However, we observed a continued reliance on manual processes
and insufficient coordination between teams responsible for JML,
privileged access and vendor assurance. The roadmap and _ action
tracker created by IT will support further improvements in JML
processes and we have highlighted additional actions that should be
included in the plan.

We consider the residual risk of unauthorised access to POL systems
to be substantially mitigated by the controls currently in place, but
based on the actions still required, we have rated this report ‘Needs
Improvement’.

Management Comment provided by Tony Jowett (CISO)

“This report is very timely and helpful in our quest to sort JML in Post Office. It re-emphasises that
effective JML requires HR and IT to work closely together and the review of all in scope is very
welcome. We agree with the action that we must create a roadmap/plan and would add an
additional one about creating a picture of JML that could serve as a dashboard. Many thanks to IA
for shining a light in this area.”

Confidential

13
POL00423518

POL00423518

@

62. Branch Hub (Programme Assurance) (Ref.2020/21-12)

Needs Improvement

Sponsor:
Amanda Jones

Audit actions:

0
6
0
6

Appendix 8

The ‘Branch Hub’ programme was initiated in 2018 to deliver a
new digital self-service channel, to replace or support traditional
channels for the interactions between postmasters and back-office
functions. The overall delivery of the minimum viable product
(MVP) and the adoption by Postmasters proved challenging, as
noted in previous audits.

In February 2020, the IC approved Branch Hub's move from the
bespoke Fujitsu product to the ServiceNow platform. Due to
COVID-19, the programme focused on delivering functionality to
support Post Office’s response to the pandemic, including ‘Change
Branch Hours’, ‘Agent Remuneration’ and ‘PPE Ordering’. This has
driven adoption to surpass 9,400 users. The delivery of further
features has been divided into three increments. As of August
2020, a total of £20.6m had been invested in the Programme.

The purpose of this audit was to re-assess the operating
effectiveness of programme delivery while ensuring previous audit
recommendations have been adopted.

Branch Hub has now demonstrated that it can deliver and that its
underlying platform and delivery model are sound. Since its reset
in February 2020, Branch Hub has been primarily driven in a short-
term tactical way to prove it could deliver. This strategy was
broadly successful as Branch Hub delivered its main objectives.

However, it did not fully succeed in overcoming the inherent lack of
trust and further constrained resources which resulted in some
previous audit weaknesses not being fully addressed. We once
again note that the programme lacks strategic direction and a
joined up approach on how future features should be linked. GLO
considerations have not been fully considered and embedded. We
also noted additional controls weaknesses associated with the new
delivery model. These gaps impacted on the overall programme
performance, contributing to the present challenges in fully
unlocking the committed FY20/21 benefits.

Management Comment provided by Amanda Jones (Retail & Franchise Network Director)

“Thank you for highlighting the areas in the report and the opportunities for improvement; in
particular recognising that the project has been driven in a short term tactical way and that
there is opportunity to take a fresh look at the benefits model. The programme is under new
ownership with myself as GE sponsor and Tim Perkins taking on sponsorship. We are both
excited by the opportunity to build on what the BH team have developed so far and envisage
that BH will play a pivotal role in enabling us to deliver our vision of providing Postmasters
support whenever, however and wherever they need it, at the lowest cost to serve.”

Confidential

14
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

63. Historic Matters (Post GLO) - Set-up & Governance (Advisory) (Ref.2020/21-15)

Not Rated
(Interim Report)

In addition to launching the Historical Shortfall Scheme, as part of its
operational improvement plan and to address issues which arose from
group litigation concluded last year, Post Office has appointed a new
Director, reporting to Tim Parker and Nick Read, to head up a separate
business unit responsible to implement the claims schemes and the
programme of measures that will oversee the delivery of the operational

improvements to address the criticisms from the Common Issues
comments and Judgment (CIJ) and the Horizon Issues Judgment (HI).

be in the final Internal Audit is performing an advisory review to gain assurance that
report. the newly established Historical Matters Business Unit (HMBU) has been
set up for success and established effective and appropriate governance.

Sponsor:
Declan Salter

Management

HMBU is newly formed and its governance and structure are not yet fully
defined. However, we emphasise that HMBU is not operating without
governance and control and has from the outset adopted ‘Change’
governance and controls. While not fully fit-for-purpose, it enabled a
degree of structure and provided a solid foundation for the early
management of the claim schemes and the CI) operational improvement
programme. Further work is required to clarify and formalise its scope
and relation with the wider Post Office business, as well as, its strategy
and operating model, to manage more effectively the extensive list of
activities being planned.

We also highlight that:

e Acomprehensive risk assessment should be performed, and controls
and assurance mechanisms are still to be agreed;

Appendix 9

« Roles and responsibilities of key individuals be further reviewed and
agreed at Board to ensure HMBU operates with an appropriate level
of independence, while still adopting Post Office Group policies and
controls, appropriately supported by the Group functions.

Post Office Insurance (POI) Audit Programme

64. The table below shows the status of the POI audit programme:

Review [Timing IStatus
\Cyber Security (POL-POI Gap Analysis) \Aug (Complete (Sept ARC)
2. IIncident and Breach Management Aug Reporting “+
[Data Governance: Ethics, security and privacy
3 Phase 1 - Third Party Data Security Sept (Complete
Phase 2 - Data Governance (Oct Fieldwork
4 ISpecial Investigation (Confidential) Sept Complete
5 Pricing: Principles, policies and process INov Planning
6 Effectiveness of Risk Management - original plan Q4 Not started
7 Channel review: Non-branch sales - original plan Q4 Not started

N1 This audit was delayed due to special investigations undertaken at management request and with POI ARC
approval.

Status of Audit Actions

Confidential

15
POL00423518
POL00423518

@

65. Audit actions are generally being completed on time. However, we highlight that the
changes to business priorities due to Covid-19 have caused delays in completion of some
audit actions. During May we worked with action owners and GE sponsors to agree revised
completion dates for 14 actions impacted by Covid-19. Of these 11 have since been closed
and 3 remain open and on track with the revised completion dates.

66. The movement and ageing of audit actions are shown in the table below (status at 16
November 2020).

Audit Action Status (POL): Ageing:

Open actions at last ARC 47 Open (not yet due) 28
Less: Actions closed in period 31 Overdue (<60 days) 1
Add: New actions in period 13 Overdue (>60 days) i?)
Total open actions 29 Total open actions 29

67. Following is a summary of the one overdue action and latest status update:

Description of audit finding andI GE owner

Priority rating land due date Action Owners and Status Update

Data Privacy (Document Retention)
Finding (P2): Mechanisms for Jeff Smyth Owner: Rob Wilkins

facilitating ihe deletion of records Original date: IThe technical solution for automated deletion
that are outside of their retention 30/04/2020 f di t d lex th

eriod are not defined (P2) /04/ jor Cocuments proved more comprex than
p Revised date: anticipated, and was deemed unfeasible and
Action: The CIO will work with the 31/10/2020 * Inot cost effective. IT will now implement

business to identify how record
retention schedules will be
operationalised to support
compliance with the DPA and limit

lalternative solutions limited to automatic
deletion of leavers’ e-mails (unless legally
required to keep). Revised completion date
31/03/21.

mame that personal data is Compliance with document retention policy

more widely will be considered by the Digital
Data Governance SteerCo and the data
igovernance work led by Compliance (See
lseparate update paper — item 2 under Items
for Noting).

16
Confidential
POL00423518

POL00423518
Appendices?
Compliance
Appendix 1: Communications Incident 2020 OFCOM Notification
Appendix 2: Telecoms Regulatory Calendar
Appendix 3: FS Regulatory Calendar
Appendix 4: Compliance Dashboard summary
Appendix 4a: I Compliance Dashboard
Internal Audit
Appendix 5: Internal Audit Report - Manual Revenue Adjustments
Appendix 6: Internal Audit Report — Effectiveness of Second Line during Covid-19
Appendix 7: Internal Audit Report - Joiners, Movers & Leavers
Appendix 8: Internal Audit Report - Branch Hub Programme Assurance
Appendix 9: Internal Audit Plan for 2020/21
3 Appendices are accessible in the Diligent ‘Reading Room’ 17

Confidential
