POL00119584
POL00119584

From: Avene Regan.
Sent: Tue 16/08/2016 1:04:12 PM (UTC)
To: Rodric Williams[i
Subject: RE: Criminal Investigation Opened

HI Rod, yes that sounds good, please send.
Avene

Avene Regan
Executive Assistant

& to the Chief Executive, Paula Vennells

Post Office Customer Support Centre
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 16 August 2016 13:52
To: Avene Regat
Subject: RE: Criminal Investigation Opened

Avene,

On reflection, I’d like to go back to Mr McCormack with a short response, for no other reason than to ensure he can’t
allege that we don’t respond when issues with Horizon are flagged to us. Are you ok for me to send this?:

Mr McCormack,

Post Office Limited has asked me to respond to your email. Post Office would be happy to consider any information
you may care to disclose to it. However, and in line with my previous reply to you dated 4 July 2016, Post Office will
not comment on the other matter you have raised.”

Yours sincerely,

Thanks, Rod

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 09 August 2016 15:43
To: Avene Regan; ECT

Subject: RE: Criminal Investigation Opened

I’m not inclined to reply — and we certainly don’t need to rush to do so - given the tone of this and his other
communications, and we’ve already told him we’re not going to comment.
POL00119584
POL00119584

I have however asked Rob Houghton to look into with Fujitsu his allegation that we have had a repeat of an error that
Fujitsu said they fixed back in January...

From: Avene Regan

Sent: 09 August 2016 15:10

To: ECT; Rodric Williams

Subject: FW: Criminal Investigation Opened

Hi, a further email from Mr McCormack.
Rodric, can you advise how/if we should respond?

Thanks,

Avene

Avene Regan
Executive Assistant
to the Chief Executive, Paula Vennells

Post Office Customer Support Centre

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ

From: Tim McCormack
Sent: 09 August 2016 1.
To: Paula Vennel
Subject: RE: Criminal Investigation Opene

What I have heard today is frankly totally unbelievable.

By now you should have acquainted yourself with the 'Dalmellington Error’ and its
consequences.

You should know that Fujitsu said they were going to fix this earlier this year.

YOu should know that I stated that it would be highly unlikely that they managed to
do this as they didn't know what caused the error in the first place.

You now know because I am about to tell you - that the very same error has just re-
occurred in another branch in far more serious circumstances.
POL00119584
POL00119584

If you want details on this I will be glad to help as soon as you call Seema Misra and
put her out of her misery

You are a complete bunch of idiots playing havoc with the lives of people you have
little interest in.

Tim McCormack

To: paula.vennellst

Subject: FW: Criminal Investigation Opened
Date: Mon, 4 Jul 2016 20:44:54 +0100

A typical head in the sand reply from the team you have placed too much trust in.
Let me be very clear here.

Once the police investigation is completed it is HIGHLY likely, indeed probable, that
members of your staff will be sent to prison. A custodial sentence is mandatory for
this offence.

Your role in this will not escape attention.

This is Seema Misra's phone number
Call her and apologise and ensure her suffering is ended as soon as possible.

I do wonder what kind of God you worship.

Tim McCormack

From: rodric.william
To: t.j.mccormack¢ GRO}
Subject: RE: Criminal Investigation Opened
Date: Mon, 4 Jul 2016 17:43:14 +0000

Dear Mr McCormack,

Thank you for your email to Piero d’Agostino (Post Office Limited Head of Legal, Commercial) dated 1 July 2016, to
which I have been asked to reply on behalf of Post Office Limited.

The content of your email has been noted. Post Office Limited will cooperate fully with any formal investigation into
its activities, but will not otherwise comment on the matters you have raised.
POL00119584
POL00119584

Yours sincerely,

From: Tim McCormack! GRO
Sent: 01 July 2016 08:55

To: Piero D'Agostino

Cc: Paula Vennells; Tim Parker

Subject: Criminal Investigation Opened

Dear Sir

As you will be aware by now, the police have opened a criminal investigation into
matters surrounding the prosecution of Seema Misra by POL in October 2010. Iam
assisting them with their enquiries and have been interviewed by them as well as
supplying them with relevant documentary evidence. If they have not already I am
sure they will be in touch soon.

In order to assist them I am reviewing my correspondence with POL and have come
across emails sent by your team to me in relation to emails sent by me to Ms
Vennells in connection with an error in Horizon dated November 2015, to which I do
not appear to have responded.

On the 19th November I received an email containing an image of a letter from your
Mr Rodric Williams. In it he asks for 'something more substantive’. I draw your
attention to communications you subsequently received from the CWU regarding the
same error as well as my blog post published on 10th November 2015 which goes
into great detail of the very same error.

https://problemswithpol.wordpress.com/2015/11/10/the-error-in-horizon,

I also draw your attention to further emails I sent to Tim Parker and Paula Vennells
under the Freedom of Information act asking them to reveal details of the Known
Error Logs in January that should have contained details of the fix to be applied in
connection with this error. These requests were acknowledged but I was refused
access to that information.

Let me be clear why I requested that information. Unless the email from ATOS to Ms
Baker was completely disingenuous, and if so that would be extremely damning in its
own right, the contents show that Fujitsu/ATOS completely misunderstood the error
that was reported to them, made no attempt at all to establish the real cause of it
and provided a fix for something that had not caused the error in the first place. If
Fujitsu and ATOS (whose PO team I believe consist mainly of ex POL employees) are
POL00119584
POL00119584

behaving like this now in 2015/16 it is entirely likely that they were behaving like
this in 2010 when Ms Misra was placed on trial. It is, and would be, substantial new
evidence which you yourselves declare in your letter to me that you have a duty to
disclose to the defence even subsequently to a prosecution being brought.

With the police now involved and my evidence to them having being considered by
two leading barristers to be reliable, one of which, Mr Stephen Mason, was
responsible for the publication of the transcript of the trial of Ms Seema Misra, I would
urge you to now consider the contents of the blog I wrote yesterday.
https://problemswithpol.wordpress.com/2016/06/30/what-are-you-waiting-for-paula

I find it utterly appalling that Post Office Ltd seek to prolong the suffering of a woman
who very clearly did not commit the crime she was accused and convicted of. You
have the opportunity to contact the CCRC straight away on this matter and ensure Ms
Misra suffers no longer than she has to. I urge you to do so today. At the moment I
am prepared to consider incompetence as the rational behind these contemptible
failings of POL to understand that Horizon is capable of producing intermittent errors
that result in huge paper losses at subpostmaster branches. Any subsequent delay
will make me consider the far more serious matter of conspiracy.

The ongoing police investigation will take time. The CCRC has already sat on this
case for a year now. Seema Misra deserves justice today.

I look forward to hearing from you without delay.
Kind regards

Tim McCormack

FESS GIOIA ICI CIGISI CIS ISIS GRISI SIAC SSIS IBISI SI RISK IACI EI ak ai a a aK ak a a ak

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FEI IGA IIASA CICA GCI Ar
