POL00294829

POL00294829
[ INTERNAL AUDIT & RISK MANAGEMENT (IA&RM) - ROYAL MAIL CONFIDENTIAL.
From: Stephen A Collins, To: Susan Crichton
cc: Kevin Gilliland Derek K Foster

Sarah Hall Peter Tansley
Ref: AR11/005 Andy J Jones Ernst & Young

Lesley J Sewell
Date: 5" August 2011 Paula Vennells

Mike Young

[ TERMS OF REFERENCE — PRIVILEGED PREPARED IN CONTEMPLATION OF LITIGATION ]

Post Office Ltd - Review of Horizon System Controls

Background

The Post Office Limited network of some 11,000 branches processes client and business transactions in
excess of £100 billion annually. The majority of transactions are conducted on behalf of other parties, for
example, receiving payment for domestic utility bills and paying out National Savings.

Customer transactions are captured through the Horizon electronic point of sale system in branches and
transmitted to central systems (utility payment, external banking and Post Office finance systems)
throughout the day. On a nightly basis, daily summaries are transferred into the central accounting
system, POL SAP (a SAP package). The translation process between the two systems is enabled by the
Reference Data System (RDS).

Objectives & Scope

The overall objective of the review is to provide assurance that suitable intemal controls operate over
Horizon transactions, the extraction of these for central systems and that appropriate IT management
disciplines provide a stable IT platform.

To assess the adequacy of internal controls over transactions, specific processing risks and associated
key controls will be identified, and walkthrough of some transactions will be undertaken to corroborate the
accuracy of this analysis. Specifically:

e Master data is accurately input to the system.

e Transaction data input to the Horizon system at branches is validated for product, volume and value
and confirmed by customer where appropriate.

e The rules in SAP Middleware for processing branch summary financial transactions are reviewed
regularly to ensure that they incorporate and provide for all combinations of data; and that the
Middleware software is monitored during processing to detect blockages in queues in order that
transactions are not discarded and that appropriate data is uploaded into POL SAP.

e Batch updates are completed timely and accurately for interfaces to other systems.

To assess the suitability of T management disciplines we will review processes that ensure:

« Access to software (Horizon, translation and Middleware) is restricted to relevant staff, i.e. genuine
branch staff, central Post Office and Fujitsu technical support staff.

e Functional changes are initiated through an agreed process and thoroughly tested before approval
and migration into the live environment.

« Capacity for processing is monitored and adequate resources are provided for future processing.

e There are support arrangements to ensure its ongoing availability and for disaster recovery.

The review will also assess the degree to which the issues raised in the 2011 Ernst & Young
Management Letter regarding the Horizon control environment have been addressed by management.

Timescales

Assignment fieldwork is due to commence in September 2011and be completed in October. A draft
report will be agreed with stakeholders, prior to final publication, in November. The final report will be
distributed to relevant stakeholders in the business and will contain an IA&RM overall level of assurance
rating for the areas audited.
