POL00162623
POL00162623

From:

Sent:

To: Elena R Nistor _

Subject: Re: in the loop - BBC Panorama
Attachment: image001 jpg

Attachment: image004.png

Attachment: image002.png

Attachment: image003.jpg

Hi Elena

Thanks for this. It's certainly the case that in the cases referred to us there has been no evidence at all of Horizon
being the reason for any losses in branch. Indeed losses have been clearly the result of individual action.

Happy to discuss of course. I am not around on Thursday so maybe on Friday morning?

Best wishes
Mark

Sent from my iPad

On 18 Aug 2015, at 09:46, Elena R Nistor!”

wrote:

Hi Mark,

The programme last evening was indeed damaging and I think highlights again the questions about
Horizon systems and if it is true there were bugs within the system?

I know our external auditor raised a couple of years some issues regarding the change management
process for Horizon.

Would you have time for a 15 min chat this week at any point (less tomorrow as I am not in the office)?

Regards
Elena
Elena R. Nistor-Lustermans
fo Internal Audit Manager IT

EX MSc, CIA, CISA
Post Office Ltd
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London
EC2Y 9AQ

elena.r.nistoré

From: Communications Team

Sent: 18 August 2015 09:31

To: Communications Team

Subject: in the loop - BBC Panorama
<image001.jpg>

Mark Davies
Communications &
Corporate Affairs
Director

POL00162623
POL00162623

Hello

As you know, the BBC Panorama programme broadcast some very
damaging and unsubstantiated allegations about the business last
night.

We are today assessing next steps, and specifically including whether
we will take any action through legal or other avenues.

My judgement is that the programme did not produce anything we
were unfamiliar with, but was very one-sided. .

It is welcome, however, that the issue has not so far been picked up
widely by other media.

Please do let me know direct at mark.r.daviesi.
you or anyone in your team has questions or comments about the

programme. It will have come across as emotive and shocking to those
unfamiliar with the issue. There is much more to it, unreported by the
BBC, but any colleague with any question shouldn't hesitate to raise it.

I hope this is helpful.

M. Davies

