POL00207767
POL00207767

From: Andy Holt

Sent: Fri 22/08/2014

To: Lesley J Sewell t
Neil Wilkinson{,

Subject: URGENT FW: Second Sight Part Two report

Attachment: Briefing_Report_Part_Two[1].pdf

Lesley/Dave

To ensure you are aware of the current situation on this. In summary the report makes similar allegations to the
initial report SS produced. The Sparrow team were not expecting this to get approval to be sent out as they had many
challenges to it. Belinda is currently liaising with Sir Anthony Hooper but may not get him to agree to stop it.

This reports is only to be sent out to participants in the scheme and it marked as confidential but we are aware (as
always) that it could get leaked.

I have engaged Fujitsu who are reviewing this line by line and will respond (via James & their Legal team). I have also
spoken to Andy Garner who will look at whether there is an impact on our MS Suppliers, we can then decide if we talk
to them. Obviously we don’t want to set hares running on this but do want to make sure we contain and manage our
relationships. I know Belinda has also spoken to Nick Kennet and Martin George.

The comms teams are working out the best plan in terms of response. At this stage, if the report goes out I think it is
likely we will just send out a letter/statement to participants explaining we don’t agree with the report or its

contents. This would then be followed up with a more detailed response next week.

If you have any questions feel free to call me. I am off next week but call if you need to discuss.
Dave, lets catch up later I might need you to cover for me on this one while I am away next week.

Regards

Andy

From: David Oliver1

Sent: 21 August 2014 17:54

To: Andy Holt

Cc: Rodric Williams; Belinda Crowe

Subject: Second Sight Part Two report

Andy

Please find attached Second Sight’s Part Two report. This may be being released to applicants in the next few days.
Can you please pass on to Fujitsu for review and let them know that Rod is available to discuss (eg with James
Davidson) as appropriate.

Happy to provide further background etc

Thanks

David
David Oliver
Programme Manager

POL00207767
POL00207767

Mobile
