POL00111095
POL00111095

Briefing for Paula Vennells meeting with Postal Affairs Minister, Kelly Tolhurst MP

Date: 3 September
Time: 12:45-13:30
Location: Department for Business, 1 Victoria Street

You are meeting with the new Postal Affairs Minister, Kelly Tolhurst MP, on September 3rd
from 12:45-1:30pm. This is an opportunity to present the work of the Post Office in an exciting
manner, showcasing our commitment to increase our profit and drive innovation. In the time
available, you will wish to focus on a limited number of core themes and messages, as outlined
below:

Key Messages

POL00111095
POLO00111095

Turnaround of the PO

a)

Transformation

The business is delighted to have made a profit for the second successive year, with strong
performances in banking and mails.

Over the past few years we have transformed the Post Office network, taking the
organisation from £120m annual losses to a £35m trading profit (excluding Government
support). N.B we will be laying the annual reports and accounts before the House after
recess.

Throughout this process we have modernised over 8,000 branches, securing an additional
200,000 opening hours and 4,000 branches open on Sundays.

At the same time we have reduced the network subsidy from Government from £210m pa
to £60m pa, reducing to £50m from next year.

Government Funding

We welcome the Government’s support in backing us with the recent funding commitment
which will enable us to ‘finish the job’ in terms of making the Post Office commercially
sustainable.

This funding will ensure that we can achieve our goals; we know we need to get this right
That means building a sustainable and profitable business so that we can reinvest in our
network of Post Office branches.

We are now entering discussions about what the business will need after 2021 in terms of
working capital, access to borrowing and network subsidy.

Our future ambitions

We recognise that being reliant on Government funding is not sustainable.

For the coming year, we will maintain our focus on costs and simplification, and seek to
exploit new opportunities, for example in digital identity.

We will also be continuing with our major programme of IT improvements, stabilising
existing systems and reducing operational risk.

We are confident in our ability to do this, which is why we have set a £100m operating
profit within three years.

Our management structure

We have a strong independent board, and a highly experienced Group Executive who are
working hard to achieve these successes.

We have a very positive relationship with BEIS and UKGI and we are keen to see this
strengthen and deepen.

We now have a whole new set of colleagues at UKGI, and a fresh BEIS sponsoring team, and
we are working together to bring one another up to speed on key issues and refining our
ways of working to stimulate efficiency and predictability around routine process, to create
space for more strategic/commercial discussions.
POL00111095
POL00111095

Future expansion plans - network growth

Strategy:

e We know that customers want convenient local access to branches near where they live
and work -~ especially for things like home shopping returns, posting items and withdrawing
cash etc.

¢ We've got an ambition to grow our network, including doubling the number of branches in
towns and city centres.

¢ Over the last few years we've already opened new branches in communities which did not
have a Post Office - including a 24 hour branch on New Oxford St - and our focus remains
on opening additional smaller branches so that we can tap into new customer demand.

We have made significant progress in recent years meaning we start from a position
of strength

POL00111095
POLO00111095

Customer services:
a) Banking Framework

« The banking framework, serving 99% of the UK’s retail and 95% of small business, is going
from strength to strength with significant growth in business deposits particularly
(increasing c.40% in the last year).

¢ Later this year (likely October/Nov), we will be extending access to certain Credit Unions,
providing them with access to an unrivalled branch network.

¢ The contribution of the banking framework to HMG’s efforts to reduce financial exclusion
has been recognised, with Paula Vennells now part of HMG’s Financial Inclusion Policy
Forum, co-chaired by HMT and DWP, and our active participation in the working group that
reports to it.

e As the original framework approaches a key moment (repricing at the ‘3 year’ point ready
for the period from 01/01/20-31/12/22), increasing what we charge the banks to
sustainably cope with the impact of additional cash will be a key task.

e We welcome support to ensure that UK businesses and communities still have a sustainable
and accessible place to bank as that change continues.

e Itis important that Government supports the Post Office when the banks make noise about
rising costs.

b) Payzone:

¢ As part of our growth strategy, Post Office has recently announced its intention to acquire
Payzone’s bill payments business. This is a strategic investment that means the Post Office
will be able to offer a combined network of nearly 25,000 payment points across the UK.

e This will then be subject to CMA approval. We are very happy to provide the Minister with a
more detailed briefing should she request this. UKGI officials are aware of this acquisition,
which we are hoping to complete by the end of October.

c) Royal Mail:

e The exclusive arrangement between Post Office Ltd and Royal Mail Group for mails
distribution is due for renegotiation, with the current contract due to expire in 2022.

e Our objectives will be to maximise the value of the contract to Post Office, seeking some
material improvements, particularly to challenge and/or leverage some of the exclusivity
provisions.

* Specifically, we want to be able to sell Royal Mail products online and to offer a non-
exclusive service for click and collect. We believe these issues are critical to meeting
customer needs.

d) Bank of Ireland

e Post Office and Bank of Ireland are engaged in the re-negotiation of their long-standing
partnership covering travel money and retail financial services products.

e The Post Office interests lie in preserving the best aspects of the current arrangements,
while re-balancing economics, re-aligning incentives and relaxing some of the exclusivity
arrangements. We are likely to be working with more FS partners over time.

e Post Office is focused on the development of a range of innovative products designed to
appeal to those facing particular challenges in access to mortgage finance, especially first
time buyers without substantial savings.

e) Customer Hub

¢ Post Office has launched its first mobile application to support its successful Travel Money
Card and Travel Insurance business.

e This is not only a great way to stimulate demand for these products and simplify the
customer journey, but is an important proof point in our plans to digitise our products and
services.
POL00111095
POLO00111095

Government /citizen services:

The Post Office is a natural partner for Government across range of services and policy issues

Cabinet paper:

Post Office is in early stage discussions with UKGI and BEIS colleagues on the
development of a Cabinet paper designed to highlight the role the Post Office can play in
helping Government Departments to deliver public services and realise their public policy
objectives.

The Post Office is already doing this: for instance, the banking framework is helping to
address the challenge of access presented by financial exclusion by making its entire
network available to all retail and small business banking customers irrespective of who
they currently bank with, and plans to extend this to credit unions from Q3 2018. (N.B
see p8 for a more detailed briefing).

Digital Identity

Brexit

Digital identity is a strategic opportunity for Post Office in support of UK plc on the
global digital stage; though much remains to be done to stimulate the development of
this market, including by Government.

For instance, the take up of digital identity that meets high government standards will
remain slow while Verify is limited to accessing a relatively small number of public
services.

We would like to see cross Government championing of Verify as the preferred, long
term solution for Government Departments and Agency use cases, permitted use for
private sector applications, and regulatory and legislative equivalence for certified
digital identity to that of government issued documents (e.g. a regulatory framework
that supports the use of Verify to open a bank account).

Our market share of verify is 54% and we have the best completion rate. The
Government Digital Service is currently challenging us to reduce the cost per
transaction.

Whilst there are inevitably some challenges presented to the Post Office as a result of
Brexit, we remain confident that there will also be a number of opportunities for us to
support Government, and we are already in conversations with officials about some of
these.

For instance, it is possible that millions of UK holiday makers will require international
driving permits to take their cars over to the continent after Brexit, and we are
discussing ways in which Post Office might help issue these with the Department for
Transport.

There may also be opportunities for Post Office to help with the process of helping EU
nationals residing here to document their rights, including their right to work, in the UK
post-Brexit.

We want to actively position Post Office, and our unrivalled reach across the country, as
unique resource for Government.
POL00111095
POLO00111095

Risks and Topical Issues

[N.B: You should avoid any detailed conversation on this topic to protect the litigation.
A specific meeting has been arranged for 17 October. The Minister has also been
briefed to avoid detailed discussion by UKGI].

a) Postmaster Group Litigation

Detailed briefings have been provided to UKGI under a protocol which is designed to protect Post
Office’s privileged legal advice.

Litigation follows a number of years during which Post Office sought to understand the
concerns of postmasters and address their issues. While many of the claims alleged
faults with the Horizon computer system, to date no evidence of systemic problems
have emerged, rather there is a pattern of operational errors in branch, as well as, in
specific cases, where Post Office could have done more to support postmasters.
Litigation was commenced in early 2017 and involves claims by 561 postmasters. The
specific details of their claims have not been provided, and we do not have any details
as to the possible quantum of damages that they may seek.

Litigation is being managed by the Court in phases:

© Common Issues trial (4 weeks in November 2018) - to determine the proper
construction of the contract between Post Office and agents, and whether
approximately 21 further terms should be implied into that contract

o Horizon trial (4 weeks in March 2019) to determine the Horizon issues - the
questions to be posed are still being agreed between the respective experts

o Thereafter, and to be scheduled, one or more trials to determine whether in
specific cases Post Office was in breach of contractual and other duties to
postmasters, as a result of which postmasters suffered ‘damage’ and / or loss
for which they should be compensated by way of a financial award of damages.

The key risks in the litigation are that:

o the Court’s decision on one or more of the ‘Common Issues’ has a material
adverse impact on Post Office’s operations, and/or these operational issues
create cash flow concerns

o the Court determines that there are systemic issues with the Horizon system,
such that transactions between postmasters and Post Office are not seen to be
reliable

© Public opinion goes against Post Office as a result of the decision such that we
lose both the trust of the public and of our key (government and commercial)
stakeholders.

We are developing contingency plans to address these risks and will discuss these in
more detail at the meeting on 17 October.
POL00111095
POLO00111095

b) Back Office Transformation Programme
Background

e The Post Office is transforming its back office systems as part of prioritised IT
investment at all levels in the business.
o Our back office systems handle £60 billion a year of financial transactions for our
clients and customers
o They enable us to trade and run our business effectively —- running the supply
chain operation, settling with clients, paying our agents and employees and
reporting financially and operationally
e The current main platform for back office systems, POL SAP, is an ageing system dating
back to 2003 and no longer supported by our support vendors Fujitsu and Accenture.
e Through transforming our back office, we will be able to run the business more
efficiently, as well as develop vital new capabilities which will provide better commercial
insights to help us improve products and services.

Progress to date

e The Back Office Transformation Programme, which started last year, is responsible for
migrating all our financial processes off POL SAP and onto the Core Finance System
(CFS), and for implementing a new IT system - Cash Web Community (CWC) - within
the cash centres which form part of our Supply Chain.

o Parts of the programme are now complete and we are now making the changes
needed to build to ‘go live’ on the migration of all financial processes on POL SAP
to CFS, along with implementing CWC within all our cash centres (apart from
Belfast where changes have already been made).

© The go-live date has slipped and we have not yet finalised a new date.

o The earliest possible option is pre-Christmas but it may be that we will have to
go into the New Year.

o Weare in the process of building contingency plans.

o Some of the ways of working benefits will be delivered in this phase and some
will require further work — for example, we are expecting to reduce manual
billing interventions by circa 50%.

e We have a ‘safety first’ approach to ‘go live’ and there is significant testing and
rehearsal involved. Throughout the programme, risks are being carefully identified and
mitigated and there is comprehensive contingency planning.

o Our Belfast cash centre has successfully implemented the new cash system
(involving 80% of the functionality that we will be using in cash centres on the
mainland). But contingency on the cash supply side includes the ability to ‘roll-
back’ within one or two days of the cutover and, beyond that, a contingency
system which can be implemented to ensure that the network is adequately
funded.

o When the vital transformation of our back office systems is complete the
changes made will increase automation, removing the need for manual
workarounds. They will improve our reporting, controls and decision making
through single source data, as well as providing better employee and user
experience and engagement with customers and suppliers

o Simplification and user-friendly training will also increase understanding of end
to end processes, so people can work together more effectively to drive
continuous improvement

e The transformation underpins our North Star ambitions: making our business simpler to
run and providing much enhanced commercial insight that will help drive decision
making for achieving our key market ambitions as we grow our network and modernise
our products and services.
POL00111095
POLO00111095

c) Cabinet Paper

In conversation with Tom Cooper (UKGI non-executive Board member), Alex Chisholm,
floated the idea of some form of cross-government communication to try to kick start
some reflection across Departments about the role Post Office does and, critically, could
in future play in helping HMG as a whole to:

o further stimulate the transformation the delivery of public services (by, for
instance, simplifying existing processes, e.g. digital identity solutions for
regulatory purposes including know-your-customer regulations); and

© contribute to the achievement of Government goals (in policy terms, for instance
in helping to meet the challenges of financial exclusion).

Positioning ourselves as a partner to Government, rather than appearing simply to be
seeking preferential treatment in the award of contracts to give our Postmasters more
transactions to perform on a piecemeal basis, could attract renewed interest in our
organisation. The turnaround in our financial performance, while simultaneously and
dramatically reducing the need for public subsidy, is eye catching in and of itself.

The objective of the paper would be to shine a spotlight on our successful, and
deepening, transformation, and to set out our stall as a confident organisation making a
positive offer of mutually beneficial collaboration to HMG. From the perspective of
Government Departments, there are powerful arguments to be made for partnering
with the Post Office:

our shared public service ethos;

status as an HMG asset/investment;

traditional strength in network reach;

network expansion, through NNL and Payzone;

existing systems/infrastructure which already supports delivery of SGEIs, and
which can be flexed further;

o market leader in Verify;

o new capabilities in banking, identity and digital.

We are able to draw on existing examples, including POCA and the Banking Framework,
to support our case, but our main goal would be to highlight areas in which further
collaboration would likely make public policy and commercial sense, e.g. POCA
successor, support to Universal Credit, Pensions Dashboard, a raft of Home Office
Identity requirements including passports and post Brexit status, individual voter
registration for Electoral Commission, and so on. The ambition of the paper ought to be
to stimulate further thought and discussions in Government Departments, to generate
ideas which they can then work with BEIS and Post Office to flesh out.

Following recent changes at BEIS/UKGI, this work will be taken forward with BEIS and
Post Office leading, and UKGI providing some additional ideas and support. A tri-partite
meeting will take place on 5 September at official level, to ensure that all participants
are aligned in terms of the purpose and scope of the paper, and to begin a discussion
about the likely audience (on the assumption that full Cabinet might be over-
ambitious), content, and timing. As we continue to canvass ideas and generate early
drafts, we will engage colleagues from across the business, and work closely with GE to
ensure strategic alignment and support.

00000
POL00111095
POLO00111095

d) Industrial relations

a)

Relations with both the CWU and Unite are stable and things are relatively quiet at the
moment but we can expect them to active around the Taylor review, pay negotiations,
pensions, and the retail strategy. Since separation from the Royal Mail in 2012, the
Post Office has remained committed to working in partnership with our trade unions,
and relations with both CWU and Unite are broadly positive. Our customers, colleagues,
and the 50,000 people who work in our branches across the UK come first at all times.

b) The CWU have asked Post Office to consider replicating the pensions agreement

c)

reached with Royal Mail to implement a new ‘Collective Defined Contribution’ pension
scheme in PO. Talks are in their early stages and are on-going but it is worthy of note
that this is likely to be CWU number one priority for 18/19. Unite are also supportive of
the CWU about this proposal.

No pay agreement currently reached with CWU. The anniversary for the pay award was.
April 1st. Talks are on-going and have so far been constructive. If we fail to make
progress with CWU on negotiations over pay and pensions, then it is possible that CWU
will compound both issues and ballot for industrial action.
POL00111095
POLO00111095

e) Topical Issues
Wishaw Post Office

e Earlier this month, Marion Fellows MP wrote to the Postal Services Minister to complain about
the temporary closure of Wishaw Post Office. We have worked closely with our colleagues at
UKGI to help draft a response to go from the Minister, but she may still ask for an update:

¢ Wishaw Post Office was temporarily closed due to a large deficit being identified at the branch
following an audit of their Post Office accounts.

¢ Where unfortunate circumstances like those at Wishaw Post Office arise, we will attempt to
appoint a Temporary Operator to take over and resume services, normally at the existing
site.

e Post Office will invite bids from a number of potential temporary operators. This is not a
reflection of general viability issues with Post Office offers; it is normal commercial practice
to seek more than one bidder to provide temporary services to ensure the best terms are
agreed.

¢ However these arrangements are exceptional because the Temporary Operator is not just
negotiating with Post Office for the temporary contract but will also need to separately agree
arrangements with the current owner of the premises (most often the Postmaster that may
have been suspended for example).

« The difficulty can arise where the Temporary Operator is unable to agree reasonable terms
with the owner of the premises, as happened in this instance.

* This issue has now been resolved and acceptable terms agreed with the Temporary Operator
(services re-commenced on 17th August)

« Wearealso looking at our processes internally, to work out what else can be done to support
the supply of temporary postmasters.

Members Lobby Post Office

e Weare aware that the previous Minister was approached by a number of MPs about our plans
to change services in the Palace of Westminster

e Asaresult, when the House returns, it is likely that Kelly Tollhurst may also receive a number
of queries.

e There are currently 3 Post Office counters in the Palace of Westminster - Central Lobby,
Members Lobby and Portcullis House.

«This is a very costly operation for Post Office and we plan to close the Members Lobby counter
later this year. Transaction levels are very small and 98% of the work is Royal Mail related,
which a dedicated Royal Mail team will continue to service.

10
POL00111095
POLO00111095

Annex A - Biography

Kelly Tolhurst

:
jency: Rochester and Strood /
Majority: 9,850 /
Party: Conservative
Position: Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

Background

In 2014 Tolhurst was selected in an open postal primary, to contest the seat of Rochestor and
Strood for the by-election triggered by Mark Reckless’ resignation from the party (in order to
stand for UKIP). She was selected with just under a month to go before the by-election. She
was unable to defeat Reckless, losing by 2,920 votes, although this was a better defeat than
the polls had expected.

In January 2015 she was selected again, with no other candidates coming forward. She then
won with a safe majority of 7,133 (which she increased to 9,850 at the 2017 General Election).
David Cameron said that his sweetest moment of the election was seeing her win the seat
back for the party.

She has lived in the local area her whole life, and her father was a local boat builder. Before
becoming a parliamentarian she ran a marine survey business. She was a councillor on
Medway Council from 2011 to 2018.

Political career

She announced her support for Theresa May to become the next Conservative Party Leader
and Prime Minister in 2016.

Kelly Tolhurst was appointed PPS to Priti Patel as Secretary of State for International
Development in 2016 and later went on to be the PPS to Greg Clark as Secretary of State for
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy from 2017-18. She also had a stint on the Business
Select Committee from 2016-2017. In January 2018 she was promoted to become an Assistant
Government Whip.

On the issue of Brexit, at the time of the vote, the Minister wrote an article saying she was
genuinely conflicted as to how to vote. However, ultimately she decided to vote remain,
saying: “Having listened to the debate, looked at the facts, and spoken to prominent
campaigners on both sides, I have now made my own decision that I will be voting to remain
on the 23rd June. I believe that the risks to my country will be greater if we leave than if we
remain part of the EU at this point in time.”

Post Office activity

In February 2017 she criticised the decision by the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) not to review
the closure of Rochester High Street’s NatWest bank branch: “Community fears are founded on
the basis that the rate of closures on the high street will leave local businesses and vulnerable
residents with reduced banking access, with the Post Office unable to cope with the demand of
a rapidly growing town.” She also tabled written questions on support for high street banking.

In December 2017, Kelly visited Strood Post Office, as part of our Christmas visits programme.
She tweeted positively about her visit.

Rochester and Strood Constituency Post Office Network

e 17 open Post Office branches
e 14 branches have been modernised
11
POL00111095
POL00111095

3 Main branches, 11 local branches and 3 traditional

9 Urban and 8 Rural (1 Community status branch - High Halstow

Over 500 additional opening hours each week as a result of Network Transformation

9 branches are open on Sundays.

At Christmas, Kelly visited Strood Post Office to thank the staff for their hard work. This
visit was a great success.

Most recently, in April, we opened Wainscott Road Post Office in her constituency. We will
be inviting to do another Christmas visit this year, in her official Ministerial capacity.

Rochester ME1 1JT MAIN Yes 4.5 I Urban
Horsted ME1 2TG Local Yes Yes 71_I Urban
Maidstone

Road ME1 3DT Local Yes Yes §8.5 I Urban
Lower Halling ME2 1BS Local Yes 12 I Rural
Cuxton ME2 1EY Traditional Rural
The Temple ME2 2HB Local Yes Yes 79.5 I Urban
Bligh Way ME2 2XxG Local Yes Yes 62 I Urban
Wainscott Road_I ME2 4LA Local Yes Yes Urban
Strood ME2 4SL. MAIN Yes 4 I Urban
Isle Of Grain MES OBJ Local Yes Yes 74.5 I Rural

Cliffe Woods ME3 8HX Le

Yes Yes 57.5 I Rural

High Halstow ME3 8SN Rural
Hoo ME3 9AH Local Yes Yes 66.5 I Rural
All Hallows. ME3 9QJ Local Yes Yes 6.5 I Rural
Lower Stoke ME3 9RA Traditional Rural
Chatham ME4 4JG MAIN Yes 1_I Urban
Davis Estate MES 9UR Local Yes 17 I Urban

12
