POL00097736
POL00097736

Message
From: Ivan Swepson [
Sent: 20/03/2013 08:
To: gareth jenkins [.
cc: Simon Baker Dave Posnett
/ Craig Tuthill
Rod Ismay
Subject: RE: SROO1 - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation

Attachments: SROO1.docx; image001.png; image002.jpg

Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation

Gareth,

Further to my email yesterday Simon Baker has asked if you would lead on the response to this SR please in
light of its’ emphasis on Horizon functionality in response to power and comms failures. Andy Winn will

provide input on the operational procedures given to SPMRs and specifically how POL handled this dispute.

How long do you think you will require for first draft (given Easter coming up) so I can make a note on the
Tracker?

Many thanks, Ivan

Ivan Swepson I IT Separation Programme Office, IT&C

2" Floor Bunhill Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON ECIV 9HQ

From: Ivan Swepson
Sent: Tuesday, March 19, 2013 2:44 PM

To: Craig Tuthill; gareth jenkins (~
Cc: Simon Baker; Alison Bolsover; Dave Posnett; Rodric Williams

Subject: SROO1 - Strictly Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
Sensitivity: Confidential

; Andrew Winn; Rod Ismay

Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege —- Not for Wider Circulation

Further to Simon’s email below:

1. Andy, will you take the lead again please on the draft response with input from Gareth (words and
flowchart) on Horizon operational design for power and comms failures. How long will you require for
first draft (given Easter coming up) so I can make a note on the Tracker?

2. Who is best placed to enable and facilitate the Horizon testing requested by Second Sight? I suggest
we need suitable access to a Horizon terminal but I also think we ought to ask for a test plan so we can

POL-0097319
POL00097736
POL00097736

see the number and type of tests to be done to ensure a) the approach is robust (from a system testing
point of view) and b) the environment is correctly configured and support to enable the testing.

Thanks, Ivan

Ivan Swepson I IT Separation Programme Office, IT&C

From: Simon Baker

Sent: Tuesday, March 19, 2013 1:05 PM

To: Craig Tuthill; Dave Posnett; gareth jenkins (;
Ismay; Alison Bolsover

Subject: FW: Various items

Sensitivity: Confidential

} Ivan Swepson; Andrew Winn; Rod

All

Please find attached the next spot review. Also some comments below on what lan expects us to include in our
response.

Regards, Simon

From: Ian Henderson [-
Sent: 19 March 2013 12:14

To: Simon Baker

Cc: 'Ron Warmington’; Susan Crichton
Subject: Various items

Sensitivity: Confidential

Simon
This is a general catch up on a number of issues:
1. I attach Spot Review SROO1.docx which is the John Armstrong case we discussed on the last call
2. The main issue in SROO1 is the automated and largely silent recovery process which occurs when Horizon
detects either a power or a communications failure. Can you ask Fujitsu to provide us with a clear written
description, including flowcharts, of how this is designed to operate for both old and new Horizon?
3. Tied in to the above, we would like to run some tests on a live Horizon terminal (possibly a training terminal)
when we execute various types of transaction and at the same time cut the power or the internet connection.
We will then observe and analyse the recovery process. It will be important that the terminal being used is a
close to a live system as is possible. I assume the training office terminal in your building will be the best place to

do this, however we will probably need to book this for a number of sessions. Will this be possible?

Many thanks. I look forward to seeing you on Thursday afternoon

POL-0097319
POL00097736
POL00097736

With best wishes

Tan R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Website: http://advancedforensics.com

Linkedin: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be privileged.
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at ir
delete the email and any attachments.

JOE OIG I SOI IOSD IODA SOD I IIIA IOI III IIIA AISA I IOI I AIH

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

SoHE SSO SO IO III I IIo II IDIOT ISO DI ADI IE

POL-0097319
