POL00101915
POL00101915

MS Cameron McKenna LLP

. Mitre House
BBC Programme Legal Advice 160 Aldersgate Street
British Broadcasting Corporation London EC1A 4DD
Room WC 2251 DX 135316 BARBICAN 2
White City
London
W127TS
URGENT
NOT FOR BROADCAST E susan barty_. 3
16 December 2014
Your ref
Our ref SCB/SCB/MIT/111850.00038
Dear Sirs

Post Office Limited - The One Show

We write further to our letter of 15 December 2014 and, in particular, in relation to yesterday evening’s and
today’s correspondence between Mr Mark Davies of Post Office Limited and Jane French and Nick Wallis
of the BBC.

We note that you are proposing to include an opinion from Mr Sandip Patel QC in your broadcast. Our
client has been provided with extremely limited information about the comments that Mr Patel QC will be
making. Based on the little detail which has been provided, it would appear that Mr Patel QC’s comments
are largely speculative. Indeed, as stated in Mr Davies’ email of 19:42 on 15 December 2014, the comments
from Mr Patel QC would appear to lack any evidence to support them.

Our client has repeatedly asked to be furnished with any evidence to support the allegations of any
miscarriage of justice and, more particularly, to support Mr Patel QC’s conclusion that there “may” be
grounds for arguing that the Horizon system is unreliable and that some of the convictions of Postmasters
in the mediation scheme “might” be unsafe. We refer in particular to Mr Davies’ emails of 19:42 on 15
December 2014 and 11:48 and 12:19 on 16 December 2014. In addition, we would draw your attention to
the letter dated 5 December 2014 from Mr Rodric Williams of Post Office Limited to Mr Nick Wallis of
the BBC. Despite these repeated requests, you have failed to set out in any detail the evidence upon which
you and Mr Patel QC bases your respective statements. Our client is not aware of Mr Patel QC being
involved in any relevant case which would give him a basis for an opinion.

UK - 202731542.2

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registration number 0C310335. It is a body corporate which uses the word
"partner" to refer to a member, oF an employee oF consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications. It is authorised and regulated by the Solieitors Regulation Authority of
England and Wales with SRA number 423370 and by the Law Society of Scotland with registered number 47313. A list of members and their professional qualifications is open to
inspection atthe registered office, Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London CIA 4DD. Members are either solicitors or registered foreign lawyers. VAT registration umber
974 899 925. Further information about the firm can be found at www.ems-eniek.com

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a member of CMS Legal Services EEIG (CMS EEIG), a European Economic Interest Grouping that coordinates an organisation of independent
law firms. CMS EEIG provides no client services. Such services are solely provided by CMS EEIG's member firms in their respective jurisdictions. CMS EEIG and each of its
‘member firms are separate and legally distinet entities, and no such entity has any authority to bind any other. CMS EEIG and each member firm are liable only for their own acts
‘or omissions and not those of each other. The brand name "CMS" and the term "firm are used to refer to some or all of the member firms or thei offices. Further information ean
bbe found at www.crnslegal.com

Notice: the firm does not accept service by e-mail of court proceedings, other processes or formal notices of any kind without specific prior written agreetpent.
POL00101915
POL00101915

If you are in possession of any evidence to support any allegation of a miscarriage of justice, then we would
ask that this material be disclosed as soon as possible, such that our client is given a fair opportunity to
respond to the allegations. The BBC Editorial Guidelines stipulate that our client should be “given enough
information and detail about the arguments and allegations to understand them and give an informed
response”. In our view, you have fallen short of this standard. If you intend to persist with including the
seemingly unsubstantiated comments of Mr Patel QC and the allegations of miscarriages of justice, then
you should include a statement in the programme explaining that our client has repeatedly asked to be
provided with details of the evidence relied upon but that the BBC has refused to provide this evidence.

We also note that by email of 13:55 on 16 December 2014 to Mr Davies, Mr Wallis of the BBC has raised
a number of additional questions. As stated in correspondence, our client is struggling to understand what
your central allegation is. That you are making new lines of enquiry of our client with little more than 24
hours until the broadcast of the programme in question is very concerning. Please can you explain why
these further enquiries are only now being raised at this very late stage. As stated in our previous letter, our
client has not been given a fair opportunity to respond to the allegations.

Despite, this lack of clarity, what is evident is that the allegations which you are proposing to make in your
programme are extremely serious and there is a significant risk of your programme misrepresenting the
facts and causing serious harm to our client. Our client delivers products and services for a wide variety of
third party organisations using the Horizon system and, furthermore, has major franchise partnerships with
several big retailers which use the Horizon system. There is therefore a significant risk that your allegations
will cause or are likely to cause serious financial loss to our client.

All of our client’s rights remain reserved.

Yours faithfully

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP

UK - 202731542.2

we
