POL00149466
POL00149466

From: Westbrook, Mark \(UK - Manchester\

Sent: Mon 10/11/2014.

To: Parsons,

Cc: James, Gareth \(UK -
Subject: RE: Remote access issue [BD-4A.F1D20472253]

Attachment: FW: Branch Database and Change Management Additional Questions

Please find attached the original email trail provided by Fujitsu now Rod has ok’d for release.
Thanks,

Mark

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C303675. Its registered office is 2, New Street,
Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited ("DTTL”), a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL
and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient{s), please (1) notify it.security.uf by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
use of this communication is strictly prohi munications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information jn.this.email.which_have.nat. beendelivecer_huway of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
From: Rodric Williams [mailto GRO 3

Sent: 07 November 2014 14:49

To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester); Eames, Amy

Subject: RE: Remote access issue [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Mark,
I hope you are well.

Please release the Fujitsu "Balancing Transaction" process email to Andy Parsons at Bond Dickinson. Please treat this
email as our consent to release to Bond Dickinson (copying me) any further information you hold which you obtained
through your work for us on “Project Zebra”

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

i) 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V $HQ

i)

Postline: L..
POL00149466
POL00149466

iS)

®

Post Office stories

®

@postofficenews

©

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailto:
Sent: 04 November 2014 1
To: Rodric Williams . -
Cc: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester) : GRO 3 Eames, Amy
Subject: Remote access issue [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Rodric

Mark has an email from FJ that describes the controls around how FJ use the "Balancing Transaction" process. I'd be
grateful if you could confirm to Mark (cc'd above) that he can release the email to BD.

It would be useful if you could also confirm that Deloitte can release any other documents to BD on this subject as
needed (I don’t think we will need much else but it might save a bit of time).

Thanks

Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin)

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

hments is confidential and may be I
access this e- ‘hments. If you are not rodric.william
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or &

The information in this e
nail and any a

nly is authorised to
sible and delete any

please notify andrew.parsong

GRO
nmunication or attachments is prohibited and

ally privileged and protected by law, rodrie. william

iv Be unlawful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any lachment.,

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equi Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

POL00149466
POL00149466

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors ion Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Je SD ISIS IID III II IID IDO IO IID IID ISS III III III III II III III
