POLO0100165
POL00100165

Message

From:

on behalf of — David Oliver1:

Sent: 03/02/2014 18

To: Paula Vennells;

ce: Belinda Crowe}

Subject: For 1130 meeting - Mediation Scheme

Attachments: Second Sight Engagement Letter 030214.docx; Draft Side Letters - arbuthnot and MPs.doc; Draft meeting note
ARBUTHNOT 28012014 (2).docx

Paula,

Following your meeting with James Arbuthnot Chris and I have been working to land Second Sight’s terms of
engagement. This work has been complicated by a JFSA led push to widen the terms of reference of the Working Group
to include all Horizon related matters. Even with the narrow ToRs there remain a number of outstanding areas:

Their desire to be able to act against POL, as an expert witnesses or otherwise— contrary to the Board’s desire
to permanently restrict this. I have drafted the engagement letter to stop them for 2 years from the end of the
scheme.

e Their desire to maintain an ongoing dialogue with “the office of James Arbuthnot” — we have built on your
proposal to draft a side letter reassuring them and have attached a draft with a few options — it would be good
to get your views on this.

e Their ongoing desire to maintain investigations at the behest of other MPS and to provide them with a
running commentary (my paraphrasing) — there is a strategic decision for Post Office to take in terms of its
posture towards Parliament and how it will engage them now and in the run u[p to any further statement.

e The need for some form of final report — This came up at the Working Group on Thursday as well. Here Tony
Hooper (unexpectedly) pushed for some form of a final report on closure of the scheme, including Horizon, any
issues uncovered, and for it to be a working group product. This is not currently included in the engagement
letter as we wanted to talk you through the ramifications — a potential draft clause (almost certainly
undeliverable) is below:

1. Jointly and by agreement with Post Office Second Sight shall produce a report at the closure of the scheme and not
before. This report will summarise the findings of the Working Group, the outcome of the Scheme and the changes
Post Office have made since the initial call for evidence about Horizon.

AOB

It would also be helpful to cover the renewal of contracts for Tony Hooper and Kay.
attach my (currently slightly rough) draft note of the meeting as an aide memoire.

D

David Oliver
Programme Manager
Initial Complaint and Mediation Scheme

GRO

POL-0099748
