POL00337138

POL00337138

Message
From: ‘Susan Crichton [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP

(FYDIBOHF 23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SUSAN CRICHTONCSFA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-BE4237A4AD4F]
Sent: 14/08/2013 13:55:47
To: Parsons, Andre’
[ss] Hugh Flemingto: L
Subject: RE: Response to Brian 's Interim Report.

Attachments: image003.jpg; image004.jpg; image005S.jpg; image006.jpg; image007.jpg; image008.gif; image009.gif; image010.jpg
Agreed — we had a call with CK this morning and we definitely need a con with Brian when he gets back — we may need
this in two parts one with CK and one with just POL ... need to work on tactics. Could you see when he is available?

Susan Crichton I General Counsel

J

From: Parsons, Andre\

Sent: 14 August 2013 08:47

To: Susan Crichton

Subject: RE: Response to Brian Altman QC's Interim Report.

Susan
The bit of the advice that concerns me is:

"I would advise that either the conference calls be continued or that some other centrally based mechanism be designed,
so as to permit the collation of all Horizon-related defects, bugs, complaints, queries and Fujitsu remedies, arising from all
sources, into one location. Such a mechanism would amount to proper compliance with that aspect of a prosecutor's duty
relating to the recording and retention of relevant information."

This approach is very robust but the question is whether this is workable in practice? Perhaps CK could be asked to
consider if there is an easier but still defensible way to meet the disclosure duty?

I'll forward CK's note on to Brian when he gets back from hols. I think a con with CK and Brian (and someone who is not
part of the criminal team to objectively supervise ie. you, me, Rodric or Hugh?) would be a good idea. Do you want me to
make the arrangements for this con?

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

POL00337138
POL00337138

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin)

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Susan Crichton {
Sent: 13 August 2013
To: Parsons, Andrew

Subject: FW: Response to Brian Altman QC's Interim Report.

Thought you might be interested to see what had started that particular “hare” running!

Susan Crichton I General Counsel

eet, London, EC1V 9HQ

From: martin smith:
Sent: 13 August 2013 16:33

To: Susan Crichton

Subject: Response to Brian Altman QC's Interim Report.

Susan,

Please find attached Harry Bowyer's Response to Brian Altman QC's Interim Report. I asked Harry to
draft the response in Simon Clarke's absence given the urgency of the situation.

I would be grateful if Harry's Response could be sent to Brian Altman QC together with the Review
Protocol and Simon Clarke's Advice on Disclosure.

Kind regards,

Martin.

POL00337138
POL00337138

CartwrightKing

mE SLC TT ORS

Nottingham I Birmingham I Derby I Leicester I Sheffield I Newcastle Gateshead

Majority House, 51 Lodge Lane, Derby, DE1 3HB

www.cartwrightking.co.uk v lin] fas) UK

This message is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. If you have received
this in error please delete this message and let us know by email or telephone.
A list of directors is available at each office. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority No:312459. VAT Registration No: 737837295.

Save a tree - and only print emails that you have to.

I iidindninniiiindnniinininiiiniininniniiniidniiiininniiininniii iii arai ii
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JER SEIU SONIA SON IORI IRIS ASO DI I IOI I IIIA IIA TOBIAS ODI AI IAI IIE

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this em:

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally
authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not susan.crichtor{
possible and dele!
be unlawful

vileged and protected by law. susan.cricht nly is
a 1, please notify andrew. parsons, ‘as soon as
any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our

registered office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list of members! names is open to inspection. We use the term partner
to refer toa member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
