POL00202819

POL00202819
From: Anthony Hooper! _
Sent: Thur 10/04/2014 12:12:29 AM (UTC)
To: I Belinda Crowe! }'Alan
Hend i ngela Van-Den-

Ce:

Hailstones,

Claire'f.

David Oliver
Subject: RE: Working Group case conference call

am sorry that the cancellation has caused problems-

. In future we shall consult before any

cancellation.. I have kept myself free for next Thursday. Tony

This email (including attachments) is confidential and may be privileged. If you have received this email in error, please notify Matrix immediately. You may not
copy, forward, disclose or otherwise use any part of it. It is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that this email is virus free and no responsibility is accepted by
Matrix for any loss or damage arising in any way from receipt or use of it. Emails are susceptible to interference. The contents of this email may not have originated
from Matrix, or be accurately reproduced. If verification is required, please request a hard-copy version

From: Kay Linnell.
Sent: 09 April 2014 1
To: ‘Belinda Crowe’; ‘Alan Bates'; lan Henderson’; 'Angela Van-Den-Bogerd'; 'Parsons, Andrew’; 'Ron Warmington’;
'Rodric Williams'; 'Chris Aujard'; Anthony Hooper

Cc: ‘Kathryn Alexander’; 'Shirley Hailstones'; 'Parmenter, Claire’; ‘Jessica Barker’; 'David Oliver1'; cwhi

Dear Belinda

The Working Group is made up of 3 elements the Chair, POL as Respondents and JFSA as the Claimants representative
—all 3 should be consulted if a planned meeting is to be cancelled. The purpose of the weekly phone conference calls
is to make sure the process is on track.

Some deadlines passed today for replies — do you know if they were met?

Kay

Miss Kay Linnell

Kay Linnell & Co
Brick Kiln Cottage
The Avenue, Herriard
POL00202819
POL00202819

Near Basingstoke

Kay Linnell & Co, Brick Kiln Cottage, The Avenue, Herriard, Near Basingstoke, Hampshire RG25 2PR
This communication is confidential and is intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom it is addressed, If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete this email immediately, as any disclosure, copying or distribution is strictly prohibited

From: Belinda Crowe
Sent: 09 April 2014 18:29

To: Alan Bates; 'Ian Henderson’; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; 'Parsons, Andrew’; 'Ron Warmington’; kay
Rodric Williams; Chris Aujard; ‘Anthony Hooper’; Belinda Crowe __.
Ce: Kathryn Alexander; Shirley Hailstones; ‘Parmenter, Claire’; Jessica Barker; David Oliveri; cwh¢
Subject: RE: Working Group case conference call

Sensitivity: Private

Alan,
Thanks, I note your points in relation to cancelling the meeting. It was not a POL decision, I conferred with Tony.

In terms of progress I had not planned to put a Case Progress Chart up this week as Post Office is focussing on
reviewing the cases they had already passed to Second Sight to take account of the feedback from the face to face
Working Group meeting therefore the progress chart will need to be amended to reflect that. I would plan to have
that ready for next week. In the meantime, I know that David is answering any particular queries you have.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

From: Alan Bates I.
Sent: 09 April 2014 18:04
To: Belinda Crowe; 'Ian Henderson’; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; ‘Parsons, Andrew’; 'Ron Warmington’; kay¢
Rodric Williams; Chris Aujard; ‘Anthony Hooper’

Cc: Kathryn Alexander; Shirley Hailstones; ‘Parmenter, Claire’; Jessica Barker; David Oliver1; cwh¢
Subject: RE: Working Group case conference call

Sensi 7? Private

Hello Belinda, why have you agreed this without conferring with the other members of the Working Group or was this
a POL decision? There are a number of issues that relate to where cases are up to in the timetabling that we need to
know, no least to keep the Applicants informed of progress with their cases. I am presuming that POL will still be
updating the Case Progress Chart and that will be on Huddle shortly.
POL00202819
POL00202819

In future I would be obliged if you please contact and discuss the matter with either Kay or myself before deciding to
cancel meetings.

Alan

From: Belinda Crowe {
Sent: 09 April 2014 17:43 _
To: Ian Henderson; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; ‘Parsons, Andrew’; 'Ron Warmington’; alan.bates¢
kay@ Rodric Williams; Chris Aujard; 'Anthony Hooper’; Belinda Crowe
Cc: Kathryn Alexander; Shirley Hailstones; ‘Parmenter, Claire’; Jessica Barker; David Oliver1; cwhé
Subject: Working Group case conference call

GRO

Sensitivity: Private

All,
I have conferred with Tony and we have agreed to cancel tomorrow’s call and propose the following:

e Post Office and Second Sight are focussing on completing the three cases in preparation for the next face to
face meeting and Post office is redrafting those reports which have already been submitted to Second Sight in
line with the discussion at the last face to face meeting. Post Office and Second Sight can update us on
progress on the call next week.

¢ With regards to the CQR’s posted by lan, Angela liaises with Second Sight and updates the Working Group
next week.

® Howe and Co have asked for an extension of their cases pending the response from Post Office on a query
they have raised. We consider that request next week when Post Office has responded to Howe and Co.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

From: Ian Henderson I.
Sent: 09 April 2014 11:36

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; ‘Parsons, Andrew’; 'Ron Warmington’; alan.bates:
Williams; Chris Aujard; ‘Anthony Hooper'; Belinda Crowe

Cc: Kathryn Alexander; Shirley Hailstones; 'Parmenter, Claire’; Jessica Barker; David Oliver1; cw
Subject: Current submissions 10 April 2014

Sensitivity: Private

Privileged and Confidential — Created for the purpose of obtaining legal advice

All
POL00202819
POL00202819

I have uploaded this week’s documents to the following Huddle folder Named “Meetings\April 10” :

https://my.huddle.net/workspace/26975805/files/#/folder/31243329/list

There are folders or individual PDF’s for the following final CQRs i.e. after the Second Sight review process:
™Mo24

M036

M038

M115

M118 (Folder)

All of these are now released to POL and the Working Group.

I have also uploaded V60 of the Application Control Sheet.
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

ittp:
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in,

Twitter: http://twitter.com/ GR

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
ilege the intended recipient, please notify me at
and delete the email and any attachments.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JES OB IDI HID III II IID IDO IO IO III IORI III IO III IIIS II III IIE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
POL00202819
POL00202819

