POL00110078
POL00110078

r POST
OFFICE

Post Office Limited

Post Office Customer Support Centre
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London

EC2Y 9AQ

George Freeman MP
Parliamentary Under Secretary for Life Sciences
Department for Business, Innovation & Skills
4 Victoria Street
London
I SW1H OET

I 26 June 2015

Dear Minister,

I Adjournment debate: Postmasters and the Horizon system
I wanted to write to you ahead of Monday's debate.

I hope you are reassured, following the briefing from my team, about all the Post Office has
done to address the concerns raised by a small number of (mainly former) postmasters
several years ago. We have gone to great lengths to do so because I was determined that, if
there were problems with the Horizon system, these had to be identified and resolved. This
was essential as the Horizon system underpins our network — it is relied upon by 78,000
users in 11,500 Post Office branches serving communities across the UK.

The investigations over the past three years have underlined the confidence we have always
had in Horizon -it has been found to work as it should - and I firmly believe that we have

I provided the small number of people who came forward with complaints, with a proper and
I reasonable avenue to have those fully investigated. They have all been rigorously
investigated by the Post Office, independently reviewed by forensic accountants Second
Sight and, where it is appropriate, people have been provided with the opportunity for
independent mediation.

You will know that, more recently, the Post Office’s conduct on legal matters, such as
prosecutions, has been questioned and that there have been some extremely serious,
untrue assertions made about this. We continue to refute these robustly, but without
discussing the individual criminal cases involved because we are naturally respecting the
work of the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC), following applications they have
received for a review of some of the cases. We also assured people who came forward to
the Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme that they could do so in absolute confidence
4 and we have honoured that throughout.

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540

Registered Office Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered tradle marks of Post Office Limited

POL00110078
POL00110078

This issue has been difficult for us. It involves a very small number of people, from the
nearly 500,000 people who have worked in our network since Horizon was introduced in
2001. While some of the cases are very sad, it cannot follow that the Post Office is
responsible for these individual circumstances. I do of course have sympathy in such
cases.

It is also, I think, worth saying that we are continuing to mediate and resolve cases. In some
there are genuine grievances about the support the Post Office provided, such as training,
and where there is evidence that we might have done more we are acknowledging this and
discussing it with the people involved to see if we can reach a mutually agreeable solution.

It is, frankly, difficult to see what more the Post Office could be expected to do to ensure
the rightful outcome of these cases, based on the evidence. We very much hope that those
remaining in the scheme who are being offered mediation will engage with it. Mediation is
being offered for all cases that are not subject to a previous court ruling {which mediation
cannot overturn).

Through our own work, and that of Second Sight, we have found nothing to suggest that, in
criminal cases, any conviction is unsafe. We take great care regarding our continuing duty
of disclosure on all legal matters including full co-operation with the CCRC.

I regret that this is the first Post Office issue on which you are having to engage as a Minister
and I am grateful for the time you are giving to it.

Please do not hesitate to let me know if there is any more information you would like on
this, or on any other matter.

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540

Registered Office Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ PostOffi ice.co.u k
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited
