Message

POLO0101610
POL00101610

From:

on behalf of

Sent:
To:

ce:
Subject:

Mark R Davies {
Gavin Lambert!
Re: JA

Fab - well done!
And thx P

Sent from my iPhone

On I Dec 2014, at 19:08, "Mark R Davies" I

Hi both. I am in touch with Oliver and he has agreed to meet me in Westminster. We are just

working through diaries.

I picked up with Belinda and Patrick on next steps today and will brief Gavin tomorrow.
Cheers

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobile:

Sent from my iPhone

On 1 Dec 2014, at 19:05, "Paula Vennells" I “I wrote:

Yes in fact spookily I had just opened my emails to ask Mark (now copied) where
we are on that. In view of James' reaction, it becomes even more important that
OL understands we are also trying to brief him personally, otherwise we are just
seen to be referring to him in my letter to JA.

Thx both.

Paula

Sent from my iPhone

On I Dec 2014, at 18:36, "Gavin Lambert"
wrote:

Thank you - yes I'll pick up with the team tomorrow

I think Mark has also contacted Oliver Letwin which needs to be
factored into our plan.

POL-0101193
POLO0101610
POL00101610

From: Paula Vennells
Sent: 01/12/2014 18:23
To: Gavin Lambert
Subject: Fwd: JA

FYI.

To be discussed with the team if you can please Gavin, as Alice
will undoubtedly want to cover off on Wed. Probably best to see
below before you read on.

I hope AH decides to keep to his position of independence. I have
suggested a couple of times in the past few months, to Belinda, that
Alice might meet AH just in terms of keeping the relationship
going, or even me (tho' I now think Chairman is better as is more
removed from the process). Alice had requested to do so as well.
But B was reticent (she and Chris I believe, thought it would raise
the profile too much).

This may be the time - now. Or ... it may be too late and be seen as
the PO trying to influence, which would be wrong. (Tho' if we find
AH agrees to meet the MPs, we'd have to see him as well.)

All rather difficult. Sounds as though Alice did a good job though.
P

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alice Perkins +
Date: 1 December 2014 1

Subject: JA

J initiated a conversation with him on Saturday
evening which was cut off (by the arrival of the
Turkish President and the Duke of York for the gala
dinner......... ) Despite the opportunity for him to
pick it up again yesterday, he chose not to do so.

I started by asking him how he was and was rather
surprised to be told he had had a "sleepless night"
after receiving the letter from Paula.

lasked how he thought his colleagues had behaved
at the meeting. He replied that they were much

POL-0101193
POLO0101610
POL00101610

more "restrained" than he had expected. I countered
by saying that it hadn't sounded very restrained to
me.

We moved quickly on to the substance. The main
thrust of his argument seemed to be that there big
wrongs which we were not acknowledging; in other
words the position he held when he first approached
me about all this in early 2012. I said that we had
bent over backwards to set up a process in
collaboration with the key parties, and had had his
agreement to the arrangements. At the time, I did
not know for certain whether the process would
uncover anything wrong but now that we had
almost completed our investigations, we had found
nothing of any significance.

He clearly was not going to accept that. He said
they would like to see AH if he would be willing to
see them. I said I couldn't speak for him. He was
trying to run an independent process and therefore
might say no, but I didn’t know. He asked if they
could have access to SS. I said no; we couldn't have
people second guessing an independent process
which they had agreed to. We had spared no effort
or resource on all this and there was an issue of
V{M in going any further than we had.

He then argued that the process was flawed. We
should be willing to mediate cases where people
had been convicted. I said no; they were matters to
be settled through the courts. He moved on to
people who had pleaded "guilty under duress” but
who were in fact, innocent. I said we were
investigating every case and there was no evidence
for that assertion.

He then said he thought Paula and I genuinely
believed what we were saying - the implication
being that we were being hoodwinked by others - a
somewhat backhanded compliment if it was
intended as such but unfortunately, the arrival of the
bigwigs prevented me from responding and that was
where the conversation ended.

My takeaway from this, based on how he looked
and what he said is that his position is exactly where
it was two and a half years ago. I think it is unlikely
that we will be able to shift that although we
shouldn't give up. He should be clear from the
conversation that we are not going to depart from
the agreed process or supplement it. I can't predict
what he will do next.

All the best

Alice

POL-0101193
POLO0101610
POL00101610

This message has been scanned for malware by
Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0101193
