POL00027164
POL00027164

ae I 1

Department Department
for Culture for Business
Media & Sport Innovation & Skills

Baroness Neville-Rolfe DBE CMG
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
and Minister for Intellectual Property

Paula Vennells 4 Victoria Street
Post Office SWIHOET
Finsbury Dials r

Ti

20 Finsbury Street E ‘enguiiesar

London -

EC2Y 9AQ es
2. July 2015

D)

Dear 7 ‘anlios ,

POST OFFICE HORIZON SYSTEM

I am writing further to the adjournment debate in the House of Commons on Monday this week,
regarding the Post Office Horizon system. I have also seen your letter to my Ministerial
colleague George Freeman on this subject. I would like to invite the Post Office to attend a
meeting at the Department to discuss this matter.

As you are aware, the mediation scheme was established to be independent of Government
and the details of individual cases are and should be confidential. The Government is fully
supportive of this position and it is right that it should be maintained.

Furthermore, the Criminal Cases Review Commission has received applications from
individuals in the mediation scheme, which I understand they are looking in to. The Government
is very clear that the work of the CCRC must not be undermined by any party, particularly while
investigations are ongoing.

The Government acknowledges the concerns that Members of Parliament raised during the
adjournment debate. I am aware that MPs have met with Post Office on this in the past, and
furthermore, that Post Office have offered to meet with any MP individually and in confidence to
discuss individual cases.

The Government wants to ensure that MPs take the opportunity to raise their concerns directly
with Post Office. At the same time, the Government would like to allow the Post Office a further
opportunity to address the very serious accusations that have been made against it. This
meeting will provide an opportunity for both MPs and Post Office to understand each other's
views better, while maintaining the confidentiality of individual cases and respecting the work of
the CCRC. I hope that all parties involved will approach the meeting on that basis.
POL00027164
_POL00027164

This will be a private meeting and I will be writing in similar terms to Andrew Bridgen MP, who
tabled Monday’s adjournment debate, to invite him to attend with one or two other MPs.
Following this meeting we will consider whether any additional further action or meetings are

required. I hope you will be able to accept this invitation. My office will be in touch to agree a
mutually convenient date.

I am copying this letter to George Freeman.

Kam negad 5

BARONESS NEVILLE-ROLFE DBE CMG
