POLO0118096
POL00118096

From:
Sent: Wed 31/08/2011 8:44:44 AM (UTC)
To: Michael Stanway[é ” GRO j
Subject: FW: Casework Compliance : ° 7
Attachment: image008.jpg
Attachment: image008.jpg
Attachment: image002.jpg
Attachment: image008.jpg
Attachment: Compliance.zip
Andrew Wise

Security operations - North

© eno brgpeVifie===

Confidental Information : This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recivient (=) and may contain
confidential and privileged inform ation. Any unauthorised re view, use, disclosure or distibution is prohibited.
Ifyou are not the intended recipient please contactme by reply e-mail and destuy all copies of the original message.

From: Dave Posnett

Sent: 23 May 2011 11:06

To: Dave Pardoe; Paul Southin; Lesley Frankland; Steve Bradshaw; Robert Daily; Keith Gilchrist; Kevin Ryan; Michael
Stanway; Suzanne Winter; Andrew Wise; Allison Drake; Jason G Collins; Lisa Allen; Graham Brander; Kevin Cox; John
Longman; Brendan Palmer; Stuart Pilgrim; Gary R Thomas; Glyn Burrows; Jim Coney; Helen Dickinson; Gordon Y
Grant; Sharron L Jennings; Christopher G Knight; Paul Whitaker

Subject: Casework Compliance

All,

Most of you are aware that case files submitted for legal advice will become subject to compliance checks. This
process is due to commence in June and is designed to raise standards of files submitted (including their contents —
reports, taped summaries, appendix enclosures, recoveries, stakeholders, etc) and ensure there is a consistent
approach across the team. It is also probably an opportune time given that we have recently recruited new people to
the team.

I've associated relevant documents that feed into the compliance process. Please familiarise yourself with these
documents.

Myself and Paul will be attending each Sec Ops Team Meeting:

North: Conference Call 26/05

Central: Attended meeting 10/05

South: Attending meeting 08/06

Happy to discuss if anyone has missed the meeting or wishes to clarify anything. Alternatively, speak to your Team
Leader or mentor.
Regards,

Dave Posnett
Accredited Financial Investigator
Security Operations Team

Post Office Ltd

[c2) : 2° Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old St, London, EC1V 9HQ.
GRO

Postlinei

THINK BEFORE
YOU PRINT

Confidential Information
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

POLO0118096
POL00118096
