POL00139725
POL00139725

Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting 14/08/13
Attendees:

Team/Function

Legal

Financial Services Centre (FSC)
Security

Communications
Network

Attendees

Rodric Williams
Martin Smith
Andy Parsons
Renata Prywerek
Kayley harding
Jarnail Singh
Andy Winn

Dave Posnett
Rob King

John Scott
Martin Humphries
Gayle A Peacock

Information Technology & Change (IT&C)
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Name Area

Issues/Observations/Comments

Andy Winn FSC

Mentioned recovery issue where £10 E TOP UP failed at
counter, tried again and it went through. However, when
the failure/recovery screen was acknowledged branch
ended with 2 x E TOP UPS for £10 each yet SPMR had
only completed 1 x E TOP UP at £10.

Dave Posnett I Security

Relayed network concerns (Craig Tuthill) about
withdrawing from investigations/prosecutions, thus
leaving SPMR with debt (e.g. SPSO assistant theft).

Gayle Peacock I Network

Confirmed the above and cited 2 branches ;
¢ Metro Centre — contract not terminated as
assistant prosecuted, but SPMR banking on
prosecution and maybe problem contractually.
« Fordham — case withdrawn but wasn't
communicated.

Rodric Legal
Williams

Re-iterated that it was POLs choice whether we
prosecute or not and that the commerciality aspects
affecting branches should not come into the equation.
Also stressed that we should consider the debt and how
we can assist on a case by case basis.

Gayle Peacock I Network

Stated there appears to be comms issues ... need a line
of communication.

Rodric Williams I Legal

Comms needs to be factored into decisions once
prosecution is withdrawn.

POL00139725
POL00139725

Rob King Security Request to speak with Gayle offline re security ways of
working in conjunction with contracts managers.

John Scott Security Explained rationale/requirement to password protect
documents relating to Horizon issues.

Andy Winn FSC Outlined branch in Burnham, where £1,600.00 debt was
repaid, but as branch is on the list a letter has been sent
saying we'll be returning money subject to outcome of
security review.

Mike Communications Said he was in talks with Susan Crichton re ways of

Humphries communicating to MPs cases, queries, etc.

Action Points

1. John Scott to circulate Wincor list of branches attended by ATM engineer.

2. Paul Blackmore to provide John Scott with details of Wakefield and Edinburgh
offices in respect of ATM concerns (Dave Posnett emailed Paul on 15'" August
requesting this be done).

3. Gayle Peacock to relay details of Rhigos case to Rodric Williams and John Scott.

. Andy Winn to email the Fujitsu response to E TOP UP issue to Rodric Williams and
Gayle Peacock.

. Andy Winn to communicate the E TOP UP issue to Steve Beddoe.

Rodric Williams to circulate to John Scott, Jarnail Singh and Martin Smith process re
communicating cases where we withdraw from prosecution.

. Andy Winn to forward letter sent to Burnham about debt to Martin Smith and Rodric
Williams.

Gayle Peacock to get detailed/specific concerns from Craig Tuthill (re withdrawing
prosecutions) and relay to John Scott, Jarnail, Singh, Rodric Williams and Martin
Smith.

. Martin Humphries to keep Rodric Williams, Jarnail Singh and Martin Smith in the
loop re new MPs queries that come in (Sophie to deal via relaying info to Rosie).
