POL00085619
POL00085619

CAT Reporting Tool Changes

RR = Regulatory Compliance
NR = Non Regulatory Compliance

Open CAT Tool and save as next version number/month

To Make Changes:
Tools — Options
Select Sheet Tabs (tick on box)

Go to NR CG Copy or RR CG Copy. (This sheet is protected password = CAT)
Make changes (Do not touch Columns A and G on Copy Sheet, as they contain
formulas. The red line at the bottom of the table is very important and must not be
deleted.)
Protect the sheet
Check the amendment:
Select the November tab (CORE CATs)
Check the changes by putting a 1 against the changed question
Go to the RR or NR Control Gap Table
Select Reset Table
Select Sort Table — This will check that the change has flowed through.
Ensure you remove the 1 and ensure sheets are at the top

If there are changes to the questions the sheet with the original question (CORE
(November), Procedural Security, etc.) needs to be altered separately. These sheets are
not protected.

Change Period number on Planning Sheet (if applicable)

Make sure all sheets are at the top

When all changes are made remove sheet tabs (Tools — Options - Sheet Tabs)

Save

Check to see if the CAT Working Papers need to be changed also and make changes
saving to next version number/month.

Also make changes on:
e T&D Tool
« Core & Outreach Tool (if applicable)
The Follow Up Tool shouldn’t need altering as mostly blank.

Changes to questions also need to be communicated to Shirley in case SharePoint needs to
be amended.

May 2011
POL00085619
POL00085619

Information - CAT Tool
Same questions throughout the year, except:
e BP0028 (NS&I) changes each month (5 tests rotated during the year) — see NS&l
2010-11
e May change if new product to test
e POCA only tested in April and October

Risk rating introduced as a result of meeting with Kathleen, Sue and Martin Ferlinc and
Contracts Team members.

Looked at all CATs and assigned the risk rating. The risk rating was introduced to help Lee
schedule follow up audits.

The process as far as what the CA’s do with the information has still to be agreed.
Nigel Viles is looking at changing the questions into a scenario based question.

T&D Tool
NR CG Copy = All CAT Questions
RR CG Copy = T&D Questions

This is based on the CAT Tool and the T&D information has been built into it. The questions
are all together on one sheet (NR CG Copy) — RR questions first and then the NR questions.
Changes are made in a similar way to the CAT Tool.

C&O Tool

This Tool is based on the CAT Tool, so has more sheet tabs than needed (the Macros will
need re-writing if these are to be removed)

Not all questions are asked that are shown on the RR CG Copy sheet e.g. #REF in columns
A&G.

Note: NR Copy and NR Table NOT used.

Use filter to find question ref No. (Filter to All afterwards)

May 2011
