POL00188912

POL00188912

From:

Sent:

To:

Subject:
Attachment:
Attachment:

Alwen Lyons[é_
Mon 24/06/2013
Lesley J Sewel :
Fwd: Second Sight Call
image001.png
image002.png

17:40 PM (UTC)

Lesley I think you are going to have to get involved in the Bracknell one or we are going to loose the argument.

Thanks
Alwen

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary

All

Just had a very animated call with Ron/lan. Key points are:

1.

SROOS: Very unhappy (and angry) with our response to SROOS — “Post Office haven’t answered
the questions, just spouting out the same old line”. We need to sort this out in the next few
days. I have taken the action provide them focussed information which should provide them
what they need. Although I am concerned about the time I have to gather it.

Bugs in Horizon: They are concerned that JA is has been told by Post Office that there are no
bugs in Horizon, and that is what JA believes and when Second Sight inform him that there were
bugs, and sub postmasters accounts were effected it will go “viral” amongst MPs and the press.
— My suggest here is that Paula gives this news to James first, and explains to him why this isn’t a
problem. We may also want to go to the press first on this, as part of our overall message, to get
out our message out first.

Over all timescales: Second Sight are planning to have a preliminary report completed by the
end of this week. They want to share it with us first before the meeting with JA.

Training: They are looking at how good our training is, but this is more an issue for the final
report and not a priority for now.

SRO22. They haven’t looked at our response yet. Alwen, I am still waiting for your permission to
release this to Second Sight (they have only received the draft version, which they can’t forward
to the sub postmaster). This is going to be a key one, as Mike Wood is the MP
POL00188912
POL00188912

6. SRO01. Second Sight’s conclusion on this is that we have made it difficult for the sub postmaster
to manage the processes required when there is a comms failure and it isn’t a surprise the sub
postmaster got it wrong. My view on this is that we can let this one go. We have got them toa
point which is as good as we can get them to — and we have moved Ron and lan into a much
better place than where they were a few weeks ago.

7. $SRO21. I have additional follow up questions from Ron over the weekend. In terms of priority,

even though this is in the preliminary report, SROOS is by far more critical, but hope to have
something back to Ron/lan on SRO21 by eod Wednesday.

As I now need to spend time on sorting out SROOS, can this do as brief for your Paula meeting? If not,
let me know what additional information you require.

Simon

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance

Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

postofficenews

