POLO0099976
POL00099976

Message

From: Alwen Lyons
on behalf of I Alwen Lyons
Sent:
To:

7]; 'timfrankli
; Paula Vennells

cc: ; Belinda Crowe

Susan Barton
‘7; Larissa Wilson
Subject: Follow - up after the Board meeting

Attachments: 4. Internal Audit - IT Audit Reports.pdf; 2. ARC Nov 2013 key risk update (final) .pdf; Incentives 1113.doc; Project
Sparrow update.doc; Sparrow costs.xIsx

Dear All

There were questions on several topics at the Board meeting which the presenters thought would be helpful to provide
answers to sooner rather than later.

So therefore please find attached:
1. apaper from Nick answering the questions on the incentive scheme.
2. an update on Project Sparrow and Second Sight, and extrapolated Sparrow Costs from Belinda and Chris A.
3. the 2 ARC papers requested

- Internal Audit IT Audit Report
- Key Risk Update

4. a link below to the video clip Sue mentioned in regard to the Public Purpose Statement. The video is focused on
setting out what it is that is different about organisations and people who are ‘leaders’. In that context, Sue
would like you to watch the video and consider the question: Why does the Post Office do what it does? - what
is it that we believe, and would like our customers, people and partners to believe? (Sue would welcome your
thoughts in an email please)

http://www. youtube.com/watch ?v=a6kbcERdmCw

Anote clarifying the insurance position and past prosecutions will follow from Chris A next week.
On Monday we will put these documents in the Reading Room on BoardPad in a folder called
‘follow-up papers November 2013 Board’ for your convenience.

Thanks

Alwen

Alwen Lyons I Company Secretary

@® sol
©

reet, LONDON,

/ OQ

POL-0099559
POLO0099976
POL00099976

@© — @postofficenews

JOH SEER O IOI IRC IODA SII IIIS OOS IDI I ASOT IDI AISA IIIA AIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0099559
