POL00301554

POL00301554
From: David Oliver1[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=DAVID OLIVER17716BF08-0C00-4BEB-82CC-
31FOFF71BECF395]
Sent: Mon 27/01/2014 8:17:01 PM (UTC)
To: I oeeeeeee GRO.
Subject: RE: Further briefing for tomorrow
From: Chris Aujard
General Counsel
27101114

To: Chair and Chief Executive
Post Office Limited

FURTHER BRIEFING FOR JAMES ARBUTHNOT MEETING

lan Henderson called me this afternoon ostensibly to give me a heads up ahead of Second Sight briefing
James Arbuthnot today. It is difficult to know whether this was a genuine heads up or passing on a fait
accompli but it is positive in that the communication lines are open.

lan raised four key areas:

1. The 26 original MPs cases — which lan thinks are all in the scheme. He commented that he
thinks that all MPs will want visibility of progress with these cases.

2. A further Second Sight report — lan said that James will push for a further report within the next
few weeks. lan proposed using the generic report that Second Sight are already working on to fulfil
this role. I pushed back on this, pointing out that the report lan was proposing to publish had been
produced under the auspices of the Working Group and could not just be published. Further I
questioned whether producing a report such as that in the midst of attempting to resolve the
mediation cases risked prejudicing their handling.

3. Past criminal cases — where lan felt that James would be very focussed on whether there had
been any miscarriages of justice. This triangulates with the draft Agenda now received from James’
office which includes past cases which have gone to court as an agenda item. My team have
provided a separate briefing on this issue (see covering email), but at headline level, a lot of work has
been done to review past criminal cases and off the back of our disclosures no applications for
appeal have been made.

4. Independent reporting — lan said that James and the other MPs would want assurance that
Second Sight would be able to report independently directly to them.

The call was very cordial, but I did explain very firmly that these were not issues which Post Office would
agree to at this point. Firstly both of you were meeting James the following day and would wish to discuss
them with him directly, and secondly the Working Group would undoubtedly also have a view on whether
this was the right way forward or not.

The current draft of the engagement letter makes clear that Second Sight are only engaged to deal with
matters under the purview of the Working Group and that it is up to the Working Group to decide how
cases under its supervision are handled not Second Sight's in isolation.

I have annexed the relevant clauses of the current draft letter of engagement.
Chris Aujard

6. CONFIDENTIALITY
6.1. Save in the circumstances described in clause 9, Second Sight and the SS Directors shall:
POL00301554
POL00301554

6.1.1. keep secret all Confidential Information (unless prior written consent is given by Post Office, such
consent being in Post Office’s absolute discretion);

6.1.2. use the Confidential Information only for the Services (unless prior written consent is given by Post
Office, such consent being in Post Office’s absolute discretion);

6.1.3. not copy, adapt or otherwise reproduce the Confidential Information except as is strictly necessary
for the purposes of undertaking the Services or as required by law; and

6.1.4. upon demand procure the destruction and/or return to Post Office of all copies of any documents
and material held by Second Sight and/or SS Personnel which incorporate any Confidential Information
(except such documents or material that Second Sight ist required by law to retain).

6.1.5. Neither Second Sight and/or the SS Directors, employees or persons otherwise engaged by
Second Sight to deliver the Services will act, directly or indirectly, in any capacity (whether for any former or
current Subpostmaster or a competitor of Post Office or otherwise) against Post Office or any of its officers,
directors or employees save as where required by applicable law or by the mandatory rules or
requirements of any recognised investment exchange or any regulatory authority, government department
or agency to which Second Sight is subject or by order of a court or a competent jurisdiction, or save as
where it is ase otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Post Office.that the work proposed to be
underatken does not and is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on Post Office's commercial or
financial interests or reputation.

9. ENGAGEMENT THIRD PARTIES

9.1. If any person, other than an applicant or their professional advisor, should seek any Scheme
Information or any information relating to Second Sight’s services hereunder from Second Sight, Second
Sight shall immediately relay such a request to the Working Group.

9.2. Second Sight shall only discuss the Scheme or disclose Scheme Information or any information
relating to Second Sight’s services hereunder to any third party with the express consent, and in
accordance with any directions, of the Working Group but subject always to clause 7.

SCOPE OF SERVICES

1. The Services Second Sight agrees to provide to the Working Group are as follows

1.1. serving as a member of the Working Group and attending Working Group meetings as required,
and act in accordance with any directions from the Working Group Chair;

1.2. advising, as requested by Post Office or the Working Group, on the format, style and content of
the documents which are submitted by Post Office and/or Subpostmasters during the Scheme;

1.3. investigating the specific complaints raised by each Subpostmaster who has been accepted into
the Scheme with the aim of providing:

1.1.1. an assessment of points of common ground between Post Office and that
Subpostmaster;

1.1.2. an assessment of points of disagreement between Post Office and that
Subpostmaster;
POL00301554
POL00301554

1.1.3. where there is disagreement, a logical and fully evidenced opinion on the merits of that
Subpostmaster's complaint where it is possible to do so;

1.1.4. asummary of any points on which it is not possible to offer a fully evidenced opinion
due to a lack of evidence / information;

1.1.5. a view on whether a case is suitable for mediation; and
1.4. assisting with any reasonable requests made by the Working Group and/or Post Office;
(together "the Services")

2. Second Sight shall at all times conduct the Services solely in furtherance of the objectives of the
Scheme as set out by the Working Group.

3. It is recognised that Second Sight is not required to definitively determine every issue raised by a
Subpostmaster but rather is required to reasonably investigate and, where appropriate, offer an
opinion on the key issues in dispute between a Subpostmaster and Post Office.

4. Although Post Office is engaging Second Sight, Second Sight is to act independently in providing the
Services and any assessment or opinion given by Second Sight shall be neutral and without bias and
based on the facts and evidence available.

5. In providing the Services, Second Sight shall:

5.1. act with the skill and care expected of qualified and experienced accountants; it is
acknowledged that matters relating criminal law and procedure are outside Second Sight's
scope of expertise and accordingly shall not be required to give an opinion in relation to such
matters;

5.2. conduct the Services in an efficient manner and with a view to ensuring that the costs of the
Scheme are reasonable;

5.3. use its reasonable endeavours to comply with any deadlines or timeframes set by the Working
Group; and

5.4. not sub-contract any part of the Services without Post Office's prior written consent (not to be
unreasonably withheld of delayed).

From: Alice Perkin:
Sent: 27 January 20.
To: David Oliver1
Subject: Re: Further briefing for tomorrow

David,

1am moving straight from a meeting to dinner. Is there any chance that this additional briefing can be pasted into an
email so I can read it on my Blackberry later?

Thanks

Alice

From: David Oliver1 I
Sent: Monday, Januai
To: Paula Vennells <
Cc: Martin Edwards

: ; Theresa
lleg
<ch

POL00301554
POL00301554

Subject: Further briefing for tomorrow
Alice, Paula,
Please find attached is further briefing from Chris following a phone call from lan Henderson.

Also attached a draft agenda that James has sent through after seeing ours, I suggest we ask to take business
improvement first at the start of the meeting as this sets the tone for our wider engagement.

There are some further bullet points below setting out a proposed response to the past cases issue:

* Cartwright King have reviewed past cases in line with a process that has been by endorsed by leading
Counsel.

© 325 individuals cases were reviewed to see if any issues arising out of the Second Sight review ought to be
disclosed to the defence in accordance with our duties as a prosecutor.

* Further disclosure was provided in 21 cases.

* It is up to the defence in cases where disclosure has been provided to review the material and take any
appropriate action in the interests of their client.

¢ Thus far no convicted defendant has sought the leave of the Court of Appeal to challenge his conviction; this
may of course change.
* Post Office is still confident that we have not seen an unsafe conviction. We continue to keep this matter

under constant review as the Second Sight work and Post Office’s own investigations into the complaints
continue.

¢ All 147 applications (including those with a criminal conviction) are being overseen by a former Criminal
Court of Appeal Judge Sir Anthony Hooper.

Regards

David

David Oliver
Programme Manager

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

Click here to report this email as spam.
POL00301554
POL00301554

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com
