POL00139701
POL00139701

Meeting: 23 October 2013

Attendees:

Team/Function

Legal Rodric Williams (RW)
Jarnail Singh (JS)
Andrew Bolc of Cartwright King (AB)
Kayleigh Harding (KH)

Financial Services Centre (FSC) Andy Winn (AW)

Security Dave Posnet (DP)

Communications

Attendees

Rob King (RK)

Sophie Bialaszewski (SB)

Network Gayle Peacock (GP)
Anne Allaker (AA)
Nick Beal (NB)
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Jeff Burke (JB)
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) Kendra Dickinson (KD)

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps

Prestbury Awaiting feedback. Disks received.

ATM Gluing GP sent details to DP regarding other 2 branches. To go back to
Case contract managers.

GP and RW consulted after call last week. Next action - GP and
RW to put together a note advising branches the matter is still
being investigated. Loss to be quantified and look to recover from
Wincor. RW to discuss with FSC.

Rhigos Branch

Fact finding interview was held 4 October 2013. SPM could not
provide dates. SPM blaming Horizon however was unable to
provide specific examples. Nelson investigations and actions to
be taken at the branch to come to a conclusion.

Post & Go

JB - no update.

Belfast Refresh

No update — Timetable will take to next year.

Nelson

Field officer in branch on Friday and Sat to transfer to single

4A_27652584_1
POL00139701
POL00139701

balance. Field officer also visited Monday, Tuesday, and
Wednesday, no discrepancy on balance. Returning to cover part
time staff who were absent during previous visits. Kath Alexander
from Mediation visiting on 31 Oct to explain Horizon queries. No
system issue identified.

To be documented what action taken to investigate.

Helen had reviewed ARQ reports — pinpointed cash declaration
activity when SPM wasn't in. Help SPM identify staff fraud.

Pontycymer

Will also get a visit on 31 October 2013 to explain processes.

Carluke Post
Office

MS discussed with BTO — Andrew confirmed BTO liaising with
Crown and Advocates office to attempt to obtain information from
Police. No information received to date.

Rodmill

Interpreting sales report incorrectly — to be closed.

New Issues Identi

Name

Area Issues/Observations/Comments

JS

Legal Corporate branches — Any conversation with CPS is lawyer to
lawyer and cannot be shared. Decision of CPS to take case
forward. Legal team cannot influence CPS; they are simply guide

CPS through internal procedure.

legal privilege.

GP awaiting call from Judith - accepts conversations subject to

AW

Fsc Dispute letter — Lake in Isle of Wight - transaction correction.
Horizon system stated as cause of discrepancy. SPM claims
Horizon system not robust. SPM not following process correctly,

no financial loss.

speaks to Angela to enable her to respond.

SB queried at what point is mediation scheme mentioned? GP
confirmed once internal process followed. SB to request Martine

Lake Post office - customers emailing. Queries logged with
customer service team. Customers mentioning Horizon.

4A_27652584_1
POL00139701
POL00139701

NB — South Darenth — Mediation ought to be mentioned. Issues

not related to Horizon.

NB is aware of case where SPM dismissed for acting
inappropriately. Customers believe he had retired and POL had
failed to reopen branch. NB to discuss how this could be dealt with
publicly. Stakeholder managers not clear on what can be
discussed.

B — if anything comes about Horizon from senior stakeholder

managers, SB and MH are notified.
JS — mediation should be publicised. Closing date mid-November.

GP to speak to Angela. SB to email GP with information about
what stakeholder managers need. Response line needed and who
should be notified.

AW to discuss response to Lake dispute letter with RW before it is
sent out.

DP Security 1. ATM -— email update sent re meeting. Want to settle on
goodwill. Do not want to pursue contract route
Investigation — Arrest on 22 Oct 13 by DCPCU.
Interviewed under caution. Denied involvement of theft.
Bailed until Feb 2014. Investigations will continue.

Do they wait until criminal investigation resolved or claim
from Wincor?

RK

GP to discuss with Rodric the issue of recovering the
losses.
DP to send email to GP

2. Mannacan — SPM in contact with SPM of Cavern.
Anonymous letter received from a South West England
active SPM. Office badly managed with undetected fraud.
Perplexed why SPM not pursued. Letter written in favour
of POL.
If reappointed — office to be monitored.

3. DWP case — Sharon forwarded details of outcome.
Assistant found guilty of theft of over £13k. Sentenced on
21 Nov 13. Indicated he could be looking at 12 months
custodial sentence. Questions surrounding Horizon batted

off. Judge and Jury discounted questions as not relevant.

4A_27652584_1 3
POL00139701
POL00139701

SB Comms No issues other than those raised previously regarding

communication relating to Lake and South Darenth branches.

NB Network No issues
JB IT&C No Issues
KD NBSC Fleckney - Branch reported concern with DVLA issue. Recorded

on Horizon service desk. To update further.

NB — branch known as disruptive. Threatened to stop doing DVLA
transactions and close branch. Keith Bridges (contract manager)

to be copied in.

KD to flag with Steve Beddoe

GP Instances where branches offline for considerable length of time.
Wallsend offline since Thursday, a further branch going on and
offline.

GP to send branches to JB to look into the matter.

KH on behalf of Legal No issues
AP

Action Points

1. Prestbury - GP to update in due course.

2. ATM Gluing case - GP and RW to put together a note advising branches the matter is still being
investigated. Loss to be quantified. RW to discuss with FSC.

3. Rhigos — Investigation as carried out in Nelson to be replicated here. Update to be provided in
due course.

4. Post & Go — SB to update further.

5. Nelson — GP to document what action taken to investigate the matter and the outcome of that
investigation.

6. Nelson and Pontcymer — branches to be visited to explain Horizon system and respond to issues
raised/identified. Further update to be provided following visit.

7. Carluke Post office - Awaiting response from Police. Cartwright King to update further in due
course.

8. Lake Post office dispute letter - AW to discuss with RW before response sent out.

9. Mediation - SB to email GP with information about what stakeholder managers need. GP to
discuss mediation, response line and who should be notified with Angela.

4A_27652584_1 4
10.

11,

12.

4A_27652584_1

POL00139701
POL00139701

ATM prosecution and branch losses — GP to discuss with RW recovering losses. DP to send
email of result of GP.

Fleckney — KD to copy Keith Bridges into correspondence regarding the branch. KD also to flag
issue to Steve Beddoe.

Branches offline - GP to send list of branches to JF and IT&C team to be investigated.
