POL00448252

POL00448252

Postmaster support
policy

Version 4.1

POST °
OFFICE
POL00448252
POL00448252

Post Office is determined to reset its relationship with
postmasters and has introduced policies that set out guidelines
on how Post Office should support postmasters, specifically for
use across twelve areas.

The policies stand on their own but should be reviewed in
conjunction with each other. Support teams should have an
awareness of all twelve policies and how they link together.

The twelve Postmaster Support Policies are listed in section
3.2 of this policy and can be found on the hub, here.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 2 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

Contents page

1 Definitions

1.1 Definitions

2 Overview...

2.1 — Introduction...

2.2 Purpose...

2.3. Core principles.

2.4 Application

2.5. The risk...

3 Risk appetite and required operational standards....

3.1 Risk appetite

3.2. Policy framework...

3.3. Who must comply

3.4 Roles and responsibilities.

3.5 Policy required operational standards

4 Procedures.

4.1 Network Monitoring...

4.2 Scheduling supportive visits and branch assurance visits...

4.3 Carrying out a branch assurance visit.

4.4 Closure branch assurance visits.....

4.5 Post security incident branch assurance visits...

4.6 Reference materials.....

4.7 Quality assurance.

4.8 Reporting...

5 Where to go for help.

5.1 Additional policies...

5.2 How to raise a concern .

5.3. Who to contact for more information...

6 Governance

6.1 Governance responsibilities...

7 Document control ...

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 3 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

7.1. Document control record...

7.2. Oversight committee..

7.3. Company details...

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 4 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

1 Definitions

1.1 Definitions

1. Branch Assurance Visit — This is a comprehensive assessment of the current trading position
of a Post Office? branch, and includes the verification of reported levels of cash, foreign
currency (if applicable), stock items and discuss any highlighted operational issues to check if
mandatory business conformance are operating as intended.

2. Rationale Document (RD) - this document sets out the rationale behind a decision to
undertake a Branch Assurance Visit, along with relevant supporting data, and is provided to
a postmaster to explain the reason behind the visit.

3. Branch Assurance Reporting Tool (BART) - This is a data capture form used to record the
difference between the actual volume and value of cash, stock and currency in branch and
the volumes and values as shown on Horizon.

4. Script - This is a script for the Lead Branch Assurance Advisor to follow to ensure the main
points are communicated.

5. Discrepancy - Any difference between (i) the actual cash and stock position of a branch and
(ii) the cash and stock position shown on Horizon as derived from transactions input by
branch staff into the branch's terminals.

6. Established Gain - An event that causes a positive Discrepancy (i.e. the situation where the
branch has more cash and/or stock than the derived figures for cash and/or stock on
Horizon), which has been investigated by Post Office, or agreed by the postmaster, and
found to be a genuine gain to Post Office which was caused by the negligence, carelessness
or error of the postmaster and/or their assistants.

7. Established Loss - An event that causes a negative Discrepancy (i.e. the situation where the
branch has less cash and/or stock than the derived figures for cash and/or stock on Horizon),
which has been investigated by Post Office, or agreed by the postmaster, and found to be a
genuine loss to Post Office which was caused by the negligence, carelessness or error of the

postmaster and/or their assistants.

8. Operational Excellence visits (Support visits)- This is a supportive, face to face visit that is
conducted to encourage accurate accounting and encourage operational robustness.

In this policy, “Post Office” means Post Office Limited.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 5 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252

2 Overview

2.1 Introduction

The Central Operations Director and the Retail Operations Director have joint accountability to the
Board of Directors for the design and implementation of controls and to manage risk, assure levels of
cash and stock and reduce discrepancies and losses in the network?. Risk in the network is an agenda
item for the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and the Post Office board is updated as required.

This policy is a non-contractual document provided for information. It does not form part of the
contract between any postmaster? and Post Office.

2.2 Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimum operating standards relating to the management
of Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance support throughout the Post Office network.

Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance support activity helps to ensure the accuracy of branch
accounting records, relating to cash and stock. It also helps to assure that the integrity of cash and
stock in the Post Office network is maintained. Network Monitoring is in place to identify branches
where the integrity and accuracy of cash and stock, for that branch, could be at risk. This monitoring
can then lead to a number of intervention activities (including Branch Assurance support) which are
designed to identify the risks and help the branch resolve any associated issues.

This policy explains how branches will be supported with any potential issues identified through
Network Monitoring and how Post Office will help those branches maintain accurate records of cash
and stock through their branch accounting. Monitoring branch compliance with accounting processes
helps to identify any issues earlier and makes investigating the root cause of any issues easier for
both branches and Post Office.

It is one of a set of policies which provide a clear risk and governance framework and facilitate an
effective system of internal controls for the management of risk across Post Office. Compliance with
these policies is essential to Post Office in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs
of postmasters, customers, clients, and other stakeholders including our shareholder.

As many postmasters are limited companies or partnerships (and as individual postmasters may
appoint managers to operate a branch on their behalf) any steps that need to be taken by a
postmaster under this policy can be taken by someone authorised to act on that postmaster's behalf

(such as a director, partner or manager).

7 In this policy, “network” means branches not directly managed by Post Office

3 In this policy, “postmaster” refers to a limited company, partnership, limited liability partnership, other entity or individual that
contracts with Post Office for the operation of a Post Office® branch.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 6 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252

2.3 Core principles

Under agreements between postmasters and Post Office, postmasters provide products and
services to customers on behalf of Post Office. The cash and stock used to effect those transactions
is owned and funded by Post Office, unless the branch is self-funded.

Post Office has an obligation to its customers and clients to ensure that all branches are providing a
quality of service and adhering to agreed standards. Post Office is committed to supporting its
postmasters in this process.

e Branch activity is monitored, particularly in relation to accounting of cash and stock, and data
insights will be used to identify branches that are experiencing issues and to identify
potential risks to the cash and stock in a branch.

e Support is offered to branches identified through Network Monitoring to help resolve any
issues related to branch accounting and mitigate risk in the branch. Wherever possible, this
support will be offered remotely in order to minimise disruption to the operation of a branch.
On-site support will be addressed by the Training team.

« Where Post Office cannot determine whether the branch’s cash and stock records are
accurate, Branch Assurance support will physically attend a branch to carry out a full count of
cash and stock assets. Post Office will provide support to the postmaster when carrying out
the visit.

The guidelines will ensure these practices are carried out in good faith and apply principles of
fairness, transparency, and professionalism (being the underpinning behaviours of Post Office).

2.4 Application

This Policy is applicable to all Post Office employees* who perform Network Monitoring and Branch
Assurance activities and defines the minimum standards to control financial loss, postmaster impact,
regulatory breaches and reputational damage in line with the Post Office’s Risk Appetite.

2.5 The risk

There are a number of risks that the Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance team help mitigate.

Discrepancies in cash and stock in the network can cause difficulties for postmasters and customers.
Issues identified through Network Monitoring and/or Branch Assurance support may indicate that
local branch accounting systems and processes are not robust, although it is recognised that there
may be other reasons for discrepancies, including Post Office’s accounting system. Some
Discrepancies, once investigated, or agreed by the postmaster, may become Established Losses or
Established Gains.

“In this Policy “employee” means permanent staff, temporary including agency staff, contractors, consultants and anyone else
working for or on behalf of Post Office and, for clarity, does not include postmasters or postmasters’ staff.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 7 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

The risks in this area include:

There is a risk that we may become non-compliant if the correct processes and procedures
are not followed

«There is a risk the Branch Assurance team are providing incorrect advice & guidance
e = There is a risk that Branch Assurance visits have an inconsistent approach

© There is a risk there may be lack of co-operation with postmasters during a Branch Assurance
visit

© There is a risk that branches are not performing accounting procedures in a timely manner
e There is a risk that excess cash and or stock is not being managed effectively in branch
e There is a risk that source data may become corrupted when accessed through tools

Section 3.5 sets out the required operational standards that the Post Office has implemented to
control these risks.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 8 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

3 Risk appetite and required operational standards

3.1 Risk appetite

Risk appetite is the extent to which the Post Office will accept that a risk might happen in pursuit of
day-to-day business transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of activity and levels of
exposure that Post Office is willing and able to tolerate.

Post Office takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has:
*  Averse risk appetite to risks around service and support provided to postmasters.
e  Averse risk appetite to being non-compliant with our statutory and regulatory obligations.

*  Averse risk appetite for financial crime to occur within any part of the Post Office or
network..

*  Averse risk appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by Post Office employees.
e Averse risk appetite to risks around disputes and litigation.

*  Averse risk appetite towards risks around our core operational processes that impact
postmasters.

* Cautious risk appetite towards the risk of service interruptions that would considerably
reduce branch availability across the network resulting in the inability to serve customers.

Post Office acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls have been
implemented a risk may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite/Risk Tolerance. Risks outside of
Appetite/Tolerance may be presented to the relevant governance forums for escalation/agreement of
the risk position.

If a risk is identified which is outside of agreed policy a risk exception note will be required, details of
which can be found here.

3.2 Policy framework

This policy is part of a framework of postmaster support policies that has been established to set the
minimum operating standards relating to the management of postmaster contract risks throughout
the business and network in line with Post Office’s risk appetite. The framework includes the
following policies:

* Postmaster Onboarding
* Postmaster Training
* Postmaster Complaint Handling

* Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance Support (this policy)

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 9 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

e Network Cash and Stock Management

e Network Transaction Corrections

* Postmaster Account Support

e Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution
e Postmaster Contract Performance

e Postmaster Contract Suspension

e Postmaster Contract Termination

e Postmaster Contract Termination Decision Review

3.3. Who must comply?

Compliance with this Policy is mandatory for all Post Office employees who perform network
monitoring and Branch Assurance activities.

Where non-compliance with this policy by Post Office employees is identified by Post Office, Post
Office will carry out an investigation. Where it is identified that an instance of non-compliance is
caused through wilful disregard or negligence, this this will be investigated in accordance with the
Group Investigations Policy.

3.4 Roles and responsibilities

« Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee — is the Committee of the Post Office Limited Board
which reviews and approves Postmaster Support policies

* Risk and Compliance Committee - is the standing committee of the Strategic Executive
Group who review and approve Postmaster Support policies for recommendation to the
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.

e Retail Engagement Director — is the policy owner, who must comply with the governance
responsiblities set out at section 6.1.

« Head of Network Monitoring and Reconciliation — is accountable for the deployment of this
policy and the support of the team that manages Network Monitoring. This role is also
responsible for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of this policy and for drafting any
amendments that may be required.

e Head of Operational Excellence - is accountable for the deployment of this policy and the
support of the team that manages Branch Assurance Support. This role is also responsible for
regularly reviewing the effectiveness of this policy and for drafting any amendments that may
be required.

* Operations Manager, Network Monitoring and Support — is responsible for assuring the
effectiveness of the processes, tools and activies of the Network Monitoring team.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 10 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

* Central Operations Insight Manager — is responsible for updating the risk model that sits
behind the Network Monitoring report

* Network Monitoring Team Manager — will lead a team of Network Monitoring Advisors in
identifying branches with potential accounting issues using a risk based data model.

« Network Monitoring Advisors — will carry out desk-based reviews into branch accounts
using branch data to identify potential accounting issues. They will work with Branch
Assurance Advisors, postmasters and other internal and external teams to review any
identified issues, explain potential areas of concern, and agree with the postmaster solutions
to any issues found ways to remedy the situation.

* Branch Assurance Manager - will lead a team of Branch Assurance Advisors (North and
South) in deploying Branch Assurance support activity, including making phone calls and
visiting Post Office branches in accordance with the standards set out in this policy. Branch
Assurance Team Leaders, supported by the Branch Assurance Manager, are responsible for
the quality assurance of these activities.

e Branch Assurance Advisors - will plan for and deploy Branch Assurance support activity.
During the visit they will verify assets in a Post Office branch and produce a factual, detailed
and accurate account of the visit (including areas identified for improvement) to provide to
the postmaster.

* Operational Support - this is the team, reporting into the Head of Operational Excellence,
that are responsible for scheduling visits to branches, updating the Branch Assurance
Advisors on their schedule and providing points of contact. All cases are administered on MS
Dynamics 365.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 11 of 26
3.5 Policy required operational standards

POL00448252
POL00448252

A required operational standard defines the level of control that must be in place to manage inherent risks so that they remain within the defined Risk

Appetite statements. This section of the policy also sets out the Business Area(s) responsible for managing that risk through their controls, and all employees

must ensure that they comply with the policy requirements. There must be mechanisms in place within each business unit to demonstrate compliance. The

policy required operational standard can cover a range of control types, i.e., directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks
are managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required policy operational standard in consideration of the stated risk appetite.

The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk area Description of risk(s) Required operational standard Business Control Frequency
owners

Non- We may become non-compliant I Preventive control: Head of Governance I As required
Compliance of I if correct processes and The Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance Network & Training {reviewed at
Postmaster procedures are not followed. Support policy is reviewed every twelve months, at I Monitoring and least
facing teams least, or before if any material changes are Reconciliation / annually)

required. Any amendments made to the policy are I Head of

approved by RCC and ARC before the new version I Operational

is published and circulated to the business. Once Excellence

approved, policy training will be delivered to

colleagues and include details about any updates or

amendments that have been made.

Detective control: Head of Exception Daily

Data is used to identify branches who are not Network reporting

following the correct processes and procedures, Monitoring and

who may require further support or monitoring. Reconciliation

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 12 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252
Risk area Description of risk(s) Required operational standard Business Control Frequency
owners
Detective control: Head of Performance I Monthly
Network Monitoring Support Advisors will have Network management
four cases quality assured each month by the Monitoring and
Network Monitoring Manager. Reconciliation
Consistent The Branch Assurance team are I Detective control: Head of Observed Quarterly
completion of I providing incorrect advice & Branch Assurance Advisors will have a minimum of I Operational Branch
Branch guidance one Branch Assurance visit quality assured by the _I Excellence Assurance
Assurance Branch Assurance Team Leader, per quarter. Visit
Visits
Branch Assurance visits have an I Detective control: Head of Quality Quarterly
inconsistent approach The Branch Assurance Manager will review all Operational assurance
Quality Assurance Review feedback with the Excellence feedback
Lack of co-operation with Branch Assurance Team Leaders and the reviews check and
postmasters during a Branch will be spot checked by the Head of Contract review.
Assurance visit Management & Deployment.
Preventive control: Head of Annual As required
The Branch Assurance Chapters, which details the I Operational review of (reviewed at
ways of working and process to follow for the Excellence Branch least
different types of support call/visit or branch Assurance annually)
assurance visit required, are reviewed to make sure Chapters
they are up to date and correct.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 13 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252
Risk area Required operational standard Business Control Frequency
owners
Non- Branches are not performing Detective control: Head of Monitoring Daily
compliance accounting procedures ina A report is created to show branches that Network branches
of branch timely manner have not produced a branch trading statement Monitoring and who haven't
obligations in the last 60 days. Network Monitoring Reconciliation rolled over in
will contact the branch to offer support. 60 Days
Detective control: Head of Notifying the I Upon
Where cash and stock accounting issues are Network Business identification
identified, the Network Monitoring Team will notify I Monitoring and I Support of an
the Business Support Managers, in the first 6 Reconciliation I Manager exception
months of the term of a postmaster’s contract, and
the Area Managers thereafter, to advise them the
postmaster may require extra support.
Excess cash Excess cash and or stock is not I Detective control: Head of Identification I Weekly
and stock being managed effectively in Surplus cash escalations will be reviewed, and any I Network of branches
branch other risk factors will be considered. The actions Monitoring and I with excess
taken, dependent on the findings, can be a Reconciliation cash and
combination of a phone call, visit, training, or stock
support, or requesting a Branch Assurance visit in
order to verify the cash at the branch.
Detective control: Head of Return of During a
Where a support visit or Branch Assurance Visit Operational excess cash Support
identifies excess cash or stock, the Branch Excellence & stock Visit or
Assurance Advisors will support the postmaster in Branch
creating a return of the excess to the Cash Centre Assurance
or Swindon Stock Centre. visit

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 14 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252
Risk area Description of risk(s) Required operational standard Business Control Frequency
owners
Data integrity I Source data may become Detective control: Head of Validation of I Weekly
corrupted when accessed All flagged branch issues identified by the data Network presented

through tools

tools are validated against the source data before
proceeding.

Monitoring and
Reconciliation

data against
source data

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 15 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252

4 Procedures

4.1 Network Monitoring

The Network Monitoring team carry out network monitoring using a risk-based model. The model
ranks the branches in order of risk so that the team can ascertain which branches are the most ‘at
risk’ and review them as a priority. The team also carry out reviews based on local knowledge
received from internal teams.

The scoring rankings in the model are re-calculated on a weekly basis and the Central Operations
Data team refresh the data used by the model on a weekly basis. The model can be used to ‘search’
for an individual branch, and it allows the advisor to ‘deep dive’ and review potential trends and
patterns in the data with respect to that branch. The advisor can build a picture from the data to aid
understanding of the accounting systems and processes at the branch before raising any issues or
concerns with the relevant postmaster.

Where an accounting issue is identified, the Network Monitoring team will, wherever possible and
appropriate, contact the postmaster with a view to helping the postmaster to rectify that issue. This
support may be provided through a telephone call from the Network Monitoring team, which will
include signposting to the NFSP, the arrangement of a Support Call or Visit by a member of the
Branch Assurance Support team and, occasionally, through an Branch Assurance Visit. A
combination of these support options may be deployed.

The Network Monitoring team will produce a Rationale Document at this stage of the review in
circumstances where a Branch Assurance Visit is required. This document is sent to the relevant
Branch Assurance Advisor, and the branch, in advance of the visit.

The Network Monitoring team will open a case on the case management system (Microsoft Dynamics
365) for each desktop review. They will populate the case with any all actions that are taken in
relation to that case, including phone calls made to the postmaster and the record and results of any
visits made.

4.2 Scheduling supportive visits and branch assurance visits

The Operational Support team are responsible for scheduling calls, visits and Branch Assurance
Visits to branches on behalf of the Branch Assurance team. They will schedule these activities at the
earliest opportunity based on the priority of the activity and the resources required to carry out the
activity. At least two Branch Assurance Advisors will be scheduled to attend a full visit.

In order to complete a full verification, it is necessary to close a Post Office branch for the duration of
the visit. As a result, it is essential in order to expedite the process and cause minimum disruption to
postmaster and their customers that Post Office use the optimum number of Branch Assurance
Advisors. Factors that may inform the number of Branch Assurance Advisors required, for a full
verification visit, are the cash holdings in the branch at the time of the visit, whether the branch has
an ATM machine and whether the branch holds foreign currency.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 16 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252

In the case of Support Visits and Branch Assurance Visits (including closure visits and transfer visits),
unless there are exceptional circumstances, the Operational Support team will attempt to arrange a
suitable time and date with the postmaster in advance.

4.3 Carrying out a branch assurance visit

A lead Branch Assurance Advisor will attend each visit. Lead Branch Assurance Advisors are
responsible for preparing for the visit, managing the visit and completing the final Branch Assurance
report. The lead Branch Assurance Advisor will liaise with the postmaster or the postmaster’s
representative throughout the visit. They will engage in a discussion with the postmaster or
representative using the Script. As a minimum, the lead Branch Assurance Advisor will go through
the Rationale Document with the postmaster or representative

The lead Branch Assurance Advisor will explain why the Branch Assurance Reporting Tool (BART) is
used as a verification tool. They will: (i) talk through the relevant event history; (ii) establish where all
the assets are held in branch; (iii) explain why they need to access the Horizon Online system at the
branch; and (iv) encourage questions throughout the process.

The lead Branch Assurance Advisor will provide regular updates throughout the visit and perform the
closing meeting, during which they will explain the result and findings, in doing so following the
Script. The lead Branch Assurance Advisor will delegate necessary tasks to the other Branch
Assurance Advisors in attendance, making the most efficient use of resources to ensure that there is
minimum disruption to the branch and its customers.

The lead Branch Assurance Advisor will print various reports from the Horizon Online system so that
the team can understand the value of the cash, stock and foreign currency being held in branch.
These reports are detailed in the Branch Assurance Chapter 02, available on the Knowledge Centre.
The lead Branch Assurance Advisor will conduct a physical count of the same and will manually
record both sets of figures. They will repeat this process for each stock unit and then calculate the
totals for the branch. A second Branch Assurance Advisor will repeat this process and check the
figures generated, and the Branch Assurance team will invite the postmaster or representative to
check the figures independently.

The Branch Assurance Advisors will prepare any excess cash and or stock or obsolete stock for
despatch from the branch once it has been counted and verified.

The figures from the cash and stock count sheets will be transferred onto the Branch Assurance
Reporting Tool at the visit. A final copy of the report will be emailed to the postmaster/branch. The
lead Branch Assurance Advisor will retain the manual records of the cash and stock counts for a
period of 60 days.

The Branch Assurance Advisors will advise of any discrepancy found at the visit with the postmaster
or representative and will use their ID to move the discrepancy into the centralised holding account.
They will signpost the postmaster or representative to the Branch Support Centre (BSC) who will
assist in the resolution of the discrepancy. National Federation of Subpostmasters support will be
also signposted.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 17 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252

In the event where there is an admittance of theft or misuse of Post Office Funds, for example using
Post Office funds for private use or processing deposits into bank accounts without accepting cash at
the time of the transaction, the Branch Assurance Advisor will contact a Contract Advisor. The purpose
of this contact is for the Contract Advisor to make an assessment of the situation and, in line with the
Postmaster Contract Suspension Policy, determine whether there is a requirement to suspend the
agreement. If suspension is not deemed appropriate the Contract Advisor may be required to ensure
that any further activity (including support for the postmaster) is undertaken.

4.4 Closure branch assurance visits

The Operational Support team will schedule a date for the closure visit to take place. A closure visit
carried out when a postmaster contract is terminated by either party. The outgoing postmaster will
be contacted by the Branch Assurance Advisor no more than 5 working days after they have notified
Post Office of the planned closure. The Branch Assurance Advisor will check if there are any
unresolved accounting issues and, if there are, they will work with the postmaster or its
representative to aim to have these rectified by the time of closure. Branch Assurance Advisors will
ask the outgoing postmaster to reduce the holdings of cash and stock at the branch and return any
excess cash and stock to Post Office prior to the date of closure.

All cash and stock will be prepared, by the branch, for despatch on the day of the visit for its
subsequent despatch from the branch and a full final balance of the accounts will be completed. The
Branch Assurance Advisors will use their ID to move the discrepancy into the centralised holding
account and the postmaster/representative can instigate a review into the discrepancy by contacting
the Branch Support Centre. Additional support will be offered by the National Federation of
Subpostmasters (NFSP), and their contact details will be provided by the lead Branch Assurance
advisor.

4.5 Post security incident branch assurance visits

In the event of a security incident, such as a robbery or burglary, a Branch Assurance Advisor will
conduct a security incident Branch Assurance visit at the branch if the loss is valued at more than
£5000.

Post security incident Branch Assurance visits will be scheduled as soon as is practicable following
the incident to ensure that the postmaster is properly supported. The visit’s purpose is to ascertain
the cash and stock holdings in the branch immediately after the incident. The Branch Assurance
process is the same as a full Branch Assurance Visit, but any discrepancies recorded at these visits
will be posted to the Robbery & Burglary suspense account.

4.6 Reference materials

All written materials relevant to Branch Assurance Visits, including the instructions on how to
complete a visit and relevant scripts, are stored in the Knowledge Centre SharePoint which is
accessible to all Branch Assurance Advisors and Managers. These are reviewed annually as a

minimum.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 18 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252

4.7 Quality assurance

The Branch Assurance Team Leaders are responsible for quality assuring Branch Assurance
activities.

Each Branch Assurance Advisor will have a minimum of one Branch Assurance Visit quality assured
by the Branch Assurance Team Leader, per quarter.

The Network Monitoring Team Managers perform monthly monitoring of phone call activity between
postmasters and the Network Monitoring team. In addition to this, the RD and the Dynamics case
are quality checked monthly. A sample of cases are selected for review by the Assurance & Complex
Investigations team for second line assurance.

The Head of Operational Excellence is responsible for ensuring that the Branch Assurance Manager
ensures the Quality Assurance Review (QAR) exercise is completed by the Branch Assurance Team
Leaders.

When observing a Branch Assurance Visit, the Branch Assurance Team Leader will attend in person
and will review the manner in which the visit is carried out, including engagement with the
postmaster and adherence to the process. They will then complete an observational Quality
Assurance Review form and use it to provide feedback to the Branch Assurance Advisor as soon as
possible after the visit. The Branch Assurance Team Leader will also check the visit paperwork, such
as the count sheets and report generated figures. The Branch Assurance Manager will spot-check
feedback with the Branch Assurance Team Leaders.

4.8 Reporting

Post Office create reports to show how the Post Office network is performing against agreed cash
and stock accounting practices. The reports which are generated daily include:

¢ Number of branches making daily cash declarations;

e Number of branches completing regular branch accounting;

« Number of branches not up to date with branch accounting deadlines; and
« Amount of cash in the network.

In addition, reporting is carried out on a monthly basis to give visibility of team performance. The
reports which are generated monthly include:

e Number of branches monitored within a period;

e Number of branches contacted by phone;

«Number of supportive visits conducted;

Number of Branch Assurance Visits completed by type; and

« Value and volume of discrepancies recorded at Branch Assurance Visits.

The Branch Assurance team host a weekly meeting with relevant stakeholders across the business to
discuss branch assurance visit activity. This will include:

* Branch Assurance visits completed, rescheduled and repeat visits
* Branch Assurance visit details including potential value at risk, the trigger and findings

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 19 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

* Lead times from scheduling and performing a Branch Assurance visit
e — Identification of postmaster support required
« Postmaster feedback

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 20 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

5 Where to go for help

5.1 Additional policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found on the SharePoint Hub
under Postmaster Support Policies.

5.2 How to raise a concern

Any postmaster, any postmaster’s staff or any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a
breach of this Policy should report this without any undue delay.

If a postmaster or the postmaster’s staff are unable to raise the matter with the area manager of the
relevant branch or if a Post Office employee is unable to speak to her or his line manager, any person
can bring it to Post Office’s attention independently and can use the Speak Up channels for this
purpose. Any person can raise concerns anonymously, although disclosing as much information as
possible helps ensure Post Office can conduct a thorough investigation.

For more details about how and where to raise concerns, please refer to the current Speak Up Policy
which can be found on The Hub under Post Office Key Policies, accessed here, or report online at:

http//speakup.postoffice.co.uk or call the Speak Up Line on}

Please note that a postmaster may also contact the National Federation of SubPostmasters (NFSP)

for help and support, by contacting their helpline on/

5.3 Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this policy or wish to report an issue in relation to this policy,
please contact the Retail Engagement Director, Tracy Marshall, by emailing

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 21 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

6 Governance

6.1 Governance responsibilities

The Policy sponsor, the Group Chief Retail Officer of Post Office, takes responsibility for policies
covering their areas.

The Policy Owner is the Retail Engagement Director who is responsible for ensuring that the content
is up to date and is capable of being executed. As part of the review process, they need to ensure
that the minimum controls articulated in the policy are working or to identify any gaps and provide an
action plan for remediation

Additionally, the Retail Engagement Director, with input from the Central Operations Director and the
Retail Operations Director, is responsible for providing appropriate and timely reporting to the Risk
and Compliance Committee and the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee as required.

The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee are responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting Post Office's risk appetite.

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 22 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

7 Document control

7.1 Document control record

Summary

lard approver

Martin Roberts (Group Tracy Marshall (Retail Network Monitoring - Alison R&CC/ARC
Chief Retail Officer) Engagement Director) J Clark (Head of Network

Monitoring and

Reconciliation)

Branch Assurance Support ~
Mike Lowe (Head of
Operational Excellence)

Document review
Version Policy ~ effective date Policy location

period

Postmaster Support
4.1 Annual 07/2024 Policies on SharePoint
Hub

Revision history

O.1 Ast October 2020 Draft Version Jo Milton
0.2 8th October 2020 Revised draft Jo Milton
03 8th December 2020 Revised draft — updated definitions and job roles Jo Milton
0.4 15th December 2020 —_ Footnotes added Jo Milton
1.0 26th January 2021 Final Version approved by ARC Jo Milton
11 29th March 2021 Annual review Jo Milton

2.3, 2.5, 3.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.9 expansion on existing
content

Section 3 -Added in Risk Appetite Statements 3.1,
added in Policy Framework 3.2, added in “Who
must comply” 3.3, added in Minimum Control
Standards 3.5

Alignment to other postmaster support policies

12 26th April 2021 Text amendments following internal and external Jo Milton
legal review

INTERNAL Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 23 of 26
13

14

15

16

2.0

21

2.2

3.0

3.1

3.2

3.3

INTERNAL

4th May 2021

13th May 2021

25th May 2021

25" February 2022

1st April 2022
4th July 2022

4" October 2022

5% December 2022
19" June 2023

8" December 2023

25% March 2024

Risk appetite amendment

Replacement of “settled centrally” language
Rewording of section 4.4 (penultimate para)

Added linked policy statement to front page
Added reference to the Group Investigations Policy
to section 3.3 Who Must Comply?

Updated link to section 5.1

Added footnotes to link to other policies referred to
in this policy.

Annual Review

Revision of job role names throughout

2.1 Addition of section stating that a postmaster
may authorise someone to act on their/its behalf
3.1 Updated risk appetite statements to include
Operational statements

3.4 Added Operations Manager to job role
responsibilities

5.2 Added reference to NFSP

Amended version number following approval

2.1, 3.4, 5.3, 6.1, 7.1 - updated owner and sponsor
Font updated to Nunito Sans

Annual Review

Policy name amended to Network Monitoring and
Branch Assurance Support Policy

Throughout - Updated ‘Audit’ to ‘Branch
Assurance’ and SPEAR visit to Support visit

2.5 and 3.5 - Addition of new risk “Consistent
completion of Branch Assurance Visits” and related
controls

5.2 ‘Whistleblowing’ changed to ‘Speak Up’
Updated to full version number following approval
at ARC

Updated owner

Updated owner and implementer
1.1 Clarified Establish Loss/Gain definitions

3.1 Amended risk exception statement

3.2 Updated framework policy name — Contract
Termination Decisions Review

3.4 added Service & Supports Insights Manager
4.3 Update to process for scheduling a visit
Annual Review

Throughout: Removal of reference to unannounced
visits and updating of ‘investigation’ to ‘review’

1.1 Updated definitions

2.5 Removal of contractual discrepancy text. Risks
amended to reflect ServiceNow

3.5 Minimum Control Standards changed to Policy
Required Operational Standards

4.2 Removal of non-suspension monitoring section

Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1

POL00448252
POL00448252

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

David Southall

Jo Milton
Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Mike Lowe/Alison
Clark

Page 24 of 26
POL00448252
POL00448252

4.3 Amended the circumstances when a Branch
Assurance Advisor would contact a Contract

Advisor.
4.7 Amendments to reflect new QA process and
postmaster CSAT
4.8 Addition of reports for weekly stakeholder
meetings
5.2 Addition of Speak Up and NFSP contact details

4.0 21% May 2024 Updated to full version number following approval Jo Milton
at ARC

4. 24° July 2024 Updated Casework team to Operational Support —_Jo Milton

team throughout

1.1 Remove definitions of Local, Main and SPSO
branches

4.2 Amended to clarify that a visit will be arranged
with the postmaster unless in exceptional
circumstances.

4.3 and 4.4 Amended “Smart ID" to “ID” for
simplicity

4.5 Security incident visit trigger increased from
£1000 to £5000 (approved at RC July24)

7.2 Oversight committee

Oversight Committee: Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee

Committee Date approved

POL R&CC 7® May 2024

POL ARC 22" May 2024

Next review: 31 MAY 2025

7.3, Company details

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers 2154540 and
084597 18 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is ZAO90585.

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its Information Commissioners

Office registration

number is 24866081.

VAT registration number GB 172 6705 02. Registered office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, England EC2Y 9AQ

INTERNAL

Network monitoring and branch assurance support policy V4.1 Page 25 of 26
POL00448252

POL00448252

