POL00116853
POL00116853

From: Patrick Bourke[patrick.bourke,_____ GRO.
Sent: Wed 03/12/2014 2:24:11 PM (UTC)

To: Tom Wechsler[tom.wechsler

Subject: RE: JA

Ah yes...

-----Original Message-----

From: Tom Wechsler

Sent: 03 December 2014 14:18
To: Patrick Bourke

Subject: RE: JA

He has more personal attachment to this than may be immediately apparent

Tom Wechsler

-----Original Message-----

From: Patrick Bourke

Sent: 03 December 2014 13:30
To: Tom Wechsler; Belinda Crowe
Subject: RE: JA

Delighted, but which particular view is that ? :-)

-----Original Message-----
From: Tom Wechsler

Sent: 03 December 2014 13:18
To: Belinda Crowe

Ce: Patrick Bourke

Subject: RE: JA

I am increasingly of the same view as Patrick.

Tom Wechsler

-----Original Message-----
From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 03 December 2014 13:14
To: Tom Wechsler

Subject: FW: JA

FYI

Belinda Crowe

-----Original Message-----

From: Alice Perkins [mailto:aliceperking
Sent: 01 December 2014 17:15

To: Paula Vennells: Belinda Crowe; Mark R Davies; Chris Aujard; Patrick Bourke
Subject: JA

POL00116853
POL00116853

I initiated a conversation with him on Saturday evening which was cut off (by the arrival of the Turkish President and the Duke of
York for the gala dinner.........) Despite the opportunity for him to pick it up again yesterday, he chose not to do so.

I started by asking him how he was and was rather surprised to be told he had had a "sleepless night" after receiving the letter from
Paula.

Tasked how he thought his colleagues had behaved at the meeting. He replied that they were much more "restrained" than he had
expected. I countered by saying that it hadn't sounded very restrained to me.

We moved quickly on to the substance. The main thrust of his argument seemed to be that there big wrongs which we were not
acknowledging; in other words the position he held when he first approached me about all this in early 2012. I said that we had bent
over backwards to set up a process in collaboration with the key parties, and had had his agreement to the arrangements. At the
time, I did not know for certain whether the process would uncover anything wrong but now that we had almost completed our
investigations, we had found nothing of any significance.

He clearly was not going to accept that. He said they would like to see AH if he would be willing to see them. I said I couldn't speak
for him. He was trying to run an independent process and therefore might say no, but I didn't know. He asked if they could have
access to SS. I said no; we couldn't have people second guessing an independent process which they had agreed to. We had spared
no effort or resource on all this and there was an issue of VfM in going any further than we had.

He then argued that the process was flawed. We should be willing to mediate cases where people had been convicted. I said no; they
‘were matters to be settled through the courts. He moved on to people who had pleaded "guilty under duress" but who were in fact,
innocent. I said we were investigating every case and there was no evidence for that assertion.

He then said he thought Paula and I genuinely believed what we were saying - the implication being that we were being hoodwinked
by others - a somewhat backhanded compliment if it was intended as such but unfortunately, the arrival of the bigwigs prevented me
from responding and that was where the conversation ended.

My takeaway from this, based on how he looked and what he said is that his position is exactly where it was two and a half years
ago. I think it is unlikely that we will be able to shift that although we shouldn't give up. He should be clear from the conversation
that we are not going to depart from the agreed process or supplement it. I can't predict what he will do next.

All the best

Alice

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com
