POL00176599
POL00176599

Bundler 1

From: Martin Smith

Sent: 07 November 2014 10:42 fo

To: ‘Parsons, Andrew’; Belinda Crowe; ‘paulloraine@
Alexander; Jarnail Singh

Ca: Rodric Williams; Brooks, Victoria; Durston, Joel

Subject: RE: M082 - further disclosure [BD-4A.FID25887221]

Andy,

From a criminal perspective, we would advise as a general rule against the disclosure of any
documents from a criminal file which have not previously been disclosed to the defendant during
the course of the original proceedings. To do otherwise may well enable the Defendant or Second
Sight to attempt to criticise the way in which the prosecution was conducted or how the
prosecution policy was applied. Clearly such arguments in a public arena would be
uncomfortable for POL.

We remain concerned that Second Sight are pushing for the disclosure of files and advise that a
robust stance be taken by POL in relation to all such requests.

Please do not hesitate to call me to discuss this in more detail should you so wish.

Kind regards,

Martin.

Martin Smith

CartwrightKing

meee SOLICITORS

Birmingham I Derby I Leeds I Leicester] London I Milton Keynes I Nottingham I Sheffield I
Tyneside
www.cartwrightking.co.uk

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE
This e-mail is confidential and:may contain legally privileged information. If'you have received
itinerror please notify usimmediately by return email, do not copy itor its contents to anyone
else and delete it. Thank you for your cooperation.

A list of directors is available at each office. Cartwright King is authorised and regulated by the
VAT Registration No: 7
any attachments are virus.

Solicitors Regulation Authority No: 31

We cannot guarantee that this e-mail a
check.

you should please

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailt
Sent: 07 November 2014 09:58

POL00176599
POL00176599

To: Belinda Crowe; ‘paul.loraine@_.__ GRO; Kathryn Alexander; Martin Smith; Jarnail Singh
Cc: Rodric Williams; Brooks, Victoria; Durston, Joel
Subject: RE: M052 - further disclosure [BD-4A.FID25887221]

Belinda
Thanks — just to confirm.

There is only one statement about the actions of the Applicant's husband — the statement from Lisa Allen and this has
already been disclosed with the POIR so there's nothing we can do about this now. Noted however for other cases.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Belinda Crowe [MailtOsccmrecrerorre ee prosrnreersersng~
Sent: 06 November 2014 19:13
To: Parsons, Andrew; 'paul.loraineé
Jarnail Singh

Cc: Rodric Williams; Brooks, Victoria; Durston, Joel; Belinda Crowe
Subject: Re: M052 - further disclosure [BD-4A.FID25887221]

“}; Kathryn Alexander; 'martin.smitht.

Thanks Andy

My only comment would be whether the statements about the behaviour of the applicant's family members actually
add anything.

They are not in the category of docs that SS want or need and are not relevant to the conviction.

1am not sure whether the applicant has ever seen them but I do not think this information should be provided
unless there is a good reason for us to provide it.

Best wishes

Belinda

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailto:_
Sent: Thursday, November 06, 2014 05:12 PM

To: Loraine, Paul ¢ GRO. +; Kathryn Alexander;
martin.smithC-~ nnn? _Jarnail Singh

; Brooks, Victoria <_ ; Durston, Joel

[BD-4A.FID25887221]

All

SS have requested disclosure of all documents from Post Office's prosecution file in the above case. We have re-
reviewed the prosecution files and those "non-privileged" documents (ie. anything that is not legal advice and does
not relate to internal Post Office investigation steps) that could be disclosed are attached.
POL00176599
POL00176599

Paul / Kath - I'd be grateful if you could confirm whether any of the documents to be disclosed have any material
impact on our POIR.

Martin / Jarnail - I'd be grateful if you could confirm whether you have any objection to these additional documents
being released to SS.

Belinda - we can then take a final view on if, what and how to release any documents to SS.
Password is the same as used for the POIR.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

Follow Bond Dickinson:

inI

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the envii

‘onment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential a rrivileged and protected by law Jonly is authorised to
‘ou are not belinda,crowé, 1s possible and delete any
unlavefl

access this e-mail and any attachments. I
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination,

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any toss or
damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any’ attachment,

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP. is neither given nor endorsed by it

‘of Bond Dickinson LLP which is
side, Newcastle Upon Ty
member of the LLP, oran employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing: Our VAT r

les under number OC317661. Our registered
¢ term partner to refer toa

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

peoees se
