POL00028599
POL00028599

' OPERATIONAL SERVICE MANAGEMENT

ae
2

was

BA/POCL Programme

CONGO 4
(CL Pathway Release 1c)

Interim Business Continuity Status Report

Number 3

Period - 20th to 26th November 1997

Distribution: Peter Crahan Kevin Lenihan
Bruce McNiven Vince Gaskill
Paul Rich Peter Hull
John Holroyd Jeremy Folkes
Phil Shingler - PMT Board
Andy Radka :

PDA Operational Service Management Team
3rd Floor
Terminal House

Phil Tumock, OSM Page I of 4
3rd Floor, Terminal House

52 Grosvenor Gdns

LONDON SWIW 0AB. alee

POL00028599
POL00028599

OPERATIONAL SERVICE MANAGEMENT

1. Introduction

This-report is produced by the PDA Operational Service Management team and:provides *
a high level “in-flight” assessment of any threats to overall Business Continuity in the ‘a
Congo 4 live service environment. The primary purpose is to identify any issues (actual

or potential) that might give rise to considering a suspension of the Congo 4 roll-out or

regression ftom ICL Pathway services. This is an interim report which will continue on

a weekly basis pending a Full Business Continuity Report on 10/12/97.

For ease of reference, the report utilises a traffic light system with the following keys -
Immediate Threat to Business Continuity
Potential Threat to Business Continuity

No Threat to Business Continuity

NB Any comments about the content, format or value of cither report
would be welcomed by the PDA Operational Service Management team at
Terminal House.

2. End to End Business Continuity

There are no matters that need escalating for consideration of suspending the Congo 4
roll-out and/or regressing from ICL Pathway services.

Phil Tumock, OSM Page 2 Of 4
3rd Floor, Terminal House

52 Grosvenor Gdas

LONDON SWIW 0AB. elatetide

POL00028599
POL00028599

OPERATIONAL SERVICE MANAGEMENT

3. Core Elements of the Live service
Infra- BES I OBCSI PAS CMS I ABED I Fraud & ‘Account
structure . Security I ‘ing

3.1 INFRASTRUCTURE

3.1.1 This is a new category which represents aspects of the system such as ‘hardware’.
The item in last weeks report concerning the printers (3.1.1), is now associated with this
category.

3.2 BES

3.2.1" After assurances following a previous duplicate payment ( Prior to Release Ic ), anew
duplicate payment situation has occurred at Bath Road SPSO. This was due to the Post
Office not being able to ‘poll’ for 8 / 9 days, therefore the system was unable to identify
that the original payment had already been made.
The key issues raised here are:
. Do ICL Pathway have knowledge of office communications being impaired for

such long periods
. ‘What can be done to trap similar late ‘polling’ exceptions and hold them for
investigation.

ICL Pathway have initiated their investigations to ascertain reasons for the comms. "
failure.

Phil Tumock, OSM Page 3 OF 4

3rd Floor, Terminal House

$2.Grosvenor Gdns

LONDON SWIW 0AB . alate

POL00028599
POL00028599

OPERATIONAL SERVICE MANAGEMENT

33  OBCS
3.3.1 The last report stated that some offices were experiencing some difficulties with the
ISDN line. The problems have now been isolated and British Telecom have made all,
necessary repairs. Therefore the ‘traffic light’ has returned to ‘green’.
3.4 ABED
3.4.1 One of the new PMSR reports introduced at the beginning of release 1c, does not appear
to be working correctly. It did not pick-up the Bath Road duplicate payment and report
it as an unmatched encashment. Pathway have stated that they will seek an urgent fix to
this.
I 3.4.2 Another concem is that one of the transactions involved in this incident didn’t come
i through to ABED and wasn’t reported on the CBoS report. Pathway aim to address this
! as part of the fix being applied to the above. .
; This has a double impact on Transaction Processing:-
! ° It creates an error against cash account.
. Settlement with BA is based on an incorrect sum - Pathway are looking to
manually amend the CBoS report as an interim measure. This has an impact on
POCL accounting.
3.4.3. The above has been registered with Operational Service Management, but there is
growing concem given the limited functionality and few on-line offices.
3.5 Fraud and Security
3.5.1 With reference to the subject of authentication of users to the Payment Card Helpline
and Helpline users. Proposals for resolution, have been put to the sponsor organisations
and a further update is expected to be given next week.
Phil Tumock, OSM Page 4 Of 4
3rd Floor, Terminal House
$2.Grosvenor Gdns

LONDON SWI 0AB etadtttnde

