POL00158388
POL00158388

INTERNAL LOSS PROCEDURE

1 Definition

This procedure refers to internal losses. Attacks should continue to be reported in accordance with Core
Standard 1-01.

For the purposes of this document the definition of “loss” is “an unresolved discrepancy”. A discrepancy
should be considered “unresolved” at the end of the cash account week in which it was discovered after
local checks, searches and enquiries have been made.

2 Policy
Losses of £500 or over and all losses where there are grounds to suspect dishonesty must be reported to
Security. The limit for stock is £5,000 and for Bureau-de-Change, £500.

3 Procedure
3.1 Service Delivery

Losses of £500 or over should be reported using Loss Report Form 1 (Appendix 1 in the Losses & Gains
Processes manual). When the loss is for a significant amount or the nature of the circumstances demand
an immediate response from Security, for example a loss of £20k or more, the loss should initially be
reported by phone and followed up with the written report being faxed to the Security office.

The report and associated documents should be sent to:

Post Office Cash Handling & Distribution
Security Team
2™' Floor Capstan House
Chandler’s Point

35 Broadway
Manchester
MS 2YY

Tel,

3.2 Security

Appendix 2 Losses & Gains Process Manual
When a report is received, Security will send an e-mail to the appropriate Cash Centre Manager
acknowledging receipt of the loss report and providing a case reference number.

For serious losses reported by phone, the Security Team Leader for the Area will contact the Area
Manager by phone the same day to agree how the incident should be managed.

For less serious losses, the Team Leader will contact the centre / depot manager within 5 working days to
agree how the incident will be managed.

When investigating suspected crimes, interviewing witnesses and suspects, Security Managers will
comply with relevant legislation :

e England & Wales - Police & Criminal Evidence Act 1984 and Codes of Practice
e Northern Ireland - Police & Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 and Codes of Practice
© Scotland - Criminal Procedure Scotland Act 1995 and Codes of Practice

When interviewing Post Office employees Security Managers will also comply with Post Office rules in
relation to:

© Interviewees right to have a friend present at interviews
e Interviewees right to have a friend present at searches
e Treatment of juveniles

Security Managers will provide reports on the outcome of inquiries. The report will identify any
procedural or equipment issues which have contributed to the incident and will recommend corrective
action to prevent re-occurrence. Reports will be submitted within the time-scales agreed for each case. In
offender cases the Area Manager will be provided with a copy of the Security report within 10 working
days of the interview.

When an offender is to be prosecuted the Security Manager will prepare prosecution files to support
criminal proceedings; all files will be prepared in liaison with Legal Services and will comply with the
following instructions :

« England & Wales - Post Office Prosecution guidelines & Post Office Code of Practice - CPI Act 1996

¢ Northern Ireland - Inspectors Brief or requirements of the Director of Public Prosecutions (Northern
Treland)

* Scotland - Crown Office Guide for reports to the Procurator Fiscal

Security Managers will manage the conduct of prosecution cases.
Security Managers will attend prosecution and disciplinary hearings to support Service Delivery
Managers .

The Security Team will measure performance against the timescales in this standard and include in the
monthly security report.

Appendix 2 Losses & Gains Process Manual

POL00158388
POL00158388
