POL00084773

POL00084773

@ branchstandards

Adaress Line 1
Address Line 2
Address Line 3
Address Line 4
Address Line 5

Dear Ist name

I am pleased to send you a copy of the Post Office® branch standards booklet that has been sent to
your branches. This is a summary of some of the contractual instructions your branches will have
been sent in the past, and which are set out in operational instructions such as Operational Focus.

Branch standards are therefore not new, and they cover the things the majority of branch teams do
successfully every day. The booklet summarises many of them and we hope it will be useful to your
branches in helping them ensure:

They provide a great customer service

Their branch is secure

They sell products compliantly

Their cash is managed correctly

They are controlling costs and reducing losses

VvVvVvVVvVVvVv

Although it is not a substitute or a replacement for the more detailed operational instructions we
hope the booklet will help your branch teams see more easily where they may need to make changes.
to ensure they are running their branch efficiently and compliantly.

Applying branch standards consistently across the network will reduce the risk of regulator fines
and customer complaints. It will also help reduce our costs, as non-compliance with some branch
standards can result in a direct cost to Post Office. Given the competitive environment we operate in
we have to keep these costs to an absolute minimum.

As you will see, one of the branch standards deals with anti money laundering procedures. In
June last year we told you about our decision to stop remunerating non compliant bureau de
change transactions. We are now introducing further measures to reflect some of the costs of
non-conformance with some of the other branch standards included in the booklet.

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ
Post Office and the Post Office Logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.
POL00084773
POL00084773

@ branchstandards

Starting on 41 June, we will pass on to you the cost of any visits to your branches to ensure that
compliance training has been completed. We will also pass on the cost of any further training if any
of your branches are not carrying out their overnight cash or ATM declarations properly. This will
include the cost of visiting a branch to deliver the training. We will also pass on to you the charges
we have to pay for missing motor vehicle licence (MVL) discs. The details of how these measures
could affect you are shown in the ‘Conformance with branch standards’ booklet included with this
letter. We have not sent these details to your branches.

I expect the instances when we will need to pass on these costs, or charge for missing MVL discs, to
be very few and that most branches will not incur any charges at all. The branch standards booklet
should help them avoid any potential charges.

Getting all the branch standards right will help your branches run their Post Office business efficiently,
professionally and securely. Please take the time to read the booklet, and ensure that colleagues in
your branches do the same.

Thank you for your continued support as we work together to create a more successful and
sustainable Post Office network for the future

GRO

Lynn P Hobbs
General Manager, Network Support

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ
Post Office and the Post Office Logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.
