POL00299454

POL00299454
From: John M Scott[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=JOHN.M.SCOTT976DB244-9F5B-4D59-A593-
F563C9B5535D]
Sent: Wed 18/09/2013 10:18:44 AM (UTC)
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[é_
Cec: J; Darrell
Hutchinson{s:
Posnett[¢a 2 J; Helen Dickinson
Andrew Daley[@ ; Mark Denn
John M Scott kj]
Subject: Horizon & Investigations

Hello Angela.
Thanks for the chat on Monday, useful as it has cleared up a few things.

Nelson Post Office. Fully understand that the SPM wants to clear the matter up so as not accountable for this loss, no
further losses and trust in his staff. From the business perspective is to demonstrate that Horizon is not the cause and
therefore maintains integrity. We have seemed to have got into a muddle with the way forward, CCTV yes/no,
covert/overt etc, especially as we’ve not enquired with the SPM yet. My suggestion is to take a step back, allocate an
investigator (Mark Dennett has been nominated), carry out the fundamental and preliminary enquiries, allow the
investigator to contact and liaise directly with the SPM and then jointly agree with you or your team the way forward
in a timely manner. If we get audited or the file goes before Second sight, Mediation etc, then we can demonstrate a
proper and robust investigation which is fully documented and that the progress of it and any decision to carry out
any action (CCTV, interviews etc) is appropriate and proportionate. (This needs to be the approach with all these cases
going forward). I’ll get Mark Dennett to liaise with you in the first instance to get the SPM details and agree the next
steps.

Point of Contact for new Second Sight cases, queries, spot lights etc. Dave Posnett has been nominated, he has been
the PoC for the last 18 months and been on the spot light reviews, co-ordinates the Wednesday morning Horizon conf
calls and has a wider oversight across the investigators as part of their lead team and is also an Accredited Financial
Investigator.

In regards to SPMs who are not engaging with a criminal investigation and are not responding or agreeing to attend
an interview with my team, before going to the Police for support, there will be a formal agreement with you or your
team before progressing.

Investigators Training Day, Wednesday 25 September at Chesterfield. If you’re able to attend to give an update on
where we are from a business perspective, where we need to get to and the expectations of the team, that would be
great. Please contact Rob King/Dave Posnett if you’re able to attend.

Any queries, happy to chat through.

Regards.

John.

John M Scott - Head of Security

Post Office Head Office, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

GRO
POL00299454
POL00299454
