Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

POL00423505
POL00423505

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING

Strictly Confidential

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE OF POST OFFICE
LIMITED HELD ON MONDAY 28 JANUARY 2020 AT 20 FINSBURY STREET, LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ AT 09.30 AM

Present:

In Attendance:

Observers:

Apologies:

1.
1a.

1.2

1.3)

Carla Stent
Tom Cooper
Ken McCall
Zarin Patel
Nick Read

Alisdair Cameron

Andrew Paynter
Sarah Allen

Ben Foat
Johann Appel
Mark Baldock
Jonathan Hill
David Parry
Jeff Smyth

Rob Wilkins
Tony Jowett

Andrew Goddard
Mark Dixon

Dan Zinner
Sally Smith

Tim Armit

Meredith Sharples

Rebecca Barker
Audrey Cahill

Chair (CS)

Non-Executive Director (TC)

Senior Independent Director (KM)
Non-Executive Director (ZP)

Chief Executive Officer (AC)

Chief Finance Officer (AC)

Group Audit Partner, PwC (AP)

Audit Senior Manager, PwC (SA)

General Counsel (BF)

Head of Internal Audit (JA)

Head of Risk (MB)

Compliance Director (JH)

Senior Assistant Company Secretary (DP)
Digital Technology Director, CIO FST & Identity
(JS) (Item 4)

Portfolio Director (RW) (Item 4)

Chief Information Security Officer (TJ) (item
4)

Managing Director, Payzone (AG) (Item 5)
Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance (MD)
(items 6,7)

Chief Transformation Officer (DZ) (item 8)
Money Laundering Report Officer and Head of
Financial Crime (SS) (Item 9)

Business Continuity Manager (TA) (Item 10)
Director, Telecoms (MS) (Item 11.16 - 11.19)
Head of IT & Digital Risk (RB)

Risk Business Partner, Central Risk (AuC)

Action

Welcome and Conflicts of Interest

The Chair welcomed ZP and MB to their first Committee meeting along
with observers RB and AuC. All papers were taken as read.

ZP declared the following conflicts of interest:

As a member of the HM Treasury Committee, ZP does not see the detail
of any funding request, but the Committee agreed to note her role in
both HM Treasury and POL and to ensure that should any sensitive
matter arise, her papers would be redacted and ZP would be excused
from the discussions, as required.

The remaining Directors declared that they had no new conflicts of interest
in the matters to be considered at the meeting in accordance with the
requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and the

Company’s Articles of Association.
Update from Subsidiaries

ARC Minutes fo

or signature-20/05/20 of 22
POL00423505
POL00423505

Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

The Chair provided a quick overview of the key issues discussed at the
last ARC POI meeting in November 2019, based on discussions with the
POI ARC Chair:

© Quality of Sales - there have been some improvements made but
simple issues remain such as not discussing the wider product range
or asking suitable questions. Training and the use of technology is
key to this.

« Data breach - a marketing agency was inadvertently sent data files
of 104 customers without encryption. Culture and training to raise
staff awareness is required, pending an automated solution which
requires Windows 10.

« The Senior Manager and Certification regime is now effective and
has been implemented on time and under budget.

« GI pricing remains an area of regulator focus, in terms of the
difficulty customers face when switching providers and instances of
higher premiums being charged to loyal customers who do not
negotiate or switch providers.

A fuller update would be provided in March to cover POI ARC’s February
and March meetings.
Minutes and Matters Arising

3.1 The minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee held on 25

November 2019 were APPROVED and AUTHORISED for signature by
the Chairman.

3.2 The minutes of the closed session of the Audit and Risk Committee held
on 25 November2019 were APPROVED and AUTHORISED for signature
by the Chairman.

3.3 Progress with the completion of actions as shown on the action log was
NOTED.
3.4 The draft minutes of the Risk and Compliance Committee held on 14

January 2020 were NOTED.
PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update
4.1 PCI-DSS

JS presented a verbal update on PCI-DSS. Following CEO level talks with
Ingenico in December 2019, an executable and granular level plan had
now been received (27 January 2020) and a steering committee (attended
by NR and Ingenico) established to maintain visibility and track progress.

4.2 Compliance with the legislation was now expected in Q2 2021, six months
behind the previously advised deadline. Martin Kearsley (Director of
Banking Services) will use this additional time to converse with POL’s
banking partners (between August and December 2020). To date, the
banking partners appear supportive.

4.3 NR remarked he would prefer compliance to be completed by December
2020, but consideration needs to be given to the busy trading period
before Christmas. The Committee urged the management team to press Action:
for compliance pre-Christmas, even if roll out was delayed until after the NR

2 of 22 ARC Minutes for signature-20/05/20
POL00423505
POL00423505

Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

Christmas trading period. NR did feel more assured with the joint
effort/approach to compliance.

4.4 JS confirmed the first technical delivery would be in March 2020 and the Action:
first retail deliverable would be received in August 2020. POL’s JS
dependence upon Ingenico and Fujitsu was noted. It was AGREED
monthly progress reports (signed by Ingenico’s CEO) would be provided
to the Committee.

4.5 The Committee reiterated their concern that Ingenico must be held
accountable, and that non delivery in August (or news of a further delay)
would be unacceptable. TC purported financial penalties should be levied
where compliance is not met by the proposed deadline.

4.6 A progress report would be presented to the Committee in March. Action:
Js

4.7 Cyber Security

TJ presented an update on Cyber Security. Following the Travelex
ransomware attack, focus had been on reviewing and strengthening cyber
defences where required (considered suitable at present). A verbal update
had also been received from FRES that their systems are suitable. A more
formal confirmation is due in two weeks. Following a question from the
Committee, it was confirmed that POI is included in the POL work, but
Payzone have yet to be tested.

4.8 Regarding JML (joiners, movers, leavers), TJ had a good understanding of
the processes involved and a plan would be rolled out in March to ensure
accessibility rights was continually managed. Currently there is good basic
coverage but some slippage occurs. There are currently 90 contractors in Action:
POL, 235 at its peak in October 2018. A full plan on JML will be shared TJ
with the ARC at the next meeting.

4.9 Regarding data security, the biggest risk to POL remained internal
breaches. Attacks via tower providers to POL were unlikely as there are
no direct connections from tower companies to Horizon, however, a
cultural change is required regarding the usage of and respect for
confidential data (with proportionate consequences for non-compliance).

5. Payzone Risk Report
5.1 AG provided a progress report on risk within Payzone.
5.2 The team continued to develop their risk management framework to align

with POL’s, and an assessment of all key risks (GDPR, integration of POL
policies, Brexit, terminal communication issues, risk forecast revenues)
had been completed with plans in place to resolve these issues by the end
of FY 2019/20.

5.3 Regarding the terminal communication issue, TC queried whether the
quick turnaround and limited testing could have been handled more
effectively, and whether there are any lessons that can be learnt to use
for on-boarding future energy providers.

5.4 AC advised testing had been compressed into a short period following
lengthy negotiations leaving little time before launch. (POL had been

ARC Minutes for signature-20/05/20 3 of 22
Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

4 of 22

5.5

5.6

5.7

6.2

6.3

6.4

71

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

required to meet a commercial deadline.) In future additional resource
would be provided to speed up negotiations.

KM believed POL should take a firmer negotiation stance and to pushback
on unrealistic deadlines. NR acknowledged that a dedicated field team
could be introduced to improve engagement, however British Gas was
satisfied with the programme to date, especially as POL had demonstrated
adaptability and negative social media coverage had been limited.

AG noted a number of other energy providers were in the pipeline to use
Payzone services.

The Chair noted that Payzone had been added to POL's risk management
framework and commented on the good progress made.

Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

MD presented the annual tax update and provided a brief overview of
issues arising in the three main tax areas. The primary risk remains VAT,
particularly paying and claiming the correct amount. The following minor
issues were discussed in relation to Employment Taxes:

¢ Dualists - a number of senior employees (now no longer with POL) had
been appointed and were subsequently deemed to have more than one
permanent place of work. HMRC and staff members involved have
been informed and settlement for 2018/2019 has been made through
the annual paye settlement agreement (PSA). The impact on earlier
years is being evaluated.

e IR35 - there has been increased focus on new legislation to assess
whether a contractor should be included on the POL payroll or whether
they could be invoiced as a 3" party as a result of the imminent
implementation in the private sector. HMRC has updated its
assessment tool. POL has revisited earlier evaluations and concluded
that certain classifications may have been erroneous. POL was working
with Deloitte to understand the implications. AP advised that a client
of his (a recruiting firm) was now providing this service.

e Payzone - integrating Payzone into the VAT group. AP confirmed that
he was comfortable with the Payzone tax strategy and held quarterly
meetings with their finance team.

AC noted POL sought to be as transparent as possible with HMRC around
all its tax matters.

The Annual Tax Strategy was APPROVED.
Corporate Insurance Renewal
The Committee RATIFIED their email approval of 2 De

{IRRELEVANT}
Strategic Portfolio Office Change Control Environment Update

DZ presented an update on transformation. Progress was mixed in his
opinion, with improved governance controls particularly around spend,
project reporting and the quality of challenge. However, accountability,
communication, understanding the need for change, and desire/wish to
change required improvement.

ARC Minutes for signature-20/05/20

POL00423505
POL00423505

Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

8.2

8.3

9.2

9.3

9.4

9.5

9.6

9.7
10.
10.1
10.2

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

He believed the project portfolio was too large (86 open) and should be
shrunk to fewer large projects, with smaller projects moved into day to
day business. All projects would need to be reviewed and graded against
the strategic purpose (once agreed and defined) taking into consideration
any regulatory/legal requirements, with capability/capacity also to be
reviewed.

The Chair thanked DZ for his update and noted the improved controls that
had been implemented.

Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report

SS presented the annual MLRO report on the effectiveness of key anti-
money laundering and counter terrorist financing controls.

She reported controls are generally effective but that the following areas
require improvement:

e the timely provision and completion of return of Fit and Proper returns;

e ensuring all compliance training is completed;

e the first line of defence being aware of their responsibilities and
understanding compliance policies;

e to reduce the number of cash gifts received.

A more proactive approach to supervision, with increased scrutiny and
focus on money laundering and terrorist financing, was being taken by the
regulator. The team size and workloads had it 2ased since the prior year.
HMRC registration fees had increased from: IRRELEVANT jt was agreed
that the ability to recover any of these increases should be discussed as
part of the retail offering.

Following a number of high volume and high profile investigations where
money had been laundered through Post Office counters, the team had
visited c.50 sites in East London to remind staff of their obligations and
the importance of completing suspicious activity reports. SS suggested
that to establish an audit trail, cash deposits via Post Office counters
should be completed via a chip and pin process, similar to that of making
cash withdrawals.

The Committee agreed with this was a good idea and should be pursued
with the banks, noting that this would require investment on their part.

The Committee recognised that work-loads had increased and suggested
that the only way to improve culture was to take a stricter approach
towards non-compliance.

The Chair thanked SS and her team for their work.
Business Continuity and Resilience Update
TA presented the Business Continuity and Resilience Update.

He considered resilience to be suitable for purpose, but identified the
following key risks:

¢ Horizon failure — testing for a total failure has not been completed. It
was noted that manual operations would be impossible to complete
due to increased regulatory change. Additionally, there are no

ARC Minutes for signature-20/05/20

POL00423505
POL00423505

Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

6 of 22

10.3

11.

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

instructions for branches should this scenario materialise. Moving to
the cloud (Belfast exit) would enable a more automated solution.

e Retail partner failure - the sudden loss of a key retail partner had
identified that c.80-100 stores would need to re-open within two days
to serve POCA and vulnerable customers. A new pop-up, fully
functional Post Office - ‘Post Office on Wheels’- (tested in December
2019) could alleviate this issue.

e Telco business - currently there is no disaster recovery plan in place
for the Telco business. The contract does not contain a disaster
recovery provision which means that should the data centre be lost,
time would be required to source new hardware as well as build an
appropriate environment. It was unknown how long this would take or
costs involved. It was agreed that the disaster recovery plan will be
assessed in the supplier retender.

JA advised that business continuity and disaster recovery was on the
Internal Audit agenda.

A brief discussion was held on the flexible nature of and the positive
commercial opportunities the ‘Post Office on Wheels’ presented to the
business.

Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit
departments

The Chair invited each presenter to highlight the key matters, taking the
reports as read.

Risk

MB presented an update on POL’s current risk profile, highlighting the
following risks:

Coronavirus

This is a new emerging risk considered by the World Health Organisation
as a public health emergency of international concern. There are two
known cases in the UK to date, however its spread is being closely
monitored by the UK government.

Purpose, Strategy, Growth

NR’s new organisational structure is due to be launched on Wednesday
(29 January 2020). Consideration will be required for any settling period
whilst people understand new roles/objectives etc.

Brexit

Brexit remains a challenge whilst POL understands the full implications to
the organisation. Ongoing dialogue with BEIS continues.

The implementation of RSA Archer (an integrated risk management
solution) was progressing well and People Risk would be added to the Risk
Register following a request from the Chair.

Compliance
JH noted the following compliance issues:
Ofcom Text relay

ARC Minutes for signature-20/05/20

POL00423505
POL00423505

POL00423505
POL00423505

Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

The issue (where vulnerable customers had been overcharged for using
relay services) has now been closed by Ofcom. An early settlement
resulted in a fine of £175k with a summary of findings published on
Ofcom’s website. There has been limited publicity.

11.9 Data Protection, use of Cookies

Updated guidance by the regulator (ICO) clarified the use of management
of cookies on websites. POL is now non-compliant against regulation and
work is underway to develop solutions for mitigation. It should be noted
that all solutions will impact on POL’s use of marketing data. The
Committee requested this be kept under review.

11.10 GDPR

Progress has been made to close down and remediate non-compliant
contracts and the project is due for completion in July 2020. TC requested
that the non-compliant contracts and those contracts signed outside of
standard governance processes should be reviewed at Board level.

11.11 It was AGREED that an update on non-compliant contracts would be Action:
presented to ARC every quarter. DP

11.12 Whistleblowing

It was noted that the contract with the current provider had expired but
would be transferred to a new supplier by the end of the financial year.
Work was underway to train agents to ensure that whistleblowers were
confident that processes would result in their fair treatment.

11.13 Internal Audit
JA reported the IA plan was on track. Good progress has been made with
four audits of the 2019/20 programme being finalised since the last ARC
meeting in November: (PCI Programme (requires — significant
improvement), Cyber Security follow-up (requires improvement), CFS
Controls (requires improvement), Third Party oversight (satisfactory)) and
two overdue actions (FS Training and Purchase to Pay).

Action:
JH

11.14 The Chair commended the good report.

11.15 PSD2 Implementation
MS explained that PSD2 (Payment Services Directive) is an EU directive
that came into force in Jan 2016. It is designed to create a more level
playing field and an integrated platform for the payments industry in
Europe, enabling bank customers to give third party providers access to
their data.

11.16 The FCA had previously advised telecoms firms in 2016 that they could
either pay a full institution payment or apply for a waiver (exemption
licence) so long as customers were not overcharged for using premium
rate services (caps exist for premium calls and overall monthly charges).
An independent audit would be required for this exemption and the
deadline for applying for the waiver was 13 January 2018.

11.17 He noted that POL had received differing legal advice on whether PSD2
applied to the Telco business, but was informed last year (February 2019)

ARC Minutes for signature-20/05/20 7 of 22
Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

8 of 22

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

that compliance was required. Work was underway with Fujitsu to find an
appropriate solution and POL had recently applied for, and received, a
waiver (14 January 2020) with the regulator. Refunds of charges levied
in excess of the specifi would be made to affected customers
(currently estimated at {RF per annum since 2016).

11.18 IThe Committee noted the poor position this presented, but recognised the

12.
12.1

13.
13.1

13.4
13.5

positive actions taken by management and the approval of the waiver by
the regulator.

Policies for Approval

The following policy was APPROVED:

e Cyber and Information Security Policy.

AOB

AP presented the 2019/20 Audit fees of !!

He noted the progress made: the GLO settlement had been agreed and
that a good discussion with KMPG (auditors to FRES) had been held. He
believed their understanding of POL had improved, along with
communication lines in terms of knowing who to speak to for information.
He also noted that issues with access remained (as had been noted in 4.8
above).

The Committee questioned and discussed the proposed fee increase,
noting the change of scope not previously anticipated during the tender
process, as well as the change in the external audit environment following
the reviews of the industry.

The Committee APPROVED the Auditor's fees for 2019/20.
There being no further business, the meeting was closed.

_ Carla Stent:

es 20/05/2020
Cha Date
Actions from meeting
Minute Action Lead I Due
Date
4.3 PCI-DSS NR

The Committee urged the management team
to press for compliance pre-Christmas, even if
roll out was delayed until after the Christmas
trading period. He did feel more assured with
the joint effort/approach to compliance.

4.4 PCI-DSS js

signature-20/05/20

POL00423505
POL00423505

Tab 1 January Minutes for Signature

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING

Strictly Confidential

POL00423505
POL00423505

It was AGREED monthly progress reports
(signed by Ingenico’s CEO) would be provided
to the Committee.

4.8

Cyber Security - Joiners, movers, leavers
Regarding JML (joiners, movers, leavers), TJ
had a good understanding of the processes
involved and a plan would be rolled out in
March to ensure accessibility rights was
continually managed. Currently there was a
good basic coverage but some slippage occurs.
There are currently 90 contractors in POL, 235
at its peak in October 2018. A full plan on
JML will be shared with the ARC at the
next meeting.

Tj

March
2020

Compliance - Data Protection, use of
Cookies

Updated guidance by the regulator (ICO)
clarified the use of management of cookies on
websites. POL is now non-compliant against
regulation and work is underway to develop
solutions for mitigation. It should be noted
that all solutions will impact on POL’s use of
marketing data. The Committee requested
this be kept under review.

Ongoing

11.11

GDPR/Contracts Governance

It was AGREED that an update on non-
compliant contracts would be presented to
ARC every quarter.

DP

March
2020

ARC Minutes for signature-20/05/20

9 of 22
POL00423505
POL00423505

Voting Results for January Minutes for Signature

The signature vote has been passed. 1 votes are required to pass the vote, of which 0 must be independent.

Vote Response Count (%)
For 1 (100%)
Against 0 (0%)
Abstained 0 (0%)
Not Cast 0 (0%)
Voter Status
Name Vote Voted On

Stent, Carla For 22/05/2020 13:00
