POL00023527
POL00023527

5 ‘Watts,

}; Ainslie.Cranwelt
Hussaini

: Rodric Williams
Sent: Thur 19/12/2019 : ( )
Subject: Postmaster Litigation Steering Group Meeting - 19 December 2019

All— please see the Agenda for this afternoon’s GLO Steering Group meeting

Purpose: To reset the workstreams required to operationalise the GLO outcomes (including as to project management
and governance going forward).

Agenda:

1. Thank you, end of GLO, and the 5 new workstreams going forward

2. Convicted Claimants
a. Brian Altman QC (“BAQC”) instructed to advise (inc. on Fraser J referral to DPP)
b. Risk assessment of Convicted Claimant cases (High Level; Counsel)
c. Risk assessment on grounds for overturning convictions (e.g. on adequacy of disclosure)
d. Agree next steps with CCRC following Horizon Issues Judgment
e. Instruct criminal law solicitors and/or junior counsel to manage applications
f. Draft Manual for processing and referring in-bound enquiries from convicted postmasters (to inc. template letter of
response to correspondence from Convicted Claimants)

3. Historic Shortfalls Future Claims (claims pre-2018/HNG-A roll out)
a. Draft comms to postmasters advising them of the “Historic Shortfall Group Scheme”, its processes and time limits
b. Draft Manual for processing known and new in-bound claims, to incl:
i. referrals via complexcaseteam: mail (rename historicshortfalls¢
ii. template correspondence
iii. document repository
c. Charles Flint QC and Stephen Ruttle QC to sign off “cost-effective and accessible mediation scheme” (SRQC to act

as mediator for the first 5S mediations)
d.

4. Common Issues / Ops Modernisation - Ops Transformation and GLO Compliance Ops
a. Status following 13.12.19 Workshop
5. Common Issues / Ops Modernisation - Contract Modernisation
a. Strawman on options and process
i. changes limited to ClJ compliance
ii. commercial and strategic changes
iii. contract roll out — unilateral variation v negotiated position
iv. standardisation and automation of front end contract
v. review of operational policies incorporated into the contract
vi. risks of approach
vii. timetable

7. Role of GLO SteerCo going forward
8. AOB

Dial in details:

POL-0020006
POL00023527
POL00023527

Participant code

Chair code

Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

ECC RRR I A A CER RRR A ACER RRR A COORONG A A CORR RR A AACE KOR ORR A A CEG RR

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed
within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

ECC RRR I A ACR RR A ACR RRA ACCOR GRR A ACCOR RA A ACCOR GRR A ACCA GRR

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our
website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

POL-0020006
