POL00104757

POL00104757

Investigation Policy Page I

RELATIONS WITH POLICE AUTHORITIES AND OTHER PUBLIC BODIES

1 PURPOSE

This policy defines the procedures, obligations and responsibilities which must be adhered to by
members of the Security Community when dealing with Police Authorities and other Public Bodies.

2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES

Security Managers

3. POLICY

31 RELATIONS WITH POLICE AUTHORITIES

Policy Title
Version
Date

The SIS Security Support Unit is the main interface for the exchange of criminal intelligence with
the Police. The unit has access to the Police National Computer and other intelligence sources
and must be involved in obtaining all information of this kind. The procedures for the reporting of
criminal offences are detailed at Appendix 15.

Apart from the assistance which security manager’s render to Police by way of active investigative
co-operation or liaison, assistance from Consignia in the form of information, including the sight,
or loan, of Consignia documents, is frequently sought by Police. It is essential that all requests
from the Police for information should be answered quickly. Such requests must be in writing and
should be authorised by an security manager not below EL? level.

To ensure that statutory obligations and responsibilities to Consignia customers are properly
safeguarded, in no circumstances may Consignia sensitive information, other than that quoted
specifically in Appendix 8, be disclosed.

When the Police ask for production of Consignia documents in criminal proceedings not relating
to offences against Consignia, the question of requiring the issue of a subpoena to secure
production will depend on the nature of the documents concerned. Production of postal orders and
delivery receipts may be arranged without subpoena unless there are exceptional circumstances.

When the required documents are concerned with matters in which Consignia might have
obligations to maintain secrecy, e.g., transactions in, or detail of, a person’s Savings Bank account
or Premium Bond Holdings, the Police should be asked to obtain a witness summons (in order
that the Business concerned may be shown to be impartial).

Consignia is under a statutory obligation not to disclose details of Savings Bank accounts Savings
Certificate holdings or Premium Bond holdings to unauthorised persons.

There are constraints on the disclosure of information held by the Security Community imposed
by the Data Protection Act legislation. Details are given at Appendix 9.

If Police seek assistance in applying tests to the honesty of the public e.g. in a case of suspected
theft of letters correctly delivered by Consignia, such assistance may normally be given under
authority of a Senior Security Manager (SB8 or above). In these cases testing should be arranged
in such a way as to avoid Security Managers having to give evidence (in order to protect their
identity). The Police Officer himself/herself should make up and record particulars of the test
letters but there is no objection to the Security Managers assisting in this direction to a limited
extent e.g. by providing invisible ink and/or postmarks; by taking a delivery officer into
confidence where it is safe to do so; or by giving advice on correct procedures. If the test involves
carrying out surveillance then the Security Manager must be satisfied that the Police have the
proper authority under the R.LP. Act to enable them to carry out such surveillance.

The Police should be asked to contact the Head of Security of the relevant Business Unit if a ‘stop

Relations with Police Authorities and Other Public Bodies
3.0
January 2001

POL00104757

POL00104757

Investigation Policy Page 2

RELATIONS WITH POLICE AUTHORITIES AND OTHER PUBLIC BODIES

payment’ is required in PON related cases.

3.2 INTERCEPTION OF POSTAL PACKETS

The unauthorised interception of postal packets is an offence under the Interception of
Communications Act 1985. If, therefore, a request is received from the Police for the interception
of a postal packet it must be refused and the officer informed that a Home Office warrant is
required. Full details of the legal aspects covering the inviolability of mail are set out at Appendix
12.

3.3 POLICE INQUIRIES CONCERNING CONSIGNIA STAFF

Occasionally Security Managers are asked to provide assistance in criminal inquiries entirely
controlled by Police but in which Consignia staff have to be questioned or searched as suspects by
those Police Officers. All necessary assistance must be given to Police in such circumstances but
the Security Manager must not normally be present whilst Police question or search suspected
Consignia staff, as this might give rise to allegations and difficulty at a later stage concerning.
“friends” at Consignia interviews.

Police Officers are individually answerable for the way in which they enforce the law or conduct
their interviews and must be free to proceed as they think fit, with or without “friends” being
present. Preferably such interviews conducted by Police Officers should be held away from
Consignia premises.

Consignia Security Managers assisting local Police in such cases may, if necessary, be near at hand
to give advice on questions about Consignia processes and procedures which might arise during the
interview or search.

If the Police make a request for the private address of a member of Consignia staff they should be
reminded of the constraints on disclosure of information held by Consignia imposed by the Data
Protection Act and informed that when such information is supplied (to the Police or other public
authority) it is Consignia policy that the employee concerned must be told what information has
been sought and must then be given a copy of the information provided. If the Data Protection
constraints are complied with and the Police accept the latter condition, they may be given the
required address. Steps should then be taken to have the officer informed in accordance with
Consignia policy. If, however, the Police represent that due to the nature of their investigation they
are unable to accept disclosure of their inquiry and press for the information to be supplied urgently
and in confidence, the case should be forwarded to the appropriate Personnel unit to make the
decision.

Ifa member of staff insists on reporting the loss of private property (on official premises) to the
local police, he/she cannot be prevented from doing so. It then becomes a Police inquiry, but any
necessary assistance may, on request of Police, be given.

3.4 BRITISH TRANSPORT POLICE

Liaison with the BT Police is maintained by Security Managers within Logistics Solutions

3.5 HM FORCES POLICE

Policy Title
Version
Date

Requests for assistance received from the Headquarters of the Royal Military Police, the Royal
Air Force Police Special Inquiry Branches or the Naval Provost Marshal are normally dealt with
by the SIS Security Support Unit. Care must be exercised however, in dealing with requests for
assistance from HM service authorities and the guidance given earlier in this chapter should be
followed. (There are statutory obligations falling on Consignia not to disclose details of National
Savings Bank accounts etc.).

Relations with Police Authorities and Other Public Bodies
3.0
January 2001

POL00104757

POL00104757

Investigation Policy Page 3

RELATIONS WITH POLICE AUTHORITIES AND OTHER PUBLIC BODIES

When inquiries are made at Service establishments - e.g. camps; barracks; naval depots - the
Security Manager concerned should first see the officer responsible for the internal domestic
arrangements - e.g. Camp Commandant; Staff Captain; Adjutant - or some other Commissioned
Officer who shares such responsibility.

Interviews with service personnel based in the UK who are suspected of committing offences
against Consignia/DNS should be conducted by the SIS Security Manager conducting the
assignment so that any subsequent prosecution can be dealt with through the criminal courts. The
reason for this is that when a serviceman/woman commits offences under the Theft Act and the
case is handled by the Military Authorities it can only be dealt with by way of Court Martial.
Such cases have to be forwarded to the Judge Advocate General’s Office together with the
evidence. All exhibits are subject to continuity statements by everyone who handles them
subsequent to the interview with the offender and this can pose difficulties when further evidence
needs to be obtained. If exceptional circumstances exist and Military Authorities request that they
be allowed to conduct the interviews the case papers should not at this stage be handed over but
should be submitted to SIS Headquarters with a report outlining the circumstances. SIS
Operations Support maintain liaison with the Military Authorities and cases must circulate via
them.

When there is difficulty in tracing the whereabouts of service personnel, the Unit, station or ship
of the individual can quickly be traced by the appropriate Records Office provided that the
personal number is known. A list ofall Records Offices is at Appendix 7 and inquiries should be
made accordingly in appropriate cases.

Overseas inquiries - Royal Navy, Royal Marines, Army and RAF Personnel. When it is necessary to
have inquiries made of HM Forces personnel or other personnel or persons subject to military
discipline overseas, the appropriate papers should be submitted to SIS Operations Support.

3.6 RELATIONS WITH GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS

Policy Title
Version
Date

General questions or matters of policy concerning Government Departments should be referred to
the Head of Corporate Security

In general, all Security Manager’s should deal promptly and helpfully with any inquiries they
receive from Government Departments and Nationalised undertakings. Some Departments - e.g.
Customs and Excise; Inland Revenue; Department of Social Security - occasionally seek
assistance with their own investigations direct from Security Manager’s who should render all
practicable aid on such occasions. Guidance should be sought in case of difficulty or where there
is doubt as to the extent of the help which might properly be given. The constraints on the
disclosure of information held by Consignia imposed by the Data Protection legislation and RIP
Act also apply.

Customs Officers employed on Customs examinations at Offices of Exchange occasionally come
under notice for thefts from the Post. Similarly, BR employees who have access to mails come
under suspicion for thefis from mail bags. Questioning of such persons is normally undertaken by
officers of their own Department (See “Interviewing”).

The Department of Social Security carries out investigations on its own account in many cases of
theft or fraud affecting DSS girocheques - sometimes when the offender is believed to be a
member of the Department’s staff employed at the DSS local office from which the girocheques
were issued. In these cases investigation officers of the Department have strict instructions not to
not to make direct inquiries at Post Offices regarding encashments but to seek the assistance of
Consignia investigators in obtaining paying officers’ statements.

Relations with Police Authorities and Other Public Bodies
3.0
January 2001

POL00104757

POL00104757

Investigation Policy Page 4

RELATIONS WITH POLICE AUTHORITIES AND OTHER PUBLIC BODIES

SIS has an agreement with the Chief Passport Officer that information relative to passport
applications will be released for detective purposes when an application is made by SIS CIO.
Disclosure to the Police can occur only after the consent of the Passport Office has been obtained.
Passport applications must not be withdrawn from the counter or accounting system without the

knowledge of the Passport Office.

3.7 RELATIONS WITH THE PRESS
e The responsibility for communicating information to the Press rests on the Business concerned.
Investigators are precluded from giving information about crimes direct to the press and all
officers must observe this restriction.
© Territorial General Managers are aware of the procedure to be adopted with regard to dealing with
press and other media inquiries when a serious crime against Consignia is committed in their area.
3.8 THIRD PARTY SURVEILLANCE
Requests for third parties to conduct surveillance on Consignia premises are dealt with in the relevant
policy.
4, Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version Type Policy No.
41 Data Protection Act 3.1
42 Interception of 1985 Act 3.2
Communications
43 Authority to Perform
Surveillance
5. Document details
5. Author :
5.2 Owner : Head of Corporate Security
5.3 I Audience: Security Community
5.4 I Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,
4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ
5.5 Effective from : February 2001
5.6 I Review date: February 2002
5.7 Last updated : January 2001
6. Assurance Details
6.1 Name Policy Assurance Team
6.2 Business Unit Various
6.3 Assurance Date January 2001
7. Final Review
TA Approved by
7.2 Documented (Hard Copy) YES/NO Location:
7.3 * (Electronic) YES/NO Location:

Policy Title
Version
Date

3.0
January 2001

Relations with Police Authorities and Other Public Bodies
