POL00108430
POL00108430

Message
From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To:

Subject: Fwd: Sparrow Sub-Ctte

1) Bf next ExCo
to pick up re nos of people in meetings and did CD in my absence raise the point at ExCo?

2) BF return file and

3) BF Alice 121 file, to confirm Sparrow S/c attendees as: CA, MD, BC, PV; and AVGB tbc. Plus ? David Oliver?
Not CD at his request and agree that finance should have a working presence but not attend.

Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells!.
Date: 14 April 201.
To: Chris Aujard
Cc: Theresa lles ¢
Subject: Re: Sparrow Sub-Ctte

Chris, thanks that's perfect.
You are right that Mark should be there - I meant to include him.

I think we will be asked by the Board about accelerated closure. Do you think we should have given it
some consideration, or is that already included in your analysis of options bullet point? Or are we
dismissing it out of hand? I came away unclear on that point as did Chris.

Can you make sure that Mark is completely glued into all the work. His view will count greatly as we get
into evaluating the art of the possible.

Asmaller point and I hope you don't mind me asking: CFO prompted and I want to support his challenge
about too many people doubling up in meetings and work. What is Carolyn here to do? To be clear I
have no issue with good resource but I have now seen her alongside David twice (in the first meeting in
fact she contributed than David did); am not clear why we have them both? What's the difference in
their roles?

Could you reply to Theresa rather then me as I shall not be opening emails now till I return. (So pls text if
there is something you need me to see.)

Theresa pls put in Return file. Thx
Cheers, Paula
Sent from my iPad

On 14 Apr 2014, at 16:33, "Chris Aujard" GRO > wrote:

POL-0110986
Hi Paula — the weekend was great (1 was away on my son’s rugby tour, so it was rather
long and a bit alcohol intensive) ; many thanks for asking! On the sub -committee, my
(very brief) thoughts are:

1) <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->CD doesn’t really need to be there, as I think
that any finance issues can be picked outside the meeting and/or via Exco

2) <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->The composition feels about right - though I
would suggest that Mark D either attends or is on standby to attend if needs be

3) <!--[if lsupportLists]--><![endif]--> In terms of David and Carolyn’s attendance,
that was pretty much a one off to allow them to get feedback on paper and
inform further work required. Because of speed of pulling the paper together
they had some of the detail to hand if that was needed. That said, as it
happens, it wasn’t needed as we never discussed the options!

On the actions that was are working on, set out below is a summary (Belinda has a
longer, more detailed list, but I think this captures the essence):

. List of public statements made by Minister in parliament
(statements/debates/PQs) and elsewhere about the Scheme generally and its timelines
. Options for role of Second Sight — including reducing it and options for
supporting them. Analysis to take account of likely views of stakeholders.

. Note on options for making Linklaters and Deloittes advice/reports available to
MPs, applicants, advisors, including a comms/stakeholder plan (acknowledging
requirements to protect legal privilege

. Note on PO’s ability to make ‘token’ payments to applicants, taking account of
restrictions relating to use of public money

. Analysis of options for modifying the Scheme, including financial analysis and
assessment of alignment of ministerial commitments with a recommended way forward
. Timeline of key actions and decision points from now to recess

. Deloitte assurance work underway. CIO to provide update to Board and Sub

Committee on 30 April.
Hope this helps. Enjoy the garden!
Cheers

Chris

From: Paula Vennells
Sent: 14 April 2014 14:40
To: Chris Aujard

Subject: Sparrow Sub-Ctte

Chris, hi! I hope you had a great weekend? I am sitting looking out on my garden
thinking that I'm not missing Old St!

We didn't get chance to catch up after the above and so as this is so high profile at
present, before I finally switch off, I want to be sure I am clear on next steps and what

the team are working on. Could you drop me a note back?

Also, Chris D queried attendance at the Sparrow S/C, which he may raise:

POL00108430
POL00108430

POL-0110986
POL00108430
POL00108430

Firstly, whether he should attend at all. He was invited at my request as I felt we should
keep an eye on costs; but on reflection, that doesn't have to mean attendance.
Secondly, he wondered and so did I, why we had so many colleagues in the room? You
and Belinda clearly need to be there but it wasn't obvious why David and his colleague
from PA were there, both of whom said nothing.

Could you let me know on both? If Chris doesn't attend do we need other finance
support? And is the make up of the S/C group right?

Thanks, Paula

Sent from my iPad

POL-0110986
