POL00095532

POL00095532
POLB(09)04 January 2009

Network Functional Report

Crown Network

FSS project remains on track. Current pipeline will deliver c 420 FSS into the network by
early November: Agreed moratorium will allow Performance Management team to have
impact and to embed Training and Development Framework. NS & I training to e
delivered by end-March 2009 subject to final agreement on relevant product range.
Following ET discussion on Crown Programme, work is being done to verify 2010/11
assumptions and to identify flightpath to break even as part of wider 20011/16 plan.
Final training is being completed of those FSS in recruitment pipeline when moratorium
was agreed. Allowing for some further attrition, we anticipate c 420 FSS in post at.end of
January. Recruitment is planned to re-start in April.

Exploratory discussions continue with potential ‘lean’ partners.

Q4 focus. is on Life products, Travel and Savings although it is being emphasised to FSS
in particular that general insurance and crédit card volumes must be maintained.

All branches in CORP Phase 1 are involved in workshops during January with focus on
planning to maintain customer and colleague support though refurbishment.

WH Smith

Following meeting with WHS Senior Management in December, analysis is being
undertaken to understand better performance issues ahead of a joint workshop in late
Jan/early Feb.

Although there were one or two ‘hot spots' during Christmas period, WHS branches look
to have maintained service levels well during peak periods.

Commercial Agency Network

Focus Product Income — as at week 40 achieving 94% of target (£5.4m negative
variance), across entire agency network. The only products which are performing well are
GB with £1.5m positive variance and PWW 24/48 338% £1.8m, performance of SD and
Moneygram have fallen over the last month. Working on a revised forecast but more likely
to be around £7m negative variance.

High Level Sales Plan -Travel and Life Insurance Workshops have been organised for
Jan/early Feb early indications are that Travel Workshops’ have been well received but
still having difficulty getting people to the events due to resourcing issues. Life Insurance
Workshops are yet to start.

Primeco/Nearby Stores — Primeco have taken over the operation of 16 former Crown
Offices that were run under a Tripartite Agreement with Primeco/Nearby Stores due to
Nearby Stores going into administration. Nearby Stores also operated 3 further branches,
two of which are being transferred to Southern Co-op the 3rd branch remains closed.
Primeco are required to provide an update next week regarding the works performed to
date under the 60 Day improvement notice so that we secure improvements to both the
environment in these branches for our customers and the service provided.

CML — CML ran 3 former Crown Offices and they went into administration this week, their
administrator has allowed a temp spmr to take occupation of all branches.

Risk Assessment — an exercise to assess the risk of any of our Multiple Partners going
into administration will be undertaken shortly

Network Change .

°

As at the end of December, 2248 branches have been closed and a further 283 outreach
solutions implemented.

13 area plans have now concluded in full with all closures, outreaches and replacement
activities implemented.

National Audit Office meeting on 7th January was constructive with no indication of any
significant negative issues. Draft report expected by 16th January.
POL00095532
POL00095532

« Post Office Essentials trial sites are progressing positively with 19 of the 20 locations now
operational, the 20th site in Cambourne (Cambridgeshire) expected to go live on 12th
January.

¢ The fourth locally funded branch opened at Henham in Essex on 11th December.
Expressions of interest.regarding local funding have been received in respect of
approximately 450 branches, non-disclosure agreements entered into with 80 parties and
almost 70 of which have been provided with financial information.

* The business as usual field team structure has been realigned and currently handling 600
live cases with monthly averages of 20 closures, 12 reopenings, 9 refurbishments and 10
relocations.

e The Network Change Programme remains on track to deliver savings of £45 million,
migration of 86%, 2530 closures (90 of which are uncompensated) and 500 outreaches.

Agents Development
Agents Pay

¢ Good progress being made. Meetings planned with NFSP on 9th/13th/14th to finalise
hegotiations. Our proposal allows us to meet the cost target and continue to further our
strategic aim of moving towards fully variable pay. There is a high risk that we will need
to implement the deal without NFSP agreement.

« When we move pay from fixed to variable, this appears to adversely affect profitability at a
product level, even though in reality it doesn't. This is has ledto delays in finalising the
offer to the NFSP. Finance are working with Marketing to ensure that the cost allocation
process. and product P&Ls are clarified to resolve this.

Co-op and Restrictions

e Letters have been sent and meetings held with all the main Co-op Societies. This tactic
has proved effective as following the meetings, the Societies have applied pressure on
CRTG to re-engage with us and come to an agreement. This meeting takes place on 13
Jan. However, judging from the letter received from Tim Hurrell (Chair - CRTG), there
doesn't appear to be much common ground between us.

Losses - there was an increase in suspension cases in December with 18 suspension cases
involving 15 subpostmasters. Losses identified at these branches totalled in excess of £250k.

Agents in administration - two subpostmasters and one franchisee have gone into
administration in the past four weeks. In previous years we would expect this level of activity to
reflect the full year rather than one month. In addition, Nearby Stores who operated three of
those branches also operated 17 branches on behalf of Primeco which meant that w/e 15th
December we had to audit 20 large branches at very short notice to assure Primeco of assets.
These audits will be charged to Primeco.

Mails segregation - RML have not provided info on the level of mails segregation during the -
December period.

Network Efficiency Programme

« The workstreams for the Managing Network Cash and the Achieving Network
Conformance projects have been identified following concurrence from the Project.
Sponsors and are being progressed with workstream leaders

* ONCH performance continues to improve as a result of the programme raising the profile
of this key area. Cash holdings for Period 9 were £13.6m below target. This is a really
good result considering that branches had been supplied with additional cash to pay
winter fuel payments and double payments over Christmas. The area.which.continues to
undermine -this performance is ATM cash holdings-which are still significantly higher than
required to meet withdrawals.

e Operation Hogmany is underway and targeting branches identified as holding too much
cash. Letters have been sent to agents instructing them to return excess cash and
advising them of the amount to be returned. Plans are in place to Visit branches that don't
comply w/c 26th January and, based on the outcome of similar activity in 2008, there will
likely be a number of suspensions as a result of this activity:
POL00095532
POL00095532

Sub Post Office Delivery Offices (SPDOs) - The majority of risk assessments have been
completed and a meeting is scheduled for next week with RML to begin to review the outputs and
assess the implications for RML, POL and subpostmasters.

paystation™ - of the 4500 additional terminals rolled out in September and November around
600 have still to installed by agents. Work continues on progress chasing installation together
with activity to re-connect paystation™ in branches that have not used the kit for months/ years.
The first 2700 branches had Quantum removed from Horizon week commencing 6 January. All
branches received a letter in December advising them of this and in the days immediately prior to
Quantum being removed branches will receive a follow up memo view as a reminder. We still
have around 350 branches where we have yet to supply a paystation™ terminal because of
supply issues (terminal and connectivity). We've cross checked these with the Network Planning
team to ensure none breach the access criteria and we've identified over 130 agency branches
which do not currently have a terminal but where Quantum has been transacted on Horizon. The
aim will be to supply these branches with terminals before the end of January and to supply the
remainder in May/ June once the upgrade activity is completed and spare kit is available. The
upgrade activity is progressing and the completion date is June 2009.
