POL00039599
POL00039599

Team Manager

POL00039599
POL00039599

About Post Office

The Post Office has thrived at the heart of high streets and local communities across the UK for
over 370 years. As one of the country’s most trusted brands, we take our commitment to
providing essential services to customers across the UK very seriously.

We’re the UK's largest retail network, as well as the largest financial services provider in the UK,
with over 11,600 branches nationwide - more than all of the UK’s banks and building societies put
together.

We know that the best way to provide a great service for customers is to evolve our business and
adapt to their changing needs. That’s why we have a range of over 170 products and services, from
personal financial services like banking, insurance, payments and travel money, to telecoms and,
of course, mails. And we’re improving our online and in store experience for customers. We know
that our customers never stop changing, so neither will we.

Securing the future Post Office’s future:

We are working hard to ensure that the next chapter of the Post Office’s history is a bright one.

We are the current guardians of an iconic business and we want to hand over a thriving network
of branches which can continue to provide essential products and services for our customers for
many years to come. This is a uniquely exciting and challenging time for the Post Office - we’re
shaping the future and creating a business we can all be proud of.

Working at the Post Office:

Post Office colleagues are the driving force behind our business. Whether they are in our branches
or supporting from our offices, we are proud of the energy, commitment and customer focus our
people all have in common.

isiness

Standards:

We care by always thinking customer
We strive to make things ever better through honest challenge
We commit to decisive delivery

The basics
Job Title: Team Manager
Grade: 2A
Post Reports to: Various
Division: Service and Support Optimisation
Business Unit: coo
Budget Responsibility: None
Number of Direct Reports: 8-16
Location: Chesterfield

The purpose of the role

The primary accountability of this role is to provide leadership to a team of Support Advisors whose role is to
support Postmasters in the successful running of their businesses.

To successfully deliver the leadership required, you will have a passion for resolution, being Postmaster-
centric and delivering outstanding, empathetic service. You will champion high levels of Postmaster

Page 2 of §
POL00039599
POL00039599

satisfaction via all contact channels, pushing the boundaries to continuously improve Postmaster
satisfaction.

The role is challenging and isn’t for the faint hearted. You will need to be an expert on Post Office processes
with the ability to support and empower your teams to resolve any manner of queries or issues raised by
Postmasters. You will also be able to manage upwards, making sure that solutions to the challenges that
Postmasters and your team face are considered and implemented.

You will have a specific bolt-on area of responsibility. You will own the processes and performance for the
bolt-on area, always looking for improvement opportunities, particularly opportunities that will improve the
service that Postmasters receive from Post Office.

Principal accountabilities

As a Team Manager your role will be to:

1. Provide leadership, oversight and guidance to your team of Support Advisors and be a member of the
Service and Support Optimisation management team.

2. Ensure that your team provide quality service to Postmasters, focusing on finding ways to support
them with their issues and queries.

3. Ensure that your team take ownership of Postmaster issues, enquiries and complaints and manage
them through to resolution, ensuring Postmasters are kept up-to-date at all times.

4. Ensure that your team communicate outcomes to Postmasters simply, but effectively, ensuring that
Postmasters are satisfied with the outcomes they give.

5. Deal with escalations from your team where they are unable to resolve the issue, whilst making sure
that the Postmaster is kept up-to-date as the case is escalated.

6. Regularly review case files within your team to ensure that all case details have been fully and
accurately captured in the case management applications.

7. Regularly review the service levels provided by your team and ensure all members of the team have
service-orientated objectives/performance plans where required.

8. Ensure that the controls environment within your area of responsibility is monitored and recorded,
with any controls issues reported with actions in place to resolve.

9. Set clear team goals, delegate tasks and set deadlines. Responsible for supervising, managing and
motivating team members.

10. Provide effective coaching to all your team to maximise performance, ownership, decision making
and the overall Postmaster experience.

11. Achieve agreed targets, particularly your team’s quality and productivity targets.

12. Find and share opportunities to improve the service offered to Postmasters and in Post Office
processes.

13. Keep yourself and your team up-to-date with changes within Post Office so that your team can
continue to offer great service to Postmasters.

You will also have a role specific bolt-on area of responsibility. These are:
Branch Support

Your team will be providing first line support to our Postmasters and branches when they raise issues and
queries with Post Office relating to the operation of their branch. You will be an expert in Post Office branch
operations and know how to help Postmasters and branches resolve their issues. Your team will also
complete administrative activities to ensure that issues captured in first line support are effectively managed
and resolved for Postmasters and branches.

IT Support

Your team will be providing first line support to our Postmasters, branches and colleagues when they raise
issues and queries relating to IT. You will be an expert in Post Office IT and systems and know how to help
Postmasters, branches and colleagues resolve their issues. Your team will work with the Post Office IT team
and our IT suppliers to develop ways of working to ensure that issues captured in first line support are
effectively managed and resolved.

Issue Resolution Support

Page 3 of S
POL00039599
POL00039599

Your team will be managing through to resolution feedback, issues and complaints raised by Postmasters and
branches. You will be an expert in Post Office branch operations and have relationships across Post Office
that allow you to coordinate responses to Postmasters. Your team will be dealing with multiple cases at any
one time, focusing on fast and effective first-time resolution.

Network Monitoring and Support

Your tearm will be using data sources to effectively monitor the compliance and risk in the Post Office branch
network. You will be an expert in Post Office branch operations and be able to support Postmasters and
branches where you identify compliance issues or risk. Your team will be dealing with multiple cases at any
one time, focusing on fast and effective first-time resolution of the issues you identify in the network.

Reconciliation Support

Your team will be using multiple data sources, including Horizon and third party client or customer data, to
identify where transaction corrections are required to support branches to maintain accurate branch
accounts. You will be an expert in the Post Office products that your tearn monitor and be able to support
Postmasters and branches where your team identify the requirement for a transaction correction. Your team
will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on ensuring that transaction corrections are
delivered quickly and effectively to branches. You will have responsibility for a number of financial and
operational controls and will have financial authority to write off/make payments to an agreed value.

Enquiries Support

Your team will be dealing with enquiries from branches and third party clients where transactional errors
have been identified that may require transaction corrections. You will be an expert in the Post Office
products that your team support and be able to support Postmasters, branches and third parties to attempt
to resolve the transactional error. Your team will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on
ensuring that enquiries are dealt with quickly and effectively and that any required transaction corrections
are delivered quickly and effectively to branches in order for branches to maintain accurate branch accounts.
You will have responsibility for a number of financial and operational controls and will have financial authority
to write off/make payments to an agreed value.

Tier 2 Resolution Support

Your team will be investigating balancing queries and transaction correction disputes raised by Postmasters
and branches. You will be an expert in Post Office branch operations, particularly branch accounting
processes, and be able to use multiple data sources to support Postmasters and branches to find the causes
of branch discrepancies, Your team will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on fast and
effective first-time resolution of the balancing query or dispute. You will personally act as the primary triage
point for all branch accounting investigations. You will have responsibility for a number of financial and
operational controls and will have financial authority to write off/make payments to an agreed value.

Postmaster Account Support

Your team will be providing support to Postmasters and branches for any balances settled centrally (or to a
nominee account) at the end of trading periods. You will be an expert in Post Office branch operations,
particularly branch accounting processes, and be able to support Postmasters and branches to identify if the
cause of the discrepancy has been established or requires further investigation. Your team will manage the
processes for resolving established gains and losses with current and former Postmasters and multiple
partners. Your team will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on fast and effective
resolution. You will have responsibility for a number of financial and operational controls and will have
financial authority to write off/make payments to an agreed value.

Qualifications, experience and skills
Experience required

« You will have experience of working in a service environment.

« You will have experience of working to service levels and quality targets.

« You will demonstrate good all-round IT skills, be able to use the Microsoft Office and be familiar with
case management applications.

Page 4 of
POL00039599
POL00039599

e You will have excellent verbal and written communication skills

« You will be used to acting as a brand ambassador.

« You will have extensive knowledge of Post Office policies and processes, particularly in relation to
your bolt-on area of responsibility

« You will have a good understanding of the relevant business stakeholders for your bolt-on area of
responsibility

Skills required

« Role model for the skills required by your team of Support Advisors - empathy, commitment,
curiosity, attentiveness, connection, and courage

Service-focused mindset

Performance-focused mindset

Coaching mindset and capabilities

Strong analytical and decision-making skills - joins the dots and is outcome and resolution focused
High attention to detail and resilience

The ability to succinctly summarise complex issues in writing

Good negotiation and influencing skills - does not shy away from conflict or the delivery of difficult
messages

Accomplished communicator with the ability to conduct difficult conversations

« High levels of professionalism and integrity

Where does this role fit in with the rest of the team?

IT permissions

Please note that the following section is to be completed by the Line Manager:

IT permissions

Job Role

TT Equipment Standard Equipment
Applications Standard Application Build
System Access Standard System Build

Other System/Application Credence, POLSAP, HoRice, MapPoint, Success Factors, Quatrix
Approved by [System

Owner]

Job Title [System Owner]

Date

Page Sof
