POL00324066
POL00324066

THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT, being Change Control Note (CCN) No.

600 is made the 19th day of January, 2000.

BETWEEN:

(1)

(1)

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD., whose registered office is at Gavrelle House, 2-14
Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8HQ (“POCL"); and

ICL PATHWAY LIMITED, whose registered office is at 26 Finsbury Square, London
EC2A 1DS (the “Contractor”).

WHEREAS:

(A)

(A)

(A)

(A)

(A)

(A)

By a Codified Agreement between the parties dated 28th July, 1999 (the “Codified
Agreement”) POCL and the Contractor agreed to replace certain agreements relating to
the design, development, integration and establishment by the Contractor of a
computerised service infrastructure with a single agreement codifying the changes to
the previous agreements.

By a Supplemental Agreement to the Codified Agreement dated 20th August, 1999 (the
“First Supplemental Agreement”) the parties agreed that CSR Acceptance had not been
achieved at the end of the CSR Operational Trial Review Period.

By a Second Supplemental Agreement to the Codified Agreement dated 24th
September, 1999 (the “Second Supplemental Agreement”) the parties agreed that CSR
Acceptance would be deemed to have been achieved and that the Contractor would
remedy the Outstanding Faults.

By clause 6.1.1 of the Second Supplemental Agreement, POCL has a right to postpone
the resumption of Roll-out from January, 2000 if any of the criteria in Parts A to C of
Schedule 4 to the Second Supplemental Agreement shall not have been met by 24th
November, 1999.

Both POCL and the Contractor acknowledge that at least one of those criteria was not
met and accordingly that the right contained in clause 6.1.1 became exercisable.

In relation to those criteria relating to Helpdesk performance, further testing has been
carried out since 24th November, 1999 as a result of which the parties have agreed
that certain enhancements are required in the provision of the Horizon System
Helpdesk Service.

This Third Supplemental Agreement, which is supplemental to the Codified Agreement
and constitutes CCN No. 600 of the Codified Agreement, is to record the agreement
which POCL and the Contractor have reached in relation to the exercise of the right
contained in clause 6.1 of the Second Supplemental Agreement.
IT IS AGREED as follows:

Interpretation

In this Agreement:

11

24

22

2.3

2.4

2.5

words and expressions defined in the Codified Agreement dated 28th July, 1999 (the
“Codified Agreement”) or the Second Supplemental Agreement shall bear the same
meanings when used in this Agreement (including its schedules);

“Monitoring Period” means the six week period commencing on Friday 3rd December,
1999 and ending on Thursday, 13th January, 2000; and

“bi-directional”, in relation to a product type, means a product type in respect of which a
Transaction may give rise to either a credit or debit for the purpose of a cash account.

Suspension of Roll-out

POCL agrees that it will not exercise the right to suspend Roll-out under clause 6.1 of
the Second Supplemental Agreement.

Each of the Contractor and POCL shall comply with the obligations imposed upon it in
relation to Help Desk improvements set out in Schedule 1 and shall co-operate with the
other in the manner envisaged in that Schedule.

Subject to paragraph 2.4 below the Contractor and POCL shall continue to work
together and to co-operate in the joint work programmes initiated in respect of:-

2.3.1 the development of operational procedures to support the accounting integrity
control over the TIP interface (such operational procedures being described in
the current draft of the CCD entitled “TPS Reconciliation and Incident
Management” (CS/PRO/111)); and

2.3.2 to improve the end-to-end management of Reference Data over the Core
System.

The obligation set out in paragraph 2.3 above shall terminate upon the signing of, and
be superseded by:-

2.4.1 in the case of sub-paragraph 2.3.1, the CCD referred to in that paragraph; and

2.4.2 _ in the case of sub-paragraph 2.3.2, the CCD, currently in draft form, to be
entitled “ICL Pathway/POCL Interface Agreement for Operational Business
Change-Product”.

POCL and the Contractor shall endeavour to agree and sign both of the CCD's referred
to in paragraph 2.4 by 24th January, 2000 and an enhanced version of that referred to
in sub-paragraph 2.4.2 by 31st March, 2000.

POL00324066
POL00324066
5.1

5.2

(B)

POL00324066
POL00324066

Amendment to the Second Supplemental Agreement

The Second Supplemental Agreement shall be amended in the manner set out in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Amendments to On-going Help Desk Service Levels

Paragraphs 4.3.2.7 to 4.3.2.9 (inclusive) of Schedule G10 to the Codified Agreement
shall be replaced in the manner set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Enhanced Integrity Control

The Contractor hereby warrants to POCL that the Contractor's analysis of the
effectiveness of:-

5.1.1. the Accounting Integrity Control Release design (reflected by the entries in the
columns under the heading “AIC Detection” and corresponding notes in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement);

5.1.2 the defensive measures referred to under the heading “Defences” in Schedule
4 to this Agreement (reflected by the entries in the columns under that heading
and the corresponding notes); and

5.1.3 the “attribute checker” and appropriate authorisation processes referred to in
paragraph 5.2.3 below

has been carried out by the Contractor with reasonable skill and care and that the
Contractor has accurately reported all material results of such analysis to POCL.

In relation to the following incident types referred to in Schedule 4:-

5.2.1 _ in connection with that referred to in item B1 in the table at Schedule 4, the
Contractor shall develop, successfully test, deploy, and provide POCL with
adequate documentation of, processes designed to prevent recurrence of Cash
Account Discrepancies which result from incorrect manual adjustment of data
by the Contractor;

5.2.2 _ in connection with that referred to in items A15 and B2 in the table at
Schedule 4, the Contractor shall:-

5.2.2.1 in respect of bi-directional product
types capable of being transacted as at the date of this
Agreement, develop, successfully test and deploy (in
accordance with declared POCL business rules) software to
prevent recurrence of Cash Account Discrepancies which result
from incorrect treatment of the sign (+ or -) of data values at
the Pathway to TIP interface; and

5.2.2.2 in respect of bi-directional product
5.3

7.1

7.2

types or methods of payment introduced after the date of this
Agreement, establish processes (in accordance with the CRD
entitled “Reference Data Change Catalogue” - CS/IFS/001) to
ensure that the applicable software is enhanced to prevent
incidents resulting from incorrect treatment of the sign (+ or -)
of data values at the TIP interface for such new products or
methods of payment; and

5.2.3 in connection with that referred to in item BS5 in the table at Schedule 4, relating
to reference data leading to the incorrect summarisation of products 196 and
197 in the cash account, the Contractor will co-operate with POCL and assist
POCL to prevent recurrence of similar unintended effects of reference data
changes by:-

(C) (i) developing a diagnostic tool (the “attribute checker’), which will
accurately predict the effect of applying all reference data changes;

(D) (ii) assisting POCL to put in place appropriate authorisation
processes; and

(E) (iii) co-operating with POCL to define business rules and
procedures for applying the attribute checker and authorisation
processes referred to in sub-paragraphs 5.2.3(i) and (ii) above.

An initial version of the attribute checker which meets the above requirements
will be deployed by 24th January, 2000 and it is intended that an enhanced
version taking account of experience gained in live operations will be deployed
by 31st March, 2000.

The Contractor shall from the date of this Agreement until the end of the TIP Integrity
Checking Period make available to POCL promptly upon request appropriate experts to
explain to POCL the Contractor's analysis of all root causes of Cash Account
Discrepancies and the measures which the Contractor shall have implemented in order
to prevent the recurrence of any Cash Account Discrepancies which would not have
been detected by the Accounting Integrity Control Release.

Amendments to Schedule G01 to the Codified Agreement

Paragraph 3.6 of Schedule G01 to the Codified Agreement shall be replaced in the
manner set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Miscellaneous

The Rectification Timetable shall be amended to the extent necessary to reflect the
terms of this Agreement in respect of Acceptance Incidents 376 and 408.

Save as expressly amended by this Agreement, the provisions of the Codified
Agreement and the Second Supplemental Agreement shall continue in full force
unaffected by this Agreement.

POL00324066
POL00324066
POL00324066
POL00324066

IN WITNESS WHEREOF this Third Supplemental Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the parties as follows:-
Schedule 1

Part A

Help Desk Improvements

The Contractor shall implement the following improvements to the services provided by the
Help Desk in accordance with the timetable set out in Part B of this Schedule 1. POCL shall co-
operate with the Contractor to enable the Contractor to comply with its obligations set out in this
Schedule 1 and shall perform such obligations as are imposed on POCL in this Schedule 1.
Certain terms used in this Schedule 1 are defined in paragraph 10 of this Part A.

8.1

8.2

Call Scripts

The Contractor and POCL agree that separate call scripts shall be introduced to be
followed by Help Desk staff in relation to:-

(a) out of hours stock units (for example Lottery and associated prize allocations);
and

(b) discrepancies and dealing with reversals and suspense accounts.

Drafts of such scripts shall be prepared by the Contractor and delivered to POCL.
POCL shall promptly review them and provide any comments thereon to the
Contractor. The Parties shall work together to agree such scripts, such agreement not
to be withheld or delayed by either party.

The Contractor shall initiate and promote the further development of the scripts used
for cash account calls. The Helpdesk Forum shall be used by the Contractor to present
any changes which it proposes to make thereto and to allow POCL to present feedback
on, and agree to, such proposed changes. The Contractor shall be responsible for
ensuring that effective change control processes are used to make agreed changes to
the scripts.

Further training

The Contractor shall undertake further training of Helpdesk staff and/or take
appropriate action to ensure that such staff are acquainted with the areas of POCL’s
business set out at (a) to (c) below (to the extent that relevant information has been
provided by POCL),and with the use of the Contractor's services to support such
business areas:-

(a) procedures relating to the use of the transaction log to identify errors;

(b) procedures relating to transfers between stock units; and

(c) circumstances in which a business rule needs to be invoked by the Network
Business Support Centre.

In addition, the Contractor shall promptly develop procedures reasonably satisfactory to

POL00324066
POL00324066
POCL to ensure that, if new procedures or products (for example, Family Tax Credit)
are introduced by POCL and information relating thereto is provided to the Contractor
in a suitable form, the Help Desk has the means quickly to acquire knowledge of such
new procedures or products.

Conformance to Scripts

The Contractor shall re-emphasise to Technical Support Analysts at the Help Desk the
necessity to use the “first script’to identify both where the User is within the system and
also the appropriate starting point to use in subsequent scripts. The Contractor shall
ensure that all new Technical Support Analysts follow all Help Desk scripts. POCL will
communicate to all its Outlets the rationale behind using scripts in Support Centres.

Proactive Improvement Process

The Contractor shall adopt a proactive improvement process for dealing with cash
account calls, which may result in changes to scripts and/or improvements in the
training programmes for Users and/or Technical Support Analysts. The Contractor
shall keep POCL informed of the output of this process at meetings of the Helpdesk
Forum, at which POCL shall inform the Contractor of any improvement opportunities
identified from any audit of cash account calls carried out by POCL under paragraph
4.3.2.11 of Schedule G10 to the Codified Agreement.

Call Resolution Coding

The Contractor shall review its closure codes for cash account calls and POCL will
assist in this exercise by informing the Contractor of its classification of cash account
calls. The Contractor shall use this information to identify opportunities for improving
its Help Desk service.

Interface Agreement

The parties shall establish an interface agreement to demarcate responsibilities
between, and ensure that consistent procedures are used by, the Help Desk and the
Network Business Support Centre and to reduce the number of calls being transferred
inappropriately between Support Centres. The parties shall work together to reduce the
number of such calls.

Helpdesk Forum

There shall be a forum known as the Helpdesk Forum consisting of representatives
from the Help Desk, the Network Business Support Centre, the Contractor and POCL.
The Helpdesk Forum shall meet on a monthly basis, the first meeting being scheduled
to be held on 27th January, 2000, and shall report to the Horizon Service Review
Forum. Its objectives will be defined by the parties and will include improvements to
call scripts and reduction of the number of calls being transferred inappropriately
between Support Centres. POCL shall use reasonable endeavours to provide the Help
Desk with advance notice of changes to procedures to be included in forthcoming
issues of “Counter News” and shall inform the Helpdesk Forum of the processes that

POL00324066
POL00324066
17.1

17.2

POL00324066
POL00324066

POCL has put in place so to do.

Electronic Link between Support Centres

The parties shall investigate the findings from the recent feasibility study as to whether
calls can be transferred electronically between Support Centres and shall consider
whether to develop and implement an electronic link to enable this to occur.

Horizon Guide to Balancing
The Contractor shall review all cash account call scripts in use at the date of this
Agreement and shall ensure that they are consistent with the guide produced by POCL

(and provided to the Contractor prior to the date of this Agreement) called “Balancing
with Horizon”.

Interpretation
In this schedule 1:

“cash account calls” has the meaning ascribed thereto in paragraph 4.3.2.13 of
Schedule G10 to the Codified Agreement;

“Support Centres” means the Help Desk and the Network Business Support Centre and
“Support Centre” means either of them; and

“Helpdesk Forum” means the forum to be established pursuant to paragraph 7 of this
Part A of Schedule 1.

In the timetable set out in Part B of this Schedule 1:-
“HSH” means the Help Desk;

“TSA" means a Technical Support Analyst, employed to provide Help Desk services on
behalf of the Contractor;

“NBSC’” means the Network Business Support Centre; and

“Interface Agreement” means the interface agreement referred to in paragraph 6 of this
Part A of this Schedule 1.
POL00324066

POL00324066
4
Schedule 1
Part B
Timetable for Implementation
of Help Desk Improvements
PartA Deliverable By Date Person
Paragraph Responsible
1.1 Pre work on new call scripts for lottery I 11/01/00 Completed HSH
stock unit, reversals and suspense
account.
441 Current processes and procedures 11/01/00 Completed HSH
for:
I. Procedures surrounding the
use of the transaction log to
identify errors.
I. Procedures surrounding the
transfer between stock units.
Ml Where a business rule needs
to be invoked by the NBSC.
441 New scripts completed and problem 14/01/00 Completed HSH/POCL/
areas reviewed. Contractor
441 New documentation presented to 17/01/00 HSH
TSA's.
4.1 New documentation introduced into 19&20/01/00 HSH
live environment.
9 Scripts reviewed against Guide to 24/01/00 HSH/POCL
Balancing
1.2 Helpdesk Forum Agenda to include 27/01/00 Contractor
Cash Account Script Amendments.
(pre work to draft amendments will
take place prior to this by the
Contractor). This will be an ongoing
exercise.

POL00324066

POL00324066
5

1.2 Change Control Processes for Cash 27/01/00 Contractor
Account scripts are introduced by the
Helpdesk Forum but managed by the
Contractor

3 Contractor to reinforce use of initial 19/01/00 Contractor
scripts and instruct new TSA's to use
the scripts for resolution

3 POCL will communicate to the 28/02/00 POCL
Network the rationale for using scripts
within the Support Centres

4 Proactive Improvement Plans will be I 27/01/00 Contractor
presented to the Helpdesk Forum
when identified

5 Contractor will review the cash 27/01/00 Contractor
account call closure codes against
POCL classification

5 Contractor will implement those new 28/02/00 Contractor
call classification codes which are
agreed with POCL

6 Contractor and POCL to have had an I 14/01/00 Contractor/
initial meeting to discuss the Interface POCL
Agreement

6 Draft Interface Agreement will be 19/01/00 Contractor
issued for review

6 Follow-up workshop to discuss the 27/01/00 (see note) Contractor/P
draft Interface Agreement OCL

6 Interface Agreement finalised 28/02/00 Contractor/

POCL

7 Helpdesk Forum has been 27/01/00 Contractor/
established; first meeting scheduled POCL
to take place. Future monthly
meetings will be scheduled.

7 Terms of Reference and objectives to I 28/02/00 Contractor/
be agreed for the Helpdesk Forum. POCL

8 A meeting to discuss the Feasibility 31/01/00 Contractor/P.
Study Findings will be scheduled. OCL

POL00324066
POL00324066

9 Contractor will review impact of 17/01/00 Contractor
Balancing Guide on the scripts and
feedback to POCL

Note: this meeting is targeted for 27/1/2000 and the Parties shall use their reasonable
endeavours to ensure that it takes place no later than 14/2/2000.
20.

Schedule 2

Amendments to the Second Supplemental Agreement

In Clause 7.2(ii) of the Second Supplemental Agreement the word “discrepancy” shall
be deleted and replaced by the words “Cash Account Discrepancy”.

New Clauses 7.6 and 7.7 shall be added to the Second Supplemental Agreement as
follows:-

“76 For the purposes of the criterion set out in paragraph (i) of Part D of Schedule 4
to this Agreement there shall be disregarded:-

(i) any Cash Account Discrepancy which POCL agrees (such agreement
not to be unreasonably withheld) would have been prevented by the
application of those additional reference data controls (including the
“attribute checker”) currently being jointly developed under the parties’
joint review of end to end reference data management which are (in
POCL’s reasonable opinion) likely to be properly deployed prior to 24th
January, 2000; and

(ii) any Cash Account Discrepancy caused by a “Not Data Error” (as
defined in paragraph 3.6 of Schedule G01 to the Codified Agreement).

77 For the purposes of:-

7.7.1 the criterion set out in paragraph (i) of Part D of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and

7.7.2 establishing the duration of the TIP Integrity Checking Period
there shall be disregarded:-

(A) (i) any Cash Account Discrepancy resulting from the opening
balance used by TIP being incorrect as a result of a Data Error whose
incidence shall have already given rise to an earlier Cash Account
Discrepancy; and

(ii) any Cash Account Discrepancy caused by a “Not Data Error” (as
defined in paragraph 3.6 of Schedule G01 to the Codified Agreement.”

Part D of Schedule 4 to the Second Supplemental Agreement shall be amended as
follows:-

(i) at the beginning thereof the word “The” shall be deleted and replaced with the
words “Subject to Clauses 7.6 and 7.7 of this Agreement, the";

(ii) in paragraph (i) thereof, the reference to the period from 3rd October, 1999
until 14th January, 2000 shall be replaced by a reference to the period from
2nd December, 1999 until 12th January, 2000; and

POL00324066
POL00324066
POL00324066
POL00324066

(iii) in paragraph (iii) thereof the words “after the date of this Agreement” shall be
replaced with the words “during the period from 2nd December, 1999 until
12th January, 2000”.
POL00324066
POL00324066

Schedule 3

Amendments to Paragraph 4.3 of
Schedule G10 to the Codified Agreement

21. Paragraphs 4.3.2.7 to 4.3.2.9 of Schedule G10 to the Codified Agreement (as
incorporated by paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Second Supplemental Agreement)
shall be deleted and replaced by the following:-

“4.3.2.7 All calls made to the Help Desk seeking advice and/or guidance relating to

4.3.2.8

4.3.2.9

cash accounts shall be answered by first line Help Desk staff. Where
calls need to be dealt with by staff with greater expertise the calls shall
be transferred to an appropriate expert. In not less than 95% of cases
such transfer shall occur immediately. In the remaining cases the
caller shall be called back by an appropriate expert within 20 minutes of
the conclusion of his original call to the Help Desk.

The Contractor shall use reasonable endeavours to ensure that all
advice and guidance given by the Help Desk is adequate to ensure that
each issue on which advice and/or guidance is sought is adequately
resolved in a manner which does not hinder completion of the cash
account and associated processes.

POCL may verify this performance by analysis of tape recordings of
Help desk calls under the provisions of paragraph 4.3.2.11 below. The
principles to be applied in this verification are set out in paragraph
4.3.2.13 of this Schedule G10.

No liquidated damages provision or termination threshold applies in
relation to the service level described in this paragraph 4.3.2.8.

Approved call scripts shall be correctly followed by Help Desk staff in
not less than 95% of cash account calls aggregated over all the Help
Desk Weeks which end in that month, as measured by joint analysis by
the Contractor and POCL of tape recordings of Help Desk calls. For
the purposes of this paragraph 4.3.2.9:

(a) the principles to be applied in this measurement are set out in
paragraph 4.3.2.13 of this Schedule G10;

(b) the Contractor shall deliver all necessary tapes to POCL
(recorded in the manner agreed with POCL) in respect of each
Help Desk Week by no later than the Monday morning
following the end of that Help Desk Week;

(c) POCL shall review the recordings and report its findings to the
Contractor within five working days following receipt of such

tapes; and

(d) when it is judged by POCL that the service level has been met
4.3.2.10

4.3.2.11

4.3.2.12

4.3.2.13

successfully in respect of a Help Desk Week the recordings will
not be examined further (unless otherwise agreed between
POCL and the Contractor) and the tapes may be recycled at
the Contractor's discretion.

During the Monitoring Period the Contractor shall measure and report
to POCL the Contractor's performance against the service levels
contained in paragraph 4.3.2.1 of this Schedule G10 on a daily basis
for Wednesday and Thursday in each Help Desk Week. The report for
each of the first five Help Desk Weeks in the Monitoring Period shall be
provided to POCL no later than the Monday following the end of that
Help Desk Week. In respect of the sixth Help Desk Week the
Contractor shall report to POCL the Contractor's performance for the
period up to and including Wednesday of that week and deliver such
report by 6 p.m. on Thursday 13th January, 2000.

Following the end of the Monitoring Period the Contractor shall at any
time upon written request by POCL given not less than two days prior
to the first Wednesday of any month, measure and include in the
Contractor's monthly service review report to POCL for that month the
Contractor's performance against the service levels contained in
paragraph 4.3.2.1 of this Schedule G10 on a daily basis for Wednesday
and Thursday in each Help Desk Week which ends in that month.

No separate liquidated damages provision or termination threshold
applies to daily performances reported pursuant to this paragraph
4.3.2.10.

The Contractor shall with effect from 8th December, 1999 install and
thenceforth at all times have available the necessary equipment to
enable Help Desk calls to be recorded for the purposes of paragraphs
4.3.2.8 to 4.3.2.10 above. The Contractor shall, on not less than two
days’ written notice, implement recording of cash account calls at
POCL’s request for periodic audit purposes. POCL shall be given
access to all such recordings as soon as reasonably practicable
following its demand therefor at any time during normal working hours
or any other time when the Help Desk service is operational.

To the extent that such notification is required by law, the Contractor
shall be responsible for ensuring that Help Desk staff are properly
notified that calls will be recorded and POCL shall be responsible for
ensuring that Users (and others who call the Help Desk on POCL
business) are properly so notified.

For the purposes of this Schedule:-
“Help Desk Week" shall mean each week commencing on the opening

of business on a Friday and ending on the close of business on the
following Thursday;

POL00324066
POL00324066
“Monitoring Period” shall mean the six week period commencing on
Friday 3rd December, 1999 and ending on Thursday 13th January,

2000; and

“cash account calls” means calls to the Help Desk relating to cash

accounts.

4.3.2.14 The sample sizes and sampling methodology for measuring

compliance with approved scripts for cash account calls under
paragraphs 4.3.2.8 and 4.3.2.9 of this Schedule G10 will be developed
by POCL such that in the long term they would be expected to result in
a “false failure rate” of 5% or less in each service level measurement
period, and a “false success rate” of 10% or less in each service level

measurement period.

These rates are defined in terms of the outcomes set out in the

following table:

POL00324066
POL00324066

Sample estimate of Sample estimate of
compliance rate less compliance rate greater
than 95% than or equal to 95%

True compliance rate less True failure False success

than 95%

True compliance rate greater I False failure True success

than or equal to 95%

The “false failure rate” is the expected number of false failure
outcomes expressed as a proportion of the total of true and false failure

outcomes.

The “false success rate” is the expected number of false success
outcomes expressed as a proportion of the total of true and false

success outcomes.

The method for selecting samples and determining sample sizes to
achieve the above characteristics will be decided by POCL and
recorded in a Contract Controlled Document. The Contractor will be
entitled to review this to gain assurance that the methodology is in line
with accepted practice in statistical sampling, and to require POCL to
make changes if it is not. Any disagreements about appropriate
statistical methodology will be resolved by reference to Chapter 7.13
(‘Determining Sample Size to Control Type I and Type I! Errors”) of the
publication “Business Statistics for Management and Economics” by

Wayne W. Daniel and James C. Terrell, 7th Edition, 1995.
POCL will carry out the initial analysis of the tapes (which will be
provided by the Contractor) and will document findings in relation to
which calls are and are not compliant with the relevant scripts.

The Contractor will review and agree these findings, or provide a
factual statement of any cases where it takes a different view of the
compliance. In the event of any disagreement as to compliance, the
matter at issue shall be dealt with in accordance with Clause 807 of the
Codified Agreement.

To the extent that the method involves more than one stage of
sampling, POCL may decide to deem the service level to have been
achieved on the basis of the first stage sample, notwithstanding that
that sample estimate may show a compliance level below 95%.

Once sufficient samples have been analysed to comply with the
requirements for probabilities of errors as above, then either party may
request a full analysis of all calls in the relevant period (rather than a
sample). In that case, the results based on the full analysis will be used
in place of the sample estimates and in the event of any disagreement
as to compliance, the matter at issue shall be dealt with in accordance
with Clause 807 of the Codified Agreement.

The reasonable additional costs of both parties will be borne by the
party requesting such a full analysis.”

POL00324066
POL00324066
POL00324066

POL00324066
Schedule 4
Error Matrix
Incident Defences (See note(6)) AIC Detection (See note (7))
Pathway I TIP Incident Types Incident SEE I Root Preventative I Harvester I Bydaily I Reported I Bydaily I By By By weekly
Incident I Incident Classification I NOTE I cause fix I code record checks I daily by checks I weekly I weekly I Receipts
Number (in place or rejection I at Harvester I atHost I checks I checks I not equal
No intended) counter at athost I to
counter Payments
check

Part A Incidents as listed in TIP.

Incident Status Report as at

20th Oct 1999
Ai 21 Deleted stock unit SU") c Y Y Y Y Y
A2 846 ‘SU double roll ry Y Y Y
AB 855 Missing mode — Reversal c Y Y Y Y Y
a 856 New SU D Y Y Y
AS 857 ‘SU Name with blank first D Y Y Y

character
Ae 858 Missing timestamp c Y Y Y Y Y Y
AT 866 Product deleted with current D Y Y Y Y

transactions
AB 869 Missing mode - OBCS suspend I C Y Y Y Y Y

POL00324066

POL00324066
A9 873 Missing mode — scales
AIO 889 Replication recovery
Alt 909 Fee migration correction error @
Aq2 873 Corrupt il files on LT2 o) Y
migration
AnB 970 Multiple simultaneous rol-over Y
Ata 919 OBCS swipe permitted in
invalid mode
AIS 913 Signage issue on interface ®
Ae 892 Missing mode - unassigned
cause
PartB New incidents
Bi 935 Negative sign on Transaction
numbers
B2 940 Settlement of the Reversal of 3)
the settlement of a stock
adjustment
83 951 Incorrect recording of stock Y
transfer transactions (and
consequences)
Ba 961 Missing cash account because @
of null cash account ID
BS 934 Reference Data Error on
product 196

POL00324066

POL00324066
Ey 939 Invalid ITM
87 943 Migration of erroneous ECCO
transfer transaction
88 963 ‘APS reversal txns with missing
O-mode
EX} 936 Missing primary mappings in ref Y
data
B10 949 Cash account with zero values
B12 983 Transfer Out transaction within @ Y
a DDN session
BIS 984 Problem with persistent object Y
index updates
BIT 1003 Deletion of non-core ref data @ Y
BIe 1007 Global Objects version issue Y
B20 1002 Volume only transaction in
deleted SU
B21 1015 Partial transfer Y
B22 998 Field size problem
B23 1028 Message insertion issue )
(duplicates A11)
B24 965 Apparent discrepancies in ®
“week 2°
B25 NA Migration of incorrect office B/F Y

POL00324066
POL00324066

balance
B26 974 Replication timing problem
B27 7036 Transaction input by User to

wrong week

NOTES
General — Interpretation of the above matrix

The columns headed ‘Incident’ define the incidents which the Defences and AIC Detection are
designed to address.

Each of the TIP Incident Numbers refers to the incident number given to the first occurrence of
the incident of that type.

The columns headed ‘Defences’ summarise the defences which have (or will be) put in place to
deal with the relevant incidents. In some cases it will be seen that there is more than one
category of defence. These are additive layers of system resilience, and should be
interpreted as follows:

If there is a root cause fix, then defensive code, if also present, would not be exercised unless

either the root cause fix was found in some circumstances to be ineffective or another hitherto

undiscovered root cause caused the same symptom. Taking for example A6, the cause of the
missing timestamp underlying the reported incident has been fixed, and so the second defence
(the repair of the defective record by the harvester) is inactive, but would be activated by some
new "bug" which also caused a missing timestamp.

The harvester rejection is described as a defence because it prevents defective records
reaching TIP. If there is either a root cause fix or defensive code executed at the desk top
then the harvester will not reject the record, as records reaching the harvester will be correct.
The harvester would reject the record if the fix failed (and indeed for most transaction errors did
originally reject the records, which was how the error was detected by TIP).

The columns headed ‘AIC detection’ set out the reaction the AIC would have made to the
various categories of reported errors had it been active at the time. Where these errors have
been either fixed or defended against the AIC will of course not now have anything to detect.
The third defence, harvester rejection, itself causes AIC detection, as quite apart from anything
else which the AIC may have detected it will now also detect that a record which was present at
the counter has not reached the host.

Specific - bracketed numbers in table refer

1. This bug resulted in transactions not being generated. The transactions which were in
the message store were correctly brought to account.

2. The underlying incident is now understood and can be reproduced. The error does not
occur in the CSR+ code and work continues to understand how to resolve the issue in
the current code.

3. This incident type may result in a failure of the service level referred to in paragraph
3.1 of Schedule G10 but is not a Data Error as the relevant data are rejected at the TIP
interface.

4. Root cause was a migration error. The reported error is the secondary effect of the

centrally introduced migration correction not being harvested to TIP, although the cash

POL00324066
POL00324066
POL00324066
POL00324066

account was corrected as requested by POCL.

Root cause was incomplete definition of signage agreed between Pathway and TIP,
now complete.

"Defences" - definitions of terms used as column headings.

The intended purpose of each of the defensive measures referred to in the column
headings is described in the definitions below.

Root cause fix means a software fix applied to rectify the cause of the incidents
reported by TIP in the relevant categories.

Preventative Code means code added to the Horizon software either to detect and
prevent an inappropriate user action (such as deletion of an active stock unit) which
would have adverse system consequences, or to detect a system error (such as a null
cash account id) and prevent the effects of that error propagating through the system.

Harvester Record Rejection refers to the action taken by the software agent which
harvests records to be sent to TIP when it detects a record as being in error. In this
circumstance the agent refuses to harvest the record, instead reporting it for
investigation and/or correction.

AIC Detection - definition of terms used as column headings:

The checks performed by each part of the AIC software will be as defined in
PI/DES/002, which was re-issued at v0.8 on 22/12/99. This adds to v0.7 a new section
4.6.5, which describes the test performed by the host AIC software to detect and report
on instances when the cash account payments table total does not equal the cash
account receipts table total.

Daily checks at the counter refers to the error reporting performed daily by the counter
software (by writing error messages in the message store for central recovery and
reporting) as distinct from the daily production of control totals for subsequent use
either by the host or by the weekly counter AIC processes. This reporting is described
in PI/DES/002, particularly within sections 3.2, 4.1.3, and 4.3.4 .

Reported by the Harvester refers to the daily error reporting by the harvester agent, for
those outlets where an End of Day marker is present, when records are found which
cannot be harvested for onwards transmission to TIP because they fail validation
checks. This reporting is described in PI/DES/002, particularly within sections 4.4.1,
and 4.3.

Daily checks at the Host refers to reporting of errors detected when the host AIC
software checks the data harvested for each outlet with the counter generated control
totals placed in the message store for this purpose. This reporting is described in
PI/DES/002, particularly within sections 3.1 and 4.5.1.

Weekly checks at the counter refers to the error reporting performed weekly by the
counter software (by writing error messages in the message store for central recovery
and reporting) as distinct from the production of weekly control totals for subsequent
use by the host AIC processes. These errors may be detected by comparison of the
cash account to the control figures accumulated daily at the counter. This reporting
occurs every day, for those outlets for which a cash account has been produced and is
described in PI/DES/002, particularly within sections 3.2, 3.4, 4.1.2, 4.1.5, 4.2.3 and
4.3.5.

Weekly checks at the Host refers to reporting of errors detected when the host AIC
software checks the cash account sub-file for an outlet with the counter generated
control totals placed in the message store for this purpose. This reporting occurs every
day, for those outlets for which a cash account has been produced and is described in
PI/DES/002, particularly within sections 3.3 and 4.5.2.

Receipts not equal to Payments check refers to reporting of errors detected when the
host AIC software checks the cash account sub-file for an outlet to ensure that the
totals for the Payments table and the Receipts table contained within the sub-file are
equal. This reporting is described in PI/DES/002, section 4.6.5.

Preventative code is being developed.

This will not cause errors in the POCL domain provided the corrected data is
transmitted electronically within five working days of the occurrence of the error. In
cases where a Manual Error Report is submitted within five working days of the
occurrence of the error POCL will be able to use this to correct the following week’s
opening balance as well as the original error.

POL00324066
POL00324066
22.

23.

“3.6.1

3.6.1.1

POL00324066
POL00324066

Schedule 5

Amendments to Paragraph 3.6 of Schedule G01

The table contained at Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall be added as Annex 1 to
Schedule G01 to the Codified Agreement.

Paragraph 3.6 of Schedule G01 to the Codified Agreement (as inserted by CCN 562)
shall be deleted and replaced by the following:-

Interpretation of Paragraph 3.6
For the purposes of this paragraph 3.6:-

“Cash Account Error’ means an electronic cash account presented by TMS at the TIP.
interface which is not an accurate record of the corresponding cash account which was
irrevocably committed by the relevant User;

“Cash Account Period” means each period (normally of seven days ending on a
Wednesday) to which POCL shall have allocated, or shall subsequently allocate, a
Cash Account Period Number and of which it shall have informed, or shall inform, the
Contractor through the Operational Business Change process;

“Contractor Inaccurate Cash Account’ means an Inaccurate Cash Account caused
primarily by:-

(i) inaccurate Reference Data in the Contractor's Reference Data system (other
than Reference Data supplied by POCL);

(ii) an error in any Software; or

(iii) a failure by the Contractor to apply Reference Data supplied by POCL correctly
and in compliance with the CCD entitled “ICL Pathway/POCL Interface
Agreement for Operational Business Change - Product” or, pending the
signature thereof, the draft of that CCD dated 13/1/2000, version 2.9

where in any such case the effect of such inaccuracy or error was not capable of being

corrected by the User before irrevocable commitment of the cash account in question

by applying any work-around previously agreed between POCL and the Contractor for

such purpose;

“Data Error’ means:

(i) an error (other than a Not Data Error) which results in an Inaccurate Cash
Account (Data Error) or a Cash Account Error; or

(ii) a Transaction Error which is not a Not Data Error;

“Data Error Counting Period” means
POL00324066
POL00324066

5
(i) each Cash Account Period which is of a duration of seven days or less; and
(ii) in respect of Cash Account Periods of greater than seven days duration, each

proportion of any such Cash Account Period derived by dividing such Cash
Account Period into two or more Data Error Counting Periods such that the first
such Data Error Counting Period is between one and seven days’ duration and
each subsequent Data Error Counting Period during that Cash Account Period
is exactly seven days in duration;

“Inaccurate Cash Account’ means in respect of any Cash Account Period at any
Outlet an electronic cash account which does not properly account for all Transactions
input to the POCL Service Infrastructure by Users at that Outlet in that Cash Account
Period;

“Inaccurate Cash Account (Data Error)” means an Inaccurate Cash Account which is
not an Inaccurate Cash Account (Not Data Error);

“Inaccurate Cash Account (Not Data Error)" means an Inaccurate Cash Account
which:-

(i) is not a Contractor Inaccurate Cash Account; and

(ii) is irrevocably committed by a User at the conclusion of the end of week
process in respect of any Cash Account Period at the relevant Outlet
notwithstanding that, prior to irrevocably committing such Inaccurate Cash
Account, that User had been provided with a warning that receipts and
payments did not match and that continuing might lead to an unbalanced cash
account (or an equivalent warning);

“Manual Error Report” means in respect of any Data Error, a report from the
Contractor to POCL describing that Data Error and specifying (in a format suitable for
POCL to key into a POCL data input facility):-

(i) in the case of a Data Error resulting in an Inaccurate Cash Account (Data Error)
or a Cash Account Error, each of the line items in the relevant cash account
which need to be replaced in order to correct the Data Error in question; and

(ii) in the case of a Data Error which is a Transaction Error, the relevant
Transaction record as it would have appeared but for the Data Error;

“Not Data Error” means any of the following:-

(i) an error caused by invalid data input by Users in Outlets (other than the input of
data which puts a previously balanced cash account into a state of imbalance);

(ii) an error caused by the input of erroneous data by a User during migration of
POCL Data to any Outlet (save where data migration tools have been provided
by the Contractor to detect such error but such error is not detected despite
proper use of those tools by the User in question);
3.6.1.2

3.6.1.3

(iii) an error caused by Reference Data supplied by POCL which result in
Transactions not being correctly taken into account in cash accounts where
such Reference Data were correctly applied by the Contractor in compliance
with the CCD entitled “ICL Pathway/POCL Interface Agreement for Operational
Business Change-Product” or, pending the signature thereof, the draft of that
CCD dated 13/1/2000, version 2.9;

(iv) an Inaccurate Cash Account (Not Data Error); or

(v) an error which is classified in Annex 1 to this Schedule G01 as an error of class
“F” or “G’, whether or not it falls within sub-paragraphs (i) to (iv) above.

“Repaired Cash Account” means, in respect of any Inaccurate Cash Account or Cash
Account Error, the relevant cash account as corrected by the Contractor;

“Repaired Transaction Data” means, in respect of any Transaction Error, the relevant
record following correction of that Transaction Error;

“Transaction Error” means an error in one or more transaction data fields in the
electronic record of a transaction presented by TMS at the TIP interface or a missing,
duplicate or spurious additional Transaction record therein; and

For the purposes of this paragraph 3.6 a Data Error shall be treated as relating to a
Data Error Counting Period if:-

(i) it is a Transaction Error in a Transaction carried out during that Data Error
Counting Period; or

(ii) it is a Cash Account Error or Inaccurate Cash Account (Data Error) for the Cash
Account Period (if any) which is co-terminus with that Data Error Counting
Period.

For the purposes of the definitions of Cash Account Period and Data Error Counting
Period a day shall mean a period of 24 hours ending at 8.00 p.m.

Classification of Incident Types

Each of the incident types listed in the table in Annex 1 to this Schedule G01 is
classified in the column of that table headed “Incident Classification” by one of the
following designations:-

“AY = a Transaction Error which is also an Inaccurate Cash Account (Data
Error);
‘B’ = a Transaction Error which is also a Cash Account Error;

“Cc” = a Transaction Error which is neither an Inaccurate Cash Account nor a
Cash Account Error;

POL00324066
POL00324066
3.6.4.1

3.6.4.2

3.6.4.3

3.6.4.4

POL00324066
POL00324066

7
“D” = an Inaccurate Cash Account (Data Error) which is not a Transaction
Error;
‘e = a Cash Account Error which is not a Transaction Error;
‘Pe = a Not Data Error; and

Pew

an incident which is treated by the parties as a Not Data Error.
Detection of Errors

The Contractor shall duly apply throughout the term of this Codified Agreement all of
the defensive measures and checks described in the Annex to this Schedule G01 in
order to detect Data Errors and Not Data Errors. Such defensive measures and checks
will be applied with the frequency indicated in the said Annex. All Data Errors and Not
Data Errors detected (by the Contractor or otherwise and whether or not by application
of such defensive measures and checks) shall, subject to paragraph 3.6.4 below, be
dealt with in accordance with the remaining sub-paragraphs of this paragraph 3.6.

Widespread Errors

As soon as the Contractor discovers, whether through calls received at the Help Desk
or otherwise, that there are or are likely to be Data Errors or Not Data Errors affecting
cash accounts at more than 100 Outlets in any one Cash Account Period then the
Contractor shall immediately:-

(a) notify POCL in accordance with procedures described in the CCD entitled “TPS.
Reconciliation and Incident Management” (CS/PRO/111); and

(b) comply with those provisions of that CCD which shall be inserted by reference
to this paragraph 3.6.4.

Upon the Contractor's giving notice in accordance with paragraph 3.6.4.1(a) the
remaining provisions of this paragraph 3.6 (other than paragraphs 3.6.4.3 and 3.6.4.4
below) shall cease to apply in relation to such Data Errors and Not Data Errors.

Subject to paragraph 3.6.14 below, the Contractor shall promptly reimburse to POCL all
costs reasonably incurred by POCL in correcting any Data Errors to which
paragraph 3.6.4.1 applies.

POCL shall promptly reimburse to the Contractor all costs reasonably incurred by the
Contractor in correcting any Not Data Errors to which paragraph 3.6.4.1 applies.

Data Errors discovered before transmission

3.6.5.1 Subject to paragraph 3.6.5.4 below, if the Contractor discovers a
Transaction Error which is a Data Error prior to the relevant record
being transmitted by the Contractor to POCL over the TIP interface,
then the Contractor shall not transmit the relevant record but shall
POL00324066
POL00324066

retain it and:
(a) correct the Transaction Error in the relevant record;

(b) transmit the Repaired Transaction Data to POCL over the TIP
interface; and

(c) promptly issue a report to POCL in an agreed format containing
an explanation of the correction made.

3.6.5.2 If the Contractor discovers any Data Error resulting in an Inaccurate
Cash Account (Data Error) prior to the relevant record being
transmitted by the Contractor to POCL over the TIP interface then,
notwithstanding the presence of such error, the Contractor shall
transmit the relevant record to POCL over the TIP interface and
thereafter either:-

(a) with POCL's agreement (such agreement not to be
unreasonably withheld) promptly correct the Data Error in the
relevant cash account, transmit the Repaired Cash Account
over the TIP interface (without prejudice to paragraph 3.6.6.4
below) and issue a report to POCL containing an explanation of
the correction made; or

(b) promptly issue to POCL a Manual Error Report in respect of
that Data Error.

3.6.5.3 Subject to paragraph 3.6.5.4 below, if the Contractor discovers any
Cash Account Error resulting from a Data Error prior to the relevant
record being transmitted by the Contractor to POCL over the TIP
interface, then the Contractor shall not transmit the relevant record but
shall retain it and:

(a) correct the Data Error in the relevant cash account;

(b) transmit the Repaired Cash Account to POCL over the TIP
interface; and

(c) promptly issue a report to POCL in an agreed format containing
an explanation of the correction made.

3.6.5.4 The Contractor may, instead of retaining and repairing records in
accordance with paragraphs 3.6.5.1 and/or 3.6.5.3 above, promptly
issue to POCL Manual Error Reports for up to a total of 50 Data Errors
relating to any Data Error Counting Period (or such higher limit as the
parties may agree).

3.6.6 Data Errors discovered after transmission

3.6.6.1

3.6.6.2

3.6.6.3

3.6.6.4

Not Data Errors

Where a Data Error shall not have been discovered before
transmission of the relevant record to POCL over the TIP interface, but
is subsequently discovered, the provisions of paragraphs 3.6.5.1 and
3.6.5.3 above shall not apply to such Data Error. Instead the
Contractor shall either:

(a) with POCL's agreement (such agreement not to be
unreasonably withheld), correct the Transaction Error or, as the
case may be, the Data Error in the relevant cash account,
transmit the Repaired Transaction Data or (without prejudice to
paragraph 3.6.6.4 below) Repaired Cash Account to POCL over
the TIP interface and promptly issue a report to POCL
containing an explanation of the correction made; or

(b) promptly issue to POCL a Manual Error Report in respect of
that Data Error.

If the number of Data Errors which are discovered after the
transmission of the relevant record exceeds twenty in any Data Error
Counting Period the Contractor shall, in consultation with POCL, review
the process introduced by the Accounting Integrity Control Release with
a view to enhancing such process in order to detect the relevant Data
Errors prior to transmission of the relevant records and to identify and
correct root causes of such errors.

Any Data Error processed by the Contractor under paragraph 3.6.6.1(b)
above which shall have been discovered after transmission but before
the conclusion of the Data Error Counting Period to which it relates
shall count towards the 50 per Data Error Counting Period limit under
paragraph 3.6.5.4 above. However, where a Data Error is discovered
after transmission and after the conclusion of the Data Error Counting
Period to which it relates the Contractor shall be entitled, without
thereby being in breach of paragraph 3.6.5.4 above, to submit a
Manual Error Report in respect thereof in accordance with paragraph
3.6.6.1(b).

Where paragraph 3.6.5.2(a) or 3.6.6.1(a) above applies, the
Contractor's obligation to transmit a Repaired Cash Account may be
satisfied by transmitting such part of the Repaired Cash Account as is
necessary to correct the Data Error concerned, provided that such
transmission complies with the requirements of the CCD entitled
“Pathway to TIP Application Interface Specification”.

The Contractor shall, promptly following discovery of any Not Data Error, issue a report
to POCL (in the same format as a Manual Error Report) containing a brief description
of the Not Data Error to the extent that it can be identified and shall co-operate with
POCL and, to the extent that is reasonable, assist POCL (a) to investigate and seek to

POL00324066
POL00324066
10

prevent the recurrence of such Not Data Error and (b) to prevent the production of
Cash Accounts which are incorrect as a result of such Not Data Error.

General Provisions

3.6.8

3.6.10

3.6.11

3.6.12

3.6.13

The Contractor undertakes to use all reasonable endeavours, in accordance with the
procedures defined in the CCD entitled “TPS Reconciliation and Incident
Management” (CS/PRO/111), to notify POCL of the discovery of a Data Error or Not
Data Error on the same day on which such Data Error or Not Data Error is discovered
and shall in any event notify POCL thereof on the morning of the Working Day next
following the date on which it is discovered.

The Contractor undertakes to use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that:

3.6.9.1 the delay between the occurrence of a Data Error (or in the case of a
Data Error detected after the transmission of the relevant record, its
detection) and (a) the issue of a Manual Error Report in respect thereof
to POCL or (b) transmission of the Repaired Transaction Data or
(without prejudice to paragraph 3.6.6.4) Repaired Cash Account to
POCL over the TIP interface; or

3.6.9.2 the delay between discovery of a Not Data Error and the issue of a
report to POCL in relation thereto under paragraph 3.6.7 above

shall not in any such case exceed five working days.

Where any such delay as is referred to in paragraph 3.6.8 has exceeded, or the
Contractor believes that it is likely to exceed, five days, the Contractor shall
immediately notify POCL’s Head of Service Management and shall procure that the
Contractor's Customer Service Director (or, in his absence, his deputy) is made
available to meet with POCL’s Head of Service Management (or his delegate) to
discuss the delay within two working Days of such notification.

Where the Contractor provides Manual Error Reports it shall provide a separate Manual
Error Report for each Data Error discovered. For this purpose, where a single error in a
cash account is manifested in more than one place in that cash account it shall be
treated as a single Data Error, but two or more different errors in the same cash
account shall be treated as different Data Errors, each requiring a separate Manual
Error Report.

Where the Contractor is required to make an assumption in order to correct a Data
Error and/or present Repaired Transaction Data or a Repaired Cash Account, the
Contractor shall make such assumption and promptly inform POCL of the assumption
made.

The Contractor shall pay to POCL within 30 days after the end of each month a sum to
compensate POCL for its costs in dealing with Manual Error Reports for Data Errors as
follows:

POL00324066
POL00324066
3.6.14

3.6.15

3.6.13.1

3.6.13.2

3.6.13.3

3.6.13.4

in that month. Clause 802 of the Codified Agreement shall apply to such payments as

11
£150 per Manual Error Report relating to a Transaction Error
discovered after transmission of the relevant record;

£100 per Manual Error Report relating to a Transaction Error
discovered before transmission of the relevant record;

£100 per Manual Error Report relating to a Cash Account Error
discovered; and

£100 per Manual Error Report relating to an Inaccurate Cash Account
(Data Error)

though they were liquidated damages for failure to meet Service Levels.

For the purposes of calculating any sum which may be due to be paid to POCL under
paragraphs 3.6.4.3 or 3.6.13 all Data Errors which shall have been corrected by the
Contractor and the relevant Repaired Transaction Data or (without prejudice to

paragraph 3.6.6.4) Repaired Cash Account transmitted to POCL over the TIP interface

within five Working Days of such Data Error occurring shall be excluded and no
payment shall be made to POCL in relation to such Data Errors.

For such period (if any) following discovery of any error or inaccuracy during which
there is insufficient information for the Contractor to determine whether such error or

inaccuracy constitutes, or gives rise to, a Data Error or a Not Data Error, such error or

inaccuracy shall, for the purposes of any action to be taken under paragraphs 3.6.5 to
3.6.7 (inclusive) above but not otherwise, be treated as a Data Error.

This Schedule 5 also modifies Acceptance Resolution Plan 376 (Reference
CR/ACD/376 Version 0.9 Dated 23rd September, 1999); paragraph 5.3.3 thereof shall
be amended as appropriate to be consistent with this Schedule to the intent that the
procedures and obligations set out in this Schedule shall take precedence over, and
replace, the procedures and obligations set out in numbered paragraphs 1 to 5
(inclusive) of the said paragraph 5.3.3.

POL00324066
POL00324066
12

Signed by

for and on behalf of
POST OFFICE
COUNTERS LTD. in the
presence of:-

Signed by

for and on behalf of
ICL PATHWAY LIMITED
in the presence of:-

POL00324066
POL00324066
DATED 19TH JANUARY, 2000

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD.

-AND-

ICL PATHWAY LIMITED

THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT

Slaughter and May
35 Basinghall Street
London
EC2V 5DB
(JRT)

POL00324066
POL00324066
