POL00175144
POL00175144

To:

From: Joanne Hancock{
_O=MMS_OU=! EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29 I CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=JOANNE+2E

HANCOCK4346B6CE-BDEE-44E0-A927-C3A 1 3BD5B80A@C72A47.ingest.local]

Sent: Tue 4 9 2012 10:23:33 AM (UTC)

Subject: FW: Horizon integrity project

Keith

I don’t know if you have seen this before as you are not copied in. I understand that Helen is taking this piece of work with her
over to the Operational role.

Regards.

Jo

Joanne Hancock

Senior Security Programme Manager
Grapevine

Post Office Ltd

spread the word...

G07, Ground Floor,

Future Walk, Chesterfield S49 1PF

post.office.security 4

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
If you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message.

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail

From: Helen Rose

Sent: 07 August 2012 10:23

To: Joanne Hancock

Subject: FW: Horizon integrity project

For info

regards

Helen Rose

Security Team
3rd Floor
Clippers Quay
SALFORD
M50 3NW
POL00175144
POL00175144

From: Jarnail A Singh

Sent: 07 August 2012 10:10

To: Helen Rose

Cc: Hugh Flemington; Susan Crichton; Dave Pardoe; John M Scott
Subject: RE: Horizon integrity project

Well done Helen This appears to be what we want.

Hopefully you will be able to confirm that the Horizon system has never been successfully challenged. I have
yet to see any sign of any experts briefed on behalf of the defence.

When you have completed your exercise you should prepare a summary of those cases where there is a proper
attack on the system rather than a gripe that the system is at fault (although you should record these cases so
that we can say that they have been kept under review - they will become more numerous as the band wagon
picks up speed).

We need to complete this with in few weeks with view to instructing an expert. Regards jarnail

From: Helen Rose

Sent: 03 August 2012 11:02

To: Jarnail A Singh

Subject: Horizon integrity project

Morning Jarnail

I have made a start putting together any offices that we know have had horizon mentioned. This list is made up from various
sources and there is still a lot of work to be done with some offices to be added, and possible some to be removed if not showing in
our casework reports (Alison Bolsover supplied me with a list and some of those may not be related to us directly) (some of the
details have been completed by others and I will work through these and check/amend the detail accordingly)

I have sent an email out to ‘old’ security personnel to see if they can remember any specific offices where horizon was questioned
and it may take a week or so for response as there are quite a few on leave at present.

lam working through the list and putting in as much detail as I can find out from old reports/case closure forms etc. I am then
planning on looking at the past year or two for offices not on this list to ensure none of the recent cases are missed.

This is a time consuming project reading through various reports and documents. In our previous phone call you mentioned where
sometimes there would be bargaining and some cases would be charged with false accounting rather than theft and false accounting
on the proviso that the horizon system is not brought into question. Do you have any names of offices where this will have been the
case please, or where this would be documented (case closure/legal memos etc)

I have attached the spreadsheet so far, could you please confirm to me if this is what you are wanting. Columns D, E and F are
designed to be a first glance check list, with further details about the case in columns G to M. If there is anything you think I should
include to assist you in future could you please let me know.

Do you have any time scales in which you would like this returning by and who you would like keeping up to date with the progress.
Once this is completed my thoughts are that, any time horizon integrity is mentioned at any part of the interview/prosecution process
the spreadsheet is automatically updated with details completed as the case progresses.

regards

Helew Rose

Security Team
3rd Floor
Clippers Quay
SALFORD
POL00175144
POL00175144

M50 3NW

Mobile: ob GRO / I

