POL00101857
POL00101857

Message

From: Melanie Corfield?

on behalf of — Melanie Corfield;

Sent: 14/12/2014

To: Jarnail Sin,

ce: Chris Aujardi } Jessica Madron
Subject: - lbject to LPP

Thanks Jarnail. I arn working through these today and will reflect the advice.
Mel

Mel Corfield

tions Team

From: Jarnail Singh
Sent: Sunday, December 14, 2014 11:01 AM
ic i ie Corfield; Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew

Subject: RE: Additional briefing for BIS - subject to LPP

All
My comments on Nick Wallis’ one show email dated 12/12/14 to MC by numbered paragraphs as relevant to
criminal law are as follows;

3, Here there are more options for the SPM;

. SPM removes surplus cash.

. Any short fall can be settled in cash, cheque or settle it centrally with financial services in chesterfield.

. SPM can use the helpline to express concerns if anything has gone wrong so that FSC can investigate these.

4, POL cannot comment on individual cases. We don’t know which case this is. Maybe it is someone who said
one thing in interview under caution, which entailed admission of offence of dishonesty, but later chooses to
misrepresent the facts purposely. Without knowing who it is and what she says we cannot respondent
further. May be it is somebody, who we prosecuted recently i.e. file still exists and if the BBC provides the
information, we may then be able to verify this or otherwise.

Green investigation file will show what was lifted ~ audit report what was said to the auditor and what was
said in interview under caution. So BBC needs to name names and give details, otherwise POL is deprived of
investigating that point.

if she was legally represented then she chose to plead guilty with benefit of legal advice. This means complete
admission of a particular offence, unless qualified by basis of plea. POL needs name of the offender to

establish whether she admitted to the offence or basis of her admission.

5. Not correct.
. When the Interview is with a contract manager SPM to have a friend present.

POL-0101440
POL00101857
POL00101857

. Interview under caution is always carried out in accordance with code of practice of PACE 1984, Which
means interviews are recorded on tape and suspect given the opportunity to seek legal advice. On numerous
occasions POL has allowed suspects to defer interview, in order to give them opportunity to have their legal
representative present.

Investigation officers at the outset of interview under caution will go through a form with the suspect to
remind him or her to have a legal representation present in interview. The suspect is then required to sign a
form as confirmation of the position.

6, POL has duty to investigate and it takes serious view of theft and other dishonest acts committed by
employees, SPM or their staff. Especially where vulnerable people are targeted and exploited. POL has
prosecuted in accordance with legislation and POL complies with current legislation. POL has investigated and
prosecuted as other organisations have done so under the same legislation. For example Local authority may
investigate child truancy and prosecute parents for child’s nonattendance, Environment agency may
investigate failure to have licence and prosecute. Royal mail may investigate theft from course of post i.e.
gifts and greeting cards etc. and prosecute.

This was the view before birth of CPS. Before CPS, Police used to prosecute their own cases, numerous
people said this is unsatisfactory. However, present government’s position/proposal are to move back to
police investigating and conducting their own prosecutions for some offences {i.e. presently low level traffic
offences are prosecuted by ex-police officers}

Need to request files in relation to these cases.

A qualified lawyer would have considered the evidence and only if there was sufficient evidence, he/she then
would have considered if prosecution was required in the public interest.

8. Prosecution decisions are taken on case by case basis, considering the available evidence and public
interest test as required by the prosecutors test.

POL- asked to seek and get expert report, but for reasons unknown have delayed the process.

9, Mediation — Convicted applicants to the scheme may have implications for POL, which may include appeals
to court of appeal against conviction or sentence (floodgate).

Hope the above help. If you need any clarification, let me know.

Jarnail Singh

Jarnail Singh 1 Criminal Lawyer

148 Old S

LONDON,

V9HQ

POL-0101440
POL00101857
POL00101857

From: Jarnail Singh
Sent: 14 December 2014 08:18
To: Patrick Bourke; Belinda Crowe;

Tom Wechsler; Mark Underwoos 4 Melanie Corfield; Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew

Subject: RE: Additional briefing for BIS - subject to LPP

Morning All

I working on this and will let you have my comments/view from criminal perspective ASAP this am.
Thanks.

Jarnail

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

@ 148 Old
ie)
©

2)

eet, LONDO

CLV SHO

& Post Office stories
@® @postotticenews

From: Patrick Bourke
Sent: 14 December 2014 08:03
To: Belinda Crowe; Tom Wechsler; Mark Underwood} Melanie Corfield; Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew

Jarnail Singh

Subject: RE: Additional briefing for BIS - subject to LPP

Yes, will be done.

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 14 December 2014 08:00 ts
To: Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; Mark Underwood:;; Melanie Corfield; Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew
i Jarnail Singh

Cc: Mark R Davies; Chris Aujard; Belinda Crowe

Subject: Additional briefing for BIS - subject to LPP

With thanks to Tom,

This could also be sent to BIS — I have tracked some changes. The reference to criminal cases and miscarriages of justice
would also need to be checked with Jarnail/CK. It is consistent with Paula’s letters to JA, both of which BIS have.

It is a good robust approach.

Best wishes

Belinda

POL-0101440
POL00101857
POL00101857

Belinda Crowe

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9H

POL-0101440
