POLO00099349
POL00099349

Message

From: Alice Perkins} :
on behalf of G RO a i

Alice Perkins

Sent:
To:

ce: Jorja Preston

Subject: meeting

Chris, thanks for the note below.

lam afraid this leaves me with more questions.

{think we are due to meet shortly anyway but if that isn't happening this week, I am asking Jorja to fix a time for us to
speak before then.

Alice

From: Alwen Lyons! ~_GRO_ 4d
Sent: Friday, July 19, 3 05:

Susan Barton
harles Colquhoun

Lesley J Sewell
Nicholas Kennett

tel ha >
Subject: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

Dear All
On Tuesday the Board asked for information on three things this week:
e ~ Apaper on Transitional Support Services with Fujitsu which we agreed would be considered by corresponded

@ The impact of the Financial Services Junction insurance changes, and the continued Transitional Support from
Fujitsu, on the strategic plan and bottom line (including the P&L and cashflow changes)

e@ The impact on Horizon/Second Sight on our insurance cover.

The first two points are covered by the attached and the final one is explained by Chris below

Insurance

We discussed what impact the current Horizon issues might have on our insurance on which we are advised by our
insurance broker, Miller. Their view is that whilst other insurance policies may be impacted the most likely one is D&O —
this has the added complication as it is the only policy we share with RM and was placed by their broker, JLT. The excess
on this policy varies under different criteria but the main one is £25k on each and every claim. A meeting is being set up
with JLT and Miller to ensure they are fully briefed on the issues before JLT engage with the insurer.

Chris Day

POL-0098932
POLO00099349
POL00099349

JORIS O IOI IO DIDI ODA ISO IIIS IDI ISDA AISA I IAI AIK

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0098932
