POL00321714

POL00321714
From: Melanie Corfield[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MELANIE CORFI1DE623C2-38B2-49FB-AEQA-
12E4B20D626720C]
Sent: Wed 21/10/2015 9:17:47 PM (UTC)

To: Mark R Davies}
Subject: RE: Computer Weekly piece on Arbuthnot

They are pursuing it and I have been stalling them. Met with Chris B today - we've agreed some words but he is trying
to get hold of Lesley for me because if we can say she is leaving for new role (which we do not know she has but hope
so!) it will reduce any impact. We will make clear she is working with Chris until November etc etc.

Chris was very honest with me re the situation from his veiwpoint i.e. he has seen her for about two days since he
arrived so I think he has at least most of the full picture. He was certainly very clear that she is in a complete huff. We
agreed the irony is that Computer Weekly has the wrong story......

Anyway Chris has texted her tonight because I can't stall much longer.

They cannot make direct link - because it is untrue! - but they will still include the Horizon issue in the story of course.
And then it might make its way into a certain Maiden Speech etc.......it gives the story another 'hook' BUT where can it
go beyond IT press? Panorama did us a favour there.

Spk tomorrow if you are in before I go back to Karl. Also I didn't want to bother you with it today because I know how
busy you are but Tim McCormack has blogged about 'systemic issues' with Horizon and his 'devastating' (still unspecified)
new evidence. I am on it and working through with Anne Allaker every current issue (none of which affect branch
accounts/ cause losses but some of which could be mispresented and twisted). Chris B also now very alive to all the
risks of memos and everything else IT-related!!

In summary - my view is our usual opponents are gearing up for another atttempted nslaught BUT there is less of a
media audience for them since Panorama! And politically think it is reasonably under control if we just keep pushing
briefings and meetings on anyone who raises it - if Arbuthnot keeps banging on he really will start to look deranged?

Mel

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 21 October 2015 19:09

To: Melanie Corfield

Subject: Re: Computer Weekly piece on Arbuthnot

Hi
Have they pursued the Lesley point? It is v sensitive and I am not sure that Chris B will have full picture. In a
nutshell there is of course absolutely no link at all with any of the allegations and if they made that link she would

have v strong case against them (I think).

M

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Post Office Ltd

From my iPhone and therefore possibly in transit so please forgive spelling mistakes or brevity!
POL00321714
POL00321714

On 21 Oct 2015, at 17:49, Melanie Corfield

Just to let you know CW have today published and tweeted a story that Arbuthnot is ‘taking the fight’ to
the House of Lords.

http://www.computerweekly.com/news/4500255862/James-Arbuthnot-takes-Post-Office-IT-fight-to-
House-of-Lords

Mel Corfield
Communications Team

