POL00108408
POL00108408

Mr Chris Aujard
Post Office Ltd
148 Old Street
London

EC1V 9HQ

7" April 2014

Dear Sirs

STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL
PRIVILEGED IN C EMPLATION OF LITIGATI

We are pleased to set out for your approval the ava der which we propose to
assist Post Office Ltd (“You”). We understand that<You are‘tesponding to allegations that the
“Horizon” IT system, used to record transactions in t Office branches, is defective and/or
that the processes associated with it are inadey ate (the Allegations”).

In order to defend the Allegations, You ret services ym,us, as outlined in paragraph 2(b)
below. These arrangements are set out in this, ig together with the enclosed Terms of
Business and appendices. \

So that we are able to assist weffetvel Dlegit ensure that You have considered fully all
of the terms and erat out in this lett@tand its enclosures and that You are satisfied
that the scope of our Servives described: below i is sufficient for Your needs.

1 Scope and objectives\, » \
foo SON

f \
In order to respondsto the\ é\Allegations (which have been, and will in all likelihood continue to
be, advancedn the Courts), POL wants to demonstrate that the Horizon system is robust, fit
for purpose, and/or operates within an appropriate control framework. In response to this,
POL has either béen provided or has commissioned a number of independent assurance
reviews into matters rélating to Horizon’s operating environment and processing integrity.

The purpose of seeking input from Deloitte LLP (UK) (“Deloitte”) is to provide, based upon
the information made available to us by You, an independently produced summary relating to
these sources of assurance, for presentation to and discussion with the POL Board (“Part 1
work”).

We understand that the input provided by Deloitte will inform Your decisions relating to
potential areas of additional work that You may choose to commission to defend the
Allegations, and that we may be involved in the delivery of such additional work (“Part 2
work”).

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

You have asked us to provide the Services set out in Section 2 below and to prepare the report
described in Section 2(d). (the “Purpose”).

We understand that any work being undertaken by us in accordance with this engagement
letter is being undertaken in relation to ongoing litigation and regulatory action, and potential
future litigation, and hence is subject to legal professional privilege.

In addition, this matter is strictly confidential. Save as permitted under Section 4 of our terms
of business, no information relating to this matter, or our work for it, will be disclosed to any
third party without mutual written consent.

You have advised us that all correspondence and all preparatory papers for any report we
might make are legally privileged, as they are being prepared in relation fo.ongoing litigation
and regulatory action, and linked to the provision of legal advice. “We will therefore take
reasonable skill and care to identify papers, memoranda, correspordencé and other materials
prepared by us for circulation outside of Deloitte (and its Dires ors, Partners and employees)
as being “Legally Privileged and Confidential” (or bear equiyalént Wording) and they are
circulated through Rodric Williams, Your litigation layer, These materials will not be
circulated within our organisation (beyond the members“ofvour Engagement Team (see
below)) without prior discussion with You to ensure’that propriate steps are taken to retain
privilege. ‘

2 Our Services and responsibilities J

(a) Our Engagement Team

It is our intention that Gareth Jarvies Will be\the Partner responsible to You for the Services
described in this letter, unlés otherwise ai eed with You (such agreement not to be
unreasonably withheld or/delay d). Bavid-Noon, our Service Line Leader with overall

responsibility for the services weproyide to YOu, will also be available as required.

Chris Lauder, a Diréctor thin our Governance and Controls team, will lead the delivery of
our Services to” You, together with Mark Westbrook and Charlotte Desourdy, both Senior
Managers. Ahey<will establish direct working relationships with the appropriate people
working on the Client Team. / Gareth, Chris, Mark and Charlotte will be supported by Tom
Scampion, Partner, whio’has’particular experience in performing work and preparing reports
under similar circtmstaneés; and other members of our team as required.

We understand that You do not require any of our team to be available to act as a named
expert witness. Should this be required, we would need to agree a separate engagement letter
for those Services and Deliverables.

Together they comprise the “Engagement Team”.

For the purposes of this engagement, we are advised that the client team at POL will consist
of Lesley Sewell, Chief Information Officer; Chris Aujard, General Counsel; Belinda Crowe,
Programme Director; and Rodric Williams, Litigation Lawyer. The client team will report on
this engagement to Paula Vennells, Chief Executive. We note that we will be advised of any
future changes to the client team.

Together they comprise the “Client Team”.

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

(b) Services
Part 1 of our Services will provide the following:

«© Obtain a reasonable level understanding of the key circumstances behind the
allegations and key risks in the Horizon processing environment to the integrity of
processing and other background matters necessary to complete our Deliverable;

« Review, understand and consolidate the corresponding investigations, assurance
activities and remediation actions which POL or third parties have undertaken (see
Appendix 1 for the “Sources of Information” known to be within scope at this stage)
focussing on three primary areas:

o Work that has been performed to assure key control Aivivies that created and
preserve the integrity of processing across the Horizon environment;

< YN \

o Work that has been performed to assure key Cotvol activities that created and
preserve the integrity of interfaces with key’ third part}, systems and the
Horizon environment, consisting of DVLA pees and Premium Bond

N\ <

systems; <

\ SS
© Investigation responses and aetions that ‘have been taken in response to the
thematic findings of Seco Sight>as_out! ined in Your supplied document
“POL Summary of Second Sight aijomalies” (sée-Appendix 1).
ns

\ \
c« Hold discussions with teleyant.members tye in POL and other key stakeholders as

pre-agreed with You, tgdeliver the work outlined above;
>

Los
« Prepare the Delivefable‘outlined in s n 2(d) below;

o Attend meetings or conference calls with POL’s Client Team, to explain our approach,
status of work and the, commentary within our Deliverable; and

Son ‘oN

4 g ‘ i
~ Carry out any other work required by You which is reasonably incidental to the above.

You do not require Deloitte to comment on or test the quality of the assurance work
performed, nor opine ontither its adequacy, sufficiency or conclusions, or the integrity of the
Horizon processing environment

As engagement requirements are discussed, clarified and agreed further, we will outline the
additional scope and timeline for such work via the Change Order process as set out in
Appendix 2. Any Part 2 work You require us to perform will be agreed under these Change
Order processes. This may include, but will not be limited to:

«© Testing on data held within the system audit trails, to (for example) assess conclusions
previously draw by non-independent parties into the extent of known deficiencies;

o« Assessment and profiling of system audit trails, to look for characteristics of and
trends in unusual behaviours in the system transactional core;

co Enquiry into the nature and extent of testing of the Horizon system during its
implementation;

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

co Understand and test the operating integrity of dataflows to and from certain external /
third party systems; and

«© Testing of responses to thematic concerns raised by other independent reviews.
The scope of our services and any deliverables will be limited solely to the Services and
Deliverables set out in this Contract. We will make no representations in respect of and will

not consider any other aspect.

Our work will be performed through a combination of desk based inspection of
documentation, corroborative enquiry and through third party provided evidence or contact, as
agreed between You and us.

(c) Our responsibilities

In performing the Services, we will be responsible for:

<~™

\
4
o undertaking the procedures as necessary to produce ow Péeliverablés; and”
® confirming the factual accuracy of our reporkwith Got,”

\ <

\ ‘ : . .
You agree that other than set out in the Usui th tours ‘above, we will not audit or otherwise

test or verify the information given to u! the Course ofthe Services. In particular, unless
otherwise instructed by You to do so, we\will ot perform-or Ye-perform any assurance work
that has tested and concluded on the desigh, impler entation and operational effectiveness of
any internal controls over the Horizon, proce¥sing environment

Our work will be limited by Ke ime and the information available. Whilst we will report our
findings in accordance vith tke agreéd scope”of work having considered the information
provided to us in the course of carrying.out the Services, additional information that You may
regard as relevant may. exist that isnot provided to (and therefore not considered by) us.
Accordingly, our’ “Deliverablets) and our work should not be relied upon as being

comprehensive“in such respects. We accept no responsibility for matters not covered by or
omitted frou our Deliverable(s) due to the specific nature of our work instructions from You

\N 7 é
In particular, We note ‘that An certain respects, we will be reliant on the integrity of those
people whom we interview, and that our ability to corroborate and test what we have been
told may be limited bythe available information.

We shall discuss with You any difficulties we encounter with completing our work should
any problems arise.

You acknowledge that You are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective
internal control system that reduces the likelihood that errors or irregularities will occur and
remain undetected; however, it does not eliminate that possibility. Nothing in our work
guarantees that errors or irregularities will not occur, nor is it designed to detect any such
errors or irregularities should they occur.

The scope of our Services and our responsibilities will not involve us in performing the work
necessary for the purpose of providing, neither shall we provide, any assurance on the
reliability, proper compilation or clerical accuracy of any plan, budget, projection or forecast
(“prospective financial information”) nor the reasonableness of the underlying assumptions.

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

Since any prospective financial information relates to the future, it may be affected by
unforeseen events. Actual results are likely to be different from those projected because
events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected, and those differences may be
material.

(d) Format and use of the Deloitte Deliverables
The format and timing of the report (the “Deliverable”) issued by us will be agreed with You.

The content of such Deliverable is expected to be a written report, and will include the
following sections:

«© Executive Summary — key points from our report, suitable for
discussion; y
« Our Approach — outlining the procedures we have adopted inthe delivery of our
work, those documents reviewed and the individuals we hayevinterviewed;
cc Understanding the Processing Environment — basag-nte docimentation provided to
us, provide an overview: VA
o Relating to the Technical processin Yio — envisaged to be a

Gat presentation and

description of technical matters of tke Horiz6n system, consisting of, where

information is available to us: \ \

= key statistics relating to processing environment and its range of
functions (as stipulated by Fujitsu);

" key matters relating to, itsSnetwork a chitecture, internal and external
interfaces, software comptnents far ware components;

= key project controls.at the\time ofits implementation, including the extent
of unit, syste: and user acceptanty e testing; and

= key resp ties relating \ to/the operation of key controls, including
change "ont, Aecurity maytagement, system operations (including error

handling\y procedures:~ .foll6w-up and resolution), end-user support and
ystemtecovery.
° Relating to th&User enyitonment — envisaged to be a description of the usage
virorinient of \the\ Horizon system, consisting of, where information is
<available to ys:
a description of the types of users in the system and the physical
environments in which Horizon is accessible;
. the ‘s of transactions processed by the system and, at a reasonable level,
how the integrity of these transactions is verified and preserved;
= how more than daily, daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual
reconciliation processes operate and how variances and/or errors are
handled;
= the nature of key workarounds and other ad hoc processes that are
commonly adopted by users;
= asummary of the categories of the alleged defects in Horizon.

oo An Assurance Map - showing those sources of Your assurance which You have
shared with us and the areas of key risk relating to the integrity of processing that
these were designed to assure;

c« Matters for Consideration - an assessment of Your Assurance Map in the context of
Your objectives and significant matters we have observed during our work that we
recommend You consider further.

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

Any Deliverable should not be copied, referred to or quoted to any other party, except in the
context of Your defence of the Allegations, or be used for any other purpose. We draw Your
attention to clause 5 of the enclosed Terms of Business that sets out the conditions under
which the Deliverables will be provided to You.

In the event that You wish to share our Deliverable outside of POL, we may consent to such a
course subject to us receiving "hold harmless’ undertakings (or their equivalent). These
procedures notify them that:

«© the disclosure to them will not create any duty, liability or responsibility
whatsoever to them in relation to our Deliverable or any of its contents;

«© the Deliverable was not prepared for their use or with theit feds or interests in
mind; and

MK
«# they should keep our Deliverable confidential and’ not, cop)\or circulate our
Deliverable, or any extracts of them, to any am swvithout our “express written

permission. \VY

We understand that POL is unlikely to make any public ea which would refer to
our work. If this situation changes however, You. ‘agree thay’You will not make any such
public announcement(s) on this matter referring to Delaitte oP qur work in any way without
providing prior notification of the wording ae ary nue announcement to us and without our
prior written consent to such wording, su consent willnot be withheld unreasonably.

3 Client Responsibi

ties and Asami” J

(a) Client Responsibilities J. }
x? )

In connection with the plovision6 ie Seryices, we refer You to clause 3 of the enclosed
Terms of Business. These\confirni,Yourrésponsibility for the provision of information and
decision-making in-conti iomwith the Services we are to provide. In addition, our delivery
of the Services i es js depen pon Your completion of the following:

«2 You acfaowledge a and agfee that our performance of the Services is dependent on the
timely and effective Completion of Your own activities and responsibilities in connection
with this engagement, As well as timely decisions and approvals by You;

«© You agree to making available to us all information You deem relevant to this review;

co You agree to providing timely access to relevant personnel at POL in order for us to
obtain sufficient information to inform our understanding and report;

oo Unless we are otherwise instructed, You agree to carrying out all contact with third
parties;

«© You agree to providing a nominated point of contact for us throughout the work;

co You agree to provide a room for our team and secure storage facilities for paperwork, if
required, at 148 Old Street, London; and

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

«© You agree to assess the Deliverable we provide to You, to determine the most appropriate
courses of action for POL.

You acknowledge and agree that our performance of the Services is dependent on the timely
and effective completion of Your own activities and responsibilities in connection with this
engagement, as well as timely decisions and approvals by You.

The responsibilities set out above and those contained in clause 3 of the Terms of Business
are together referred to in this Contract as the “Client Responsibilities”.

(b) Assumptions

The Services, Charges (as set out in Section 4 below) and timetab} ae based upon the
following assumptions, representations and information supplied by You (“Assumptions”).

\
ypointthroughaut the work;
NON
«© That sufficient information is available on a timely bis s regarding the scope of Services

and Deliverables for us to be able to carry out our works / :

«© Deloitte will not provide a legal or any other opinion at arm

oo That all pertinent information relating to the nature of the Allegations against POL has
been provided to us such that we are fully aware of the detaibof the Allegations;

a

« Unless otherwise instructed, that Deloitte staff will have, tio direct contact with any third
parties other than named Fujitsu contacts thik You proyide to us;

to perform our work di the-period of our assessment and third parties can be contacted

«© The individuals we a interview, willbe available to us for sufficient time for us
uring
ona timely basis by You toequest further-iformation should this be required;
< “ 7

\

«© Deloitte will not verify On test any information provided directly by POL, or indirectly by
third parties yi PO! \

BN Y

A oom
0 Deloitte will adopt a‘time limited approach to our work, operating to key milestone dates;
and \ NJ /
\ YY

« Deloitte will hot reyiew any contractual provisions in place between POL and third
parties. \

(c) Client contacts

We understand that Rodric Williams, Litigation Lawyer, will be Your nominated point of
contact and that requests for information and documentation should be copied to Belinda
Crowe.

4 Our Charges

We will be base our charges upon the actual time and materials incurred, plus out-of-pocket
expenses and applicable value added tax. The billing rates we will apply match those of
previous specialist advisory work which we have performed for You in 2013. We estimate
that the Part 1 work will take approximately 15 days of senior time to deliver.

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

Grade Advisory Rate /hr
Partner 630
Director 540
Senior Manager 430
Manager 400
Senior Consultant 310
Consultant 185
Analyst 145

If during the course of our work, or change order there-under, a need for ancillary specialist
services not specified in this Contract is identified, agreement to their use.and related charges
will be obtained before any expenditure is incurred.

5 Terms of Business and Liability Provisions

The enclosed Terms of Business form an integral part of Sortrach Retweds,us and Your
attention is drawn to them. You agree that for the pu ose/of clause Oe these Terms of
Business, our aggregate liability arising from or ing way int connection with the Services
shall not exceed £500,000. <

6 Variations ~~

If You or we wish to request or recommend ariy.addition. modification or other change to the
Services or performance required under i Cena Wwe ‘each agree to follow the change
control procedures described in Appendix 2 \

Acknowledgement and acseptameg fom

<
We appreciate the opportiinity to beof'seryi¢e to You and look forward to working with You
on this assignmen ¥ou.can ‘be assuited that it will receive our close attention.
NX Y

If, having const (deved the provisions’of this Contract You conclude that they are reasonable in
the context 6f all the factars relating to our proposed appointment and You wish to engage us
on these ternis, please. I let us have Your written agreement to these arrangements by signing
and returning to us the “enclosed copy of this letter.

Yours faithfully

Deloitte LLP

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

Post Office Ltd agrees to the appointment of Deloitte LLP on and subject to the terms of
the Contract set out in this Engagement Letter and its enclosures.

Signed:

Duly authorised for and on behalf of Post Office Ltd

Printed Name:

Position:
Date:
Enclosures:
Appendix 1 — Sources of Information MY \ \
Appendix 2 — Change Control Procedures /> NY
Appendix 3 — Template Change Order / Kh, :
Appendix 4 - Deloitte LLP Terms of Business, Constting visory Services

\ <

\ \

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

APPENDIX 1
ENGAGEMENT LETTER DATED 7 APRIL 2014
SOURCES OF INFORMATION

For Part 1 work, we will use the following sources of information which have been provided
by You:

1. “Horizon Core Audit Process” which outlines how Horizon has been designed to
operate;

2. “Draft Factfile” which deals with how POL uses Horizon in the branch network;

3. “Description of Fujitsu’s System of IT Infrastructure Services supporting Post Office
Limited’s POLSAP and HNG-X applications” which outlinesthe environment in
which Horizon operates;

4. “Table of the deficiency themes” which outlines areas
allegations that Horizon is deficient; \

5. “POL Summary of Second Sight anomalies” which 1 anim mal POL summary of
the anomalies within Horizon referring to pa fe 6.10 ofSecond Sight’s July
2013 Report; °

6.  Fujitsu’s response on the “Local Suspense” la 4 aye iomaly;

7.  Fujitsu’s response on the “Receipts Payments” / 62Br ich anomaly;

8. The “Spot Review Bible”, which contains theten “Spot Reviews” sent to POL and
POL’s responses (cf para 2. 7 rity docu ‘ht’s Joly 2013 Report);

9.  Fujitsu’s “Horizon Data Integrity” document> whic \provides a technical description
of the measures built into Horizon to on e data integrity, including a description of
several failure scenarios, and deat ones we Mow those measures apply in each
case; —

10. Fujitsu’s “Horizon Ofiline Data integrity for Post Office Ltd” document, which
provides a techni description of the easures that are built into Horizon Online
(also known as €ING-X)‘1 ure data integrity and descriptions as to how those
measures apply in’each ca!

11. Current Fujitsir ANSO27001 certification;

12. The as: ‘ciated Fuji PQA) JSMS Statement of Applicability;

13. The Post Office Horizon PCI DSS certificate:

14. Th&Post Office Horizon PCI DSS signed AOC;

15. The Past Office Horizon PCI DSS ROC;

16. The last ‘S published Post Office ISMF minutes with Fujitsu; and

17. The last 3 Pujitsu Security Ops Reports

A
at ufiderlie some of the
\

Additional documents may be provided by You as part of our engagement. The full list of
information sources will be disclosed in our Deliverable.

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

APPENDIX 2
ENGAGEMENT LETTER DATED 7 APRIL 2014
CHANGE CONTROL PROCEDURES

1 If at any time either party wishes to request or recommend any addition, modification or
other change to the Services or performance required under the Contract (a “Change”),
the party proposing the Change will submit a written request for the Change (a “Change
Request”) to the other party.

2 All Change Requests will require the authorisation in writing by, e Hamed person who
has signed the Engagement Letter for and on behalf of the Client, ithe case of Change
Requests initiated by the Client or the Deloitte client servicé partnéras specified in the
Engagement Letter in the case of Change Requests initiaté ‘d byBeloitte

A

>
3 Deloitte will investigate the implications for the C, ae of implementing each Change
Request, and prepare and submit to the Clans proposed hange Order, in the form
attached as Appendix 3, in respect of such CHange Request. If in a party’s judgement,
the time to evaluate and respond to one or more Cha Requests, because of their
magnitude, complexity or frequency, may_result ita wet in the Services, that party
will notify the other party. The part
action. \

ree an appropriate course of

\ M4
4 The Client will notify Deloitte-in writing of itydecision as to whether or not it wishes to
implement the proposed Change as soon as reasonably practicable but in any event no
later than 5 days (or such other period agreed by the parties) after receipt of the Change
Order submitted by’ Delditte? Should” tne parties wish to proceed with the proposed
Change, the Change\Order shalt-be.signed by the named person who has signed the
Engagement Letter. for and on behalf of the Client and the client service partner, or other
authorised dy Aepresentatiyes (sucht signed document being referred to as a “Change
Order”) \
<
5 Neither } party is‘ob bligedto proceed with any proposed Change (and the related changes)
and no Change (and related changes) will be effective and enforceable against a party,
unless and until aChange Order for that Change is signed on behalf of both parties.
Until the Changé Order for any proposed Change is signed, Deloitte will continue to
perform and be paid for the Services as if the Change had not been proposed.

6 Deloitte shall be entitled to charge for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred in
connection with investigating the implications of a Change Request, whether or not a
Change Order is signed in respect of such Change Request.

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL. Subject to Attorney Client Privilege
POL00108408
POL00108408

APPENDIX 3

ENGAGEMENT LETTER DATED 7 APRIL 2014
CHANGE ORDER NUMBER ___

Date

<Client Name and Address>

For the attention of < >

Dear Sirs

This Change Order (including any appendices, schedules,/ai aide attadhments), records agreed
changes to the Contract between Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte” or “we i <> Yatéd < >, as amended

by prior agreed Change Order(s) or amendments thereto. Thi ;Change Order constitutes the entire
understanding and agreement between the Client and Beloi witl tespect to the changes set out in
this document, supersedes all prior oral and written conimunications with respect to such changes
(including, but not limited to Change Requests) ~and may only bé amended in writing, signed by
authorised representatives of both parties.

The section(s) of the Engagement Letter set fort
amendments thereto] is/are hereby atmended, \ ffectj
following text:

low’{and any earlier Change Order(s) or
as of [effective date of changes], by the

1 Scope and objectives<

4 Our Charges

5 Consequential changes to the Contract

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL.
POL00108408
POL00108408

Except as expressly modified herein, all other terms and conditions of the Contract remain
unchanged. Please indicate Your agreement to the terms of this Change Order by signing and
returning to Deloitte the enclosed copy of this Change Order.

Yours faithfully,

Partner

Deloitte LLP

Agreed by Post Office Ltd: »
/

Signed: \

For and on behalf of Post Office Ltd

Printed Name:

Position:

Date:

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL.
POL00108408
POL00108408

APPENDIX 4

ENGAGEMENT LETTER DATED 7 ApRIL 2014
DELOITTE LLP - TERMS OF BUSINESS

DELOITTE LLP
TERMS OF BUSINESS

Consulting and Advisory Services

1 THE CONTRACT BETWEEN US.

1.1 The whole of the contraet between you (the “Client”, or “you”)
and the UK limited liability partnership of Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte” or
“we") is described in the covering engagement letter, proposal and/or
statement of work and any appendices and enclosures thereto other
than these ‘Terms of Business (“Engagement Letter”), and these ‘Terms
of Business, (together the “Contract”). Nothing we discussed prior to
your signature of the Engagement Letter induced, nor forms part of,
‘the Contract (including but not limited to any confidentiality
agreements which, if any, you agree are terminated hereby) unless it is
specifically set out in this Contract. No-one is authorised to agree any
variations in the Terms of Business or the Contract unless any
variations are documented and agreed in writing between us.

1.2 Ifwe have already started work (e.g, by gathering information,
project planning or giving initial advice) then you agree that this
Contract applies retrospectively from the start of our work.

13. The definitions set out in these Terms of Business,
Engagement Letter and any appendices or enclosures shall have {he
same meaning throughout this Contract. If there is a conflict between
these Terms of Business and the Engagement Letter, these Terms of
Business govern.

14 — If any provision of this Contract is determisfed to be Wega,
void or unenforceable in whole or in part, such provision gr the
affected part shall be deemed not to form parr bee, optract ual
other provisions together with the remaindgf of thé<affegfed provision
shall remain in full force and effect.

15 Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom mbgber firm uf Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu Limited CpTTL ”). the purpose Sof this

Contract, “Deloitte Parties” pans all entities That ar’qnembets of the
_gnd™each of \ their \ subsidiaries,

DITL worldwide net
predecessors, successors and aSsignees, end all partners, principals,
members, owners, diréctors, emp! oy of all such entities.
Deloitte LLP (which fox these pirposey inclydes reference to its
subsidiaries) uses the wor partner respect of its members and
certain of its senior employees in its dealings with you to describe,
respectively, a member and senidx employee of Deloitte LLP in their
capacity as such. Deloitte LLP gives,a’ number of its employees the
title of “director”, which denotes that they are senior employees and
not that they hold the office of director for the purposes of the
Companies Act 2006.

Contracting parties and assignment

1.6 — This Contract is between you and Deloitte. You agree that your
relationship is solely with Deloitte as the entity contracting with you
to provide the Services. Notwithstanding the fact that certain Services
under the Contract may be carried out by personnel provided to
Deloitte from other Deloitte Parties through service or other
agreements, you agree that none of the Deloitte Parties (except
Deloitte) will have any liability to you and that you will not bring any
claim or proceedings of any nature (whether in contract, tort, breach
of statutory duty or otherwise and including, but not limited to, a
claim for negligence) in any way in respect of or in connection with
this Contract against any of the Deloitte Parties (except Deloitte) or
any subcontractors that we may use to provide the Services. The
foregoing exclusion does not apply to any liability, claim or
proceeding founded on an allegation of fraud or other liability that
cannot be excluded under English law.

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL.

\

\ e will use all reasonable efforts to supply the Services in accordance
\
\

1.7 This Contract does not make either of us an agent or legal
representative of the other, nor does it ereate a partnership or joint
venture

therwise transfer the benefit of
88 Written consent of the other,

1.8 Neither of us may ass
this Contract without the
save that we may assi
Deloitte Partie y Syecessor to our business. Further,
Uy agree to assign or transfer any
‘out of thig Contract to any other person.

to“this Contract other than the
subcontractors, if any, shall have any rights
ights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any:

1.10 ‘Bi Conta can be varied without any third party’s consent,

a _ouRaER ERyCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO YOU

s

S21 te ‘Seppe of our services and any Deliverables to be provided
mder this/Contract together with our responsibilities for them

the “Services”) are as described in the Engagement Letter.

with any timetable referred to in the Engagement Letter or otherwise
specified by the parties.

However, unless both parti

specifically

you for the supply of the Services are intended for planning and
estimating purposes only and are not contractually binding

I Vie otherwise in writing, all dates given by Deloitte or specified by

Engagement Team
2.2 Whilst we will attempt to comply with your request for
specific individuals, the appointment of all personnel to perform the
Services and the nature and duration of their assignment shall be made
as Deloitte considers appropriate. We may at any time replace or
reassign any personnel assigned by us to the Services: in such
circumstances we will endeavour to give you reasonable notice.

2.3 You will be responsible for ensuring that your staff involved
with this Contract have the appropriate skills and experience. If any
of your staff fail to perform as required, you will provide additional or
replacement staff'as we may reasonably request.

Data Protection
24 In providing the Services to you or otherwise in connection
with the Services, we may:

(i) need to collect, hold and use information (¢.g. contact
details) about identifiable individuals (“Data Subjects”). We
may also use such information as part of our client account
opening and general administration process (e.g. in order to
carry out anti-money laundering, conflict and financial checks
or debt recovery). Information about a Data Subject may be
transferred to or accessible from DTTL or DITL member
firms’ offices around the world for these purposes or for the
purposes identified in the following paragraph. Should your
officers or employees enquire, please inform them that we may
hold information relating to them for these purposes; and

i) occasionally contact a Data Subject with details of
events/seminars we are holding, or we may send a Data Subject
publications or newsletters, which we believe may be of

interest to him or her. If a Data Subject does not wish to
receive this information, please let us know by informing the
partner responsible for the Services.

2.5 We reserve the right to monitor telephone calls and electronic
communications for the purposes of ensuring compliance with our
legal and regulatory obligations and internal policies.

2.6 In providing some of the Services to you we may be processing
information about Data Subjects on your behalf and thus act as a
“Data Processor” for the purposes of the Data Protection Act 1998. In
these circumstances, we will (i) only process personal data in
accordance with your lawful and reasonable instructions; and (ii)
comply with security obligations equivalent to those imposed on you,
as Data Controller, by the seventh principle of that Act

3 YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1 You are responsible for determining that the scope of the
Services is appropriate for your needs.

3.2 Our performance of the Services, the timetable, the level of our
Charges and any fee estimates each depend on the accuracy and
completeness of any assumptions set out in the Engagement Letter.
Please tell us if you believe any of these assumptions are unrealistic
for any reason.

3.3. You will give us all the information that is necessary for the
performance of the Services. In this context, you agree we shall not
be treated as being on notice of information given to us in the course
of previous engagements and so all information that is relevant to the
Services must be given directly to the engagement team even if the

different contract or engagement. Please note that, other than
out in the Engagement Letter, we will not audit or otherwise test/r
verify the information provided to us in the course of the Servicks.
‘You agree that we shall be entitled to rely on all information provid

same information has been given to us previously in the course an

POL00108408
POL00108408

prepared by your legal advisers but we are not qualified to provide
legal advice. Any agreement is the product of negotiation between its
parties and you agree that it is your responsibility to obtain
appropriate legal advice and to decide whether in all the
circumstances you are prepared to accept any proposed agreement.

4 RESPONSIBILITIES TO EACH OTHER,

Confidentiality
4.1 We each agree that where either of us is in possession of
information about the other that is by its nature confidential, or is
designated as such by the other (whether in writing or orally),
including this Contract (“Confidential Information”), we each
undertake to (i) keep it confidential; (ii) use it only in connection with
providing and receiving the Services; and (iii) not to diselose it to any
other person without the other's prior written consent. These
undertakings will not apply to any information that otherwise becomes
generally publicly available, was possessed prior to the
commencement of the Servi prior to being designated as
Confidential Information),

‘against us, provided that we notify you promplly
ibly or legally possible, prior to disclosure.

43 Pouagree Ave ‘may share Confidential Information with any

“Deloitte Paty and axty subcontractors we use to provide the Services
(or “mere gem to support our office administration) on the

XOX understanding, that they will treat the information as Confidential

\ oration accordance with the provisions of this Contract.
we

to us and on your decisions and approvals in connection with out,
Services and to assume that all such information provided.ta us from \

whatever sources is true, complete and not misleading. We Will not
be responsible for the consequences of any infor
in the course of the Services not being complet

3.4 Where needed to assist us in perf

\
\
\

a Unless you tell us otherwise, we may in the performance of the
Services attend meetings to discuss your affairs with your other
\dvisers and may do so openly, free from any obligation to you of

lV confidentiality
Vices, you will 4.5 When offering our services to others we may disclose to them

{i) take decisions and obtain managementapprovals dys.(ii that we have acted for you unless you instruet us to the contrary.
give us full and prompt access to your people ayd premists and those
of your affiliates and to your thier” a sociated ‘with the 4.6 Nothing in this Contract will prevent or restriet any Detoitte

engagement, together with alVnecessary adminis ne Bape iii)

a ces and. security ‘elearahces” promptly
(including any relating“to thifd parties, our personnel and any
subcontractors); and (&) keep uSpromptly\informed of any proposals
or developments in you! Suen! the Services.

siness

3.5 You agree that you red
aspects of your business, for 2
accounting, internal control or manlagemént information systems. This
includes applying your independent business judgement to evaluate
any advice or recommendations that we give you. You will be
responsible for deciding whether our recommendations make sense in
the context of your business, and whether you wish to rely on,
implement or act on them, including the actions necessary to realise
any expected benefits

3.6 Where you are using third parties to provide information,
materials or other assistance in support of the Services, or you are
employing other suppliers whose work may affect our ability to

deliver the Services, you will be responsible for the management of

such persons and their performance, including the timeliness and
quality of their input and work

3.7 You will also be responsible for paying the Charges in accordance
with this Contract.

Legal advice
3.8 Our Services may be conducted alongside your legal advisers,
acting separately for you. To the extent they relate to our performance
of the Services, we may need to review sections of draft agreements

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL.

Party from providing services to other clients (including services
which are the same or similar to the Services) or using or sharing for
any purpose any knowledge, experience and skills used in, gained or
arising from performing the Services subject to the obligations of
confidentiality set out in clause 4.1 even if those other clients’
interests are in competition with your own. Equally, you agree that to
the extent that we possess information obtained under an obligation of
confidentiality to another client or other third party, we are not
obliged to disclose it to you or make use of it for your benefit,
however relevant it may be to the Services.

Conflicts of interest
4.7 It is our practice, in appropriate circumstances, to check for
conflicts of interest before taking on engagements. Deloitte Parties
provide many different professional services to clients and we cannot
be certain that we will identify promptly all situations where there
may be a conflict with your interests. Please notify us promptly of any
potential conflict affecting this engagement of which you are, or
become, aware.

Electronic communications
4.8 We each agree that where appropriate we may communicate
with each other electronically over the intemet (including by way of e~
mail). Our personnel will also need access to our own systems and
data. You agree that you will (at your discretion) i) allow our
personnel to use a Deloitte Local Area Network at your premises; ii)
and/or provide our personnel with analogue dial-up connections or an
Ethernet connection to allow our hardware (typically Deloitte’ laptop
computers used by members of the engagement team) to connect to
our network via your internet communications facilities. Further, in
order for our personnel to operate effectively and efficiently they may
need access to your electronic data and also to your internet
communications facilities for the purpose of the engagement. We will
only access your internal networks, applications, data or other systems
through the terminal hardware or software you make available to us
for the purpose.

4.9 Access to your systems by our personnel will be subject to such
conditions as you at your sole discretion consider necessary to protect
the security and integrity of your data and systems. We each
recognise that the internet is inherently insecure and that data can
become corrupted, communications are not always delivered promptly
(or at all) and that other methods of communication may be
appropriate. Electronic communications are prone to contamination
by viruses. Each of us will be responsible for protecting our own
systems and interests and neither of us will be responsible to the other
‘on any basis (contract, tort or otherwise) for any loss, damage or
omission in anyway arising from the use of electronic data (including
e-mail) as a form of communication or from our personnel’s access to
your networks, applications, data or other systems. Nothing in this
clause shall exelude any liability arising from the negligent addressing
ofan email.

Staff
4.10 We each agree not to offer employment to or solicit the other's
personnel who within 6 months of such action has been involved
directly in the Services or otherwise connected to this Contract
(except where an individual responds directly to a general recruitment
campaign) nor use the services of any such personnel (either
independently or via a third party) for a period of 6 months from the
date that the individual concemed ceases to be permanently involved
with the Services.

POL00108408
POL00108408

to whom the Deliverables are shown or into whose hands they may
come.

Post date events
5.5 We have no responsibility to update any Deliverable for events
occurring after completion of this Contract (which, unless provided
otherwise in the Engagement Letter, will be the date on which the
final Deliverable is delivered or signed), nor to monitor its continuing
relevance or suitability for your purposes.

Ownership and intellectual property
5.6 On payment of all of our Charges, you will acquire ownership
of the Deliverables in their tangible form and the right to use them
internally in your business. We will own and retain ownership of all
intellectual and other proprietary rights of any kind in the
Deliverables, our working papers (if any) and in all other reports,
materials, documentation, software, system interfaces, templates,
methodologies and processes and ideas and concepts and techniques
that we may use or develop ig/€otuection with this Contract (other
than materials provided to
and other proprietary ri
certain documents ox

f, you agree that we may destroy
ents related to the engagement)
m of the work to which those

of.s will use the other’s name,
fade names and/or branding

LIABILELY PROVISIONS

61 We will peor the Services with reasonable skill and

reggae
5 DELIVERABLES BK 62 Withows prejudice to any defence which we may have, you
\ > gree that we will not be liable to you for any loss, liability, damage,
Drafts and oral discussions \ f or expense of whatever nature and howsoever eaused and
5.1 In formulating our conclusions, we may discuss jdeas.with you \ luding interest (together “Losses") unless and then only to the
orally or show you drafts of the Deliverables (as-Specified\in the \ ‘extent that such Losses are finally determined to have resulted from
Engagement Letier) for your comment. We do siis on the basis that \ pur breach of contract or negligence, subject always to the following

you will not rely on any drafis or oral comm: their

content is finalised and confirmed to yo)

comments or advice. If you want to rely or akon oral e%

advice, please let us know in onder We ney in our

final Deliverables. Furthgptfore, the
Deliverables may be madevailal sa in draft or tn gleGtronie as
well as hard copy format” Muljifle copies and vetsions of documents

lifferent ihedia. In the case of any discrepancy,

final Dagon is definitive,
vA

5.2 Unless the Engagement Letter specifies other arrangements,
You agree tat each Detiverabie wil be daéied accepted by you (and
‘our Services, or the relevant part oKiher, completed) when it is in its
final form or when you first make use of the Deliverable, whichever
first occurs

may therefore exist i
the signed hard copy of

Use of Deliverables

5.3 The Deliverables and any other advice we provide to you are
for your exclusive use and must be used solely for the purpose
described in the Engagement Letter. They must not be used for any
other purpose, recited or referred to in any document, copied or made
available (in whole or in part) to any other person without our prior
written express consent. You acknowledge that were you to do s
(and without limitation) this could expose us to a risk that a third party
who otherwise would not have access to the Deliverable (and/or
Confidential Information as defined in clause 4 above), might claim to
have relied upon the Deliverable (and/or Confidential Information) to
its detriment and might bring or threaten to bring an action, claim or
proceedings against us.

5.4 Save as expressly provided by the Engagement Letter, no
person other than you may rely on the Deliverables and/or information
derived from them and we accept no responsibility to any other person

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL.

or advice, unless th
final
if you choose VV

V

provisions:

62.1

‘We will not be liable for any Losses arising out of your use
of our Deliverables or our advice for a purpose other than as
set out in the Engagement Letter.

We will not be liable for Losses arising from the acts or
omissions of any person other than Deloitte or any
subcontractor (including any Deloitte Party) that we may use
to provide the Services.

We will not be liable for Losses arising as a result of the
provision of false, misleading or incomplete information or
documentation by, or the withholding or concealment or
mistepresentation of information or documentation, by any
person other than the Deloitte Parties unless and then only to
the extent that detection of such defect in the information or
documentation or such withholding, concealment or
misrepresentation should reasonably have been expected
because it was evident without further enquiry from the
information or documentation provided to us and expressly
required to be considered by us pursuant to the provision of
the Services

Any liability which we may have to you under or in
connection with this Contract for Losses suffered by you
shall (so far as permitted by law) be limited to such an
amount as is finally determined to be just and equitable,
having regard to the extent of responsibility for the Losses of
us, you, (including your directors, officers, employees or
agents), and any person other than us who is jointly or
severally liable to you for all or part of the same Losses,
provided always that Deloitte’s liability to you shall not
under any circumstances exceed in aggregate the amount set
out hereunder. Any limitation or exclusion or restriction on
the liability of any such other person under any jurisdiction,
whether arising under statute or contract or resulting from
death, bankruptey or insolvency, or any settlement of suc!
liability agreed with you, shall be ignored for the purposes of
determining whether that other person is liable to you and the
extent of responsibility of that other person to you.

POL00108408
POL00108408

7.2 Any estimate of the fees involved in the Services will be based
upon our assessment of the work involved, taking account of any
ms set out in the Engagement Letter. Unless we have agreed
otherwise in the Engagement Letter, our fees may be adjusted if the
Services prove more complex or time consuming than expected. We
will let you know when we consider any estimate is likely to be

6.2.5 Our total liability of whatever nature, whether in contract, exceeded.
tort (including, without limitation, negligence), under statute
cor otherwise to you and to all other persons who we both 73 A fee estimate assumes that we will have full and prompt
have agreed may have the benefit of and rely on our work on access at all reasonable times to your premises, directors, staff and any
the terms hereof, (you and they each a “Beneficiary”), for any advisers relevant to the Services. It also assumes that you will provide
and all Losses arising from or in any way in connection with reasonable work space for our people without charge, as well as a
this Contract shall not exceed the amount specified in the suitable office environment and facilities including occasional
Engagement Letter or, if no amount is specified there, secretarial support services, photocopying and computer facilities and
£500,000 (ive hundred thousand pounds sterling) access to telephone, fax and modem communications.

6.2.6 Where there is more than one Beneficiary of the Serviees, the 74. Unless otherwise specified in the Engagement Letter, we will
limitation in this clause 6.2 on our total liability to all invoice our Charges monthly ja arrears and a final invoice on
Beneficiaries shall be apportioned by them amongst them. No completion of the Services. invoices are due for settlement
Beneficiary shall dispute or challenge the validity, operation within 14 days of receipt. Y
or enforceability of this clause on the grounds that no sueh interest on overdue inv
apportionment has been so agreed or on the ground that the Scotland ple base rate,
agreed share of the limitation amount so apportioned to any
Beneficiary is unreasonably low.

62.7 In no event shall we be liable to you, whether in contract,
statute, tort (including, without limitation, negligence) or
otherwise for (i) loss or damage incurred as a result of third
party claims; (ii) loss of profit, goodwill, business
opportunity or anticipated savings, loss of or coruption to
data, loss of revenues or wasted management or staff time; or
(iii) incidental, special, punitive, exemplary, indirect or
consequential loss or damage: (together, “Excluded Losses”)

Which you may suffer, howsoever caused and whether or re ?
you or we knew, or ought to have known, that the Exch 83>sShouldyay“action taken by you create a situation which
Losses would be likely to be suffered. \ . amounts. to”aprofessional conflict of interest under the rules of the
\ rofessiona/and/or regulatory bodies regulating the activities of the
63 Deloitte neither owes nor accepts any duty to any person otheh

than you. No Deloitte Party shall be liable for any Losses-suffered by \

;

\S /

, resffict (or pent a
jlity aristhe“from fraud or

other liabilities which cannot lawfully be lintited or exclu

6.5 Unless and then only to the“éxtenit
judicially determined (includiaG the conclusiohof ay appeal)4o have
been caused by the fraud Deloitte Partieds yo! agree to
indemnify and hold iMe Deloitte Partie§ against all Losses
which they incur in thé defence and settlentent (ingluding meeting any
judicially determined atvard of daniages) of any démand, action, claim

yay ibid party in any way
arising in connection with this Contract whgitier or not such Claim is
founded upon an allegation of ot neeligente

lly and

66 — Any claim or action brought By you under or connection with
this Contract must be brought within 24 months of the cause of action
arising

7 CHARGES

7.1 We will render invoices in respect of the Services comprising
our fees, out-of-pocket expenses and any charges of specialists,
subcontractors and advisers, plus applicable taxes including VAT
(together our “Charges”). These will be in accordance with any
schedules set out in the Engagement Letter. Our fees are generally
calculated on the basis of the time and level of staff required to
conduct the Services during normal office hours. Other factors may
also be taken into account, including the use of our proprietary
expertise, technology and know how, the need to act rapidly or
exclusively or outside normal office hours or the importance,
complexity or monetary value of the matter concerned. Out-of-pocket
expenses will depend on the nature of the Services and where
appropriate, staff travelling and subsistence will be reimbursable in
accordance with our normal personnel polices

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL.

con’s usdof or \

ten notice, We will inform you as soon as reasonably practicable
‘of any situation that occurs that we become aware of that may ereate a

rofessional conflict which could result in termination in accordance
‘with this clause 8.2.

Vigo we may terminate this Contract without penalty on

\
\
yY

8.3 Any provisions of the Contract which either expressly, or by

their nature, extend beyond the expiry or termination of this Contract
shall survive such expiration or termination.

9 GENERAL TERMS OF BUSINESS,

Quality of Service

9.1 If, at any time, you believe our service to you could be
improved, or if you are dissatisfied with any aspect of our services
you should raise the matter with the partner responsible for providing
the Services to you. If you would prefer to discuss the matter with
someone other than that partner, or if you wish to make a complaint,
please call or write to Richard Punt, the firm’s Managing Partner,
Growth & Markets.

9.2 We will investigate all complaints. You have the sight to take
any complaint up with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales (the ICAEW). You may obtain an explanation of
the mechanisms that operate in respect of a complaint to the ICAEW
at www.icaew.com/complaints or by writing to the ICAEW. To
contact the ICAEW write to the Professional Standards Office, Level
1, Metropolitan House, 321 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, MK9
2F7Z.

‘Negotiation / mediation
9.3 We each agree that we will attempt in good faith to resolve any
dispute or claim arising out of or in connection with the Contract
prompily through negotiations between your senior executives and our
management. If the matter is not resolved through negotiation then,
prior to the commencement of legal proceedings, we will each attempt
in good faith to resolve the dispute or claim by participating in an
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedure which, if not
otherwise agreed, will be as recommended to us by the Centre for
Effective Dispute Resolution. If the matter has not been resolved by
an ADR procedure within 45 days of such procedure being
commenced, then the matter may be dealt with through legal
proceedings.

Legal and other o
9.4 Nothing in this Contract precludes us from taking such steps as
are necessary in order to comply with any legal or regulatory
requirement or any professional or ethical rules of any relevant
professional body of which we or any of our partners or employees is,
at the time, a member.

Force majeure

POL00108408
POL00108408

9.5 Neither of us will be liable for any delays or failures in
performance or breach of contract due to events or circumstances
beyond our reasonable control

Governing law and jurisdiction
9.6 The Contract and our relationship (including all contractual and
non-contractual rights and obligations arising out of or relating
thereto) are governed by English law and the Courts of England and
Wales shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute that may
arise in connection with this Contract and our relationship (including
all contractual and non-contractual rights and obligations arising out
of or relating thereto).

© Deloitte LLP CONFIDENTIAL.
