POL00104754

POL00104754

Investigation Policy Page I
RULES & STANDARDS
1, PURPOSE
The aim of this policy is to define the relevant rules and standards to assist Security Manager’s who
undertake investigations
2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES
Security Managers
3. POLICY
34 CONSIGNIA INVESTIGATION STANDARDS
The high level investigation standards are defined as follows:-
e¢ All Securi janagers who are authorised to conduct investigations into crimes or suspected
crimes will carry out their duties in accordance with Consignia Legal Standards for investigation
of crime and Consignia Rules relating to the treatment of employees and agents in accordance with
mandatory instructions detailed in Investigation Policies.
© Relevant changes in the law or any significant aspect affecting the way in which investigations are
conducted will be communicated to all Security Managers by e-mail and where necessary an
amendment will be made to the database.
3.2 CONSIGNIA LEGAL STANDARDS.
When undertaking investigations into crimes or suspected crimes all Security Managers must comply
with the relevant legislation so far as this relates to the investigation of crime, the interview, arrest and
search of persons and process before the courts. In particular, investigators will be bound by the
following legislation:-
e England Human Rights Act 1998 (In force from 02/10/2000),
Police & Criminal Evidence Act 1984 and Codes of Practice
R.LP. Act 2000
e Northern Ireland Human Rights Act 1998, Police & Criminal Evidence (Northern
Ireland) Order 1989 and Codes of Practice
R.LP. Act 2000
© Scotland Criminal Procedure Scotland Act 1995 and Codes of Practice,
Human Rights Act 1998.
R.LP. Act 2000
e Wales Human Rights Act 1998, Police & Criminal Evidence Act
1984 and Codes of Practice
R.LP. Act 2000
3.3 PROSECUTION CASEWORK
Prosecution casework will be prepared in compliance with the following instructions:-
Policy Title Rules & Standards
Version 2.0
Date May 2001

POL00104754

POL00104754

Investigation Policy Page 2

RULES & STANDARDS

3.4

e England & Wales Consignia Prosecution Guidelines
Consignia Code of Practice - Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996

© Northern Ireland Inspector’s Brief or requirements of the Director of Public
Prosecutions (Northern Ireland)

© Scotland Crown Office Guide for reports to the Procurator Fiscal.
CONSIGNIA RULES

When undertaking investigations into crimes or suspected crimes involving Consignia
employees and agents, all Security Managers must comply with Consignia rules regarding the conduct of
interviews in relation to:-

e An interviewee’s right to have a friend present at interviews
« An interviewee’s right to have a friend present at searches

© Special treatment afforded Consignia Juveniles
CODE OF PROFESSIONAL BEHAVIOUR

The general standards of personal and business behaviour that everyone in Consignia is expected to
uphold are set out in the Code of Business Standards issued by the Secretary’s Office and in the
individual Business Conduct Codes. This Code sets out additional standards of professional behaviour
that are specific to Investigation Personnel in consequence of the unique role they play in combating
criminal activity against Consignia.

e INTRODUCTION

Consignia holds a key position in the social, industrial and commercial life of the country and maintains
a high degree of public confidence in its integrity and reliability. The Security & Investigation Service
has always enjoyed the high regard of Police and other law enforcement agencies through the
dedication and professionalism of its staff.

All Security Managers are expected to uphold that proud tradition by consistently demonstrating
high standards of professional behaviour both in their dealings with other staff and when
representing Consignia with outside organisations and the general public.

¢ GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES

The professional status of Security Managers who are authorised to conduct investigations into crimes or
suspected crimes often results ina requirement to work independently and in consequence they hold
positions of trust. This privilege brings additional responsibilities and it follows that should a Security
Manager fail to meet the high standards expected it is likely to be regarded in a more serious light than if
she/he had occupied a less responsible position.

e PROFESSIONAL APPROACH

The approach to managing the crime risk to Consignia must be by the employment of proven
investigative standards and values combined with an awareness of commercial interests and sensitivities.
Any compromise on standards will have a detrimental effect on Consignia credibility and will
undoubtedly prove more costly in the long term

Policy Title Rules & Standards

Version
Date

20
May 2001

POL00104754

POL00104754

Investigation Policy Page 3

RULES & STANDARDS

3.6

« PERSONAL CONDUCT

Security Managers are expected to maintain the highest standards of personal conduct and integrity; to
exercise self discipline, be discreet and always act within the law. Due to the nature of their work,
Security Managers will sometimes have access to a high level of commercially sensitive information.
Absolute discretion is essential, for any compromise of this information may cause serious damage to
Consignia interests.

© The spirit and provisions of legislation relating to the questioning of witnesses or suspects and
Consignia rules governing the rights of individuals must be strictly followed at all times.

e FAIRNESS

The outcome of criminal investigations will ofien have an impact on another person’s honour,
livelihood and, in serious cases, liberty. Security Managers must always remain objective, be
impartial and recognise everyone’s equality of status under the law.

Combining effective investigation methods and scrupulously fair treatment calls for a continuous
sense of balance in a sensitive area of work.

e¢ TACT AND DISCRETION

Firm measures taken to combat crime does not mean that people are treated in an unacceptable way.
Security Managers should endeavour to ensure privacy when conducting interviews; use tact and
discretion so that the interviewee is not subjected to avoidable indignity; be quietly determined without
becoming overbearing or abusive.

Security Managers must always be mindful of legislation relating to disability. It is important to seek to
establish whether the interviewee has any difficulty or disadvantage, perhaps not readily apparent, which
needs to be taken into account.

Unnecessary delays in the processing of cases must be avoided both in fairness to the individual
concemed and in the interests of justice.

¢ OBSERVING THIS CODE

This code supports Consignia Mission and Values Statements. All security personnel have a
responsibility to observe the provisions of this code and ensure it is honoured at all times.

Strict observance of this code will ensure a consistent professional approach to combating crime without
losing the confidence of colleagues and the public.

HEALTH & SAFETY

Everyone in Consignia has a responsibility to maintain a safe working environment in compliance with
business Health & Safety Policy. This policy is consistent with Consignia’s legal obligations under the
Health & Safety at Work Act 1974. When conducting enquiries, investigators must take all reasonable
steps to ensure their own safety and the safety of colleagues. They also have a duty of care to ensure the
safety of everyone else involved in those enquiries including suspects and witnesses.

e  Itis inevitable that the nature of criminal investigation work involves a number of potential hazards
including situations where there is a risk of assault on Security Managers, or of self harm, by a

Policy Title Rules & Standards

Version
Date

20
May 2001
POL00104754
POL00104754

Investigation Policy Page 4

RULES & STANDARDS

minority of individuals. In the initial stages of every investigation steps should always be taken by
Security Managers to assess the level of threat and take all appropriate measures to minimise risks by
applying safe working practices. The level of threat should be re-assessed in the light of changing
circumstances and appropriate measures commensurate with the new degree of risk applied.

© Security Managers should familiarise themselves with the safe working practice guidelines detailed in
the Investigation Policies: “Operational Planning (IIMARC process)” and “Criminal Investigation
Procedures; also, always seek guidance from their team leader or a senior officer in situations with
which they are unfamiliar or where a serious risk has been identified.

4, Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version Type __ Policy No.
41 Health & Safety at Work 1974 Act 3.6
5. Document details
5.1 Author :
5.2 I Owner: Head of Corporate Security,
5.3 Audience: Security Community
5.4 Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,
4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ
Effective from : October 2000
Review date : December 2000
Last updated : October 2000

Assurance Details

Name
Business Unit
6.3 Assurance Date

7 Final Review

7.1 I Approved by
7.2 Documented (Hard Copy) YES/NO Location:

73 “ (Electronic) YES/NO Location:
Policy Title Rules & Standards
Version 20

Date May 2001
