POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Minutes of a Risk and Compliance Committee (“RCC”) meeting held via Microsoft Teams
on 06 May 2020 at 14:00

Present: Alisdair Cameron (Chair) (AC) Group Chief Financial Officer
Ben Foat (BF) Group General Counsel
Amanda Jones (AJ) Group Retail and Franchise Network Director, Interim
Lisa Cherry (LC) Group Chief People Officer.
Jeff Smyth (JS) Group Chief Information Officer, Interim
Julie Thomas (JT) Operations Director
Andrew Goddard (AG) Payment Propositions Director
(deputising for Owen Woodley)
In Attendance: Johann Appel (JA) Head of Internal Audit
Mark Baldock (MB) Head of Risk
Jonathan Hill (JH) Compliance Director
Tom Lee (TL) Head of Finance, Financial Accounting and Controls
Rebecca Whibley (RW) Assistant Company Secretary
Tony Jowett (TJ) Chief Information Security Officer
Sherrill Taggart (ST) Legal Director, Interim
Barbara Brannon (BB) Procurement Director
Rod Williams (RW) Head of Legal, Dispute Resolution & Brand
Apologies Nick Read, Group CEO

2.1
2.2

Owen Woodley, Group Chief Commercial Officer

Welcome and Conflicts of Interest
The Chair opened the meeting and advised that all papers would be taken as read. No conflicts of interest
were declared.
AC noted there were four issues that were being managed under legal supervision and which would be
discussed at ARC:

1. Anindependent review of suspense accounts as part of the GLO work;

2. Anindependent review on stamps and whether there were GLO implications;

3. ACBRE performance issue that had been uncovered; and

4. Work ongoing to validate historical final salaries for the defined benefit pension scheme.

Minutes and Action Lists

The minutes of the RCC meeting held 9 March 2020 were APPROVED.

Progress on completion of actions as shown on the action log was NOTED and the actions assigned to SH
(Shikha Hornsey) were to be reassigned to JS. The following action updates were provided:

- Action 3.3 from 14 March 2020 relating to FRES Audit would be completed before the next RCC
and the action remained open.

- Action 3.3 from 4 March 2020 relating to guidance from the National Cyber Security Centre was
closed, the guidance having been shared with the Group Executive (GE) and Board.

= Action 4.12 from 14 March relating to the Ofcom Information Requests was closed.

- Action 6.6 from 14 March relating to the issues being flagged to the RCC or ARC was questioned
as to its context and it was requested that more information was provided as it was not enough
to simply say that it was not raised. The action remained open.

- Action 6.18 from 14 January 2020 relating to Payment Services Directive was closed.

- Action 10.6 from 14 January 2020 relating to Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual
Report had been delayed due to scheduled meetings being postponed. The action remained open.

= Action 3.2 from 7 November 2019 relating to supplier contracts out of governance (SSK) remained
open.

- Action 3.3 from 7 November 2019 relating to supplier contracts out of governance (Brands/RAPP)
remained open.

POL00423512
POL00423512

Item 5
Items 6 &7
Item 8
Item 9

Actions

To do: RW

RW

Strictly Confidential Page 1 of 7
3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

POL00423512

POL00423512

- Action 4.1 from 7 November 2019 relating to the PCI-DSS Update and final pricing deadlines from
Ingencio was closed as this item had become a regular RCC agenda item.

- Action 5.3 from 7 November 2019 relating to major incident testing remained open and JS advised
he would obtain an update.

- Action 5.3 from 7 November 2019 relating to Joiners/Movers/Leavers and third party access
remained open and TS was asked to provide an update.

- The following actions from 7 November 2019 were otherwise closed: 5.3 Cyber Security relating
to Joiners/movers/leavers and the contract review, 5.3 Cyber Security relating to
Joiners/movers/leavers being added to the Internal Audit Plan, 6.14 relating to Data and Analytics
Excellence (Programme Assurance) and 7.5 relating to Contracts Management Framework.

- Action 5 from 3 September 2019 relating to GDPR was closed as JH advised that contracts had
been identified and the GDPR programme was due to be completed at the end of June 2020.

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update
Risk

MB explained that since the last RCC on 14 March 2020, his team’s focus has been on the COVID-19 crisis
and fortnightly risk updates were being provided to the COVID-19 SteerCo, which was included in the paper
to the RCC. This work had been undertaken in two phases. The first was to undertake the industry-wide
and sectorial analysis of the typical emerging COVID-19 risks and was completed by 31 March 2020. The
second phase was to discuss the risks that had been identified with the business to confirm relevance and
to assess their respective impacts, likelihood and proximity. It was concluded that there was one single
overarching COVID-19 enterprise risk, 13 intermediate thematic risks (operational, strategy, legal, financial
etc.) and 56 specific low level risks. One major risk was having insufficient change funding available to
deliver planned change activity and it as noted that this was due to be discussed at the Board.

Work was now moving to merge existing risk work with the COVID-19 risks due to the wide scope of these
risks. The team was also continuing to implement Archer and MB explained that all risks were due to be
entered into Archer by the end of next week (15 May 2020) and the system was to be rolled out to the
wider business from 31 May 2020.

MB also highlighted that his team had produced a risk appetite statement for COVID-19, but that this had
evolved into a wider enterprise risk statement and he would be requesting that this statement be
considered at the GE in June 2020 (MB to request a GE agenda slot with Veronica Branton, Company
Secretary).

Compliance

Telecoms: JH noted that the regulators have indicated they would not be stepping back from compliance
but were being more understanding on the timing for compliance. As an update to the paper, JH explained
that his team were now required to provide a weekly update to Ofcom as to our COVID-19 response and
they have indicated they are happy with our progress as we are able to do the end of contract notifications,
which other providers are still having issues with. Further, we have also just signed up to the Department
of Culture, Media and Sport’s (DCMS) commitments, including free and low cost calls for vulnerable
customers, working with customers who may be struggling with debt and removal of data caps. A statement
via DCMS would be released over the weekend. In response to a question from the Chair, JH and AG
confirmed (having checked with Meredith Sharples) that there was no financial impact arising from
vulnerable customers being unable to pay their bill.

PSD2: JH explained that Fujitsu had now confirmed that they will put in place a fully compliant solution but
this would not be the most expensive solution by the beginning of August 2020. There would be a minimal
increase in cost, but this was a regulatory requirement. Once in place, we could then apply for an Electronic
Communications Exemption (ECE), although we were not being chased to do this.

European Electronic Communications Code (EECC): JH noted that this would impose new regulatory
obligations on all providers. It presented a big challenge for Post Office and had cost implications. Clarity as
to what was required was expected from Ofcom but that the DCMS has indicated that it expected providers
to meet the implementation deadline of 21 December 2020. The concern was that any clarity from Ofcom
may come after this deadline, but it was hoped there may be some leeway. Al noted that if clarity was not
forthcoming, we could approach the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) to
support us in seeking this clarity and/or asking for leeway on the implementation deadline. It was also
noted that similar changes made to the switching process in the energy industry by Ofgem had led to less
switching of providers by customer and therefore there could be retention opportunities for Post Office.

Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 7

MB
37

3.8

3.9

3.10

3.11

3.12

3.13

3.14

3.15

Branch Registration Fees: JH explained that Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC) have confirmed
that we could defer payment for Branch Registration fees (amounting to circa £3m) until 1 December 2020
(from 30 June 2020). However they have advised that they would calculate the fee based on the June
branch data, rather than the December data. This does not go far enough and we would continue to lobby
against the decision via BEIS, Her Majesty’s Treasury (HMT) and HMRC directly to get HMRC to allow the
calculation to apply from 1 December 2020. It was hoped that a positive response would be received soon.
Cookies: JH confirmed he was speaking to Henk van Hulle to try and achieve quicker and cheaper
compliance.

Belfast Data Centre Exist and move to the Cloud: The Chair questioned who was having the client
conversations and it was highlighted that there should be engagement with client management owners. JH
was asked to pick this up with the Commercial team and JS was asked to check with the IT Project Team.
Whistleblowing: The Chair asked that he was provided with information as to the kind of issues that were
being raised by whistleblowers, insofar as it would not breach any confidences. He also questioned whether
it was appropriate to be putting investigations on hold. JH explained that these investigations had been put
on hold as they required the physical movement of people which was not possible during lockdown. The
Chair requested that the investigations were reviewed on a case-by-case basis with HR and challenge the
assumption that the investigation had to be paused. If a major issue was subject to the complaint, the
response needed to be balanced.

External Threats — Lottery: The Chair questioned the wording regarding the Post Office provision of the
Lottery having been previously assessed as low risk and JH confirmed that it had been assessed and no
issues had been identified. Payzone services were yet to be assessed but AG explained that he did not view
it as high risk. The wording of the section would be reviewed before submission to the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee (ARC) so that it was clearer.

Dangerous Goods: The Chair noted that overall performance for P12 had dropped to 46% and therefore
had got worse. However the Voice of the Customer survey suggested that the question was being asked
75% of the time. IT was noted that the Board may be concerned about the risk of low compliance in this
area. Amanda explained that a project had been initiated to place the onus on the customer to confirm
what was in their parcel via a validation on the Pin Pad (to reflect the SSK process). The Chair requested
that this section of the paper be updated prior to submission to the ARC to better outline this project.

Internal Audit

2019/20 plan progress: JA explained that the completion of the 2019/20 internal audit programme has
progressed well, however, the final five reviews (three in Post Office and two in Post Office Insurance) were
postponed in response to COVID-19 and reprioritisation of the Change Portfolio. Five audits were
completed since the March ARC meeting, with the last two reports awaiting management comment. These
related to branch sales which had been given a “needs improvement” rating, but the issues raised were not
contentious and savings products, which has been given a “green” rating. AG was asked to chase the
Commercial Team to ensure that management comment was provided as soon as possible to enable the
complete reports to be ready for the ARC on 19 May 2020. Otherwise, the 2019/20 plan was complete
(except for the reviews postponed due to COVID-19).

2020/21 plan progress: JA explained that the plan was due to be approved by the ARC on 19 May 2020 but
in the meantime, three of the top five reviews had been started: COVID-19 Assurance Programme, Maintain
Minimum Control Standards and Cyber Security Maturity.

Internal Audit reviews completed: JA noted that the outcomes of the three final reviews:

- Postmaster on-boarding: This was rated as satisfactory and the new process was deemed effective
with recommendations from GLO having been implemented.

- Vetting and Fit & Proper: This was rated as needs improvement due to the very fragmented
processes that were in place and the lack of clear ownership. Fit & Proper was slightly better than
vetting and improvement on vetting was expected when the ownership issues were resolved. It
was explained that accountability had been split between the Operations team, HR and
Compliance. It has been agreed to bring accountability into the Operations team within clear
oversight from Compliance. The Fit & Proper policy was also being updated and LC was asked to
ensure that HR were involved in this update. JH confirmed he had a new Vetting and Oversight
Assurance Manager starting on 11 May 2020.

- Change Control Framework: This was rated as needs improvement. The Chair noted that he felt
elements of the report were confusing and needed to be clearer. JA explained that this was a
follow up review following a review last year which looked at gating, benefit realisation and second
line assurance activity and outlined the need to establish a control framework for change activity.

POL00423512
POL00423512

JH/JS

JH

JH

JH

JH/AS

AG

tc

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 7
3.16

4.2

4.3

5.1

5.2

POL00423512

POL00423512
The purpose of the present review had been to assess to what extent the previous
recommendations had been implemented. It was noted that most findings had arisen from the
self-assessment process (the Strategic Portfolio Office (SPO) had been quite conservative in its
ratings) and that 29 out of 37 controls were assessed as partly effective. This sounded more serious
that it was because this rating had been given if only one programme in the test had failed. JA was JA

asked to ensure this context was clearer in the report.
Status of Audit Actions: JA noted that five actions were due at the end of April which had been harder to

close due to other priorities relating to COVID-19. Some actions may need to be extended but any Todo:JA

extensions would be agreed prior to the ARC on 19 May 2020. AG requested that JA send him any
outstanding actions relating to the Commercial Team.

Subject to the amendments as outlined, the Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update was NOTED for
onward submission to the ARC.

Internal Audit Plan
JA explained that audit plans had become dynamic against moving targets due to the COVID-19 crisis and
that he has been webinars with other heads of audit. This has shown that the Post Office approach has
been similar to other organisations and a key element was that there may need to be some compromise
on the maintenance of controls during the COVID-19 crisis. The top five priorities were outlined as:

-  COVID-19 Programme Assurance/Support;

- Maintain Minimum Control Standards;

- Cyber Security Maturity;

- Health & Safety response to COVID-19 crisis; and

Effectiveness of Second Line during COVID-19.

The medium priority reviews were outlined as:

- — GLO Operations Improvement Programme;

- Postmaster Reporting;

- BCP Post-crisis assessment;

- Branch Hub; and

- Stamp Stock (relating to inventory controls).

BF noted that it would be helpful to have an external view of Stamp Stock and it was agreed that BF and JA
would pick this up. JA explained that his internal review would only take place after the external review
into stamps and whether management had led to systemic agent losses. Similarly the review into the GLO
Operations Improvement Programme would be done after the planned external GLO response review. It
was noted that this was a case of timing and consideration as to whether an end-to-end external review

JA/BF

was required as the Norton Rose review was simply a gap analysis. JA was asked to look at this in JA/BF/JT

conjunction with BF and JT. Regarding the COVID-19 Assurance Programme, MB questioned whether this

would extend to the scope of Project Neo and risk and JA explained that this was not presently included  JA/MB

but that he would discuss with MB. JA further noted that he had issued an interim report to Caroline Scott
on the review of phase 1 of the COVID-19 Programme. In response to a questions from AJ regarding
Postmaster Reporting, JA confirmed that he would discuss the scope of the review with her and her team
nearer to Q3.

The Internal Audit plan, including the internal audit priorities during the COVID-19 crisis, was NOTED for
onward submission to the ARC.

PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update

PCI-DSS Programme Update

Ingencio CEO call: JS explained that CEO to CEO dialogue between Ingencio and Post Office had been
established as requested by the ARC and there was diarised meetings between the Global Vice President
of Ingencio for retail and banking and Nick Read. Written reports from the calls were provided to JS. It was
noted that Ingencio were not reporting any direct implications for their services owning to COVID-19 at
present.

Integrated Programme Plan: It was expected that the programme would obtain Ingenico final banking
software deliverables in early February 2021 and branch rollout would commence in late March 2021.
Branch rollout would be completed in May 2021 and formal PCI-DSS accreditation would be achieved by
June 2021. The team has also held a deep dive into the plan itself and work was ongoing to see if the
delivery plan timeline could be improved further. The business case for £15.8m would be presented to the
Investment Committee and Board in May.

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 7
5.3

5.4

5.5

5.6

5.7

5.8

5.9

PED rollout programme: JS noted that this programme was presently on pause due to the COVID-19 crisis
and the present thinking was that this would recommence in July, subject to the Government
announcement on lockdown expected on 10 May 2020.

Santander: JS noted that most other organisations were compliant but that there had been some delays
with Santander. The Chair questioned whether Post Office would have any recourse if we could not be
compliant due to them. JS explained that the target operating model included the ability to pay Santander
credit cards and that this could be a point of leverage, but at present, we were not setting out to utilise
this. The issues Santander were facing seemed genuine and Nick Read had already been on a series of calls
to try to resolve.

The PCI-DSS Programme Update was NOTED for onward submission to the ARC.

Cyber Security

Cyber Security Maturity: TJ outlined that the maturity score was averaging 2.4 in mid-April and he hoped
this would improve to 2.45. This figure was an estimate and it would be retested by Deloitte and Jonathan
Acres from Post Office from 11 May 2020. This retest would allow the reassessment target maturity due to
recent events. A new change programme was being developed to close any gaps identified and an update
would be provided to the next RCC.

COVID-19 risk, issues and threats: The team has been working with Data Protection and IT Operations to
enable people to work from home, but they were also ensuring that any exemptions to our usual policies
were being closed down rapidly. Data loss was also being monitored, although a slightly softer approach
was being taken to enable home working. Work had also been completed to ensure the IT Service desk can
communicate with colleagues securely. It was noted that the team was feeding into and monitoring the
National Cyber Security Centre’s (NCSC) work on COVID-19 threats. The mains threats were fake Post Office
websites and phishing. During the COVID-19 crisis, security threat activity was up between 25% and 55%
depending on the type of activity which included money miles and password attacks.

Social media presence: TJ outlined that in response to the RCC action the guidance on protecting ourselves
on social media had been shared with the Board and GE. Links to the guidance were available in the paper.
The Chair requested that a more extensive update on the Joiners/movers/leavers programme was included
in the paper for the ARC on 19 May 2020 and that a draft should be reviewed by the Chair.

Subject to the amendment as outlined, the Cyber Security Update was NOTED for onward submission to
the ARC.

Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework

BF explained that 142 top material contracts had been identified. By the end of the pilot (19 May 2020), it
was expected that 60 material contracts would have been uploaded to Web3.0 having had their obligations
mapped at a cost of £100,000. The balance of 82 material contracts would take a further month to upload
at an additional cost of £26,000. There were also 1,500 other contracts which have not been uploaded to
Web3.0 and had their obligations mapped. It was recommended that due to the current commercial
environment, the pilot should work to complete the upload and mapping of obligations for the top 142
material contracts but that the other contracts should not be uploaded as part of the pilot and should be
uploaded during the natural contract lifecycle (as amendments or extensions arise). It was proposed that
the accredited external training which had been budgeted for at a cost of £80,000 was not pursued,
releasing this money back to the business and for £26,000 to be reallocated to support the mapping of the
outstanding material contracts. The Chair requested that BF discuss the approach with Carla Stent, ARC
Chair, prior to submitting the paper to the ARC to get a steer as to whether this approach would be
acceptable.

The RCC NOTED the paper and APPROVED the following for onward submission to the ARC, subject to BF
gaining steer from the ARC Chair as to whether this approach was acceptable:

- While internal training has been provided, accredited external training will not be provided to
identified contract managers for material contracts, accepting the risk that this may result in a
baseline level of capability not being established amongst this group of individuals.

- _ Reallocating £26,000 of the £80,000 originally included in the budget to provide external training
in order to complete the upload and mapping of all remaining contracts identified by GE as being
material in terms of strategic and financial value by the end of June 2020 (“Material Contracts”).

- It is proposed that the implementation of CMF across those contracts not identified as being
material by the GE (“Other Contracts”) be done outside of this project through the natural
‘ifecycle of a contract’ e.g. as they are renewed, cease or new agreements are entered into. This
will take significantly longer, through BAU resource and processes, but release c£700k from the
20/21 Change Portfolio Budget.

POL00423512
POL00423512

TW

BF

Strictly Confidential Page 5 of 7
8.2

8.3

9.2

POL00423512

POL00423512

Horizon Scanning Update

BF explained that this was a new report for the RCC and had been presented to assist in the enhance of the
legal maturity of Post Office by ensuring that the Board and Executive team were proactively managing
legal and regulatory risks as they develop. This was supplemented by regular Law In Trends forums which
were cross-functional and looked a legal and regulatory changes on the horizon and discussed how Post
Office might need to respond. The Chair complimented the paper and BF confirmed that the paper would
be developed over time to include a Red/Amber/Green (RAG) status against each element.

The Horizon Scanning Update was NOTED for onward submission to the ARC.

Supplier Contract out of Governance
BB explained that there were no contracts out of Governance that required approval as all approvals had
been addressed at the Board on 8 April 2020. The Chair requested that the paper be reorganised to cover
new requests first, then any future contracts on the horizon and then any past approvals.

On the future contracts that were high value and at risk of being awarded or extended non-compliantly, BB
outlined the following:

- End User Computer services (EUC) (value of £10m): Discussions were still being held between IT
and the Change project team as to whether there would be sufficient funding to run a
procurement. A paper regarding this project was being prepared for the GE on 13 May 2020.

- Common Digital Platform (CPD) (value of £5m): There was an option for a six month extension to
December 2020 ona short term basis to allow for cloud migration and long term strategy adoption.
This was already being discussed with the supplier to enable an extension whilst a procurement
process is run.

-  Brands/Rapp (value of £1.3m): The sourcing process has not been agreed with the business and
their appetite to migrate the service was limited. Funding was also an issue.

- ATM support (value £350,000): There were a number of contracts expiring in August 2020 which
may need to be extended non-compliantly whilst the tender process continued.

- Identity Services (value of £5m): A full sourcing plan has been agreed to be funded out of OPEX
Identity budget, but this has been derailed by the COVID-19 crisis. Discussions were ongoing
between Martin Edwards, Digidentity and Legal to ensure extension to March 2021 which would
give more latitude to manage the OJEU required and would give the business more time to review
other options. In the interim, discussions were ongoing with the Commercial team as to whether
our approach needed to be changed given COVID-19 crisis.

It was further noted that otherwise the procurement pipeline was very quiet. This was thought be to
because feedback had gone to the business explaining that risks would not be excepted and because of the
spending freeze.

Subject to the outlined amendments, the Supplier Contracts out of Governance Update was NOTED for
onward submission to the ARC.

Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy
BF explained that this was a policy to cover how Post Office dealt with suspected criminal misconduct
covering private prosecutions and cooperation with third party law enforcement agencies, regulators and
industry accredited bodies. The policy sought to balance the following risks: safeguarding the integrity of
HNG-A so that it is not unnecessarily undermined or brought into question without the proper governance
around the release of information against being seen to support and cooperate with law enforcement
agencies. The approach would be that we would support third parties to investigate criminal misconduct
if there were mandatory requirements. Where it was not mandatory, we could exercise discretion as to
whether to assist but it was a question of who within the business would have the authority to authorise
the release of information. We have taken risk based approach: where the data would not rely solely on
integrity of the Horizon system (i.e. other evidence such as CCTV existed), and therefore the integrity of
HNG-A was unlikely to be brought into question, we would provide the data to the requesting body. BF
further outlined that there was a risk with the policy in that it could not prevent potential law enforcement
proceedings if they struck at the heart of the Horizon system and this could mean that the integrity of the
current Horizon system was called into question. Therefore work still needed to be done with IT to be able
to substantiate that there were no known bugs and this needed to become a BAU process.

BF noted that the team would undertake an “optical review” of the policy before it was presented to the
ARC. This was because, although such documents would not usually be discoverable, it could do so in the
future. As such the policy needed to be reviewed to consider how it may be viewed by the public. BF further
outlined that the policy would prohibit Post Office from engaging in private prosecutions without the

Strictly Confidential Page 6 of 7

BB
9.3

9.4

95

10.

11.

express consent of the Board. It was also noted that any data provided from legacy or HNG-X Horizon would
be provided with a health warning given the findings of the Horizon judgment.
JS cautioned that there would be a cost to operationalise this policy as a process would need to be in place
to deal with any approaches from law enforcement agencies, regulators or registered industry bodies. We
needed to ensure that we had the skills, capacity and money to deliver. BF explained that the policy
included a process map but that he would highlight this at GE to ensure that the consequences of the policy
were understood.
It was further noted that requests for data may not be easy to fulfil if it required cooperation from third
parties including Fujitsu and Ingenico. JS explained that it needed to be recognised that this involved some
very comprehensive relationships. BF concurred but noted that this would be mitigated by general law
cooperation clauses within contracts. AG noted that the paper was very “Horizon-specific” but that the
policy had a much broader systems reach. BF explained that the policy was designed to cover all requests,
but that HNG-A was an area of particular sensitivity. It would be supported by a cross-functional team
including compliance and IT security. As such, support would be provided to the business. JT suggested that
a list should be compiled of colleagues who could provide information to law enforcement agencies,
regulators and industry bodies to ensure compliance.
The Criminal Misconduct and Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies paper and attached draft policy
entitled “Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct”
was APPROVED for onward submission to the ARC. In approving the draft policy, the RCC also:
- decided that Post Office’s policy should be to cooperate with mandatory requirements and
voluntary requests by law enforcement agencies where the risk to undermining the integrity of
HNGA is low or low/medium;
- approved, with respect to the Tools supporting the Policy:
a, the process for determining what information can be provided to law enforcement agencies for
intelligence purposes (Tool 1);
b. the process for determining when evidence can be provided to law enforcement agencies (Tool
2); and
c. the process for proactively disclosing to law enforcement agencies disclosable material in
criminal cases where Horizon-derived data is being used (Tool 4);
- decided that Post Office’s policy should be not to conduct any private prosecutions at present; and
- decided that Post Office should report internal criminal misconduct to the police and ask Post.
Office operators to advise Post Office if they make a victim crime report.
Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda for 19 May 2020
The draft ARC agenda for 19 March was NOTED and RW was requested to confirm with Carla Stent (ARC
Chair) and JS the scope of the “broader Fujitsu update” and to add a noting paper for the Supplier Contracts
out of Governance update.

Any other Business
There was no other business.

POL00423512
POL00423512

BF

To do: RW

Strictly Confidential Page 7 of 7
