POL00070105
POL00070105

Page 1 of 2

Nicola McShert

From: Anne.Chambers {_
Sent: 16 December 2006 1

To: Stephen Dilley
Ce: Chambers Anne O; brian.pinderi~
mik.peach¢” mandy.

Tom Beezer
Subject: Re: URGENT Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Dear Stephen,

I do not myself have direct access to the archived system (Tivoli) event logs; they are held by our Security
team and I have not looked at the logs for Marine Drive since 2004 (before they were archived), apart from
checking 1st April 2004 following one of your queries the week before last. Until that point I was not aware
that they were available. Obviously when questioned about them in court, I had to acknowledge that they
were still available, even if not rechecked by me.

I will make sure your request has been received by the Security team on Monday.
Regards,

Anne.

From: Stephen Dilley[!
Sent: Friday, December 15, 2006 6:11:17 PM
To: Chambers Anne O

graham.c.ware

Subject: URGENT Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton
Importance: High

Auto forwarded by a Rule

Dear Anne,

Firstly, many thanks to you and Andy Dunks for attending Court to give evidence this week
which was helpful. The judge has reserved his judgment which will probably be given in the
new year. Thanks also to Brian and his team for helpfully providing information about the
Falkirk branch on short notice.

In any litigation, the parties involved have a continuing obligation pursuant to the Court rules
to disclose all documents that may help or hinder their case or the other side's case. In this
context, a "document" means anything in which information of any description is recorded, so
it includes, just for example, a computer database. Previously, I had asked Fujitsu to let me
have all the info it had and had been helpfully given HSH call logs, transaction logs and events
logs. I was also recently told that there was a message store which had everything else on it
and we invited Mr Castleton to look at it this, but he didn't take up the opportunity.

However, whilst giving evidence you told the Court that there was also a different sort

of events log, not included on the message store, that we had not seen or disclosed for the
Marine Drive branch. Mr Castleton has telephoned me today and asked for a copy of this to
be supplied to him immediately.

29/12/2006
POL00070105
POL00070105

Page 2 of 2

The Court has ordered Mr Castleton to make any application for a resumed hearing resulting
from the P.O's late disclosure of this document by 19 December. Going back to Court now the
trial appears to be concluded is the last thing we want, but we will do this if we need to. Iam
not sure what application Mr Castleton would make. Possibly he may say his case was
prejudiced by not having this information made available earlier.

I anticipate that nothing will probably turn on the document you referred to because you said
it didn't contain any errors that would cause the losses, but the P.O are nevertheless under an
obligation to supply it and if we don't, could face court sanction. Please can I therefore ask for
it to be emailed to me as soon as possible on Monday morning so that I can in turn send it to
Mr Castleton.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Kind regards,

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged
and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and
delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this
communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond
Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
00311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to
Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law
Society.

29/12/2006
