POL00397348
POL00397348

G-097 PCI DSS Compliance HR 130112.doc

IT & Change Weekly Project Highlight Report - submitted to Business_PMO_Reporting mailbox no later than 12 noon every
Wednesday

Click the Show/Hide button [J on the Standard toolbar to see guidance notes on how to complete this report
Reference Information : z :

PCI DSS Compliance PID Reference
Hage G-097
Project Number
: John Scott Reporting wie 6 January 2012
Change Sponsor period
resen Connie Penn — Programme
iz Wunmi Adeniji ey leam Manager
Project Manager members

The objective of this project is to get POL full PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data
Security Standard) Compliance across all card payment channels i.e. Horizon, Paystation,
Change Objective: I Post & Go, Web, RMG Call Centre and BT Call Centre.

I Delete inapplicable

Project Type _I Project Types

Tracking Summary

<> -No Change T - Change Up (e.g. Amber to Green) ae Change Down (e.g. Green to Amber)
Measurable Rating Change Comments (Reason for RAG rating)

On track
Time

There is a likelihood that there would be an increase in project

costs as a result of the following CT expected from Fujitsu:

e Populating Omniport (audit tool) with BAU repeatable
activities

e Work required to impact assess the changes between PCI
v1.2 and v2.0 and the cost of the actual audit

t e Work required for any remedial activities to address gaps
identified

Costs
(Investment/Budget)

There is also the risk of additional costs from RMG call centres
as RM is not willing to become PCI compliant within our
timescales so in order to do so, POL may have to pay for the
audit.

On track
Benefits

On track
Quality

Key achievements/decisions/changes made this past week _
Meeting Fujitsu, QSA, Don Burgess and CGP went extremely well.
° Key objective - identify impact of compliance with V2 of PCI standard in terms of infrastructure change,
change itself, timeframes for remediation and costs.
° As expected, no significant impact on infrastructure from V2 was identified.

Page 1 of 5
POL00397348
POL00397348

G-097 PCI DSS Compliance HR 130112.doc
IT & Change Weekly Project Highlight Report - submitted to Business_PMO_Reporting mailbox no later than 12 noon every
Wednesday

° Meeting produced a secondary unexpected deliverable.

° It became clear Fujitsu are understanding PC! in BAU better,

° the intensive work, notes made and statements put in OmniPort during the 2-week audit prep in
December, means that Fujitsu are now becoming more informed and consequently more focused on
how PCI DSS integrates with the POL Fujitsu environment and what needs to be done in BAU to not
only deliver PC! compliance, but also a better security posture.

o The CT response for V1.2 vs. v2 will have costs associated, but the work involved has more to do with
ensuring the tools used to manage the security of the environment, particularly around patch and
vulnerability management are more integrated into event and incident management, rather than an impact
from V2 per se.

° There will be costs associated with doing more risk assessments in BAU, which includes the annual
tisk assessment.

° It is also acknowledged that software coding and testing needs to be improved.

° So costs can be expected for BAU improvements rather than anything significant from V2.

co The key risk and concern from the meeting is that new projects - PODG and Web services could have an
impact on PCI at the counters. This is because the introduction of web services will open up the network,
which could carry new PCI costs. We have not been involved in evaluating these new services, but we
clearly need to look at the risk assessments to ensure PCI was adequately covered.

o Also concerned as to whether Change of Merchant Acquirer has catered fully for PCI, especially in secure
coding and testing, including vulnerability and PEN tests.

o Fujitsu are now preparing the response to the CT.

o All the Fujitsu people needed for the audit have been identified and are listed in OmniPort. The dates
agreed are being scheduled into Fujitsu’s work schedule for February.

o There are some Info Sec items that we need guidance and help with which should be successfully
addressed in the Info Sec workshops being scheduled.

o Subject to agreement to response to CT and successful outcome from the Info Sec workshops, we are
ready to go with the 2012 PCI DSS audit.

The BT Logica testing on the servers that were upgraded went well last week. Further testing scheduled for this
week.

New risk raised on PCI project, because there is a risk of an RMG info Sec audit. PCI Project has suggested
turning the risk into a positive, through Info Sec and PCI working together to address the requirements of both
audits as a single audit, i.e. do both audits at the same time, pooling resources in POL as well as in Fujitsu and
thus saving cost and resource. PCI DSS is just Info Sec good practice. PCI is just more prescriptive in how it wants
the security posture to be evidenced

Key achievements/decisions/changes planned for next week

o Engage with Info Sec to see if we can pool resources to do RMG Info Sec and PCI audit at same time and
consequently pool resources to agree enhancements that are needed in the security environment to
improve the security posture in BAU.

o Schedule meetings with POL Info Sec to seek guidance on some BAU info Sec items that need to be
addressed for PCI audit.

° Review all the work done during the PCI audit prep in December

° Address stakeholders concerns on shortfall in output from audit prep during December and re-issue

output.

° Agree with Info Sec how the work that needs to be done in POL is scheduled and completed.

o Agree with Info Sec how OmniPort will be managed and used

o Search out the risk assessments on PODGE and Web Services and work with Info Sec to ensure their
introduction does not impact PCI

o Review the Fujitsu response to the CT when received.

° Continue to support BT Logica testing.

[Recognition

Project What did they do that deserves What can we learn from their
Who responsibility recognition? actions?

Nominated By: Connie G. Penn
Data and Process I Fujitsu wanted to review the
Architect changes between v1.2 of PCI DSS
and V2, with the PCI auditor. Info

Don Burgess

Page 2 of 5
POL00397348
POL00397348

G-097 PCI DSS Compliance HR 130112.doc
IT & Change Weekly Project Highlight Report - submitted to Business_PMO_Reporting mailbox no later than 12 noon every
Wednesday

Sec were unable to provide
support for the meeting due to
holiday commitments and pre-
scheduled meetings. I did not feel
qualified to represent POL on
architecture matters and to
contribute to the discussions on
Blade frame Technology and felt
POL should be more fully
represented at the discussion
between the auditor and the Fujitsu
architects. Aware of my concerns,
Don cut into his holiday and agreed
to spend the day in Bracknell at the
meeting so that POL is more
appropriately represented from an
architect and system perspective.

[.New/major risks I

Because Royal Mail call centre is not PCI compliant as it records calls, does not operate a
clean desk environment, card data is verbalised to the agent and entered into the agent
desktop which also has email and web access.

This may result in the current POL certificate of compliance being withdrawn i.e. not
given a certificate this year until such time as all channels are compliant which could
have a significant impact on the business relationship with Environment Agency and in a
wider context an impact on POL’s ambition to process more and more Governments
payments. Not having a certificate of Compliance for 2012, would be a significant
backward step for Post Office.

Because (of)...there is
a risk that...which will
result in.

Proximity susie
1. POL investigated a potential solution and recommended that RMG use Semaphone to
eliminate card data from call recordings and to facilitate a PCI compliant journey for the
Response/mitigation call centre. - Due date: 31/12/11 . : I I
2. POL has asked CAP Gemini to identify a solution, cost and timeframe to make the new
payment journey PC! compliant
Risk Score — 25
Update
28/11/11 - RMG commissioned Deloitte to identify the touch points and the impact for PCI
compliance, which was received 23/11/11. Awaiting update from RMG. Cap Gemini have
been asked to deliver a plan by December 2011 for a solution to be implemented by 1st
Quarter 2012.
October 2010 solution was rejected by RMG as RMG wanted to use Deloitte to define
compliance remediation. August 2011 CGP engaged with Steve S Bedoes to initiate
negotiations with CAP to deliver compliance for call centre. Oct 2011, on the back of the
success of the Logica Semafone integration, CGP encouraged BT to embrace the use of
Semafone in the BT Cloud eliminating RMG from the equation and the cost of
Status maintaining compliance around the Semafone solution. BT receptive.

CAP have indicated that they have a solution with data cash, awaiting details of the
solution

30/12/11 - CP spoke to Andrea Ghigo (RM Project Manager) who confirmed that an IVR
solution that was PCI compliant was been installed in RMG environment only and not
Post Office. Requested details of solution, Andrea indicated she was unable to share as it
was RMG confidential. CP indicated that as we are still part of RMG we should be able to
have site of the documentation of solution used. To date, documentation not received.
Email chaser for documentation sent 30/12/11.

3/1/12 - Documentation received from Andrea Ghigo

Page 3 of 5
POL00397348
POL00397348

G-097 PCI DSS Compliance HR 130112.doc
IT & Change Weekly Project Highlight Report - submitted to Business_PMO_Reporting mailbox no later than 12 noon every
Wednesday

Because Cap Gemini’s contract requires them to deliver a PCI compliant web platform
and RMG have refused to allow the environment to be audited there is a risk that, while
the transaction journey itself may be compliant, Cap Gemini will not be able to provide
PCI with acceptable evidence of compliance as they do not have PCI Certification.
Because (of)...there is I Like above, this risk may result in the current POL certificate of compliance being

a risk that...which will I withdrawn i.e. not given a certificate this year until such time as all channels are

result in... compliant which could have a significant impact on the business relationship with
Environment Agency and in a wider context an impact on POL’s ambition to process
more and more Governments payments. Not having a certificate of Compliance for 2012,
would be a significant backward step for Post Office.

Proximity taleit2

In the face of RMG's refusal to allow an audit, CGP is negotiating with the PCI council a
method whereby a miniature audit will be conducted to identify that Cap Gemini has
hosted the payment pages correctly and as a consequence, the shopping cart is out of
scope of PCI. IRM have agreed to define the test criteria and CGP meeting with UK
Cards and UK Acquirers on 16/11/11 to get UK Cards to instigate a formal request to PCI
council championing the approach.

Risk Score - 20

Update

16/11/11 - The approach is being accepted. Next step finalise the test criteria with PCI
council through the QA process. This activity will take 3-4 months but auditor is engaged
in the process. Have discussed approach with Paul Lewis in CAP who in turn have
discussed with Kevin King in CAP. CAP pleased with the approach because it significantly
reduces the cost to them to evidence PCI compliance.

30/12/11 - The PCI council offered a date but CP unable to accept due to commitment on
Horizon online. Alternative date requested

Response/mitigation

Status

There is a risk to failing PCI audit 2 on Horizon because the regular repeatable activities
and other BAU InfoSec activities that demonstrate maintenance of the security posture
attained for audit 1 is not being managed. This would result in the current compliance on
Horizon being withdrawn and could threaten our relationship with clients such as the
Environment Agency who is keen for us to be PCI complaint.

Because (of)...there is
a risk that...which will
result in....

Proximity 14/2/12

1/ PCI Project has helped Fujitsu record the audit requirements for PCI and 1SO27001 in
a GRC framework. Maintenance of the framework would help demonstrate continuous
Response/mitigation compliance as required by PCI.

2/ Engage with SD to help them understand recording of the data in the monthly ISMF
report in a format suitable for review by an auditor as part of a service catalogue.
Risk Score — 20

Update

July 2011 - arranged RGB to view GRC tools. IRM's OmniPort and Fujitsu's acuity
STREAM.

PCI Project followed up with recommendation paper. Awaiting feedback from RJB.
17/10/11 - discussions with Neil Leckie-Thompson & Don Burgess re: framework, both
understand usefulness of same. Discussions with IRM to identify cost and options to
migrate to OMNIPORT at this late stage.

15/11/11 - Purchase of the framework agreed in principle. PO to be raised.

22/11/11 - PO issued to purchase Omniport

25/11/11 - Migration of data to Omniport commenced

30/11/11 - CR raised to request Fujitsu to re-issue the evidence of BAU in line with the
PCI BAU spreadsheet for the whole of 2011. To be reviewed 16/12/11

30/12/11 - Awaiting response from Fujitsu

Status

[New/major issues

Issue description None.

Impact

Page 4 of 5
POL00397348
POL00397348

G-097 PCI DSS Compliance HR 130112.doc
IT & Change Weekly Project Highlight Report — submitted to Business_PMO_Reporting mailbox no later than 12 noon every
Wednesday

Action to resolve

Expected closure date

Status

Milestone Tracker

(@) - On track. - Delivery problem. () - Major delivery problem. vi Complete

Milestones in light turquoise shaded cells are mandatory

Baselined R/A/G
Date Actual Date ece,

Planned Date

Milestone Unique ID Owner

Gating & Other Mandatory Milestones

Project Initiation

Document <<text << text << icon
assured by Gating I here>> hecee. <<text here>> I <<text here>> I <<text here>> hess.
Forum
POLIC approval << text
aie G097 hoe July 2011 v
Approval to go-
live
(except Noted
Projects)
Go-live Connie Penn 31 Mar 12 ©
Project
Approval to close Manager 30 June 12 e@
. Project
Project Handover Manager 31 July 12 ed
Se Project
Finish Manager 31 July 12
Post
Implementation Project
Review Manager November 12 @
completed

Project Specific Milestones

Page 5 of 5
