POL00031408
POL00031408

Message

From: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester)?

Sent: 04/06/2014 13:05:40

To: Rodric Williams [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP

(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Rodric Williamse9c114f4-b03f-4595-b082-ce89be5c79d47b]

As our work progressed it became apparent that in some key areas, evidence based assurance materials were either not
relevant or could not be located by POL. For example, the Horizon On-Line modification in 2010 was found to have not
significantly impacted features relating to the integrity of processing, thus the scope of testing did not identify and test
such features; nor had any work been performed to test relevant inbuilt controls in Horizon and its surrounding business
controls, other than access controls.

Gareth James
Partner

Delgitte LLP
Telit

Mobile:i

tures

http:/Awww.deloitte.co.uk/ukfutures

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC303675. Its registered office is 2, New Street
Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited ("DTTL", a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL and
its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. itis for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient(s}, please (1) notify it.security.ukt imma by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
Use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error of viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
‘email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.

POL-0028310
