POL00116744
POL00116744

From: Belinda Crowe[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FY DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=BELINDA+20CROWE79B93F 1 1-569F-4526-A078-
F5B4958A8917220@C72A47 ingest.local]

Sent: Fri 24/10/2014 2:
To: Gavin Lambert[f
Ce: Avene O'Farrell

Subject: Re: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps

After. Then we present a united view.
B

From: Gavin Lambert

Sent: Friday, October 24, 2014 03:58 PM

To: Belinda Crowe

Cc: Avene O'Farrell

Subject: RE: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps

Thanks Belinda. I think Paula has some keep free time in her diary on Monday which Avene might be able to use to
squeeze in 15 mins for a catch up.
Before or after we sit down with Mark at 12?

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 24 October 2014 15:45

To: Gavin Lambert; Chris Aujard; Mark R Davies; Tom Wechsler; Patrick Bourke; Belinda Crowe
Cc: Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps

Just for the record Alice sent her email to James as has responded. I have cut and pasted below. Please note the
reference to seeing Paula asap. In view of where we now are, I think at least a call asap.

We will bring the plan to the meeting on Monday and walk through it. We really will need a quick brief with Paula
Any chance of getting a quick slot with her Monday Gavin?

Best wishes

Belinda

From: ARBUTHNOT, Jame:
Sent: 24 October 2014 12::
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: RE: Post Office Mediation Process

Dear Alice

Thank you for this message. I look forward to seeing Paula, as soon as possible.
Yours ever

James

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP House of Commons London SW1A OAA

From: Alice Perkins

POL00116744
POL00116744

Sent: 24 October 2014 12:22
To: ARBUTHNOT, James
Subject: Post Office Mediation Process

Dear James,

> Thank you for your email of yesterday afternoon (which strangely arrived in my personal inbox which I see
infrequently - this address is much more reliable).

> lam very sorry that you feel you may have to question the Post Office's good faith in the way the Sub-Postmasters'
cases are being handled.

> As you know, feelings understandably run high on this issue and it is very important that you understand the facts of
the matter. So I am very glad that you want to hear the Post Office's point of view before taking any action.

> Paula has had a well-deserved break of 3 days this week and as luck would have it, I understand that your letter to
her arrived on the first day she was away. I know that she will be in touch with you as soon as she possibly can and
that she will want to be as frank with you as I know you will be with her.

> Yours ever

> Alice

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

From: Gavin Lambert

Sent: 24 October 2014 12:44

To: Louise Chatfield; Belinda Crowe

Cc: Chris Aujard; Mark R Davies; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler

Subject: RE: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps

thanks Louise. Let's go for 30 mins at 12 on Monday please.

From: Louise Chatfield

Sent: 24 October 2014 12:35

To: Gavin Lambert; Belinda Crowe

Cc: Chris Aujard; Mark R Davies

Subject: RE: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps
Hi Gavin and Belinda

The first available time Mark is free on Monday is 12pm.

With ExCo moving to 9am there is no free time first thing in the morning I'm afraid.

Does 12 work for you?
POL00116744
POL00116744

Louise

Louise Chatfield I PA to Mark Davies, Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

/

From: Gavin Lambert

Sent: 24 October 2014 12:30

To: Belinda Crowe; Louise Chatfield

Cc: Chris Aujard; Mark R Davies

Subject: RE: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps

Thanks Belinda.

Can I suggest we sit down with Mark first thing on Monday morning to run through tactics for next week please,
including Paula's conversation with James? I'm conscious we are now in the territory of delivering robust messages
and I'm keen to be make sure they are consistent across any messages form Paula, Alice etc.

Louise - would you be able to help us by finding 15 mins on Monday to review with Mark please?

Many thanks

Gavin Lambert

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 24 October 2014 09:55

To: Alice Perkins

Cc: Chris Aujard; Paula Vennells; Gavin Lambert; Belinda Crowe; Mark R Davies

Subject: RE: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps

Dear Alice

Chris and I have discussed and also agree what you have drafted works well. We would hope, as you suggest, that a
response from you today will suffice until Paula responds substantively on her return. In terms of handling we:

e have a response drafted for Paula in reply to James' initial letter in which he asked Paula to meet with him
and a number of other MP's. The initial dates he has offered are not convenient so that gives us an
opportunity to suggest an earlier meeting or a call between Paula and James in the first instance

e — intend to respond next week to Ron's request for a meeting with Paula (preferably after James and Paula
have spoken) by inviting him to speak to Chris

e have a call out to BIS about preparing for a possible UQ.

e plan to call Tony early next week, the timing and substance to be determined by what happens over the next
couple of days

e have media lines to cover most eventualities (which I am reviewing with Comms again this morning)

We will keep all of this under review as/if the situation develops.
POL00116744

POL00116744

Clearly there is a lot of detail behind this so please let me know if you have any questions or would like more
information. Otherwise we will, as ever, let you know if there are any significant developments.

Best wishes

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 24 October 2014 08:24

To: Alice Perkins

Cc: Chris Aujard; Paula Vennells; Belinda Crowe; Gavin Lambert

Subject: Re: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps

Dear Alice

I think this works very well.

Mark

Sent from my iPhone

On 24 Oct 2014, at 07:43, "Alice Perkins" <.

Thank you Chris. It is v helpful to see this.

I don't think we should be surprised by this - you flagged up v clearly that taking the steps we are taking
would at some point cause a reaction. And we have long suspected some of the behaviours you have
referred to. As a small aside, this is the first time JA has ever written to my personal email address and I
have no idea how he got that.

lam happy with the timeline you suggest - we must reply to JA today but it may be enough for me to do
so if Paula wants to wait till Monday.

In drafting them though, we must reflect the fact that he is a senior backbench MP and we have had
good conversations with him in the past, albeit that he has an axe to grind and has not always been
transparent with us. The really key thing is that he hears our side of the story and in fairness, he is giving
us that opportunity, albeit with very little notice. If Paula could see him on her own with no-one else in
the room that might be the best we could hope for but he may well not agree to that.

I think my reply should be very brief but friendly - something like:-

"Thank you for your email (which strangely arrived in my personal inbox which I see much less
regularly).

lam very sorry that you feel you may have to question the Post Office's good faith in the way the Sub-
Postmasters' cases are being handled. As you know, feelings understandably run high on this issue and it
is very important that you understand the facts of the matter.

tam very glad that you want to hear the Post Office's point of view before taking any action.

Paula has had a well-deserved 3 days of leave this week and as luck would have it, I understand that
your letter to her arrived on the first day she was away. I know that she will be in touch with you as soon
POL00116744

POL00116744

as she possibly can and that she will want to be as frank with you as I know you will be with her.
Yours ever

Alice"

Perhaps you could let me know this morning whether you are happy with that?

Thanks

Alice

From: Chris Aujard mailto:I
Sent: Thursday, October 23, 2014
To: Alice Perkins; Paula.Vennells. <i
Mark R Davies

Py
Subject: Correspondence with James Arbuthnot's office : a quick update and next steps

Dear Both

I thought it might be useful to drop you a short note to let you know where we got to this evening with
James Arbuthnot's office. By way of background:

1. On Tuesday Paula's received a letter from James Arbuthnot asking for a meeting.

2. His office followed up with two subsequent emails from Janet (on Wednesday and today), the
first chasing a response to the letter and the second, saying that Ron was trying to contact Paula
to tell her how things were going from his perspective. In both emails Janet mentions, ina
slightly menacing manner, that James is being approached by the media.

3. This morning Ron contacted Belinda asking for Paula to call him. Belinda spoke to Ron who said
that James (and others) had asked him to speak to Paula about his concerns with the Scheme.

4. This afternoon James emailed Alice, copied to Paula expressing concern about the Scheme.

Given the above, and particularly in view of fact that this all feels rather orchestrated, I placed a call to
James's office around 5:00pm tonight to offer to discuss the role and functioning of the Working Group.
Janet answered - her response was curt, dismissive and quite aggressive: she declined to listen,
repeatedly interrupted me in my efforts to offer a call to James. It took me several attempts to
persuade her to agree to pass my message onto James, though she ultimately did. I followed up my
offer up with an email confirming my willingness to speak. However, as it turns out, she had in the
meantime left a message on my mobile to say that James had declined my offer of a call as he only
wants to speak to Paula and no one else (I am not clear how she got hold of James so quickly as he was
meant to have tied up). [By way of an aside, to start with, she thought that I was Ron (from Second
Sight) when her tone was both very friendly and welcoming!)

In light of the above, Belinda has been developing a handling plan, the elements of which include a draft
letter for you, Paula, to send to James, and a suggested response for you, Alice, to James' email. I am
hoping that this will be finalised tomorrow morning, and that we will be able to circulate the responses
then along with our more general thoughts on the way forward. In the meantime I would suggest that
we hold our line that we are not prepared to discuss the Scheme as it is confidential.

Belinda - please do jump in if you think that I have missed anything of importance!

With kind regards

Chris
POL00116744
POL00116744

PS - many apologies that this brief update is so long!

Chris Aujard I General Counsel
<image001.png>
5! Floor. Bunbill Wing. 148. Old Street, London, EC1V SHQ

see eeeeeneans So aI sok ererrerrer

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com
