No images? Click here

24/02/2023 Issue no.5 Reading time: 4 mins

Hello everyone,

Following my note last week on International Customs
Data Capture (ICDC), the process has now launched
successfully in branches. I know there are a few issues to
iron out, but overall, it's been a very successful rollout. I
wanted to thank you all for working so hard to ensure a
smooth process, for providing feedback which will allow
us to refine and improve the solution, and your patience
during what has been a very difficult situation.

POL00448073
POL00448073
POL00448073
POL00448073

a hl

_The,.
Guardian

Royal Mail resumes overseas deliveries
via post offices after cyber-attack

Branches to get payments to cover lost international income as
postal workers threaten further strikes

Royal Mail

Post Off

isielcl NEWS

Royal Mail resumes overseas mail at
post offices after cyber-attack

Internationa a eres heal ena kU pt in,
ore ha nent afer yl Ma aba aac

Part and Parcel: The Economic and Social
Value of Post Office
Part and Parcel:
The Economic and Social
Value of Post Office

illi 2 in 5 visits..
£3.1 billion eloeeees
DOM etcorers rater “septa ont ten
of belonging to the community 16.5x greater

‘San dieing ronsbeed

This week, we launched our report into the economic and
social value of Post Office to the UK. I've summarised the

key findings below, but you can read more here and also

watch this video of our Postmasters.

For me, this report is incredibly important to demonstrate
to Government the significant role we have across
communities in the UK. The economic and social value is
clearly evidenced and should not be overlooked or taken
for granted by Government. This value is something we
will be reiterating in our on-going conversations with
Government about our funding.

Read on for more detail on the key findings:

The research found that Post Office generates an
economic impact of £4.7 billion across the United
Kingdom a year. In fact, for every £1 spent by Post Office,
an additional £1.51 is generated across the wider
economy. That's more than the economic impact of
Heathrow Airport.

POL00448073
POL00448073
Post Office's branch network also supports communities
at a local level. The expenditure of Post Office's branches
resulted in an average annual economic impact on the UK
economy of £5.8 million per parliamentary constituency,
which is equivalent to an economic contribution of £57 per
person.

Post Office supports around 50,000 full-time equivalent

jobs across the United Kingdom — and as many as 5,500
jobs in some regions. That is equivalent to the number of
full-time employees in a city the size of Lincoln or Exeter.

Key findings: the unseen
part of the United Kingdom's

economic infrastructure

‘© Small and medium-sized businesses regularly rely
‘on their local post offices to operate — in fact, nearly
three in 10 SMEs use Post Office at least once a weeb
and more than half use it at least once a month.

* SMEs hugely value the convenience that the Post
Office network brings to their businesses = worth
almost £1 billion per year overall to SMEs, which
‘equates to over £175 per SME per year.

* SMEs use postal services almost every time they
visit their local post office and greatly value the
convenience of having a post office nearby.

* With more than 5,000 bank branches closing since
2015, Post Office is also increasingly a lifeline for
SMEs by providing essential banking services, such
as depositing cash without needing to shut up shop
and travel to find a bank in a neighbouring town (if it
still has one).

Additionally, for the first time, this research also
illuminates what had previously been less well
understood: Post Office's role as part of the underlying

POL00448073
POL00448073
economic infrastructure of the United Kingdom and as an
enabler of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). It
illustrates that, as well as being an important backstop for
the most vulnerable and excluded groups, Post Office
also stimulates and facilitates economic activity at a
national, regional and local level.

I'd encourage you to read the report - it's very interesting

and showcases the huge contribution you all have on
your communities.

This important work from the Post Of

similar
of tea

Stuart Andrew MP, Minister
Society at the Department for Cult

POL00448073
POL00448073
Mark Cazaly, Head of Corporate Responsibility, featured

alongside some of our Postmasters in a series of local

radio interviews, including BBC Radio Leeds which you
can listen to here. We also had a supportive quote from

Adam Jackson, Postmaster at Earlham House Post Office
in Norwich, featured on BBC Radio Norfolk earlier this
week, in a segment where he shared his experience of
taking on his new branch. Listen to Adam talk about his
learning curve, the many services we provide and the role
Post Office plays in his community, here (from 1:36).

Civil Society Minister, Stuart Andrew MP.

Postmasters in the media

Operational updates to note this week:

Don’t forget the important update on SmartIDs:
Correct use of SmartIDs help us combat money
laundering and means you can be confident your login is
secure, unique to you, and that only you are responsible
for the work you carry out. It really is important that each
counter colleague has their own, which only they use.
Please see more information here

Investigating discrepancies in branch and changes to
the Review or Dispute Button:

Post Office is committed to supporting you to investigate
and resolve discrepancies in your branch. If you find a
discrepancy at the end of your monthly trading period, we
ask that as far as possible, you or your team undertake

your own investigations in branch

There is a useful Investigating Discrepancies digital work
aid that can be found on Branch Hub (navigate to the

POL00448073
POL00448073
POL00448073
POL00448073

Find out more
informaiton here

Business Trading Performance

Week 47 (13 - 19 Feb 2023)

Read more

Do you find my weekly email useful? Please let
me know

Have a good weekend.

Martin Roberts
Group Chief Retail
Officer
POL00448073
POL00448073
