POL00447894

POL00447894
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL
= a
Risk Management Policy
= .
Guidelines
Version - V1.2
INTERNAL. Page 1 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134
POL00447894
POL00447894

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

1. Introduction ....

Lad... SEGPEOF ES GUIGSNN ES cnc ais 2+ scrcetcacetees 2 2 «ome eneeiey +s 2+ sore eisesemie 22 24 eee es ev one 3
2. RISK GOVERNANCE :ssssscemenonssssisessecusnenaeeisasssenmuammmesss4ssscanminmmessia ssonnimemenatiaiass 4
Zale RISK MANAGEMENE CUIEUPE nsss510¢sccpmammmess ross sesmenmmness ses seemmnummons se n6 snommnmmaees 5405 060 4
2.2. Risk Management Structure (3LOD)...
2.3. Risk Management Roles and Responsibilities .............cecsseeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeseneees 5
Zee RISK REDON Gsncs +> 0% ennaummsins 411s nnnmesrenmnns #9» F nameenmmmens #927 ORMMNUNIRING #9 94 EEORENRUITED 91 7 ne 5
3. RISK Strategy seavss, +4 ensaummssmia ++1s eommccrmemens 5 n+ FoonRERNNRIS +» ok amENRRISINN D2 r4 DoRMORMONTED 9 9 6
Bile RISK APPEtiCe soness, 03 annnnenmnis +++ nnmmeotenmnins 990 FevimnemnEN + + # ONNRNIRINR 9» nF ERORINNED #4 THEE 6
G2, POG EXCERUOTIS «5 exepummacaay 6535 secmemmensinn 454 teespinindeces 1554 Yeeupnninaaes 25 14 ¥euIOMReoen 44 94 Ee 6
4, Risk Management Framework........cccssecsseccnseceeeeeesceeeecaseseueeeeseeeeeseeeneeauesenaes rd
Gade OVERVIEW .casenaneesssseecenassanorsesss secueguawnes sss sesnieiemnes +s ss sesumuNnisees4 ssi iecnmenmneestesises 7
Ai TOGQHIEY : s<cnmomeses 2: ss sccmmmsenens +223 scmmmenanes 225 s peammeeumons +422 secnmammesse se ss socemememens si ezsee 7
453. ASSESS) + cacsamnmes +4 +4 enesmneniaes 504 suawauniews 6005 eremuanaaeDS + +98 nnenemaasINn +6 v5 HaeRUNIENNIG 4 08 a0 10
44. RESPOND wemswmncenes +004 svenminannws +96 cemsuMneene 50 v5 aWINUINAIONE +4 96 HNNNITIODING be v4 HeeOUNRNTENITS +008 we 11
4B. MONICOM  cacaannncens ss +s evewwinvanaws +005 evans y 0.06 soeaUnNAaea be 08 SeUNIIADINS 35 v8 HnERTNNNTING 65 08 60 12
5. APPS cenmcouscacs +s sscomianwimiasn sss emcwsmnces + + canuNmanages 95 ++ enemies +6 ss enminoncasae +s san" 13
5.1. Three Line of Defence Structure .....scssesrcereseeescessecsensnsrennessesseeosssneceseressees 13
5.2. Roles and Responsibilities
5.3. Post Office Risk Management Overview — RACI Model ..........:csceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeee 17
B.A. RISK HIBFERCHY)..n1 0505 0ssinneinnms sens seainiinniinuns 4 05 velsitshisnes 24.45 sosiiiustiuens 29.99 seseinnuiniiemn es et 18

5.5. Risk Classification ..

5.6. Risk Taxonomy.

5.7. Version History.

INTERNAL Page 2 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0001
POL00447894
POL00447894

e Limited - D

1. Introduction

The commercially competitive and highly regulated environment, together with operational
complexity, exposes the Post Office to a number of risks.

Each year the Post Office Board begins its planning period with a set of strategic options
balanced against a wallet of finite resource and funding. Each of these options carries
with it a profile of varying risks, therefore a robust and effective Risk Policy and
Guidelines are designed to assist the Board with a pragmatic assessment of competing
strategy options versus the Post Office financial resources.

We define risk as anything that can adversely affect our ability to meet the Post Office’s
strategic objectives, maintain its reputation and comply with regulatory standards. We
seek to understand and harness risk in the pursuit of our objectives and aim to operate
within an acceptable level of risk taking, with an effective risk management process.

1.1. Scope of the Guidelines

The Policy Guidelines aims to:

« Enable the effective identification, measurement, monitoring and management of
risks that may have an impact on the achievement of our strategic ambitions,
create reputational damage or a regulatory breach;

e Ensure that risk taking activities are aligned with risk appetite where approved;

e Ensure compliance with applicable legislative and regulatory requirements;

* Support the business to monitor material changes to the risk profile;

e Support the Central Risk Team to provide a consistent level of oversight, challenge
and assurance to the Board.

It describes:
e Risk culture and leadership;
e Governance and oversight of risk management activities;
« Accountability for risk management;
e Our risk strategy, including risk appetite and policy exceptions;
« Risk management framework used to identify, assess and manage risks.
e Categorisation of risk.

Page 3 of 22

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0002
POL00447894
POL00447894

INTERNAL

é Limited - Document

2. Risk Governance

2.1. Risk Management Culture

Risk culture is the set of acceptable behaviours, discussions, decisions and attitudes toward
taking and managing risk, encouraged by the tone from the top. Such attitudes and
behaviours comprise, but are not limited to, timely, transparent and honest
communication, a common purpose, values and ethics and the active promotion of learning
and continuous development. The board has a responsibility to establish, communicate
and put into effect a risk culture that aligns with the strategy and objectives of the business
and thereby supports the embedding of its risk management and processes.

We have a risk culture that ensures colleagues understand that they are accountable for
the risks they take and that the needs of customers are paramount. It is the responsibility
of every colleague to be aware of and understand risk and risk management, and how this
should apply to their day to day activity.

Achieving a good risk aware culture is ensured by establishing an appropriate risk principles
and process.

2.2. Risk Management Structure (3LOD)

The structure of risk management at Post Office is based on the three lines of defence
(3LOD) model as its primary means to demonstrate a structured approach to
governance, compliance and oversight. The three lines of defence model provides a
simple and effective way to help delegate and coordinate risk management roles and
responsibilities within and across the organisation. Refer to Appendix 5.1 for three line of
defence structure.

Page 4 of 22

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0003
POL00447894

POL00447894

2.3. Risk Management Roles and Responsibilities

Implementing risk management requires appropriate delegation of authorities, as well as
clear accountabilities, and responsibilities at each organisational level.

The Post Office Board through its Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) has
responsibility to review the overall risk management and strategy.

The Accountable Officer (or CEO) set the tone at the top for risk management
throughout the business and establishes governance arrangements at Post Office.

The General Executive (GE) has day to day responsibility for the systems of internal
control, including risk management.

The Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC) reviews the effectiveness of the Risk Policy
and management of principal risks.

The Central Risk Team oversee the corporate approach to risk management. This
involves defining and implementing risk standards, policies, procedures and guidance.
They also assist the 1° line function in the risk management activities in line with good
practice as well as monitor compliance and effectiveness.

All colleagues, contractors and Postmasters should be risk aware.

Refer to Appendix 5.2 for Roles and Responsibilities and 5.3 for RACI (Responsible,
Accountable, Consulted and Informed) Model.

2.4. Risk Reporting

Risk reporting allows for the effective review, challenge and monitoring of risk exposure
against Post Office’s approved risk appetites. Such regular (and incremental) reporting
has several benefits including:

* ensuring responses are effective and efficient;

e building up knowledge to improve risk identification and analysis;

e providing a better link between risks and objectives, key dependencies, core
processes and stakeholder expectations;

e detecting and preparing for changes and trends in existing risks, including the
extent to which risks are aligned with approved appetite and tolerance levels;

e identifying and preparing for new and emerging risks; and,

e identifying good risk management practice, building on it and disseminating it to
other parts of the organisation.

A corporate Governance, Risk & Compliance (GRC) software tool (i.e. ServiceNow GRC
Risk Management) supports the Post Office in providing risk performance data allowing
us to more accurately gauge our risk exposure in real time.

In addition to this, the Central Risk Team provide appropriate and timely reporting (every
2 months) to GE members, RCC and ARC, such as:

« Risk “Dashboard” showing the latest position of their Enterprise and Intermediate
risks outside of appetite (including new and emerging risks) to GE members;

e Risk Update to RCC and ARC showing the latest position of the group key
intermediate and local risks outside appetite (including new and emerging risks).

Risks are escalated to the GE members through these Dashboards.

Page 5 of 22

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0004
POL00447894
POL00447894

3. Risk Strategy

3.1. Risk Appetite

Risk appetite is agreed by the Board and is the extent to which Post Office will accept that
a risk might happen in pursuit of day to day businesses activites. It therefore defines the
boundaries of activity and levels of exposure that we are willing and able to tolerate. It
provides agreed tolerable risk levels, that Post office is willing to operate in given current
funding constraints. The application of risk management practices cannot, and will not
eliminate all risk exposure.

Board risk appetite statements by Principal risk were initially approved by Board in 2015/16
and are currenly under review. From this review, risk appetite statements were updated
and approved in 2021 for Legal and Operational, in 2022 for Technology and in 2023 for
People, Commercial, Governance and Financial. Refer to our Central Risk Team intranet

Risk Appetite (sharepoint.com) for all refreshed appetite statements.

3.2. Policy Exceptions

A Policy Exception is required when the business wishes to operate outside of agreed policy
and regulations.

Anyone in the business can request a Policy Exception. However, the Policy Exceptions
should not be considered a normal part of business and you should only raise when all
other alternative options have been exhausted with discussions involving senior decision
makers.

A Policy Exception Note (PEN) form needs to be completed by the Exception owner and
approved by the GE member (or delegate GE-1) of the Business Area and the GE Policy
Owner. Once approved, a copy of the PEN should be sent to the relevant Risk Business
Partner (RBP). The approved PEN and approval email from the Policy Owner and GE
member (or delegate GE-1) needs to be attached to the new risk record in ServiceNow
GRC tool.

For further information refer to the PEN form and “How to Guide” document or contact
your Business Unit Risk Business Partner.

INTERNAL Page 6 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0005
POL00447894

POL00447894

4. Risk Management Framework

4.1. Overview

Effective risk management helps us to ensure that our products and processes are fit for
purpose. Customers, shareholders and regulators require Post Office to have effective
processes to identify, manage, monitor and report the risks it is all might be exposed to.

We are committed to working with all colleagues to make risk management a core process
that is an integral part of business activities. The benefits of managing our risk includes:

« Supporting the achievement of our trading profit target;

« Supporting good customer outcomes;

e Compliance with legal and regulatory frameworks;

« Management of external impacts and change;

e Improving decision making, planning and prioritisation;

e Supporting cost efficiency;

e Exploiting opportunities and encourages innovation.

The Risk Management Framework, shown below, is the means by which the business will
effectively manage risk. This Framework ensures that risks are identified and managed
effectively across the business. To demonstrate this, Post Office risks are recorded and
managed within the ServiceNow GRC Risk Management tool. A SNOW Risk Management
User Guide is available here.

Identify

4.2. Identify

Risk identification is vital to the success of the Risk Management Process. It is:
e An ongoing activity, with individual risks and the impact and/or likelihood of risks
materialising changing regularly;
e The process of determining what risks might prevent us from delivering our
objectives.
The board, and those setting strategy and policy, should use horizon scanning and scenario
planning collectively and collaboratively to identify and consider the nature of emerging
risks, threats and trends.

INTERNAL Page 7 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0006
POL00447894

POL00447894

Risks are identified from a number of sources including:

e Changes to the operating environment, periodic horizon scanning and review of
external environment;

e Planning (at strategic, group and operational levels);

« Monitoring of assurance activity;

e Monitoring of performance;

e Existing forums (Board, ARC, RCC, GE, audit team and project / programme
meetings) where risk is a standing agenda item;

« External risk workshops or conferences attended by Central Risk Team and
colleagues;

e Indicators of emerging risks;

e Internal / external audit;

e Incidents management.

Risk Hierarchy and Classification

Post Office has a risk hierarchy which involves three tiers of risk: enterprise, intermediate
and local (enterprise risks are Post Office’s key business risks, intermediate risks are sub-
categories of an enterprise risk to which they are linked and local risks are generally sub-
categories of intermediate risks, to which they are linked). These are linked into fourteen
risk themes which mirror HM Government's approach to enterprise risk classification. Refer
to Appendix 5.4 for Risk Hierarchy and 5.5 for Risk Classification.

Risk Ownership

All risks, once identified, must be assigned a risk owner with a ServiceNow GRC Risk
Management license and sufficient authority and responsibility for ensuring the risk is
managed and monitored. The risk owner may not always be the action owner responsible
for mitigating actions.

Accountability helps to ensure that ‘ownership’ of the risk is recognised and the appropriate
management resource allocated.

Normally the Enterprise risks are owned by GE members, Intermediate risks by GE, GE-1
or GE-2 and Local Risks by Business team level.

Risk Articulation

All risks across the risk hierarchy are defined by their cause(s), the risk event itself, and
their impact, in line with the Bow Tie Methodology (see picture below):

¢ Cause: A cause is an element which alone or in combination with other causes has
the potential to give rise to the risk. They are normally (but not exclusively)
external;

e« Event: An event is an articulation of the potential adverse or beneficial
circumstances that could result from the cause - in effect the risk itself. A risk may
have multiple causes and consequences and can affect multiple business
objectives. Post Office risks are classified against the Event not the Cause or the
Impact; and,

« Consequences/Impact: Consequences are the outcome of a risk event
materialising. Outcomes can be positive or negative. They can also be direct or
indirect. It is also possible to express them qualitatively or quantitatively. They
should be assessed using Post Office HARM table. Refer to our Central Risk Team
intranet here for the HARM Table.

INTERNAL Page 8 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0007
POL00447894
POL00447894

Bow Tie Methodology
The Bow-Tie Diagram below illustrates the connections between risk events, their root
causes and consequences/impact by:

* Visualising a summary of plausible consequences that could exist around a certain

event.
¢ Displaying what control measures an organization can take to control those
consequences
RISK CONTROLS
Cc
fe}
N
Ss Ss
fo} [=
U Q
ee pj} =I IU
Cc [=
Ee N
s [J ]c
genes PREVENTATIVE } I RESPONSIVE E
CONTROLS CONTROLS s

Examples of risks articulated in line with the Bow Tie diagram are showed below:

Example 1
Bow Tie Diagram — Supply Chain operational resilience

‘A. Exceptionally high levels of cash

Unable to pro

Inability
HSN fails

scover backlog if
more than x day

Controls Root Causes Affected I Impact Affected

Reconciliation of Horizon cash to branch cash in CFS. AC
‘Approval of cash orders - Bureau A
Review of cash in transit that sstillin pouch, 5

Controls are Preventative, Detective or Corrective

INTERNAL Page 9 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0008
POL00447894
POL00447894

Example 2
Bow Tie Diagram - Robbery risks in branch network & CViT.

branch or during (

delivery/collection members of the public

C. Economic downturn means
more desperate

D. Supply Chain unable to keep
cash levels under control

4.3. Assess

Once a risk is identified it is evaluated and assessed. Risk evaluation helps to determine
the severity of the risk faced by the likelihood of it materialising, together with the severity
of the impact. The result of this evaluation gives a score which feeds into an overall risk
profile.
The measurement of risk is based primarily on a traditional impact v likelihood approach
using a 5 x 5 HARM Table matrix, as summarised below:
e Impact and likelihood are multiplied to give an overall score.
e The overall scoring can range from 1 to 25, with higher scores indicating a greater
level of exposure.
« Measuring risks at Post Office is a qualitative process with individual views on the
likelihood and impact on the business, which will vary.

The result of the risk evaluation is used to produce a risk profile which gives a risk rating
to each risk and therefore provides a tool for prioritising treatment. This also ranks each
identified risk to give a view of its relative importance.

Each active risk should have 2 ratings namely:

e Inherent: the level of risk before any control activities are applied;
e Residual: the latest level of risk considering the effectiveness of the controls
currently in place.

And, where applicable, Control Effectiveness:

Effectiveness Performance

The control(s) significantly reduces the risk, bringing the residual risk
within appetite

The control(s) has some impact on reducing the risk

The control(s) does not adequately address the risk

INTERNAL Page 10 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0009
POL00447894
POL00447894

Risk Heatmap

Bo semam-s
=
Likelihood
4.4. Respond

Respond is the implementation of actions to respond to risks including decisions on whether
to tolerate, treat, transfer or terminate. The risk score creates a decision point in which we
decide how to respond, as follows:

Risk Response Description

The exposure may be tolerable without any further action being

taken. Even if it is not tolerable, the ability to do anything about
(Tolerate/Retain) some risks may be limited, or the costs of taking any action may
be disproportionate to the potential benefit gained.

Accept

By far the greater number of risks will be addressed in this way.

The purpose of treatment is that, whilst continuing within Post

(Treat/Control/Reduce) Office with the activity giving rise to the risk, action (control) is
taken to constrain the risk to an acceptable level.

Mitigate

Transferring a risk by means of an insurance policy (e.g. a cyber

reenter risk might be transferred because we have an insurance policy)

Some risks will only be treatable or containable to acceptable
levels, by terminating the activity. In these circumstances,
appropriate responses will be elimination of the risk by stopping
Avoid the process or activity, substituting an alternative process or
outsourcing the activity that is associated with the risk (e.g., you
can decide to ban the usage of laptops outside of the company
premises if the risk of unauthorized access to those laptops is too
high — because, e.g., such hacks could halt the complete IT
infrastructure you are using)

(Terminate/ Eli

INTERNAI Page 11 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0010
POL00447894

POL00447894

4.5. Monitor

The risk information within the ServiceNow GRC Risk Management is used to develop the
main source of risk reporting for use by management and, where applicable by both
Internal and External Audit requests.

This is focused on (a) reacting to early warning indicators of the need to make
interventions, (b) reviewing emerging risks and opportunities, (c) reviewing whether risks
owners are implementing the responses for which they are accountable and, (d) reporting
on the success (or otherwise) of the interventions to date and whether additional activity
is required.

Information should be updated regularly to ensure accurate and up to date information is
available for reporting purposes.

In addition to this, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Annual Report and
Accounts include statements on the key risks and uncertainties facing the business
together with the high level remediation activities. This work is informed by year end
processes, which includes a review of Enterprise Risks and the Executive Declaration
process which enables GE to consider (and attest annually) if any additional disclosures
are required.

Escalation

This is the process which ensures that risks are escalated, as required. This is critical to
ensuring appropriate decisions and actions are taken to respond appropriately to a
particular risk. It is the responsibility of the individual risk owner to raise risks which they
believe have a material impact to Post Office/outside appetite and/or tolerance. Such risks
should be escalated through the business hierarchy that the risk exists.

This should ensure that (a) appropriate decisions and actions are taken to respond
appropriately to a particular risk, (b) different areas of professional expertise and views
are appropriately considered in the management of risks, and (c) sufficient information
and evidence to facilitate risk oversight and decision making are provided.

Page 12 of 22

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0011
5. Appendix

POL00447894
POL00447894

5.1. Three Line of Defence Structure

Board/ARC

Group Executive/RCC/Senior Management

ef

:

Ef

1" Line of Defence

GE ups (and thei
directorates /units)

+ Identify, assess, own and
manage risks

+ Design, implement and maintain

+ effective internal control
measures

+ Supervise execution and monitor

+ adherence

+ Implement corrective actions to
address deficiencies.

2" Line of Defence

Risk Management fun ns
( Central Risk Team)

Oversees the corporate approach to
risk management. This involves
defining and implementing risk
standards, policies, procedures and
guidance. Assist the 1st line
function in the management of their
risks in line with good practice as
well as monitor compliance and
effectiveness.

Accountable for identifying and
alerting the Board, the Group
Executive and the ARC to emerging
issues and changing risk scenarios.

3" Line of Defence

Internal Au

Provide an independent evaluation of
the adequacy and effectiveness of
the Post Office’s control

Advise on potential control strategies
and the design of controls.

Report directly on their work to ARC.
An independent evaluation of risk
management framework, and
governance is undertaken by a 3
party to ensure independence is
maintained

sioupny Aped I €/jeus83x4
solpoq uoljdedsuly

Responsibility for risk management

Independence from management

INTERNAL Page 13 of 22

20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0012
POL00447894

POL00447894
5.2. Roles and Responsibilities
Level Roles and Respon: ies
Board « Set the tone at the top for risk management throughout the business

and establishes governance arrangements.

e Ensure that a framework of systems processes for effective risk
management and internal control are in place and functioning
appropriately.

e Consider information on the operation of risk management
arrangements via papers to the Audit, Risk and Compliance
Committee, Accountable Officer and through the annual assurances
for the completion of the annual report and accounts.

« Assure itself that the business identifies and effectively manages any
risks that could affect the achievement of the strategy.

e Defines the overall risk appetite.

e Monitor the risk profile.

« Monitor and act on escalated risks.

Audit, Risk and I + Review the Risk Policy, Risk Appetite and attitude to risk to ensure

Compliance these are appropriately defined and communicated.
Committee « Review the Post Office’s overall risk position and periodically invite
(ARC) management to outline risk management strategy and status within

their specific business units.

« Review management's assessment of the degree of risk the Post
Office prudently incurs in achieving a reasonable balance between
the cost of managing risk and control systems and the benefits
derived.

e Review areas of specific risk as highlighted by management,
including enterprise and intermediate risk.

* Monitor the Risk and Compliance Committee activities and receive
summary reports as appropriate.

« Approve the Risk Policy and Risk Appetite for the business.

Risk and e Review the effectiveness of the Risk Policy and maintain oversight of
Compliance the development and implementation of the components.
Committee e Maintain oversight of the current risk exposures of Post Office and
(RCC) advice on future risk strategy.

e Review the identification and effective management of current key
risks, identified mitigating actions and emerging risks.

e Receive and review risk reports from Sub-Committees.

e Consider and review the adequacy of internal controls and make
recommendations for the improvement.

e Monitor the implementation of key recommendations and
management action plans.

e Review the adequacy of policy governance and recommend changes.

Accountable e Specific personal responsibility for signing the annual accounts,
Officer including the Accountable Officer's Governance Statement.

General « Implement risk management and its assurance mechanisms.
Executive * Contribute to and review of the Enterprise and Intermediate and local

risks outside of appetite, where approved.

Non-Executive I Provide independent and objective scrutiny of the risk management
Directors structure and processes.

INTERNAL Page 14 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0013
POL00447894
POL00447894

Level Roles and Respon es
Director of « Agrees on the information to be reported to Board Committees.
Internal Audit e Ensure appropriate risk governance arrangements are in place.
and Risk . purer of the Group Risk Management Policy and ensures it is
implemented.
Management Owns and manages escalated risks as appropriate.
« Ensure adequate resource within the Central Risk Team.
e Attends the ARC and RCC.
Central Risk « Oversee the corporate approach to risk management.
Team « Assist the 1% line function in the risk management activities in line
with good practice as well as monitor compliance and effectiveness
e Enable risk identification including emerging risks.
e Monitor risks assessment completion and mitigation plans.
e Monitor compliance with risk appetite, where approved.
«Provide independent challenge and review to monitor the status of
risks and, where necessary, to escalate issues to GE/RCC/ARC.
e Provide latest position of risks within the business through Risk
report “Dashboard” to the GE and Risk Paper to the RCC and ARC.
« Provide assurance to Board Committees and leadership over the
effectiveness of risk management.
e Develop plans to improve the management of risk.
e Support the Policy Exception processes.
e Develop and implement Risk Management Policy and Risk
Management Guidelines.
e Develop (in discussion with 1% line) Risk Appetite Statements.
e Support the business in developing an appropriate risk culture
including upskilling capability training.
« Facilitate GE meetings / risk meetings/ workshops.
e Provide training on ServiceNow GRC Risk Management tool.
« Develop and update ServiceNow GRC Risk Management tool training
materials.
e Ensure ServiceNow GRC Risk Management tool works properly and
raise issues where necessary.
Risk Owners « Support the implementation of the Risk Policy and Risk Management
Guidelines.
e Identify new risks including emerging risks.
« Perform risk assessments and update mitigation plans on ServiceNow
GRC Risk Management tool according to the risk assessment release
schedule.
e Seek Central Risk Team support and escalate if required.
e Should be Post Office permanent employee.
e Raise and manage Policy Exceptions.
New starters e Follow the Risk Management Policy and Risk Management Guidelines
and understand the part they play.
e Be risk aware, identify / report on potential risks and minimise.
e Participate in any training sessions or workshops as required.
e Carry out any agreed control measures and duties as instructed.
Compliance * Provide the business with up-to-date regulatory requirements.
« Support compliance with regulations and best practice.
Internal Audit e Internal Audit work is undertaken on major risks faced by the
business and effectiveness of associated controls.

INTERNA Page 15 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0014
POL00447894
POL00447894

Roles and Responsibilities

« Provide independent, objective assurance on the effectiveness of the
systems of internal control.

e An independent evaluation of risk management framework and
governance is undertaken by a 3rd party to ensure independence is
maintained.

e Provide recommendations for improvement where necessary.

INTERNAL Page 16 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0015
POL00447894
POL00447894

5.3. Post Office Risk Management Overview - RACI Model

Board/ AR‘ Entity/Department Owner Owner Risk Central
Response Owner ie Team

Sign off Risk policy and
risk standards

Implement Risk policy and
risk standards

Set Risk Appetite
Identify Risks

Assess Risks

Assess controls
Respond to Risks
Update Mitigation Plan
Monitor corporate
approach to risk
management

Assist the risk management
in line with best practice
Report Post Office Risk
Profile

i Responsible Whois assigned to do the work
TARC: Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
2RCC: Risk and Compliance Committee is I Accountable Who makes the final decision and has the ultimate ownership
Consulted Who must be contulted before a decision is taken
Informed Who must be informed that a decision or action has been
taken
INTERNAL Page 17 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0016
POL00447894
POL00447894

5.4. Risk Hierarchy

Enterprise Risks are Post Office’s key business risks. These risks
are Post Office-wide and so are of corporate importance.

Each enterprise risk is owned by a relevant GE member. Central
Risk provide an update on the management of these enterprise
risks at each RCC and ARC.

Intermediate Risks are sub-categories of an enterprise risk to
which they are linked. They are often the key risks faced by
individual business units.

Local Risks are generally sub-categories of intermediate
risks, to which they are linked. They are often more specific,
local risks faced by the departments within individual business
units.

INTERNAL Page 18 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0017
POL00447894
POL00447894

5.5. Risk Classification

Risk Category Description

Change Risks around Post Office change programmes/projects are not aligned to Strategic Purpose, are ineffectively governed and do
not successfully and safely deliver requirements and intended benefits to time, cost and quality.

Commercial Risks around weaknesses in the Post Office management of commercial partnerships, supply chains and contractual
requirements, insufficient product/service development, unattractive products/services and wider adverse trading
performance.

Financial Risks around Post Office not managing finances and tax liabilities effectively, levels of unsustainable borrowing, insufficient
liquidity, unsustainable levels of borrowing, loss of revenue, inadequate investment and insufficient funding.

Governance Risks around Post Office having an ineffective corporate structure, unclear plans, competing priorities, opaque accountability,

inadequate oversight of corporate performance and untimely and ineffective decision-making.

Health & Safety

Risks around Post Office facing a challenging external H&S environment and having an inadequate internal H&S environment
and ineffective internal H&S working practices

Information

Risks around Post Office capturing data ineffectively, not exploiting it adequately and suffering from material data inaccuracy.

Legal &
Regulatory

Risks around Post Office having an ineffective corporate and compliance & control environment, ineffectively managing its
contract & transaction management obligations, being non-compliant with its statutory & regulatory requirements (including
Employment Law and Pension obligations), encountering adversarial Disputes & Litigation and misuse of its Intellectual
Property & Brand.

Marketplace &
Brand

Risks around Post Office being unable to compete in the market place, unable to undertake sufficient market research,
experiencing volatile consumer demands and suffering from a tarnished Brand.

Operational

Risks around Post Office being unable to focus on postmaster or customer needs or deliver a high quality customer
experience, because of insufficient operational capacity, inadequate capability, ineffective business processes and inadequate
Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery arrangements.

People

Risks around Post Office having a sub-optimal business culture, ineffective on-boarding arrangements, unsatisfactory
retention levels, insufficient L&D, inadequate Work-Life balance, inadequate rewards and recognition, ineffective Knowledge
Transfer/corporate memory arrangements and adversarial Industrial Relations.

INTERNAL

Page 19 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0018

POL00447894
POL00447894

‘isk Category Descripti:

Reputation Risks around Post Office having an adverse environmental impact, suffering from ethical violations, inadequate Corporate
Social Responsibility and a damaged reputation and loss of trust.

Security Risks around Post Office having inadequate and ineffective Cyber and Security arrangements.

Strategy Risks around Post Office's Strategic Purpose (including M&A and divestments) being poorly designed or unaligned with wider
macro-economic environment, unable to be delivered by current capabilities and mechanisms and not fully supported by key
external stakeholders.

Technology Risks around Post Office IT services being unsatisfactory, IT performance ineffective, IT Infrastructure and products/services
inadequate, IT processes deficient and IT development insufficient.

INTERNAL Page 20 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0019
POL00447894

POL00447894
5.6. Risk Taxonomy

# Name Desc

1 Control Assessment of the quality of controls used to minimize the
effectiveness inherent risks of the Post Office.

2 I Control Attitude, awareness, and culture of the Post Office regarding risk
environment management and/or internal control.

3_ I Control Actions to reduce the likelihood and/or magnitude of a risk.

System by which organisations are directed and controlled. It
defines accountabilities, relationships and responsibilities in the
organisation as well as determine the rules and procedures and
monitors performance.

5_I HARM table Description of parameters for assessing risks.

Effect on the Post Office’s financial, infrastructure and reputation
position when a risk materialises.

Level of risk before any control activities are applied. Sometimes
referred to as Gross risk.

Evaluation or judgement regarding the chances of the risk
8 I Likelihood materialising, sometimes established as a ‘probability’ or
‘frequency’.

Existing level of risk taking into account the controls already in
place. Sometimes referred to as Net risk or Current risk.

Risk management I Co-ordinated range of activities that deliver management and
process control of risks within Post Office.

Implementation of actions to respond to risks including decisions
on whether to tolerate, treat, transfer or terminate

The effect of uncertainty on the Post Office achieving its strategic
objectives. That effect may be positive, negative or a deviation
from the expected. Risks are described in terms of causes,
potential events and their consequences.

The amount of and type of risk that the Post Office is willing to
pursue or retain.

Persons or groups of people with an interest in the activities of
the Post Office.

Response that is appropriate when the level is not acceptable to
the Post Office, also referred to as Avoid or Eliminate.

4 I Governance

6 I Impact

7 I Inherent risk

9 I Residual risk

10

11 I Risk Response

12 I Risk

13 I Risk appetite

14 I Stakeholders

15 I Terminate

Response that is appropriate when the level of risk is acceptable

16 I Tolerate to the Post Office, also referred to as Accept or Retain.
Response for risks that the Post Office wishes to transfer to

17 I Transfer another party, usually by means of insurance or contractual
transfer.
Response for risks that the Post Office believes can be further

18 I Treat treated by the introduction of cost-effective (corrective) controls,
also referred to as Control or Reduce.

INTERNAL Page 21 of 22 20240422 Risk Management Policy Guidelines v1.2

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0020
5.7. Version History

POL00447894
POL00447894

Date Version Updated by Change Details

October 2022 1.0 Roberta Annual review and amends
Zavaglia/Audrey
Cahill

October 2023 1.0 Roberta Zavaglia Annual review and amends

Page 22 of 22

POL-BSFF-106-0000134_0021
