POL00098777
POL00098777

Message

From: Martin Edwards f

on behalf of — Martin Edwards ¢ GRO
Sent: 27/06/2013 20:
To: Paula Vennells
Subject: Re: JA?

I'm glad you thought I looked thoughtful - in truth it was primarily a look of bafflement and slight
concern at Lesley'’s explanation of “transient data" and “archiving processes"! (I think we got there in
the end on that one - we obviously need a plain English explanation of why no wider implications can be
extrapolated from the 14 cases)

My only other concern at the meeting was around the feasibility of some of the options/levers that were
raised. As discussed we need to think about a Plan B given the likelihood that James won't agree to delay
the meeting/report. We also need to be very careful not to overplay our hand with SS - they could turn
out to be quite dangerous if we threaten them with legal action or attempt to replace them with another
firm, Easy for this to be portrayed in the media as heavy handed tactics because we don't like their
findings (it plays directly into the existing perceptions we're trying to counteract).

So I think we're stuck with the softer option of explaining to JA calmly but firmly why he cannot allow
SS to disseminate a misleading interim report - it either needs to be delayed or repositioned as a very
neutral status update (with more detail on the one case that has been resolved).

And backing this up with a robust plan to get our messages out to the media (Mark, Alwen and I are
catching up on is tomorrow).

We can think through a more detailed handling plan and lines to take once we've seen the draft report on
Monday .

Will give this more thought and staying closely involved over the next week.
Thanks,

Martin

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive

on 27 Jun 2013, at 20:02, "Paula Vennel1s” I GRO ‘wrote:

> Martin, I wondered if you had any further thoughts on 3A?

>
> You were looking thoughtful throughout the meeting. Although I didn't get the sense you were holding
back - you asked some good questions.

>

Don’t hesitate to flag anything you think we have missed!
Thanks for your support as always,

Paula

vvvvvvy

Sent from my iPhone

POL-0098360
