POL00128887
POL00128887

From:
Sent:
To:
Cec: Watts, Alant.
Williams GRO 4
Subject: FW: Post Office: GLO - strictly privileged and confidential - settlement authority
Attachment: 20191122 Shareholder Approval for POL Settlement Range November Mediation_V2 BW.docx
Hi Al

UKGI have written to us following the CFO letter and they would like a tweak.
Would you mind reviewing the attached letter and the basis upon which they are willing to provide approval.
Do let me know your thoughts and III go back to them.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat

Group General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

“GRO

Mobile {

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI

Sent: 25 November 2019 09:49

To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI; Emanuel, Catherine

Ce: Aldred, Tom - UKGI; Rodric Williams; Ben Foat; Watts, Alan; Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Subject: RE: Post Office: GLO - strictly privileged and confidential - settlement authority

Ben, Alan, Kate,

As Tom mentioned below we are hoping to provide written confirmation of authority soon and attach a draft of the
proposed letter. You will see that we want to put a time limit on the authority but not in a way that might have
unintended consequences for any Part 36 offers should this weeks mediation not be successful.

The terms of Al Cameron’s letter about POL’s ability to fund any settlement should have confirmed that POL’s ability
to fund would not require any changes to existing funding agreed for the period up to March 2021 — so we have
included something around this.

Do let us know if anything in this proposed draft causes a problem.

We shall be in touch about practicalities for any further settlement approval above £48m. You will see that the figure
must ensure final settlement of the litigation and must be approved by POL’s Chair and CEO before we consider it.
POL00128887
POL00128887

Happy to discuss
Kind regards
Richard

Richard WatsonIGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Cooper, Tom - UKG!
Sent: 22 November 2019 22:44
To: Emanuel, Catherine £

Watson, Richard - UKGI <
ben.foat@” Watts, Alan
LO - strictly privileged and confidential - settlement authority

Kate
Let’s speak on Monday.

We’re planning to write to confirm approval once we’re in a position to do so. The letter will also set out who to
contact if a further decision is required.

No need to disturb your coaching. I hope you’re preparing the kids to World Cup winning standard. We can use the
help.

Tom

Sent from my iPhone
On 22 Nov 2019, at 22:07, Emanuel, Catherine <¢

~} wrote:
Tom & Tom,
lam sorry about the outcome of the permission application, but at least we now know where we stand.

With the upcoming mediation in mind, I wanted to be clear on our authorities. My understanding is
that:

1. BEIS is supportive of Post Office making offers up to £50m (on the basis that Post Office
obviously wants BEIS on board with its general strategy); and

2. Weare able to contact you to get authority to go up to £65m on the day of the mediation if we
think it is desirable to do so.
POL00128887
POL00128887

Could you let me know if that also reflects your understanding. If so, are there any particular
arrangements you would like put in place to enable us to contact you on Wednesday or (more likely)
Thursday — potentially quite late into the evening.

We are obviously happy to keep you updated on the progress of the mediation. I had in mind emailing
you regular updates on the state of play, but let me know if you would like us to play things differently.

Happy to discuss, if that would be helpful. My mobile number is if you'd like to reach me
over the weekend. I should probably confess I am on the rugby pitch on both Saturday and Sunday
mornings (U8 coach, for my sins) but should otherwise be available at any time.

Kind regards
Kate

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its subsidiaries and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are separate member
firms of the international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills.

This message is confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. If you are not the intended recipient you must
not disclose or use the information contained in it. If you have received this email in error please notify us immediately by
return email or by calling our main switchboard on +44 20 7374 8000 and delete the email.

Further information is available from www_herbertsmithfreehills.com, including our Privacy Policy which describes how we
handle personal information.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number
0310989. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors' Regulation Authority of England and Wales whose rules can be
accessed via www. sra.org.uk/code-of-conduct,page. A list of the members and their professional qualifications is open to
inspection at the registered office, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EG. We use the word partner of Herbert
Smith Frechills LLP to refer to a member of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, or an employee or consultant with equivalent
standing and qualifications. Herbert Smith Freehills LP's registration number for Value Added Tax in the United Kingdom is
GB 927 1996 83

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote
also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and
for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

ACCRA ARR A 2K OR I ARR 212 I ARR 212 2 OR A FN OR CORR EON OR A COR ao

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

HECK A FRR A 22K 2 FARR 2K 2 2 ARR 212 2 228 D2 C08 EBON OR A CER a a

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”
