POL00358173
POL00358173

Post Office statement on findings of interim
report into Horizon computer system

Monday 8 July 2013

The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to the publication of an
interim report into alleged problems with the Horizon computer system, which is used to
record transactions in its branch network.

The report is being published by an external firm, Second Sight, who were
commissioned by the Post Office last year. It confirms that no system wide problems
have been found in relation to the Horizon software, but suggests that the Post Office
should examine its support and training processes for sub-postmasters.

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

"We commissioned this independent review to address concerns that have been raised
about the Horizon system and we welcome the broad thrust of the interim findings.

"The Post Office is committed to supporting Its people and improving the way we do so.
The interim review makes clear that the Horizon computer system and its supporting
processes function effectively across our network. As the review notes, it is used by
around 68,000 people in more than 11,500 branches, successfully processing more than
six million transactions every day. The review underlines our cause for confidence in the
overall system.

"It does however raise questions about the training and support we have offered to some
sub-postmasters and we are determined to address these issues,

"The people who work in the post office network in communities across the country are
the lifeblood of our business and we take our responsibilities to them very seriously,

"We therefore regret very much if any sub-postmaster feels that our standards of support
or training have not met their needs, and we are grateful to James Arbuthnot MP and the
Justice for Sub-posimasters Alliance (JFSA) for raising these issues with us.

“In many of these cases I am confident that steps have already been taken which have
improved support and training but we are always open to feedback and insights from
sub-postmasters. So we will make further improvements in this area and take better
account of individual requirements and circumstances going forward."

The Post Office is proposing to respond to the Second Sight report with three new
initiatives almed at addressing the issues raised, improving future processes and
exarnining potential structural changes to support sub-postmasters:

41. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the review of cases

POL-BSFF-0183894
started by Second Sight last year. This would examine the themes identified by Second
Sight and consider all cases brought forward by the JFSA and MPs, together with any
new themes which emerge from these cases. The JFSA have been invited to join this
working party.

2. A review chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety
net might be introduced to adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. Again the JFSA
and other stakeholders will be invited to take part in this process.

3. A new Branch User Forum to provide a way for sub-postmasters and others to raise
issues and insights around business processes, training and support, directly feeding
into the organisation’s thinking at the highest level. A key task for this forum will be to
review support processes and training to ensure they meet the standards expected of
the Post Office.

Ms Vennells added: "We have an obligation to protect public money, including
investigating suspected wrongdoing. However, we hope the action we are already taking
and these additional proposals to work collaboratively with the JFSA and sub-
postmasters demonstrate our commitment to improving the way we support all those
who work in our unrivalled branch network."

[ HYPERLINK
"http://www.postoffice.co.uk/sites/default/files/POL%20Interim%20Report%20Signed.pdf
"]

For more information, please contact:

e Ruth X Barker
e Post Office Press Office

Email: [ HYPERLINK "mailto:pressoffice!_

Advice to Customers

If you are a customer please note our press releases are intended for use by journalists
only and customers should not use them to make financial decisions. Please remember
information in past press releases may no longer be current.

Please note the Press Office team can only deal with enquiries from the media.
Unfortunately they do not have access to customer information so can not help with
customer enquiries.

If you have an enquiry regarding any Post Office pi
HYPERLINK "http://www. postoffice.co.uk/" ] or cal

r service please visit [

POL00358173
POL00358173

POL-BSFF-0183894_0001
