Tab 1 Welcome

POL00423569

POL00423569

POST OFFICE LIMITED

Meeting: Risk and Compliance Committee
Date: 6 May 2020
Time: 14.00 - 17.00
Location: Via Microsoft Teams
Present: Attendees:
Alisdair Cameron (Chairman) Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit)
Nick Read (Group CEO) Mark Baldock (Head of Risk)
Ben Foat (Group General Counsel) Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director)
Amanda Jones (Group Retail and Franchise Network Tom Lee (Head of Finance Financial Accounting and
Director, Interim) Controls)
Andrew Goddard (deputising for Owen Woodley) Rebecca Whibley (Assistant Company Secretary)
Lisa Cherry (Group Chief People Officer) Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer): Item 5
Jeff Smyth (Group Chief Information Officer, Interim) Sherrill Taggart (Interim Legal Director): Items 6 & 7
Julie Thomas (Operations Director) Barbara Brannon (Procurement Director): Item 8
Rod Williams (Head of Legal DR & Brand): Item 9
Apologies:
Owen Woodley (Group Chief Commercial Officer) I
Dial In Detai
ams Meeting
£ United Kingdom, London (Toll)
Conference ID: 478 651 766#
Pin (if applicable): 58042
Time Item Owner Action
14:00 I 1. Welcome & Conflicts of Interest Chairman Noting
14,05 I 2. I Previous Meetings Chairman
2.1 Minutes (9 March 2020) Approval
2.2 Action List Discussion
14.15 I 3. Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit
Update
a4 Risk Report, including update on Mark Baldock Noting
internal controls software (onward submission to ARC)
3.2 Compliance Report, including the Jonathan Hill Noting
Mails Dangerous Goods (onward submission to ARC)
Compliance Action Plan
3.3 Internal Audit Report Johann Appel Noting
(onward submission to ARC)
14.45 I 4. Internal Audit Plan 2020/21 Johann Appel Noting
(onward submission to ARC)
15.00 I 5. PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update
5.1 PCI-DSS, including broader Jeff Smyth Noting
Fujitsu relationship (onward submission to ARC)
5.2 Cyber Security Tony Jowett
15.15 I 6. Progress Update on the Pilot Sherrill Taggart Noting & Approval
Implementation of the Contract (onward submission to ARC)
Management Framework
15.30 I 7. Horizon Scanning Update Sherrill Taggart Noting
(onward submission to ARC)

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 1 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 1 Welcome

POST OFFICE LIMITED

15.45 I 8. Supplier Contracts out of Governance Barbara Noting
Brannon

16.00 I 9. Cooperation with Law Enforcement Ben Foat / Rod Noting

Agencies and Addressing Suspected Williams I (onward submission to ARC)

Criminal Misconduct Policy

16.15 I 10. I Review of draft Audit, Risk and Chairman Noting

Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting
agenda 19 May 2020

16.30 I 11. I Any other business Chairman Noting

Next RCC Meeting: Monday 13 July 2020 at 14.00 to 17.00 in 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Strictly Confidential

2 0f 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Post Office Limited Risk and Compliance Committee Actions
Updated: 30.04.2020

POL00423569
POL00423569

REFERENCE

ACTION OWNER

DUE DATE

STATUS

OPEN/CLOSED

Directive 2 (PSD2)
implementation

mplementation - submit letter to

egulator

3.3 - Cyber Security [internal audit would be commissioned to BF TBC Sherrill Taggart has asked the Legal TeamI Open
omplete an audit on FRES (subject to 0 review the FRES contract.
bpproval in the master services
fagreement)
3.3 - Cyber Security Updated guidance has been issued by the 7 06/05/2020 Regarding Social Media and how we Open
ational Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) on hould go about hardening, the NCSC
how to defend against an attack. The luidance referenced in the meeting is at
{Committee requested this guidance be https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/quidance/social-
irculated to the GE and Board. Inedia-how-to-use-it-safely
An update on this is also provided in the
Kybersecurity update paper for
}6/05/2020.
eronica Branton (Company Secretary) to
hare guidance with the Board.
4.12 Combined Risk, _ Responses to formal Ofcom 1s 06/05/2020 [Compliance is working with the Telecoms I Recommended
Compliance and Audit _ [information requests — the Committee [Team and Fujitsu to correct the for closure
Update jas informed of issues with the accuracy inaccuracies of previous submissions and
bf information provided by third party improving accuracy of all future
Euppliers following formal s136 and s137 Submissions. The key area to improve is
information requests. The Committee he transparency of the Fujitsu data
questioned how the accuracy of data preparation so that it can be checked by
‘equested could be improved and what Post Office. Fujitsu has been asked to
afeguards POL had in place to check ork with its suppliers (BT and TT) to
accuracy. JS would co-ordinate a knable additional cross-checking of data.
‘esponse. je now seek a formal sign-off from
Fujitsu on the integrity of the supplied
data.
6.6 Annual Legal Risk _ IThe Committee questioned whether theseI DP 06/05/2020 _ [These issues have not been raised Recommended
Report 2019/20 kxamples had been flagged to the previously to the Committee or to ARC. for closure
{Committee or ARC before?
[Post meeting note - these issues have
not been raised previously to the
{Committee or to ARC]
RCC Meeting 14.01.20
(6.18 - Payment Services Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2) MS ASAP Completed [To close

€ZL Ob

7] BIO 180d

ia
ES
a
&
g
2
8
a
9°
8
3
2
5
8
8
9°
8
3
3
&
hd
2
g
S
a
S
8

e
Post Office Limited Risk and Compliance Committee Actions
Updated: 29.04.2020
[10.6 - Money BF, SS and JH talk to retail on enforcing SS/JH pen
ILaundering Reporting — [three lines of defence and suggested BF
lOfficer (MLRO) Annual fttend a meeting with HMRC.
Report
IRCC Meeting 07.11.19
{3.2 Supplier Contracts SK - retail lead team decision required I _CM/Marketing in progress - subject to PSG funding. [Open
jout of Governance to ensure project does not stall.
{3.3 Supplier Contracts Brands/RAPP — Agree date for tender SH/Marketing in progress - subject to PSG funding. [Open
jout of Governance
4.1 PCI-DSS Update Kirculate final pricing and deadlines ‘SH January 2020 [in progress. Update to be provided in Open
ocument from Ingenico PCI-DSS verbal update.
5.3 Cyber Security JA major incident test be completed with TI January 2020 [Update to be provided in Cyber Security IOpen
findings reported to the Committee. lupdate paper.

Strictly Confidential

Page 2
of 3

POL00423569
POL00423569

s6unsay snojnaid Z geL

POL00423569

POL00423569

Fy

. XS
2

Post Office Limited Risk and Compliance Committee Actions s

Updated: 29.04.2020 ia

DPR - Contracts Barbara Brannon I November 2019 [This is in train for completion by 31 March] Open
0 identify contracts requiring GDPR land Shikha Hornsey

‘emediation, the majority of which are IT

ervice contracts with no owner identified.

7 BOLO 180d

a
a
2
&
2
Fi
a
9
g
3

2
B
3
3
8
9
g
3
FI
i
f
7
2g
S
a
S
s

Strictly Confidential Page 3
of 3

€ZLIOG

Tab 2 Previous Meetings

POST OFFICE LIMITED RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Minutes of a Risk and Compliance (“RCC”) meeting held at
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ
on 09 March 2020 at 14.30 pm

Present: Alisdair Cameron (Chair) (AC) Group Chief Financial Officer
Ben Foat (BF) Group General Counsel
‘Amanda Jones (AJ) Group Retail and Franchise Network Director, Interim
Stephen O'Reilly (SR) HR Director - Business Partnering & Recruitment
(deputising for Lisa Cherry)
Jeff Smyth (JS) Group Chief Information Officer, Interim
Julie Thomas (JT) Operations Director
Owen Woodley (OW) Group Chief Commercial Officer
In Johann Appel (JA) Head of Internal Audit
Attendance:
Mark Baldock (MB) Head of Risk
Jonathan Hill (JH) Compliance Director
Tom Lee (TL) Head of Finance, Financial Accounting and Controls
David Parry (DP) Senior Assistant Company Secretary
Tony Jowett (TJ) Chief Information Security Officer
Sherrill Taggart (ST) Legal Director, Interim
Barbara Brannon (BB) Procurement Director
Andy Kingham (AK) Head of Network
Karl Oliver (KO) Head of Commercial Partnerships
Mark Dixon (MD) Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance
Apologies Nick Read, Group CEO
Lisa Cherry, Group Chief People Officer.

1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest.

1.1 AC opened the meeting and advised that papers would be taken as read.

1.2 The Directors declared that they had no new conflicts of interest in the matters to be considered at the
meeting in accordance with the requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's
Articles of Association.

2. Minutes and Action Lists

2.1 The minutes of the RCC meeting held 14 January 2020 were APPROVED.

2.2 Progress on completion of actions as shown on the action log was NOTED.

3. Cyber Security

3.1 TJ provided an update on Cyber Security. Security maturity was on track and the team planned to close as.
many actions before the end of March when Deloitte would be completing a reassessment exercise. An
audit would be completed in April/May on progression. 1A believed the work to date was slightly behind
schedule.

3.2 Ransomware - Since the Travelex attack, greater team focus had been on ransomware attacks which he
noted were becoming an increasingly serious threat. FRES has now provided written assurance that its
defence systems are suitable for purpose against ransomware attacks, and a diagnostic exercise is planned
for mid-March by Deloitte to develop a playbook for use in the event of an attack.

3.3. Internal audit would be commissioned to complete an audit on FRES (subject to approval in the master
services agreement).

3.3 Updated guidance has been issued by the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) on how to defend against
anattack. The Committee requested this guidance be circulated to the GE and Board.

3.4 Regarding an insider threat attack, a red team exercise completed using social media to identify and target
people who could be approached for internal access, identified names, addresses, contact details and

Strictly Confidential Page 1of5
6 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

POL00423569
POL00423569

Actions

BF

ar
Tab 2 Previous Meetings

a3

3.6

41

4.2

43
44

45

46

47

48

49

4.10

441

4.12

4.13

4.14

4.15
4.16

family photographs of Board and senior and members of staff. Guidance from the NCSC would be circulated
to Board and GE members reminding senior members of staff on the importance of safe usage of IT and
social media platforms. He noted there was limited control from top-down access.

The Committee discussed 3" party IT controls and outsourced IT controls, noting a positive change in
behaviour and sought to understand whether POL had a right to audit.

Joiners, Movers, Leavers — good progress has been made and a plan developed, however there are integrity
issues between systems (Successfactors, Active Directory and NIM) leading to a lack of alignment regarding
data/information. Q1 would see some work to tighten-up work standard access and 3 party access, but
that there are no issues with privileged access.

Telephone Security — it was noted this would be reviewed by JH, Sally Smith and Martin Kearsley.
Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

Risk

The current top principal risks (based purely on their RAG status) were PCI Compliance, Group Litigation,
Retail Proposition and Telco. The two key subsidiary business risks were Coronavirus (Covid-19) and Digital
Identity both of which were noted.

The Committee noted that the Central Risk had embarked on a top-down refresh/update of the enterprise
(formally principal) risks and the intermediate (formally business) risks. This was supported by a facilitated
GE session in February. The output of this work (around 14 enterprise risks and 55 subsidiary intermediate
risks) is being finalised and uploaded onto the corporate GRC (governance, risk and compliance) Tool
(Archer). Going forward, and subject to the deployment beyond the Central Risk team, Archer will provide
POL with a single source of truth with respect to its enterprise and business risks.

In terms of the key change programmes:

PCI Compliance - the project remains “Red” overall against current plan however there is increased focus
on driving the status back to green. As Baseline delivery plans and costs was received at the end of February
2020, this is likely to result in an improved status in the next reporting period.

Group Litigation — although the project remained ‘Amber’ overall, the team was confident spend and
benefits would remain within 2019/20 budget. Any underspend would flow through to 2020/21.

Retail Proposition — agents consider POL too costly, complex and unattractive to join, however it was felt
the increased agent remuneration would improve branch sustainability.

Telco - as the sector was becoming increasingly regulated, there is the risk that the business becomes
partially or fully non-compliant.

Coronavirus — the risk has been raised in line with government recommendations. A rapid response team
has been established to walk through scenarios and identify any risks/gaps.

Digital Identity — alternative partnership and business models are being explored. The existing contract
has been extended up-to November 2020 and negotiations are underway.

Compliance

Ofcom Text Relay — the Committee was made aware that POL has now paid the £175K fine regarding Text
Relay. The issue has now been officially closed.

Ofcom Fairness — Ofcom has expressed concern with Telco’s drive of providers being ‘fair’, noting that POL
has the largest percentage of out of contract customers relative to its customer base. Telco is reviewing all
options as we have committed to the fairness principles especially as the End of Contract and Best Tariff
notifications are expected to have material impact on our customer retention.

Responses to formal Ofcom information requests — the Committee was informed of issues with the
accuracy of information provided by third party suppliers following formal s136 and 137 information
requests. The Committee questioned how the accuracy of data requested could be improved and what
safeguards POL had in place to check accuracy. JS would co-ordinate a response.

Consents Guidance (Use of Cookies) - the Committee was reminded of the updated guidance published by
the regulator on the use of data cookies on websites. POL is partially compliant and work is underway to
ensure full compliance in April 2020.

Gifts and Hospitality - staff members continued to receive cash gifts and whilst training was in place,
accountability was not enforced. The Committee asked the team to investigate would could be done and
suggested a three tiered approach of initial warning from line manager, letter on file, dismissal.

Internal Audit

The following points were raised:

JA reported good progress had been made with the audit plan for 2019/20 with six audit reviews finalised
since the last Audit Risk and Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting (28 January 2020), these being Branch

Strictly Confidential Page 20f5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

POL00423569
POL00423569

7 of 123
Tab 2 Previous Meetings

8 of 123

4.17

4.18

4.19

6.2
6.2

6.3

6.4

65

6.6

6.7

6.8

7A

Banking Services, Accounts Receivable, Investment Funding Controls, Supply Chain CViT, Data Privacy and
HIH Programme Assurance.
Four of the audits reported ‘Yellow’ (Branch Banking Services, Supply Chain CViT, Data Privacy, HIH
Programme Assurance) and two ‘Green’ (Accounts Receivable, Investment Funding Controls). There is one
overdue action over 60 days regarding FS Training (Branch Sales). A new action owner has made progress
however the policy requires additional clarity and approval. It is expected this will be completed by 30 April
2020.
With regards to the Data Privacy audit, although there were a high number of audit findings (13 in total),
the audit was rated “Needs Improvement” as these were mostly low priority process improvement type
findings. 1A and the Deloitte (co-source provider) both felt that controls were generally fit for purpose and
comparable with organisations of similar size and complexity.
JA was pleased with the progress made to date on the IA plan 2019/20. He believed the team would be
able to complete the IA plan before May’s Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting.
Internal Audit Plan 2020/21
JA presented the IA plan for 2020/21. The plan consists of 26 audits in total, 18 internal control reviews
and eight change/programme assurance reviews. Six audits are also planned for Post Office Insurance.
The Committee noted the co-source requirement to deliver the plan was 422 days at a cost of £431K.
Regarding the Internal Audit for GLO Operations, the Committee noted that some of the other IA’s would
be indirectly linked to this. AC requested the GE sponsor for Post Master Reporting be checked.
Annual Legal Risk Report 2019/20
BF and ST presented the annual legal risk report for 2019/20 advising of the following key legal risks:

¢ Contract Management (Financial)

¢ Regulatory Compliance (Regulatory)

© Corporate acquisitions/disposals and JVs (Strategic)

Dispute Resolution (Litigation)

¢ Intellectual property and trade mark (Reputational)

¢ People and processes (Operational).
The Committee discussed the following key legal risks:
Contract Management — good progression has been made in improving contract management governance
within the group, however culture and accountability remains a stumbling block. Contract owners should
be held accountable for the management of the contract, and should not delegate this obligation to other
members of staff.
Following a request from ARC, an exercise has been completed to identify the top material contracts in
terms of financial and strategic risk, which will be presented to ARC for review in March. It was noted that
contract management has been listed as part of the IA 2020/21 plan, however the Committee questioned
the post control impact assessment rating of ‘Green’.
The Committee noted that Contract Management was listed in the IA 2020/21 plan and questioned the
post control impact assessment rating of ‘Green’.
Competition Law — following the acquisition of Payzone Bill Payments Limited (PZBPL) , the legal team has
provided advice/guidance on sharing commercially sensitive information between POL and PZBPL, conflicts
of interest, and going to market service offerings. Examples of issues have included PZBPL management
(POL staff members) seeking to make decisions on behalf of POL rather than PZBPL and requests from PZBPL
for confidential information held by POL in breach of confidentiality obligations to a mutual client.
The Committee questioned whether these examples had been flagged to the Committee or ARC before?
[Post meeting note — these issues have not been raised previously to the Committee or to ARC.]
Corporate M&A, Disposals and RfPs — the Committee questioned the inclusion considering POL’s limited
activity in this area. ST advised there had been activity during 2019/20, however the legal risk centred
around the lack of internal expertise (relating to M&A activity), which may mean that anticipated returns
are not met.
The Committee requested the Post Control Impact Assessment ratings be more clearly narrated.
Contract Management Framework
The team had identified 142 material contracts (following a request from ARC to identify key financial and
strategic contracts) and these have now been allocated to, and agreed by GE and GE-1 members. 104 of
the 142 material contracts have 36 identified contract owners. 26 of the 104 contracts have current signed
contracts in place that can be located, and these 26 material contracts are managed by a pool of 17
confirmed contract managers.

Strictly Confidential Page 30f 5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

DP

POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 2 Previous Meetings

7.2

73

8.1

8.2

8.3

8.4
8.5

8.6
8.7

8.8

8.9

8.10

9.1
a2

9.3

9.4

10.
10.1
10.2

Work had commenced to populate Web 3.0 (Source to Settle, the platform hosting the contracts) and
training will be provided to individuals responsible for material contracts once an external training provider
has been procured.

Noting that some contract managers had large numbers of contracts allocated against their name, BF
reiterated the importance of contract managers being comfortable with this (due to the risks involved).
Supplier Contracts out of Governance

BB reported there had been 4 new non-compliant incidents since the last Committee meeting (14 January
2020). Overall, non-compliance has risen from £20.2m to £21.01m, primarily driven by new high value
direct awards assessed as Low Risk, which fall under Regulation 32 exemptions. The following contracts
were discussed as low risk:

New Award ~ this is an £371,000 award for the provision of benchmarking services for UK competitors in
financial services, mortgages, loans, credit cards etc. This is assessed as low risk under PCR Regulation 32
due to the lack of market competition. ;
NCR -SSK Support — this is a contract extension valued at {m=="l The software and hardware can only be
provided by the manufacturer/owner of the intellectual property rights (IPR). This is assessed as low risk
under PCR Regulation 32 on IPR grounds.

Cardew Group - this is a contract extension valued at I jor the use of PR services relating to GLO.
Space Between: this is a contract extension valued at [in tifor the provision of conversion rate
optimisation services (i.e. conversion of website visitors to customers). The compliant tender process for
the replacement supplier has been completed and the contract awarded. Service cutover is planned for
April.

The Committee discussed the following contracts in the pipeline considered high-risk:

EUC - this is a !="=" project initiated to re-procure End User Computer services for branch and colleague
services. New suppliers are planned to be in place before the expiration of the current contract (April 2021)
and is gathering requirements to go to market. BB felt this was achievable due to the intent to insource
some key IT activities.

Media Planning — this is an £1.5m contract due to expire in April 2020. The preferred business strategy is
to re-procure via OJEU and expand the scope to include Media Buying valued at £20m. It was noted that
although compliant, supplier performance had been unacceptable and combining the two services is not
an available option under the CCS frameworks and an OJEU would enable a supplier of both to bid for the
work. The tender process is already underway.

Brands/RAPP — this is an{---icontract extended to April 2020. A business strategy, funding and sourcing
plan needs agreement.
Global Payments — this is an {m*t*v*""} contract due to expire in May 2020. An extension would be required
for 12-24 months until a new provider can be found. A discussion has been held in GE (January 2020) to
discuss all options. It was noted that if the Board turned the contract down, this could have implications
for the PCl-compliance programme.

Selling Regulated Products in the Branch Network

‘AK and AJ presented a report on Selling Regulated Products in the Branch Network.

AK reported that whilst selling products in isolation was not difficult per se, the challenge was selling c.120
products whilst keeping product knowledge and operational understanding up-to-date. He believed the
network sales processes required simplification whilst remaining compliant and advised that most product
failures were due to lack of understanding of products and the failure to follow processes.

In terms of network governance controls, there are regular mystery shopping exercises, three monthly
forums to review risk, management information and conduct risk, and a team of nine area managers has
been established to provide training and champion conformance across the network.

The Committee questioned whether it would be more effective to switch off/stop the sale of products by
repeat offenders and the consequences of doing so. AK responded that he believed that conformance
levels would only improve (particularly in locals) once the number of products for sale had been decreased.
Additionally, he felt the customer journey process should also be simplified.

Partner Failure Contingency

KO and AJ provided an update on partner failure contingency.

KO reported that since November (where McColls was flagged as vulnerable), the team had developed a
‘Partner Failure Response’ plan identifying the immediate actions that would be taken to mitigate/reduce
risk in the event of a partner collapse.

Strictly Confidential Page 40f5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

POL00423569
POL00423569

9 of 123
Tab 2 Previous Meetings

10 of 123

10.3

10.4

10.5

10.6
11.
111
12.

13.

He advised that a rapid response team had been established, with operational plans involving a cross-
functional team developed. Additionally, the team had successfully conducted a dummy workshop exercise
to run through the expected response of a partner collapse.

In the event of a partner collapse, it was noted that sites would be re-opened via a staggered process with
priority given to :

1. _ branches where the nearest neighbouring branch was not within 1 mile (urban deprived), 1.5 miles
(urban) or 3 miles (rural), with low replace ability (lack of replacement sites in the local area) and
secondly, where the nearest neighbouring branch is not within 1 mile (urban deprived), 1.5 miles
(urban) or 3 miles (rural) with replacement sites available.

2. Branches where the nearest neighbouring branch is not within 1 mile (urban deprived), 1.5 miles
(urban) or 3 miles (rural) with replacement sites available.

The Committee questioned whether in the event of a partner collapse, Payzone been included in the
mapping exercise? KO explained that the team had reviewed all available and alternative solutions, such
as the “Post Office on Wheels’, using Payzone sites and establishing a POL owned subsidiary that would act
as an interim post master agent, utilising existing McColl’s staff to operate the branch.

It was noted however that although the alternative solutions could provide the majority of Post Office
services, they could not provide all of them.

Policy for Approval - Treasury Policy

The Treasury policy was APPROVED for submission to the ARC on 24 March 2020

Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda

The draft ARC agenda for 24 March was NOTED.

Any other Business

There was no other business.

Strictly Confidential Page 5of5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

POL00423569
POL00423569

POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED RISK & COMPLIANCE
COMMITTEE REPORT

Meeting
Date:

Title: Risk, Compliance and Audit Report

Mark Baldock: Head of Risk
Jonathan Hill: Director, Compliance
Johann Appel: Head of Internal
Audit

6 May 2020

Al Cameron: Chief Financial
Sponsor: Officer
Ben Foat: General Counsel

Author:

Input Sought: Noting

Previous Governance Oversight: Not applicable

Executive Summary
This paper provides an update on key and emerging risks, compliance matters and an update
on the latest internal audit position. The Committee is asked to:

1. Note the Risk update, specifically:
e the status of the current enterprise risks and intermediate risks
e the status of the current COVID-19 risk position
e the_latest position on the implementation of the Post Office’s Governance, Risk &
Compliance tool (Archer)
e the status of the Change Portfolio and key delivery challenges.

2. Note the Compliance update, the impact of Covid-19 on the approach to compliance, the
deferment of the HMRC branch registration fees and the update on the Mails Dangerous
Goods Action Plan.

3. Note the progress being made with delivery of the Internal Audit programme and
completion of audit actions.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 11 of 123
Tab

POL00423569
POL00423569

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Risk
Questions addressed

1.
2,
3

4.

What are the Post Office’s current enterprise risks and key intermediate risks?

What is the Post Office’s current COVID-19 risk position?

What is the latest position on the implementation of the Post Office’s Governance, Risk &
Compliance tool (Archer)?

What is the status of the Change Portfolio and key delivery challenges?

The Post Office’s current Enterprise and key Intermediate risks

1

3

In February 2020 we facilitated a GE session to look at the key business risks currently
faced by the Post Office. This review resulted in the identification of 15 active enterprise
risks and 54 linked intermediate risks. This refreshed data set replaced, what were
formerly termed, the Post Office ‘principal’ risks.

The 15 enterprise risks mirror the HM Government's approach to enterprise risk
classification?. As such they are grouped around such themes as Strategy, Operational,
Financial, Legal etc. The Health & Safety enterprise risk was articulated to cover a
number of potential incidents including adverse physical attacks as well as a pandemic.
Given the current context we have disaggregated this particular risk and articulated a
separate (and more comprehensive) COVID-19 risk data set which is discussed later in
this paper.

Pesstaal pact

Figure 1: Post Office enterprise risks: April 2020

The key enterprise risks (excluding Health & Safety) are:

. Commercial (4:4): the Post Office’s commercial proposition may be unattractive
because the existing products are too complex or confusing, new products are cost
ineffective, unable to be scaled and unattractive to the market. In part prompted
by the Post Office’s COVID-19 response a review is now underway to consider what
the business should look like in the medium and long-term. It will include
identifying what Markets are critical to us and the supporting operational functions
key systems, policies etc needed to support us.

1 HM Government: Management of Risk (Principles and Concepts) - June 2019

Confidential

12 of 123

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Tab

POL00423569
POL00423569

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

(oe)
7

. Legal (4:3): the Post Office may be unable to comply with legislative and
regulatory changes. Workstreams in place including the GLO programme to
manage the current and ongoing post-litigation work

. Financial (5:3): Because of the unpredictability of income and expenditure there
is a risk that the Post Office has insufficient funding and/or uncontrolled costs in
the short-, medium and long-term

. Technology (5:3): the Post Office is heavily reliant on third party suppliers and
has an ageing IT infrastructure on both hardware and software components.

. Marketplace (4:3): Post Office services and products across the various sectors
may decline and/or loyalty to the Brand reduce resulting in loss in attractiveness
for sub-postmasters, loss in revenue and reputational damage

Our key intermediate risks (which lie below enterprise level) include:

. Commercial (Government Services) (5:4): Risk the Post Office’s revenue from
the provision of Government Services (i.e. Digital Check & Send, IDPs) reduces
over the short-, medium- and long-term

. Commercial (Customers (Physical Service) (5:4): Risk the Post Office’s long-
term customers want to continue to access increasingly less cost effective
physically-served products and series

. Financial (Digital Income) (5:4): Risk the Post Office on-line products and
services generate a reduced income level compared to comparable physical
products and services

. Marketplace & Brand (Customer Demand) (5:4): Because of the evolution of
the Retail and Consumer sector, there is a risk the existing and emerging
requirements of Post Office (new and existing) customers across the various
sectors are not met such that customer demand declines rapidly in a 3-10 year
timescale and the Post Office is unable to change cost base ahead of curve
resulting in loss in revenue, sustainability and reputational damage

. Technology (IT Infrastructure) (4:3): The existing IT infrastructure, hardware
and software is inadequate or approaching end of life

Appendix 1 provides further detail.

It is clear the Post Office COVID-19 risk identification and management activity now
needs to be fully assimilated into our wider enterprise risk work. This may result in
some re-articulation of a number of the non-COVID-19 enterprise and intermediate
risks, their likelihood and severity assessments and associated mitigating actions. This
was to be expected as ongoing separation would have been artificial. This alignment
and assimilation work will be the focus of the next reporting period. It will involve
widening the scope of our COVID-19 KRI and risk appetite statement work to cover
wider enterprise risk activity.

VID-19
Since the last RCC/ARC Central Risk have led urgent work on identifying all key COVID-
19 related operational risks. The work was undertaken in two Phases. Phase 1 was an
industry-wide and sectoral analysis (international and domestic) of the typical COVID-19
emerging risks we were likely to encounter and was completed on 31 March. We quickly
followed this with Phase 2. This involved detailed discussion with key individuals within
the business to confirm the relevance (or otherwise) of these typical risks, tailoring them
as required and then assessing their respective impact, likelihood and proximity.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 13 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

8 We concluded we have 1 single overarching COVID-19 enterprise risk, 13 intermediate
thematic risks (operational, strategy, legal, financial etc) and 56 specific low level risks.
A comprehensive summary is provided at Appendix 2. Our critical low-level risks are
. Change (4:5): may have insufficient change funding available to deliver our
planned change activity

. People (4:4): Post Office frontline staff could get infected with COVID-19 by
customers visiting branches to perform various counter transactions

. People (4:4): significant number of Post Office employees could become stressed,
fearful, overwhelmed and isolated because of social distancing etc

. Commercial (4:4): Post Office short-term business-critical activities, products,
services, business processes and systems have a high dependency on third parties
who could have a high degree of COVID-19 risk exposure

. Financial (4:4): Post Office will face months of exceptionally poor trading
conditions with immediate lost revenue potentially representing a permanent loss
putting unanticipated pressure on liquidity

9 Of the 56 low-level risks we estimate 27 (50%) could materialise in the short term
(within a month), 17 (31%) in the medium-term (within 3 months) and 10 (19%) (over
3 months) in the long-term — but only if mitigations were not proactively identified or
delivered. All risks have mitigation plans identified and owners and dates. We have
seen a clear trend in the short-term risks being managed closer to Target RAG after
which further mitigations will not be required. These risks will simply be monitored
thereby freeing up resource.

Figure 1: COVID Local Risks (medium- and short-term): April 2020

10 Our key medium-term risks include Strategy (Unclear Target Operating Model),
Finance (Cash-insufficient facility and security headroom) and Change (insufficient
funding). Key long-term risks include Commercial (Long-term declining sales &
demand) and Technology (Inability to grasp future digitalisation).

11 The highest number of risks are Operational (18) with Governance (6) and People (6)
the next highest. Change, Commercial and Financial have less risks in number but tend
to have proportionally higher-rated risks.

Confidential

14 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

nbined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

‘Covid-19 Risks: (by Theme) Covid-19; Risk Weight Comparisons

. a i =

Figure 2: COVID risks by theme (April 2020) Figure 3: COVID risks by RAG distribution (April 2020)

12 We have initiated a fortnightly reporting cycle (tightening mitigations, clarifying
ownership, reporting slippage etc) allowing us to report (in almost real-time) to the
COVID-19 SteerCo. We are finalising a draft set of COVID-19 KRIs and an associated
risk appetite statement. The aim of this work is to secure, going forwards, agreement
on how tolerant/averse/seeking we are thereby helping prioritise resource. Finally we
are providing input to Project NEO around medium/long-term proximity risks to ensure
their emerging work plan mitigates the impact and likelihood of these risks.

13. Appendix 2 provides further detail.

The implementation of the Post Office’s Governance, Risk & Compliance
(GRC) tool (Archer)

14 The Central Risk team have embarked on implementing Archer (an industry standard
GRC tool) to enhance the efficiency of our risk management. We have successfully
uploaded the
. refreshed set of non-COVID-19 enterprise risks and their linked business
(intermediate) risks and the complete COVID-19 risk data set (enterprise,
intermediate and local records). The graphical analysis in this report is derived
directly from Archer.

. complete set of open Risk Exceptions

15 We are now continuing with our top-down approach and are about to commence the
phased deployment of Archer across the Group Commands all the time making sure any
lower level risks (where appropriate) align and link to the higher level enterprise and
business risks.

The status of the Change Portfolio, including top risks and key delivery

challenges?

16 By the end of March 2020 the overall status of the Portfolio remained Amber. As a result
of COVID-19 the Portfolio is being reviewed to reduce the amount of non-critical activity
and control spend. Options will be presented to the Board in May 2020.

17 The March 2020 spend was £21.9m with full year spend equating to £222.4m (including
GLO). The benefits achieved in March 2020 were £7.1m with a full year total of £59.5m.
Both the year-end spend and benefits figures are under final review and may change.
The 2020/21 benefit position is subject to re-prioritisation and agreement of baseline
position by the Board.

18 Since the last RCC/ARC there has been a decrease (from 7 to 4) in the number of gold
and platinum projects reporting an overall Red RAG status:

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 15 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

IDS Digital Identity: Marked as Red prior to business case approval to detach In-
Branch Verification from the Digital Identity parent. Once detachment occurs
closure of the Digital Identity project can go ahead. A business case was reviewed
by Portfolio Review Board, however further detail is required.

Project Starling: Cost increased from changing law firms. Exact funding is still to be
approved. Options to reduce spend are being investigated

PCI (Compliance): The Red status had been given due to Programme delivery
remaining Red. Integrated programme plans currently indicate delivery completion
in August 2021. Further work continues with suppliers to see if this can be brought
forward.

Digitising Mails (Cost, Benefits and Overall Red RAG): Project on hold until
completion of Royal Mail negotiations and McKinsey’s due diligence work on our
overall Mails strategy.

19 Appendix 3 provides a summary of the current key ‘Platinum and Gold’ change
programmes and their current reporting status.

Compliance

Telecoms provider response to Coronavirus

20

21

22

Telecoms voice services are considered by government and Ofcom to be a lifeline service
as they enable customers to make calls to emergency services and stay connected during
this period of isolation. In support of this the telecoms team has;

Prioritised fault repairs for vulnerable customers at its call centres during the lockdown.

Stopped non-critical activities such as sales to enable focus to be on supporting existing
customer issues.

Equipped call-centre staff for home-based working, which has enabled us to maintain
a stable service and manage staff absences

Ofcom is monitoring all providers’ support of vulnerable customers. Like other providers,
at Ofcom's request we are providing a weekly update on the status of our service provision
and highlighting any issues that may arise.

Ofcom is concerned that providers are suspending End of Contract notifications
(“ECNs”). ECNs were putting our contact centre under strain, with reduced staff
numbers due to Covid-19, inhibiting our ability to service vulnerable customers.
However, together with directing customers to our online self-care portal and improved
contact centre capacity we have advised Ofcom that we will keep sending ECNs.

The Department of Culture Media and Sport (DCMS) oversees telecoms regulation in the
UK. As part of the government response to the coronavirus outbreak it has asked a number
of the UK’s largest telecoms firms to make commitments, which include: -

Free and low cost calls for vulnerable customers
Working with customers who maybe struggling with debt
Removal of data caps

Confidential

16 of 123

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

e Priority faults repairs for those who are self-isolating or an alternative means of
communication

e Support NHS workers and services through certain enhancements, including priority
broadband upgrades for NHS clinicians at home who may provide consultations or
upload large files.

23 We met with DCMS staff on 24' April to discuss what we are doing to support customers.
We have been asked to sign up to the DCMS commitments. Initial dialogue with DCMS
indicates that we are satisfying these but we are going through the details with them to
confirm.

PSD2

24 In January 2020 Post Office wrote to the FCA to inform it of our intention to seek an
Electronic Communications Exemption (“ECE”). This requires Post Office to cap premium
rate calls at £40 per call and £240 per month in aggregate. We informed the FCA that we
would repay any over charged customers going back to when the obligations came into
effect on 13'* January 2018. The FCA confirmed it was happy with our approach.

25 The PSD2 work has been split into 3 phases:

e Phase 1 was to repay customers who had been overcharged between January 2018
and February 2020. This has now been completed.

e Phase 2 is to create an interim solution to enable us to reimburse customers going
forward who incur charges over the caps in the previous billing month. This is only a
partially compliant solution and is underway now.

e Phase 3 will deliver Post Office a compliant solution by enabling us to credit customers
for any overcharge in the same billing month. By the end of April 2020 we expect
Fujitsu to confirm this solution can be implemented and a delivery date. We will then
update the FCA with our progress and seek to apply for an ECE.

European Electronic Communications Code

26 The new European Electronic Communications Code (EECC) will impose new regulatory
obligations on all providers. These obligations will include changes to the switching
process, additional information about contracts, provision of pre-contract information and
accessibility obligations.

27 The required implementation date is 21s‘ December 2020

e Most UK providers believe this timescale is unrealistic and responded to Ofcom
stressing this point. Ofcom has indicated that this is a mandate from DCMS, which has
only very recently confirmed to the industry that it still expects providers to meet the
timeline. The industry will continue to ask for more time as a minimum, not least
because of the significant investment telecoms providers are directing to supporting
customers though Coronavirus, including the additional commitments that providers
have been asked to sign-up to by DCMS.

e Compliance is working with the Telecoms Team on plans to comply with EECC but this
is a challenge for the business both in terms of budget and a lack of clarity on the
obligations from Ofcom.

e Ofcom is now planning to publish clarification on the majority of the EECC obligations
in Q2 and EECC “switching” obligations in Q3/4 2020/21, which would make compliance

7
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 17 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

with the obligations very difficult. To be fair to Ofcom, it is discussing implementation
dates with DCMS.

Support for Post Office Businesses during the COVID 19 pandemic.

28 Our key objective is to ensure that the new ways of working do not compromise Post
Office’s ability to meet it regulatory obligations whilst at the same time being as flexible
as possible and trying not to place an undue burden on the ability of the business to meet
the Coronavirus crisis. New processes include, but not limited to:

« HGS, POCA and NBSC operating call centres from home.

« Printing from Home, this was up and running within 36 hours
e Easy Cash

e Easier to implement Delegated Authorities for Telco users.

« Support to POL Identity team to allow back-end system access to clear backlog of
Digital Identity application.

Update from Meeting with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO Data Protection

Regulator 14" April):

29 The key objective of this meeting was for the ICO to outline its expectations during the
Covid-19 crisis. The key takeaways were:

e Its business as usual. However, the ICO will be sympathetic to organisations that are
having to implement new processes for home working where due diligence may not be
as stringent as usual.

« Organisations that attempt to meet statutory deadlines for dealing with Information
Rights requests such as Data Subject Access requests and Rights to Erasure will not be
penalised for missing delivery dates. To date, Post Office has missed no deadlines as a
result of Covid-19 restrictions.

e Organisations will still be expected to report breaches within 72 hours but the ICO
accepts that remediation and investigation work may take longer to complete due to
offices being closed and staff absentee rates being high. Post Office has asked for and
received a relaxation on the 24 hour PECR reporting requirement to 72 hours.

« Administrative areas of UK DPA such as Privacy Impact Assessments and Record of
Processing Activities can be retrospectively completed for processes being introduced
to accommodate home working.

Post Office use of Cookies on Internet and Apps

30 A proposal for resolving the outstanding Cookies issue has been built and been deployed
on the Post Office website. However, the solution requires further development to position
Post Office “in the pack”.

31 To be within Risk Appetite the Digital team will develop the functionality that allows users
to change their cookie settings as easily as it was to apply them. The Digital team believes
this can be achieved within 2-3 weeks but are currently constrained both by limited budget
and Covid-19 priorities.

8

Confidential

18 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Data Protection Incident - Loss of HR Files

32 Asa result of a Data Subject Access Request by an ex-employee an investigation has
found that at least 13 boxes of Personnel files cannot be located. The number of ex-
employees impacted is still being calculated but is believed to be in the region of 300-400.

33 As reported, Post Office made a disclosure to the ICO of this breach. The ICO has now
asked a series of supplementary questions to which we must respond by 30" April 2020.

34 Given the nature of this incident it is possible Post Office will face regulatory sanction.
Compliance is co-operating with the regulator. Our response to the loss of files and the
changes to processes that have been implemented quickly will be taken into consideration.
The support package that Post Office will to offer to those impacted, such as identity theft
insurance and credit reference checking, also will be taken into account by the ICO when
considering any action or sanction.

Belfast Data Centre Exit and move to the Cloud

35 IT Strategy is to exit the Belfast Data Centre in 2021 and move Horizon to a cloud based
solution. IT have selected AWS as the partner of choice and contract negotiations will
commence over the next two weeks.

36 Fundamental to the transition is the management of the risk to the integrity of Horizon
data and the implication for Post Office upstream clients such as Government, Banking
Services and Bill Payments contracts.

37 Many of the upstream contracts have restrictions in place for transfers of data outside of
the UK or the EEA, and some for the use of Cloud-hosting services. Prior to any data
transitioning all impacted contracts will have to be identified, the risk quantified and
amendments negotiated. To achieve the timeframe of moving mid-2021 the Project will
need to commit resource funding to support this workstream.

38 There is a risk that some clients will be opposed to this move and may not give their
consent. Compliance is working with Legal and IT to assess those clients that we believe
may resist such a move. We will be work with those clients, offering support and limited
involvement with discussions. However, difficult decisions may have to be made where
we are unable to secure consent.

39 There are aggressive timeframes in place, which will be challenging, though Compliance
believes that the initial Contract negotiation deadlines can be achieved.

Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations

40 109 new Bureau de Change cases were identified between 20'" February and 19" April
2020 (up 18.5% from the same period in 2019). Case volumes through March and April
mostly relate to currency buy-backs and multiple, small value purchases. However, the
caseload has not yet shown any signs of decline as the Covid-19 crisis continues.

41 Anew Bureau monitoring report was introduced in January, helping to identify branches
processing multiple transactions just below the threshold for ID. This has helped us to
take action in 3 branches to help prevent recurrence.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 19 of 123
Tab 3 Cot

POL00423569
POL00423569

bined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

20 of 123

42 MI collated over the last two years shows controls have improved and new, significant
non-conformance is stabilising. This is a result of improved monitoring since the
implementation of AML Credence, which enables earlier detection and deployment of
disruption/prevention activity.

43 The manual workaround to the Sanctions issue in AML Credence has been effective to
date. The DCoE team and Accenture have progressed development of the solution and
the estimated delivery date is during May.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) update

44 The new reporting and approval portal is in the final testing phases, with delivery during
April. The improved workflows and reporting will help reporters and approvers ensure
that requests are complying with Post Office policy and should improve conformance.

Whistleblowing Update

45 Post Office has signed a new contract with Navex Global Ltd for hosting the external
whistleblowing speak up reporting channels. We are currently in the process of migrating
onto the new platform, which includes a more structured information capture from
reporters helping to improve investigations. The employee reporting channels are live and
a One Update has been sent to all employees. Further communications to raise awareness
are planned.

46 There has been an increase in reports during March including allegations relating to similar
issues from two separate Supply Chain sites (please refer to the Whistleblowing MI in the
Reading Room).

47 As aresult of Covid-19, two branch related investigations have been put on hold, pending
ability of assigned investigators to visit or speak to branches.

Fit & Proper update

48 A request was made to HMRC for the suspension of agent data submission for April due
to resource issues, and we have also advised that we may be unable to comply with our
own policy to obtain an annual F&P declaration from all our agents this year. HMRC agreed
to the data suspension and asked that Post Office continues to monitor agents and take
action if we deem any agent to not be F&P (e.g. through transaction monitoring or the
Area Managers, Branch Analysis, Audit or Contracts teams identifying a concern).

49 Weare requesting a further suspension for May, given the resource to resolve data gaps
has been redeployed to support branches and outbound contact to branches is difficult in
the current environment.

50 Additionally, the product team is looking to de-register a large number of branches to
reduce costs. In recognition of this and the financial challenge Post Office is facing as a
result of the Covid-19 crisis Compliance, together with Government Affairs, requested,
through contacts in HMT, BEIS and HMRC that HMRC either allows Post Office to delay or
reduce the annual registration charge payable in June 2020.

* HMRC has now advised that the annual fee can be deferred until 1%* December 2020,
which will allow more time for Post Office to assess on-going Covid-19 impacts and
ensure we only register commercially viable branches for Travel Money. This will help
manage cash flow and reduce costs.

51 Accenture is continuing with the design and build of the F&P system solution, with
implementation expected June 2020. Funding for the project has been reviewed due to

10
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

the impact of Covid-19 and integration with Branch Hub is still being explored. However,
this can be integrated with the front end at a later stage and should not delay delivery.
The manual re-declaration process, which was planned for a small cohort of agents in May,
prior to the delivery of the new system, is not going ahead to enable Postmasters to focus
on continuing to provide services during these challenging times.

External Threats

52 The National Economic Crime Centre with support from UK Finance, has established a
Covid Fusion Cell which meets a few times per week. It includes banks, Post Office, UKF,
CIFAS, Insurance, IFB and British Telecom plus the public sector (NECC, HMRC, COLP,
MPS) and shares information to help identify changes in the economic crime threat and
criminal behaviour during the current restrictions. It targets where action can be taken
to tackle criminal behaviour and provides alerts/typologies/comms to be issued cross-
sector to help prevent economic crime.

e A response to an urgent section 7 request for intelligence from the Joint Money
Laundering Intelligence Taskforce was provided by Compliance. This related to an
individual implicated in a Covid-19 fraud attack on a major London hospital concerning
the provision of urgent medical supplies for a major London hospital.

53 Suspicious banking cash deposits have continued throughout Covid-19, with a number of
information requests received from the National Economic Crime Centre in relation to
Project Admiralty. More suspicious banking cash deposits and bureau transactions are
being identified as genuine transaction levels have reduced.

54 Further regulatory scrutiny for the gambling industry with Betway receiving a record
£11.6M penalty for failing to verify the source of funds of customers and failing to
effectively interact with a customer who deposited and lost £187K in two days.

e As a result of a lack of consideration of individual customers’ affordability and source
of funds checks, the operator allowed £5.8M to flow through the business, which was
found, or could have reasonably been suspected to be, the proceeds of crime.

« Post Office provision of the Lottery has been previously assessed as low risk. Payzone
services have yet to be assessed but we are aware it provides services for some
companies that issue gambling credits, which may be higher risk.

Supply Chain Compliance

55 One assessment visit was undertaken during March, although this was reduced due to
Covid-19 issues. Two “Improvement Needs” were identified, and an audit score of 6 was
given, which is the average for Supply Chain.

56 No further assessment visits are taking place during this crisis period. However, twice-
weekly communications are being issued to sites to help maintain compliance.

57 Guidance and process design support has been provided in respect of Covid-19
workarounds

e Loomis (Outward Branch ATM), RBS (Inbound processing from branches) and DWP
(customer payments) to ensure contingency processes are compliant and robust.

Compliance Monitoring
11
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 21 of 123
Tab 3 Cot

POL00423569
POL00423569

bined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

22 of 123

58 Mystery shopping was paused on 17% March for social distancing and
employee/Postmaster and contractor protection reasons. Further, branch FS activity has
been significantly reduced, mostly following the cessation of Travel Insurance sales,
suspending proposed savings and loans pilots and pausing the introductory activity with
Capital One.

59 For the residual branch activity undertaken we have agreed a residual monitoring plan
based on key risk indicators such as complaints and cancellations and continue to have
regular ‘check ins’ with our Principals. The normal monthly compliance governance
remains in place with our Principals albeit with a reduced level of MI.

60 Prior to lockdown we had been working closely with the Network on how we can secure
and embed improvements to compliance and had made promising progress. Any re-start
of network FS sales will need to ensure that branch colleagues and Postmasters have their
product and conduct knowledge refreshed.

Results prior to 17" March 2020

61 CRM video mystery shops of Bol products remained Green;
« 28 mystery shops were undertaken and only one was red.
62 The risk rating for non-video mystery shops also remained Green

« From 101 counter shops completed there was only 1 red-rated savings shop. 96.8%
of responses by mystery shoppers confirmed that they understood the information
provided to them and that their understanding was checked by the clerk.

63 Travel Insurance mystery shopping was not within tolerance;

e 28% reds from 102 mystery shops - mostly due to issues with pre-existing medical
conditions questions. This has been designed out for the re-launch that was due in
April 2020.

64 Over 50s Insurance fared slightly better scoring 8% reds from 24 shops.

e The cause for Over 50s tended to be not checking customers had read the policy
summary, which is an important requirement of the sale.

Training modules on Horizon and Success Factors

65 Recognising the strains on branches at this time we have been working with all
stakeholders and the L&D team to ensure that we can provide some flexibility to the
timetabling of completing the various training modules.

66 We have initially agreed to give an extension to the timetabling of the home phone and
Broadband module to 7" July from 14'" April and are agreeing extensions to the other
modules due in the coming months, it is expected that by the autumn we would return to
BAU timetabling, but will keep this under review.

67 The key message for everyone is that these modules remain crucial to training compliance
and supporting customers and are crucial to demonstrating our commitments to
stakeholders including regulators, business partners and Principals. The modules should
be taken as soon as practicable, but there is greater time if this is needed.

Regulatory updates

68 The FCA provided guidance to firms on what, under its Principles for Businesses, they need
to do to ensure that vulnerable customers are treated fairly and consistently across the
12

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

financial services sector. The draft guidance focuses on four key areas that firms should
consider in their own approach to vulnerability:

e« Understanding vulnerability
e The skills and capability of staff
e Taking practical action (through product and service design, communications,
customer service)

e Monitoring and evaluation.

69 Firms should consider how they can meet vulnerable customer needs, e.g. a section in the
app where a customer could disclose their personal circumstances and their needs, or the
ability to add a designated second contact.

Performance update

70 For P12, overall performance has dropped to 46% (made up of Inland 40% and
International 73%). The main reason for failure is branches failing to ask clarifying
questions and put on the appropriate label where required (following the Horizon
prompts).

71 We have seen a decline in results since it was decided to start testing the scenario using
a mobile phone with (but not connected to) a device a lot more. This scenario was
increased as it was identified that branches were poor at conforming to the process. In
reality, not many phones now have a separate battery which does present a challenge.

Actions underway to address performance:

72 Branch colleagues undertake an annual compliance module and test on Horizon for
Dangerous Goods. Failure to pass prevents the colleague from transacting Mails. We have
agreed with Royal Mail & the CAA to bring this module forward, which will go live on 12"
June 2020.

73 As we are now adjusting to the ‘new normal’. Area Managers will be discussing adherence
to Regulatory Compliance across all areas with branches when they are making their calls.
They will also be continuing to discuss the importance of using the correct mails
conversation with every customer, every time. For the time being mystery shopping
activity has been suspended by Ipsos, but the team will continue to discuss historic
performance trends using the Branch Insight Tool. The Area Managers will also share a
video with branches digitally to refresh colleague understanding of the correct
transactional process.

74 We continue to monitor the Voice of Customer survey, to establish if customers were
asked what was in their parcel. This information can be viewed by Postmasters and Area
Managers in real time, with appropriate action taken. Year to date, the data confirms that
this question is asked 75% of the time.

75 Once BAU visits commence again, Area Managers will continue to validate segregation of
mail, checking for correct pricing and with actions agreed and recorded where appropriate;
as well as continuing to coach colleagues on the process and use the Branch Insight Tool.

76 The Network team has initiated a piece of work to understand how we can improve the
Dangerous Goods process on Horizon by asking the customer to complete a validation
check using the Pin Pad. This will have a positive impact on adherence to the required
process.

13
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 23 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Internal Audit

Progress against 2019/20 plan

77 Completion of the 2019/20 internal audit programme progressed well, however, the final
five reviews (three in POL and two in POI) were postponed in response to Covid-19 and
reprioritisation of the Change Portfolio. Five audits were completed since the March ARC
meeting, with the last two reports still being cleared with management at the time of
writing this paper.

78 Current delivery status is as follows:

POL Internal Audit Plan Status POI Internal Audit Plan Status
Total Audits = 28 Total Audits = 6

ny

28 6

=Completed #= Reporting Postponed = Completed Postponed

(POL ARC approved baseline plan for 2019/20 (18 core internal control reviews & 10 change assurance reviews).
Details of the audit plan status are included in the reading room (Appendix 10).
©)p01 ARC approved baseline plan for 2019/20 (5 internal control reviews & 1 change assurance review).

Progress against 2020/21 plan

79 Following the March ARC meeting, we have developed a re-prioritised Internal Audit
programme in response to the COVID-19 crisis. See separate paper submitted to RCC.

80 The following reviews from the revised 2020/21 Internal Audit programme are in
progress or being planned for delivery in Q1:

Post Office Ltd

Review Status Timing
1 COVID-19 Programme Assurance Fieldwork 20/04 - tbd
2 Maintain Minimum Control Standards Fieldwork — I 20/04 - 29/05
3 Cyber Security Maturity Planning 11/05 - 12/06
4 Health & Safety response to COVID-19 Planning May
5 Effectiveness of Second Line during COVID-19 Planning May

Post Office Insurance

6 Data: Governance, ethics, privacy & security Planning May
7 Cyber Security (POL-POI Gap Analysis) Planning May
8 Incident and Breach Management Planning June
14
Confidential

24 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

bined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Internal Audit reviews completed

81  COVID-19 priorities have delayed audit fieldwork and clearance of audit reports during
March and April. Although we have completed five reviews since the March ARC
meeting, two reports were still in final draft stage at the time of writing this paper.
Details and latest status of these audits are as follows:

1 I Postmaster On-boarding (Final) 4 I Savings Accounts (Final Draft)
2 I Vetting and Fit & Proper (Final) 5_ I FS Branch Sales (Final Draft)
3 I Change Control Framework (Final)

82 Our findings and observations from the three final reports are summarised below, with
the full reports available in the reading room (appendices 11-13).

1. Postmaster On-boarding (Ref. 2019/20-23)

Post Office has an obligation to Government to operate a minimum of
11,500 branches across the UK. This requires a pipeline of new
Postmasters to take on new branches or take over existing ones. The
churn rate is approximately 100 branches per month.

We conclude that the Postmaster on-boarding process is effective and

Satisfactory confirm that the recommendations from the GLO working group have

Sponsor: been incorporated in the new process. The responsibility and structure
Amanda Jones for delivering the on-boarding process changed in April 2019 when the
. . function was restructured. The Postmaster on-boarding function,
Audit actions: controls and processes have been re-organised and structured in such
0 a way as to make the journey for a new Postmaster a more personal

3 and less difficult experience.
1 The required level of control has been maintained through process
4 changes to accommodate the single point of contact principle

throughout the journey. The electronic business plan has been
Appendix 11 simplified and the interview process was improved. The pace of
adoption of the new system and its ways of working has been good and
continues to be maintained with all teams now working remotely for
the duration of the Government lock-down.

Management Comment provided by Pam Heap (Head of Network Operations)

“A significant amount of work has gone into the improvements achieved this year to amalgamate
what was 5 teams into 1 much smaller and more effective team to give the new incoming
Postmasters a much more personal and trouble free on boarding journey.

With the challenges of new ways of working, cross functional training and introduction of a new CRM
system and its related processes, I am both delighted with the results from the audit and very proud
of all the hard work, resilience and commitment of the Bolton On boarding team.”

15
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 25 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 3 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

2. Vetting and Fit & Proper (Ref. 2019/20-22)

The objective of this audit was to assess the design and operating
effectiveness of the key controls around POL’s Vetting and Fit &
Proper processes.

The audit found that Post Office have demonstrated a clear appetite
and intention to operate effective Vetting and Fit & Proper processes
to ensure that the right people are carrying out work on its behalf.
However, policies and processes in place have suffered from a lack
of clear ownership, exacerbated by ongoing organisational changes

Needs Improvement

Sponsor:
Ai cameron over recent years.
(Julie Thomas) Vetting
We found that current vetting processes ensure that, at a minimum,
Audit actions: criminal and financial checks are carried out for all employees,
0 contractors and agents, and we confirmed that enhanced controls
6 are in place to cover Supply Chain staff. However, vetting activities
3 are fragmented across the business, with varying levels of guidance,
outdated policies and no clear overall ownership. Additionally,
9 checks on professional qualifications are not carried out as a matter
of course and there is no process for re-vetting outside of Fit &
Proper and Supply Chain.
Appendix 12

Fit & Proper

The Fit & Proper Policy was detailed and up-to-date and significant
work has been undertaken to identify affected direct employees,
agents and commercial partners. A clear record of current
compliance was in place as of November 2019, with action taken to
de-register non-responding or unsuitable partners.

However, we noted that current practice is not fully aligned to the
Fit & Proper Policy, as ongoing identification and management of
direct employee ‘responsible persons’ sits with Compliance rather
than HR. This increases the risk that changes in personnel are not
identified in a timely manner.

Management Comment

“I believe this report reflects accurately the current position with Vetting and Fit & Proper policies and
processes. Whilst the responsibilities are split across HR and Operations functions, I have agreed to
take the lead on behalf of Post Office asthe majority of vetting is for the c.50,000
assistants. Additionally, as we move to a fully franchised organisation, the ownership of Postmaster
Contracts, including their conformance and compliance obligations sits within Operations. A new Head
of Contracts will be appointed and, along with Postmaster contracts and policies, ownership of the
Vetting and Fit & Proper Policies will be added to their role. This decision has been taken in agreement
with Lisa Cherry, Group HR Director.”

Julie Thomas - Operations Director, Network Operations

“I can confirm that I believe this is a fair assessment of the Fit & Proper and Vetting status in the
business. We will continue to provide compliance assurance oversight of the processes and outcomes
and our capacity challenge will be closed when our new Policy and F&P compliance manager joins the
team shortly.”

Jonathan Hill - Director of Compliance

16
Confidential

26 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

bined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

3. Change Control Framework (Operating Effectiveness) (Ref. 2019/20-24)

Between July and August 2019 Internal Audit completed three
design effectiveness reviews over specific areas of the change
process, i.e. gating, benefit realisation and second line
assurance activities, noting some areas for improvement. A key
observation was the need to formalise a control framework for
change activities with a clearly defined set of responsibilities.

The objective of this follow-up review was to assess to what
extent the previous audit recommendations have been
implemented and operationalised. We concluded that Post
Office have made significant progress in designing and
implementing a Change Control framework which is helping to
guide actions through identifying control failures and creating
remediation plans. It is acknowledged by SPO that the
2 framework is not yet operating as intended, as shown by SPO’s
3 own self-assessment. Work continues to refine the framework
5 and to embed control delivery and monitoring. While the current

level of control effectiveness may be perceived as low, we
Appendix 13 consider it to be in line with the expected level of maturity at
this early stage of implementation and highlight the good
progress that has been made. We also note SPO’s commitment
to improving performance and raising maturity to a good
standard. The report highlights further areas of improvement
that would elevate the framework’s maturity.

Needs Improvement

Sponsor:
Dan Zinner

Audit actions:

Management Comment provided by Dan Zinner (Group Chief Strategy & Transformation Officer)

“I have read the report and applaud the SPO team for creating the necessary CCF, which is in the
process of being embedded. Any framework can be improved upon and I would appreciate IA’s ability
to highlight high risk areas where more control is needed, to ensure there is a balance between
investment in increased controls and the investment needed to improve the resources knowledge,
understanding and behaviours on how to do the right things, to prevent the root cause of control flags.”

Status of Audit Actions

83 Audit actions are generally being completed on time. The movement and ageing of audit
actions are shown in the table below (status at 29 April 2020).

Audit Action Status (POL): Ageing:

Open actions at last ARC 64 Open (not yet due) 52
Less: Actions closed in period 45 Overdue (<60 days) 0
Add: New actions in period 33 Overdue (>60 days) 0
Total open actions 52 Total open actions 52

84 There were no overdue actions at the time of writing this report, however, five actions
were due on 30 April 2020. We highlight that the change to business priorities may cause
delays in completion of these actions and we will work with the action owners and GE
sponsors to identify actions where it is appropriate to grant extension to the agreed
completion dates.

17
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 27 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Appendix?

Central Risk

Appendix 1: Non-COVID-19 enterprise & intermediate risks
Appendix 2: COVID-19 risk data set

Appendix 3: Change Portfolio

Compliance

Appendix 4: Whistleblowing MI

Appendix 5: Summary Compliance Dashboard
Appendix 6: Compliance Dashboard

Appendix 7: Covid-19 Regulatory Dashboard
Appendix 8: Telecoms Regulatory Calendar
Appendix 9: FS Regulatory Calendar

Internal Audit

Appendix 10: Internal Audit Plan (2019/20)

Appendix 11: Internal Audit Report - Postmaster On-boarding
Appendix 12: Internal Audit Report - Vetting and Fit & Proper
Appendix 13: Internal Audit Report - Change Control Framework

? Appendices are accessible in the CoSec ‘Reading Room’

18
Confidential

28 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2

POL00423569

POL00423569

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: 2020/21 Internal Audit Plan Meeting Date: I 6 May 2020
. I Johann Appel: Head of Internal . Al Cameron: Chief Financial
Author: ‘Audit Sponsor: Officer

Input Sought: Noting / Discussion
The committee is asked to:

¢ note the internal audit priorities during the COVID-19 crisis;

e consider if the proposed reviews and activities are appropriate to support management
during the crisis, whilst continuing to provide assurance to the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee (ARC) over key risks to Post Office;

¢ advise on other risks or business areas that Internal Audit should consider in the short

and medium term.

Previous Governance Oversight

Feedback from the March ARC was that the proposed audit programme for 2020/21 was no
longer appropriate in light of COVID-19 and should be restated to focus on immediate
priorities that will support the business during the crisis.

Executive Summary

The 2020/21 Internal Audit plan was re-assessed alongside new risks emerging from the
COVID-19 pandemic and Post Office’s response to manage the business through the crisis. This
paper presents the priority activities and reviews that Internal Audit will focus on in the short

term.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk a

Compliance Committee-06/05/20

29 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2020/21

Questions addressed

1. What processes, activities and programmes from the 2020/21 Internal Audit programme
should be prioritised during the COVID-19 crisis?

Report

Introduction
2. Post Office objectives during the COVID-19 crisis are:

Protecting our whole workforce;

Keeping the Branch Network operating and open for business;

Looking after our elderly, vulnerable and at risk customers;

Ensuring our supply chain remains stable and secure;

Maintaining communications with our colleagues, postmasters and customers; and
Emerge from the crisis with a plan for a fast start.

eeceeee

3. To support these objectives, Internal Audit’s role must adapt to provide value to Post
Office beyond our typical remit. Non-audit activities may include supporting the business
in its short-term response to the crisis and long-term recovery efforts. Audit activities will
focus on processes or change programmes that have become critical in the response to
COVID-19 and/or have seen an increased risk as a result of the crisis.

4. We have already adapted our ways of working to maintain productivity while working
remotely in an all-virtual environment. This includes the increased use of ‘agile auditing’
and more flexible working arrangements to balance work and family obligations.

Approach to the re-prioritised Internal Audit plan

5. We have shifted to a dynamic audit programme that will be reactive to emerging risks
and management requests for support. The audit programme will be reviewed and
refreshed at every RCC and ARC to ensure it remains relevant and appropriate.

6. With the help of the Risk team, we have assessed risks arising from COVID-19 around
people, network resilience (including IT DR) and Supply Chain. We consider the current
management interventions and mitigations to be appropriate and not requiring
assurance by Internal Audit as a priority. We will maintain a watching brief on these
areas.

7. We have also assessed the potential consequences of COVID-19 on the general control
environment to identify the short and medium term priority areas where Internal Audit
should focus - these are priority areas from the 2020/21 audit plan as well as topics
identified in response to COVID-19.

8. The remaining topics from the 2020/21 plan have been placed on a watch-list for
ongoing review and will form the basis of the audit programme when we resume normal
operations.

Revised Internal Audit plan

9. Table 1 below shows the top five internal audit priorities. The rationale and high level
scope is included in appendix 1:

Confidential

30 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2020/21

@

POL00423569
POL00423569

Table 1: Top 5 priorities

Review / Activity GE Sponsor(s) Timing
1. I COVID-19 Programme Assurance / Support Nick Read Ongoing
2. I Maintain Minimum Control Standards Al Cameron Ongoing
3 I Cyber Security Maturity Jeff Smyth May
4 I Health & Safety response to COVID-19 crisis Al Cameron May
5 I Effectiveness of Second Line during COVID-19 (enone Ben Foat Ongoing

important to do as soon as possible.

10. Table 2 represents additional areas for review, which are not immediate priorities,

, but

Table 2: Medium priority reviews

Proposed Review GE Sponsor Timing
1 I GLO Operations Improvement Programme Al Cameron Sept
2 I Postmaster Reporting (MI, Branch Trading Statements) I Amanda Jones Q3
3 I BCP Post-crisis assessment Jeff Smyth tbc
4 I Branch Hub Al Cameron Q4
5 I Stamp Stock Al Cameron Q4

plan when normal operations resume.

11. Table 3 is our ‘watch list’ and includes all of the areas that are not included in the
immediate and medium term priorities. This will form the basis of the Internal Audit

Table 3: Watch list

Core Processes / Risk Based Reviews Core / Risk
1 Branch Cash Forecasting Core
2 Financial Controls Framework Core
3 Mails & Parcels Core
4 Travel Money Core
5 Business Continuity Core
6 IT Operations Core
7 Fixed Assets Core
8 Treasury Operations Core
9 Product Risk Assessment (MoneyGram) Core
10 I Identity and Access Management (JML) Risk
11 I ITDR Risk
12 I Digital Strategy Risk

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

31 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2020/21

@

13 I Effectiveness of Financial Crime Function Risk

14 I Contract Management Risk

15 I Effectiveness of Risk Management Framework Risk

16 I Agent Remuneration (3rd Party Data) Risk

17 I Compliance with Prompt Payment Regulations Risk
Change Assurance Reviews Soe /
17 I PCI Compliance Programme Programme
18 I Belfast Exit / Cloud Enablement Programme
19 I Change Controls Effectiveness Governance
20 I Resource Management (for Change) Governance
21 I Arrow/Data Platform - follow-up Programme

Post Office Insurance Internal Audit Plan

12. The steer from the POI ARC was to work with management to identify which internal
audits will be most helpful to support POI during the COVID-19 crisis. Following
discussions with management and POI RCC on 28 April 2020, the following priorities
have been identified:

Process / Area Priority
1 Data: Governance, ethics, privacy and security High
2 Cyber Security (POL-POI Gap Analysis) High
3 I Incident and Breach Management High
4 I Channel review: Non-branch sales Medium
5 I Effectiveness of Risk Management Medium
6 Pricing: Principles, policies and process Low
Alternative topics (Watch list)
1 MI Platform
2 Revenue Recognition
3 Capital & liquidity management
4 Marketing and financial promotions
5 Strategy planning and tracking
6 IDD follow-up
4
Confidential

32 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
DALILUIT] SOLO 1S0d

09 souelIdwiog pue yshy -

0z/S0/90-30n:

€ZLJOee

POL00423569

POL00423569

a

Appendix 1 - High level audit scope statements 3
>

Rank I Review Rationale for inclusion and high level scope =

COVID-19 Programme
1 Support / Assurance

The COVID-19 Programme is critical in coordinating and managing Post Office’s response to the crisis. It is also
central to managing the risks emerging from, and relating to, the pandemic. Internal Audit will seek to be engaged
in the programme as a critical friend as well as in more hands-on capacity if required (e.g. to shadow the PMO).
We will offer to challenge and validate criteria and MI used to drive business critical decisions. We will use the
information obtained from the programme to respond pro-actively to emerging risks and reactively adjust our
approach to other audit activities. The scope will include an assessment of Post Office’s response to COVID-19
related risks, for example people risk and H&S.

Maintain Minimum Control
2 Standards (Financial, IT
and Operational)

3 Cyber Security Maturity

In order to ensure ongoing operations, it is likely that normal controls may be relaxed or compromised through
temporary work-arounds, home working, staff sickness, etc. Internal Audit will consider the impact of these
measures on the continued operation of key controls to ensure the minimum control standards are being followed
to operate safely and to prevent fraud. We will provide a layer of oversight where the normal management
oversight and second line assurance activities may be reduced. This will include an assessment of segregation of
duties adjustments, measures in place to approve via substitutes, exception management and tracking of relaxed
controls. We will link closely with output from COVID-19 steerco. Starting with controls over cash, we will perform
a number of short focused reviews to determine to what extent the normal control frameworks / standards have
been relaxed and then do more targeted reviews proportionate to the risk.

There is a heightened cyber security risk during the COVID-19 crisis as evident by increased volume of attacks.
The risk is further increased by all-virtual working, newly adopted functionality / work-arounds to support home
working, increased mobile device usage, etc. This audit will assess the implementation of the agreed actions
and evaluate the level of progress towards increased Cyber Security Maturity following the 2019 Deloitte
assessment. Progress will be assessed across the highest risk domains and those areas highlighted by the 2019
review to be in most need of improvement. The scope will include areas of increased risk as a result of COVID-
19, for example mobile devices and relevant elements of JML (access management). It will also cover the risk
exception / acceptance process for any controls that may be relaxed during the crisis.

4 Health & Safety response
to COVID-19 crisis

Confidential

Post Office employees, branch staff and customers are exposed to H&S risks directly from COVID-19 and
indirectly from the operational response to the crisis. This review will assess the effectiveness of Post Office’s
response to mitigate these risk. The scope will include (but not limited to): Mechanisms introduced to monitor
H&S risks and MI driving key decisions; response in business critical areas such as Supply Chain; PPE
procurement and guidance; effective communication with employees, postmasters and customers; Ii
Unions /NFSP and tracking their concerns; tracking of COVID related incidents / concerns logged with
management; initiatives to combat mental health impact and impact of prolonged home working on colleagues;
follow-up of findings from recent external H&S audits that may worsen due to focus on COVID response; and,
tracking the backlog of BAU H&S tasks that have been put on hold whilst managing the pandemic.

ison with

Lz/ozoz ul
ZL JO bE

DALILUIT] SOLO 1S0d

09 souelIdwiog pue yshy -

0z/S0/90-30n:

Effectiveness of Second
Line during COVID-19
crisis

POL00423569

POL00423569

@

Changing operational requirements and pressures during the COVID-19 crisis may divert resources away from
the second line, resulting in the distinction between first and second line activities being less clear. This may be
exacerbated by staff sickness and virtual working. Internal Audit will perform short, focused reviews of key
second line assurance activities (Risk, Compliance, Financial Controls, IT Controls, IT Security, etc.) to assess if
they continue to operate effectively amid the crisis. We will flag any decline in the operation of the second line
and may support the business by providing interim assurance over affected areas until the second line can
resume full operation.

Medium Priorities

GLO Operations
Improvement Programme

As a result of the Group Litigation Order outcome and settlement (Q4 2019) Post Office created a Post GLO
programme to address the findings and recommendations set out in the Common Issues Judgment and the
Horizon Issues Judgment. This is a joint programme between Legal and Operations, each with its own
workstreams. Post Office’s response to the GLO findings will continue to attract scrutiny. Internal Audit will
assess overall programme set-up and governance and also review specific workstreams (most likely those
working on improving front-office and back-office operations for the benefit of postmasters. )

Postmaster Reporting (MI,
Branch Trading
Statements)

Providing Postmasters with fit-for-purpose information and communication was identified by the GLO as an area
that requires improvement. Access to timely, accurate and useful information has become even more important
during the COVID-19 crisis. The objective of this audit is to assess the design and operating effectiveness of the
mechanisms and processes to provide timely, accurate and reliable MI to postmasters. This may include a
review of the systems and MI that are being developed to generate and facilitate reporting to Postmasters.

BCP Post-crisis assessment

Once the organisation has stabilised from the initial crisis, there will be an opportunity to record lessons learnt
from the experience, which will be valuable for future business interruptions. There may also be a need to
adjust the standard BC plan to reflect the ‘new normal’, which brings its own risks and challenges. Our review
will assess the lessons learnt exercise performed by the business, or facilitate such an exercise if required.

Branch Hub (Programme
Assurance)

The Branch Hub programme is working at pace to deliver functionality that will support the Operations Teams
during the COVID-19 crisis and alleviate pressure on the Branch Service Centre. Internal Audit will assess the
governance and delivery of the programme, in particular controls assessed as weak in previous audit reports
and those controls that may be compromised when working to such demanding timelines (e.g. clarity of
requirements, change control, decision gates, risk management, testing).

10

Stamp Stock

Confidential

Management request to review the controls over stamp stock. System functionality for recording and
reconciling inbound and outbound stock remittances is currently limited and stock returns are not validated
(counted) in full. The objective of this review is to ensure that the risk of incorrect stock adjustments, which
may be to the detriment of Postmasters, is minimised and that stock control measures are in place to minimise
theft and financial crime.

=
a

&
4
3

Lz/ozoz ul
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 Pt

cyber Security Update

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: PCI - DSS Programme Update I Meeting Date: I 06" May 2020

Jeff Smyth, Group Chief
Information Officer

Joseph Moussalli, Programme

muthiers Manager PCI DSS Programme

Sponsor:

Input Sought: Noting

RCC is requested to note programme progress in the last reporting period.

Previous Governance Oversight
e Programme progress since the last ARC update on 24th March 2020.

Executive Summary

Status of the programme

The programme is expecting to obtain Ingenico final banking software deliverables in early
February 2021 and to commence branch rollout in late March 2021. Branch rollout will be
completed in May 2021 and formal PCI-DSS accreditation will be achieved by June 2021.

Covid-19 - there is no significant impact to the overall programme critical path delivery
timeline at this stage.

The main achievements / status since the last ARC update are listed below.

Business Case - £15.8m has been approved at PRB. The business case will be presented at
IC and the Board in late May 2020.

Integrated Programme Plan - Planning sessions were held with all suppliers. Further work
is ongoing to see how the delivery plan timeline can be further improved.

Ingenico CEO to CEO Executive call
Ingenico & Post Office PCI DSS Executive Call (with Nick Read) was held on 16th April 2020.

Key points discussed:

e Ingenico development team is currently on schedule with both the EMV (Retail) and
Banking deliverables.

¢ The contracts for “build” and “run” have been impacted by inclusion of Coronavirus
addendums - and are now due June 2020 but the legal activity is not impacting technical
delivery.

¢ The PED deployment has been paused due to Coronavirus. Discussions focused on
ensuring a rapid re-start.

IT work stream

¢ Three delivery phases for the workstream identified.

e PED firmware rollout paused due to Covid-19.

¢ IT workstream development reported on track.

¢ Key milestone: Ingencio has delivered the C3 banking specification.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 35 of 123
POL00423569

POL00423569
Tab 5 PCI- 'yber Security Update

Target Operating Model (TOM) work stream

¢ Eight TOM delivery releases identified. Three of these releases are dependent on the P2PE
solution release.

¢ TOM work is currently tracking to plan however there is cost / timeline risk and therefore
significant focus is being placed on this activity. Several TOM remediation items are still
in analysis or design.

Questions addressed

1. What progress has been made since the last update in March?

2. What is the latest status of the commercial negotiations with Fujitsu/Ingenico?
3. I What is the current timeline for regaining PCI DSS compliance?

4. I What are the major activities due to complete in the next two month period?

Report

5. This paper explains the progress made by the PCI DSS programme covering all significant
activities across the three core workstreams;

e IT Workstream - to deliver Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) for standard Retail payments
and banking transactions.

e Target Operating Model (TOM) - to remediate products and all operating processes
required to ensure internalised PCI-DSS compliance.

e Branch/Client Communications (Comms) - client update sessions across Post Office's
acquirers, banking framework and other partners.

6. The plan for regaining PCI DSS compliance has been substantially refined this month. The
latest plans and supplier inputs indicate the solution will be ready for branch rollout
commencing late Q1 2021. Branch rollout would be substantially complete providing
compliant ready systems by Q2 2021 ready for the audit to complete. This timetable has
not been formally communicated externally. It will be communicated once we gain more
confidence that the key suppliers are consistently tracking to milestones.

IT Workstream Update

7. The integrated planning exercise with all parties has identified three delivery releases for
the workstream:
e Release 1: Retail Payment release (card payments) - technical Pilot for 5 counters in
multi-counter branches.
e Release 2: Banking capability introduced - all P2PE systems live ready for the branch
rollout.
¢ Release 3: Branch rollout of POS and PEDs.

Confidential

36 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and

'yber Security Update

@

Summary of key items delivered since the last report:

e PED firmware rollout - since the last report we have completed 74% (18,882 of 25,400
PEDs) of the rollout. Deployment paused on 25th March due to Covid-19. We have plans
to resume the rollout on 1 July or sooner subject to lockdown restrictions being lifted.

e Retail Payments and banking transactions development reported on track by Ingenico.

e Vocalink test environment and connectivity to Ingenico development has been

completed.

Test POS has been delivered to Ingenico at Dalgety Bay for integration testing.

¢ TMS tool for chain of custody - diagnosed issue with duplicates. PED data now being re-
loaded.

8. Commercial negotiations have progressed significantly across all suppliers required for
delivery. The negotiations cover commercials for project implementation (build, test and
deployment of the new solution), and ongoing Business As Usual (BAU) commercials
relevant to running and maintaining the service once live. All parties have commenced
work at their own risk as a goodwill gesture to ensure programme timelines are maintained
and all delivery resources are now mobilised.

Pin pad upgrade:

9. We discussed the paused position of the field PED upgrade/deployment programme with
Ingenico and agreed that we will now jointly revisit available options to reduce
mobilisation timelines for when we restart this workstream. In headline terms, we will
explore how we might engage a minimum “warm tick-over” resource team that would
allow an accelerated re-mobilisation rather recommence from a “cold” standing start. We
will assume that we are aiming for a 1st July 2020 restart (of course subject to safety
considerations) and execute a joint work through of resourcing options to maximise
knowledge retention and ramp-up capabilities. We'll provide an update at the next
executive session but won't wait to take action if we agree tactical priorities.

Santander moving to the P2PE payment channel

10. Santander has confirmed that they understand the change required to support our P2PE
solution by migrating transactions to flow through Vocalink. However, the proposal and
timelines are on-hold pending the lifting of the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions.

POca moving to P2PE payment channel (JP Morgan)

11. Discussions have been held with JP Morgan about the solution. A proposal has been
requested for a target date 15 May.

Fujitsu/Ingenico Banking and Payment Transaction Processing Commercials:

12. Project implementation “build” commercials are fully agreed with Fujitsu, the contracts
have been signed by POL and are still progressing through a final Ingenico governance
cycle. A late request was received from Ingenico to add some terms to cover the Covid-
19 situation. There is pre-commitment in place for costs with delivery timelines
confirmed and the delivery work is progressing.

13. BAU “Runtime” commercials for the payment and banking solution — the first draft of the
BAU terms have been received from Ingenico by Fujitsu. These BAU financial heads of

terms have been shared - work is in progress to complete contract drafting.
3
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and

ompliance Committee-06/05/20 37 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and

'yber Security Update

@

14. The two contracts were discussed at the executive meeting on 16th April. The progress
of the “build” statement of work and the “runtime” MSA contractual documentation were
due to be completed but they have been delayed by Coronavirus schedule reviews. It
was recognised that it would take time to work through all parties and Ingenico have
endeavoured to push internally for an improvement to the current target completion
date of 30th June 2020. Everyone recognises that the legal review/finalisation is not
impeding technical progress but equally everyone agreed it would be useful to get the
task completed.

Vocalink Commercials:

15. Legal and procurement teams have provided feedback and identified areas where the
existing Vocalink contract is not sufficiently robust to support the work. The Post Office
and Vocalink legal teams need to review the proposed amendments together. However,
Vocalink legal team availability is limited. Contract amendments are forecast to be
completed by the end of May 2020. Delivery activities are proceeding in parallel, so no
time is being lost alongside commercial finalisation work.

Fujitsu / Ingenico Software development acti
Banking transaction processing. Activities include:

ies - to support Card Payments and

¢ Card Payments development

o Fujitsu has completed the Design for to progress the development for the Global Payments
Accreditation.

o POS Test Counter in Dalgety Bay has been set-up and is now awaiting Ingenico verification.

o Test cards have been provided

¢ Banking transactions development

o Network connectivity between VocaLink and Ingenico to support critical path activities is in
place pending Ingenico verification.

o AXIS AH plug-in integration testing in progress.

o Banking API Specification work has started.

16. Ingenico have been able to use emulators and Magstripe to progress the development
whilst waiting for Bank cards from Vocalink. Due to Covid-19 MasterCard has placed a
restriction on site visits so Vocalink have been unable to create the cards. This was
escalated and the cards for the immediate acquirer hub development will be made
available in good time for the Ingenico development.

17. Nevertheless the Coronavirus situation is acknowledged as very fluid and therefore we
have agreed to jointly “workshop” various scenarios to understand future risk mitigation
steps that may be required should the lock -down situation persist.

Confidential

38 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and

'yber Security Update

@

servi si si

Increment Start Release
(S}} Date: Date:

SHIT Detailed Planning (EPIC 29/dan/20 22/Apri20
Creation)

si18 Development Start 25/Mar/20 171suni20

si19 20/May/20 12/Aug/20
Further Development

si-20 15/Juv20 1710ct720

sh2t Development Complete o9/Sepi20 o2Deci20
(Core Functionality)

si-22 Development End o4iNoviz0 2Tidani21

A request for an update on SI-17 has been requested.

Target Operating Model (TOM) Workstream Update

18. The PCI programme continues to progress activities to remediate non-compliant PCI-DSS
processes and products. The plan for the TOM workstream has been substantially updated.
Current analysis indicates all product and process remediations are not on the critical path
for the programme. The Payments over the telephone solution is tracking 4 weeks late
(now due early May 2020) but it is not expected to delay the overall programme.

19. Since March, the following activities have been completed:
¢ The TOM plan has been substantially updated and reviewed.
e High Level Design v1.1 has been approved by EAG in principle for those elements that
are known and able to be progressed to the build phase.
e PAN obfuscation on screen and on receipts for products has been commissioned with
ATOS.
¢ The design for the Obfuscation of PAN in the Fujitsu data centres has been completed.
e Eight TOM releases have been identified and three of these depend on the P2PE solution.
o Release A: PAN on screen and receipt obfuscated
Release B: Telephone payments secured. CHD in Call recordings mitigated.
Release C: Obfuscation of CHD in Fujitsu data centres remediated.
Release D: Travel money card top-up process remediated.
Release E: Fujitsu back end reconciliation process adjusted.
Release F: Quatrix - process for CHD
Release G: Financial Service and Financial Crime team process adjusted.
Release H: Payment of Credit Card Bill Payment (Santander)

0000000

20. Key areas of the TOM workstream that are still in analysis or design are:
a. Telephone payments (proposal from Verizon is due early May)

. Voice recordings - mitigation of calls with PAN data.

c. Financial Crime Team / Financial Service Centre team payment investigations.
Discussions ongoing with Barclays about whether these investigation can take place
using transaction details instead of card details.

d. Data network scanning - the remediation approach is being discussed with the
Compliance team

e. Payment of Credit card bill (Santander)

. Reconciliation design (post P2PE implementation)

o

on

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 39 of 123
Tab 5 PC

POL00423569

POL00423569

I-DSS a

@

40 of 123

A dashboard illustrating the scope, supplier involvement and timelines can be found in the
appendix.

Branch/Client Communications (Comms) Update

21. Continued successful regular client update sessions have taken place with Global
Payments and American Express, Post Office's acquirers, and Nettitude, Post Office's
quality security assessor (QSA). Positive feedback was received from all parties.
However, the latest delivery timeline has not been shared with the Post Office client base
(e.g. banking, bill payments) until we have more certainty in the plan.

Major activities due to complete in the next two month period by 19 May
2020 (Status now)

e PED firmware upgrade to v6.04 to be completed (including deployment of POca PIN
change functionality). On-hold due to Coronavirus 74% completed.

e Ingenico - Service Increment 17 (EPIC creation) completed - ready for development
Service Increment 18 work commencing on 25" March 2020. Reported on track by
Ingenico - further information on progress requested.

¢ Vocalink test environment stand-up and testing scheduled for 24" April 2020.
Completed

¢ Planning of JPM and Santander cutovers to the new solution. Meetings held. Santander
impacted by Covid-19. JPM proposal targeted for 15 May.

e¢ TOM - HLD approved. Baseline remediation plan. First tranche approved and planned.
Second tranche still in analysis /design.

e First draft of end to end acceptance testing goals and plan (and successful exit
criteria). End to end test strategy being drafted - meetings held with suppliers

e First draft of solution deployment options including parallel running reconciliation
strategies and tooling needs. First draft available - discussions on-going.

Risk Assessment, Mitigations & Legal Implication

22. Risk: Risk of loss of confidence by our client base should a delay occur.

Mitigation: Pre-emptive conversations have already taken place with client-facing senior
Post Office stakeholders to formulate a strategy should a delay need to be communicated.
The strategy could be to break down the progress into phases and also to indicate how
the progress has been affected by Covid-19.

23. Risk: Risk of the solution provider encountering complexities while developing the new
solution as this is a new venture for them.

Mitigation: Post Office has requested Ingenico to provide granular level reporting to allow
close monitoring of progress. Therefore, if there are any blockers encountered they can
be discovered and addressed quickly.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and

'yber Security Update

@

24. Risk: Risk of Coronavirus impacting the pin pad refresh project (as this activity has direct
branch access dependencies); there is a chance that the activities will not be complete by
the end of April as required by Post Office's acquirer and card schemes. This risk became
an issue and the activity has been paused until the lockdown can be lifted -expected by 1
Jul 2020. This is not on the critical path for the programme.

Mitigation: The risk has been discussed with Post Office's acquirer Global
Payments. Global payments have confirmed that the PCI council has formally confirmed
that the expiry of the PTSv3 software installed on the Post Office’s pin pads has been
extended by 12 months to April 2021. This risk is now adequately mitigated.

25. Risk: Risk of Coronavirus may impact the delivery timescales for any supplier across the
entire PCI programme. The outbreak of Coronavirus is a global risk event and the overall
impact for the programme is not fully evaluated. Consequently, there may be a delay to
the some or all of the agreed deliverables which could affect the build or deployment
programme stages.

Mitigation: Post Office has begun working with all engaged suppliers to better understand
their contingency plans to ensure that delivery momentum is maintained. This includes
the examination of options to minimise delivery impact by understanding key delivery
person risks, supply chain risks and other indirect or latent dependency factors. In
particular, we will be evolving the inter-organisational delivery model to anticipate greater
levels of remote and collaborative working as we expect this will become the normal
operational mode for the foreseeable future.

26. Risk: There is a risk to the programme timescales and costs that that post branch rollout
clean-up activities may be needed on legacy data. This may include deleting legacy data,
awaiting for it to be rolled-off or in certain cases putting PCI DSS controls in place. Known
areas of risk include Audit SAN, Transaction Enquiry Service, CC audit log (INTrust), call
recordings.

Mitigation: Post Office is conducting further analysis with suppliers and compliance to
mitigate the risk to the programme timescales and costs.

Stakeholder Implications

27. Post Office banking clients may use any extended timelines to regain PCI-DSS compliance
as a mechanism to negotiate concessions on the present or forthcoming banking
framework agreement. The regular client update session will provide them with a forum
and information to help manage our key messages with their internal stakeholders.
Further mitigation strategies may be required if we see a shift in their current position.
The programme communication workstream will address that need should any specific
arise.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 41 of 123
EZL JO Zh

02/S0/90-2an!WWOD soueIIdWOD PUE ys! - PaIILU!T BMJ 180d

Appendix - Programme plan

Today
v
Aug I Oct I Dec I Feb I Apr ‘Jun I Aug I Oct I Dec I Feb I Apr \Jun
Deiver’ContrctsCompiete 62/07/20 Serve Contacts & BAU Contracts Complete
IT Commercials eyes 720
02/07/20 AMT Workstrear Contract Complete
PED deployment Restart (est) Pe 01/05/20 02/13/20 PD deployment Complete
5), TS a 23/30/20
ar Counter Release Ready for GP Acredaton Be > Fulles recontinto, eversainDC epee
2uosr0 2s/oyn0 18/1120
Global Payments Accreditation Complete D> La > Release 1 LIVE Pilot Complete
POLAT Complete
20/370 wares
30/03/20 > Ingenico Development Commences, 29/01/21 D> Ingenico Development Complete
ankingLot0- Documentation /Dev.nt End P 29/05/20 21/1270 D> Boning Lot? Cah Withrow
(Banking: Lot 1=-C3A App /C3APID0d > 31/07/20 31/12/20 D> Banking: Lot 3-BTA/ Banking Featured
‘Banking: Lot 4 - AH Plugin - Global I > 30/11/20 > Banking: Lot 5 - Vacalink integration / E2E Valb a
"30/08/20
Fujtsu POS developmentandtestngcompleted Pe 29/01/21
30/110
29a
03/02/21 Ingenio Ed to nd Teng
22/0172 P Voesink scedation completed
22/02/21 > POLUAT Completed
19/03/21 D> fleas 2: anking Mel Ofice and Branch Plt completed
26/3/21- 14/5/21 (IIE Release 3: Branch Deployment
— 12/04/21 De Alyatereauc ety
Deployment Acesearts 20/08/21 Be 31/05/21 > Aut Complete

PcICompliance Achieved De 30/06/21

25/1/20 (UUNNRaase Telephone Payments ND 28/7/20
22 Release C-PCIData Obfuscation inHorizon DataCentres 2005)
so Release Travel MoneyCardTop Up

9/6/28
4/5/20-8/6/20 (QUEEN 5P0 change Excelence Frame work Recommandstions
sy8/39-29/7/20 I sRlease 2 10/03/22

Confidential

POL00423569
POL00423569

aiepdn Ayunoag 48qh9 pue SSa-IOd $ deL
JWOD PUE ¥S!Y - PAIIWI!T BOO 180d

0Z/S0/90-2en!WWOD aout

€ZLIOEb

POL00423569
POL00423569

clients.

Quarterly Audit: These regular audits maintain a level of visibility of our compliance with the QSA. These are also used to communicate our compliance status with our

Appendix — TOM Dashboard

neal ie Cards

ravel Money Multi Currency Card

Payment of Credit Card Bil Santander ony)
Budget Card

utomated PaymentsEnquires + Banking Enq
Telephone Payments

inanclal Crime lnvestigation

ultsu Back End Reconclltion Fes

Confidential

Service

Build test I Scien I Deploy

on/os/20x] 29/05/20 13/05/202q 22/06/2000

sssiy07/20x **18/12/2024 **26/02/207] **16/01/200)

s*31/07/20%4 **18/12/202q “*26/02/202] **16/01/2024 Complenity Key

11/06/7200 o2yo7eox] 31/07/20 07/0872 s-cnan serrate

0805/2070] 29/05/20x) 13/05/2024 22/06/20 vow on on

31/07/2004 **18/12/2004 **16/02/2029 *+29/01/202 Neue a 7

s29j06/2024 “20/07/20 3/08/2024 11/08/21 as a os

s+31/07/2024 **18/12/202q **16/02/202] **29/01/2024

15/05/2004 12/06/2020] 03/06/2024 03/07/2021 End-to-End Delivery Key
BAGStatus Delivery Status

betivery ison track

etiverys outside of tolerance

[Devery Isat isk of moving out of tolerance

etivery has been completed

(Delivery has not been started

aiepdn Ayunoag 48qh9 pue SSa-10d $ deL
€Z1 JO bh

IAWOD pUue ¥SIY - PAYW!T SO1JO ISOq

0Z/SO/90-SeN!WWOD soul

Communication plan — Internal

Meeting Name

Executive Steerin, N/A Monthly _ I CEO level conversation to maintain focus and momentum of I NickRead end ingenico accountable executive
Committee delivery
‘Steering Committee N/A Fortnightly I Inform stakeholder of progress See er eevee
Share any impact of change schedule: [dedeped
usiness: Andrew Goddaré (Payments) / Marin easly (an
Request guidance on significant decisions fnuneareperetstensitartomsn vue)
Ratify RAID items with their mitigations Business Operations Kim Abbett
Escalate blockers and seek assistance to remove Corponstaisnabesce marae
Capture and progress actions amGaneaeme
Legl:kenGarvey
Fujitsu: wendy Warham /Dan Walton
Ingenico:Dave len
Vocslnkcart veya
Internal IT Work stream I 10:00 Daily I Internalforum-Workthrough current actionsand create I amesrous(Mo)
Huddle next actions, on ‘Teams’, tracking tasks to milestones and I NenWecslSotien cn)
‘overall plan Oliver Sutherland (PMO)
Sara Fouad (PM)
RAID, Milestone, Review Thurs 14:30 Weekly I Internal forum-Review and update risks, Milestones and I Ollversutnerland(Puo}
Delivery Pan sara Fouad (PM)
Weekly P2Pe Meeting I Wed 13:00 ‘Weekiy I External forum- Walk through prepared PPT to provide an I JamesFoulk (PMO)
update on progress to and from Fujitsu, Ingenico and Tersteseead petaclo neni)
Vocalink. Open forum for discussion to raise risks, issues I oinarsurerionalono) ne
and dependencies and new actions. Meeting is tracked via I saraFouag (eM)
per. sebsehulte (1PM)
Torstein Ogodeseth (Soe Architect)
Paul Brasher (architect)
Leon Toland (10K PM)
SteveBroughton(Vocalnk PM)
ey Rasullan (ProgrmsmeNanager [Optional
P2PE Regular Tech Wed 15:30 ‘Weekly I External forum Walk through prepared PPT to provide an I AlexWoodISolutin Arent)
Workshop update on progress to and from Fujitsu on low level, iran Ge ieran PRIA
technical discussions/designs. Open forum for discussionto I pautsralsher (architec)
raise risks, issues and dependencies and new actions. Seb Schulte (F1°M)
Meeting is tracked via PPT.
PCI Architecture Thurs 10:00 ‘Weekly I Internal forum-To provide the IT Security team with Dave King {Security Arcitect)
Overview updates and progress made to date, as well as show casing pepomrel ee Security)
PCI solution designs. lve Sutherla (PMO)
Sara Fouss (PM)

1
‘Alex Wood [Solution Architect)

Confidential

10

POL00423569
POL00423569

arepdn Aunoag JaqX9 pue SSa-lod $ 4eL
DALILUIT] SOLO 1S0d

09 souelIdwiog pue yshy -

oz/So/90-2enw

€Z1 JO Sb

@

Communication plan — External

External Parties: Global Payments, Qualified Security Assessor, Banking framework members
+ Monthly Updates- Duration: 1-hour Location: Teleconference/ virtual
Post Office Attendees: Workstream leads, Programme Manager, Client relationship manager
Share and discuss progress against plan
Answer any questions that may be asked
External Parties: American Express
* Quarterly Updates- Duration: 1 hour Location: Teleconference/ virtual
Post Office Attendees: Workstream leads, Programme Manager, Client relationship manager
Share progress against plan and any impact to critical milestones
Reports

* Regular client update presentation compiled and approved by the PCI communications working group

Confidential

11

POL00423569
POL00423569

2 SSC-10d $ GEL

arepdn Aiunoag s2qho pi
POL00423569

POL00423569
Tab 5 PCI-DSS an Security Update
POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
Title: Cyber Security Strategy Update I Meeting Date: I 06 May 2020
Author: Tony Jowett, Chief Information Sponsor: Jeff Smyth, Interim Group CIO

Security Officer

Input Sought: Noting

¢ To note the status and plans regarding our pursuit of agreed target maturity levels

e To note the status and plans regarding our response to the Cyber-related threats
associated with COVID-19.

e To note the guidance for all RCC and ARC members regarding the secure use of social
media.

Previous Governance Oversight

e Actions to report on 3 above topics occurred at the previous Risk and Compliance
Committee (RCC) in March 2020.

Executive Summary

Good progress on achieving our target security maturity has been made. We are about to
conduct a retest with Deloitte that will confirm this and help set the agenda for next year.

We have worked together with the wider IT, Communications and Data Privacy teams in
balancing risk and availability of IT services to help ensure the Post Office can continue to
operate during the COVID lockdown. We have also formulated specific responses to NCSC-
identified threats around COVID-19

RCC & ARC member are urged to review their privacy settings and digital footprints using the
guidance in this paper to ensure that they stay safe online.

CONFIDENTIAL

46 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk a

Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and

'yber Security Update

Questions addressed

1. I Whatis our current Cyber Security maturity vs. target and what are our plans for 2020/21?
What are risks, issues and threats associated with COVID-19 and how have we dealt with
them?

3. I What do we all need to do to ensure our social media presence is secure?

Report — Cyber Security Maturity and Plans

4. I Since we conducted the Deloitte Maturity assessment in March 2019 much progress has
been made - Appendix 1 shows the current status. Our aim is to close as many of the
actions by end April to ensure that we get as close as possible to target maturity values.

5. Our overall average maturity score across the 33 security capabilities assessed by Deloitte
in March 2019 was 2.15 out of a maximum score of 5. Our agreed average target maturity
at that time was 2.59. We estimate (we do not have access to the Deloitte toolkits to be
definitive) that we will achieve an average maturity score of 2.4 by mid-April - we will
have the final updates in shortly and will cross check them with internal audit. The
shortfall in the maturity achievement is due to COVID-19 related and other delays in
projects we are dependent on to support our increased capabilities.

6. We are starting a Deloitte-led maturity retest on 11 May 2020 to assess our progress.
Rather than test areas where we have had a small gap to close or have made little
progress, we have asked Deloitte to perform a more focused test aimed at 20 of the 34
cyber capabilities where there has been major progress in the maturity model. Deloitte
will then update our scores based on those from the previous assessment and the scores
from this assessment. We have also asked Deloitte to lead us through a reset of our
target maturity at this time in line with changes in the Cyber threat environment and our
new business priorities and operating model.

7. The resulting gaps will form part of the input to our 2020/1 cyber change programme
which is currently in the process of being agreed. We will present details for this
programme and the rationale for it at the next meeting.

CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 47 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and

'yber Security Update

Report - Covid-19 Threats and our Response

Cyber activity relating to the move to our new operating model

8. We have updated COVID-19 specific cyber risks in partnership with the risk team and have
pursued mitigation actions, described in more detail below.

9. Many in Post Office already have laptops and are used to using them both in and out of
the office. However, those who only have desktops or have a laptop and have never really
used it outside of the office have faced some user-related difficulties in accessing the Post
Office through the Virtual Private Network (VPN) (which provides similar protection to
working within the office when working away from it).

10. Some have had expired passwords which have needed to be reset away from the office
To enable the move to remote working we have worked closely with IT operations to
rapidly enable home working on laptops for people who have. This has required a
pragmatic approach to security where some controls around password ageing have had
to be relaxed temporarily to enable the Post Office to continue working.

11. There is a risk that with so many now working from home that, if users do not use the
VPN to connect, they will not receive regular patches and updates to anti-virus placing
their devices and others in the post office at risk. We have worked with IT operations on
education and how-to intranet articles to reduce this risk by educating users on how to
use the VPN.

12. Several Post Office users working from home for the first-time requested access to the
ability to print at home. A solution for applying for home printing was developed jointly
by IT, Data Protection and Cyber Security with instructions being place on the Digital
Workplace intranet site.

13. Through our data loss prevention technology, we can monitor users who are sending
documents to their home email accounts even away from the office. In addition to seeing
the user details we can also see the specific documents that have been shared. In cases
where the data involved is clearly commercially or personally sensitive then Data
Protection and Cyber are following up with calls to the individuals involved.

14. The overall situation is being kept under careful observation with communications being
sent out on the Post Office intranet site to advise users against sending any post office
data to home email addresses.

15. We have also performed a short insider-threat type test of our service desk to ensure that,

when performing a password reset then reset passwords are communicated securely. This
has resulted in some minor changes in how the desk operates.

CONFIDENTIAL

48 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and Cyber Security U

COVID-19 Threats and our Responses

16. The UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) have characterised the cyber threats
associated with COVID-19 as follows:

o

Phishing, using the subject of coronavirus or COVID-19 as a lure

b. Malware distribution using coronavirus or COVID-19 themed lures

c. Registration of new website domain names containing coronavirus or
COVID-19 related wording

d. Attacks against newly (and often rapidly) deployed remote access or

remote working infrastructure.

17. The aim of any phishing attack is to infect a machine with malware (possibly
ransomware) by a user clicking on a link that causes malware to be downloaded to that
machine. The results can be catastrophic e.g., Maersk shipping’s 2018 near total loss of
the company was caused by such an attack.

18. In late March we ran a campaign on phishing starting with comms/awareness going out
on the Post Office intranet about how to spot it and what to do if you receive a phishing
email. This was followed a week later by a fake-phishing attack using the offer of Covid-
19 test kits (from a source purporting to be the NHS) as a lure.

19. The results of the attack were summarised in an all-staff email (see Appendix 2). We will
continue to run such campaigns regularly in the future to boost staff awareness.

20. Through the use of our anti-phishing toolkit we have reported any suspicious emails to
NCSC who have started a UK-wide campaign to collect and coordinate the response to
such emails — more details here.

21. The registration of new website domain names containing COVID-19 has exploded I
number with NCSC estimating that around 6000 new ones are being created a week. NCSC.
state “This is a fast-moving situation and this advisory does not seek to catalogue all
COVID-19 related malicious cyber activity. You should remain alert to increased activity
relating to COVID-19 and take proactive steps to protect yourself and your organisation.”

22. In response our Security Operations Centre (SOC) has embarked on a proactive threat
hunting campaign to find such “dodgy” websites and to blacklist them so that staff are
unable to access them. We have found over 2000 such websites which have a post/postal
element to them and have blacklisted them.

23. The SOC has also loaded the tell-tale signs (termed indicators of compromise) into our
event monitoring platform (Splunk) so that we can see if there are any signs of the kinds
of attacks associated with COVID-19 aimed at Post Office.

24. We have not introduced any new remote access/ remote working infrastructure of
note but have instead leaned heavily on existing technology and measures.

CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 49 of 123
Tab 5 PC

POL00423569
POL00423569

I-DSS and Cyber Security Update

@

50 of 123

25. We continue to focus on joiners, movers and leavers (JML) as detailed in the previous
paper but progress on improvements has been interrupted somewhat by the immediate
need to support a move to remote working. We are now reviewing our plans in the light
of the likely hybrid operating model for Post Office to ensure that they have the correct
focus and will report back in the next paper.

26. Finally, there is only so much that our technical controls can achieve. More than ever we
need our people to participate in a more security-savvy culture now we are working in a
remote fashion. Never has the new marketing-led strapline of “we’re stronger together”
seemed more apt for Cyber at Post Office as we all have a part to play. With that in mind
we have embarked upon a more proactive communications and awareness programme
with the assistance of the Central Communications team - more details to follow in July’s
paper.

Report — Protecting Ourselves on Social Media

27. Social media use is a routine part of daily life for many of us. In addition to the normal
benefits it has become an essential part of life under COVID-19 restrictions. Like all
technology it can be used for good and bad means.

28. In the previous paper details of the results from the recent red-team exercise revealed
that it was relatively easy to harvest details of GE and Board members at Post Office from
social media and other publicly available information. One possible use of such activity is
to profile people so that criminals can then make an approach to coerce or bribe an
individual either on-line or in person.

29. This kind of social attack can happen to anyone but the fact that GE and Board members
are much more visible and have more power and influence than the average employee
tends to make them more desirable targets.

30. Fortunately, there a range of actions that we can all take to protect ourselves which are

a. Ensure that we consciously set the privacy settings on social media that we use.
NCSC have published links to the specific privacy settings of the main platforms
here.

b. Ensure that we understand our digital footprint and where possible try to
minimise it. Help on assessing and managing this is available from the Centre
for the Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI) here.

31. The information on each of these resources is clear and simple to follow but please feel
free to contact Tony Jowett with any further queries you may have. Also, if you are

approached with any untoward offers/suggestions then please get in touch so we can
assist you.

CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update

@

Appendix 1 Security Transformation Programme

Status

Area Milestone Completion Target Update
5 Completion
Target Previous I Current Date

Deloitte 90% 73% 83% March 2020 Good progress of late, 31%

Cyber of actions have been placed

Review on indefinite HOLD as current

Actions strategy & COVID-19 changes

have affected outcome

Deloitte 90% 65% 68% March 2020 Good Progress, it is still

Information expected that all actions will

Protection be closed

Review

actions

RSA Archer 40% 100% 100% Feb 2020 “Cyber Security Assurance”

implementat and “3rd Party Cyber

ion Assurance” are fully

operational
Central Risk team are now
system owners

DLP Overall I 80% 70% 70% Feb 2020 DLP Policy - 100%

System MCAS - 100%

AIP - 30% (Test stopped)
InTune - 100%

DLP Policy DLP policy engine is fully operational since Oct-19, only in Monitor mode, no
enforcement other than SOC and DPO processing alerts generated by DLP. An enterprise
wide analysis will be required in 2020 to review business operations that fall foul of DLP

DLP MCAS that require addressing for enforcement mode to be enabled.

DLP AIP MCAS (MS Cloud App Security) System has also been fully operational since Nov-19
AIP (Azure Information Protection) document classification, testing failed due to a
comparability issue with POL old deployed Office versions, this is now on hold until the

DLP Intune I EUC refresh addresses the Office updates.

InTune is currently in operation and security enhancements and updates are integrated
as part of BAU change and EUC

soc Treated as ongoing continual improvement to BAU. Widening coverage of SOC through

Maturity acquisition of more logs including Payzone and Post Office Insurance.

Red Team events planned for 2020 to further develop SOC
CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

51 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update

@

Appendix 2 - Communications from Results of Fake
Phishing Attack

OWVNG update

52 of 123

8 April 2020 I Reading time 2 minutes I For information and action

CONFIDENTIAL

Hi everyone,

It’s important for everyone to really recognise that we are more reliant
on our IT staying safe and secure than ever, as we adjust to our new
ways of working at this unprecedented time. Of course, this also means
that the risks are higher and the consequences greater (e.g. there are no
easy or quick ways to investigate or replace laptops). Please always be
mindful of attempted or potential phishing attacks especially when we
are all working under increased pressure with increased distractions.

Phishing exercise

To test our readiness, last week, the Cyber Sec team ran a Phishing
exercise (relating to COVID-19) which simulated real attacks that are
happening now. Here are the headline results:

Emails sent 4,184
Total colleagues reporting as a scam 1,184 (28%)
Total colleagues “lured” *439 (11%)
Post Office security measures initiated 75 seconds
Total colleagues lured before mitigation 21 (0.5%)

*this included one GE member — no-one is immune.

The two critical measures to note are time taken for our security
measures to recognise this specific attack as dangerous (75 seconds)
and the number of colleagues who clicked or opened the attachment
BEFORE these measures kicked in: 21. At best, this means we would be
dealing with 21 infected machines. If the payload from the attack
included ransomware, then any one of those infections could easily
result in a serious hit on our ability to operate as an organisation.

I appreciate that we’re all working under increased and unforeseen
pressure — but attackers know this too. And indeed they are relying on
it... so the best advice we can give is to stop and think before you click. If

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 5 PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update

@

CONFIDENTIAL

you have any doubt, then report “dodgy” emails by clicking on the
IronScales button on Outlook (if this fails, please forward the email onto
ISSAPOIT

Always question emails where you do not know the sender or were not
expecting something. You can always contact us at
information.security! GRO for assistance.

Within Cyber, we are going to continue to undertake these and similar
test attacks over the coming weeks and months — and we'll continue to
report back the findings.

I'll be starting a more regular pattern of communication over the coming
weeks, to bring to life and highlight some of the tactics used by
attackers, some of the more sophisticated patterns of attack and to
provide you with advice for use both at home and at work.

Think before you click.

Tony Jowett

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 53 of 123
POL00423569

POL00423569
Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework
POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Progress Update on the Pilot
Title: Implementation of the Contract I Meeting Date: I 06 May 2020

Management Framework
Author: Sherrill Taggart, Group Legal Sponsor: Ben Foat, General Counsel

Director

Input Sought:
The Risk and Compliance Committee (“RCC”) is asked to note:

e¢ The implementation of the pilot of the Contract Management Framework (“CMF”) will, as
planned, complete on 19 May 2020.

e The projected final costs of the pilot.

e The costs, timeframes and residual risk associated with the post pilot options for the
implementation of CMF across the Post Office Group (“PO Group”) presented within this
paper.

The RCC is asked to approve for recommendation to the Audit, Risk and Compliance
Committee (“ARC”), the recommended approach:

e While internal training has been provided, accredited external training will not be provided
to identified contract managers for material contracts, accepting the risk that this may
result in a baseline level of capability not being established amongst this group of
individuals.

e Reallocating £26k of the £80k originally included in the budget to provide external training
in order to complete the upload and mapping of all remaining contracts identified by GE as
being material in terms of strategic and financial value by the end of June 2020 (“Material
Contracts”).

e It is proposed that the implementation of CMF across those contracts not identified as being
material by the Group Executive (“GE”) (“Other Contracts”) be done outside of this project
through the natural ‘lifecycle of a contract’ e.g. as they are renewed, cease or new
agreements are entered into. This will take significantly longer, through BAU resource and
processes, but release c£700k from the 20/21 Change Portfolio Budget.

Previous Governance Oversight

Post Office ARC Meeting of 25 November 2019.
Project Review Board of 14 January 2020.

GE Tactical Meeting of 12 February 2020.

Post Office RCC Meeting of 10 March 2020.
Post Office ARC Meeting of 26 March 2020

Confidential

54 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk a

Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework

@

The implementation of the CMF pilot will complete on 19 May 2020‘. At the ARC meeting in
March, the project team offered to return to the ARC in May 2020 with options regarding the
wider rollout of the implementation, following the completion of the pilot.

Executive Summary

Against the original target of identifying, uploading and mapping obligations for 50 Material
Contracts with funding of £300k - by the end of the pilot we expect to have spent £100k,
uploaded and mapped the obligations for 60 Material Contracts and to have identified benefits
of c£440,0002.

This however leaves circa 82 Material Contracts and circa 1,500 Other Contracts which will not
have been uploaded onto Web3.0, nor had their obligations mapped or benefits identified.

To complete the implementation for all Material Contracts (142 in total) would take one
additional month and cost £26k. It is estimated that it would take at least a further 6 months
and £330k to complete the implementation for all the other circa 1,500 contracts.

Given the current commercial environment within which the Post Office is operating, the
recommended approach is to complete the implementation for all 142 Material Contracts, but
not extend the implementation into the remaining contracts. It is understood that the Source 2
Settle Programme is seeking funding to upload the static data associated with the 1,500 Other
Contracts (i.e. start date, end date etc.) but not to map the obligations, set automated alerts
etc.

Questions addressed

1. What progress has been made with the pilot implementation of the CMF since the last
update provided to the ARC in March 2020?

2. Once the pilot is completed, what options exist in relation to a wider implementation and
what are the associated timeframes and cost?

3. What is the recommended approach?

Report

1. Atthe November 2019 meeting, the ARC approved a cost efficient, decentralised framework
for contract management across the PO Group. It also approved (i) the implementation of
the CMF being piloted with the top 50 Material Contracts and, (ii) subsequent to a
dependency on a confirmed GE and GE-1 structure, the duration of the pilot being extended
to 19 May 2020, in part owing to there being no impact on the budget.

2. Progress against the deliverables set out in the Prove Plan are set out below:

Measurement Original Target Current Position Forecast Position at
Closure (19 May
2020)
No. of Material 50 142 142
Contracts identified

1 The scope of which (as set out in the associated Prove Plan) is included at Annex 3.
? Through rebates due to Post Office as a result of Legal Spend

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 55 of 123
POL00423569

POL00423569
Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework
Measurement Original Target Current Position Forecast Position at
Closure (19 May
2020)
No. of Confirmed Latest I All (142) 91 142
Versions of Material
Contracts
No. of Material All (142) 118° (managed by 43 I 118
Contracts with Contract Contract Managers)
Managers
No. of Contract I All (43) 38 43
Managers On-boarded &
Trained via the LCG
Academy
No. of Contract I All (43) te) 0 (though all will have
Managers Trained by the received internal
IACCM training via LCG
Academy)
No. of Contract I All (43) 39 43
Managers 20/21
Objectives to include
Contract Management
No. of Material I 50 44 65
Contracts Uploaded onto
Web 3.0
No. of Material I 50 44 60
Contracts with
Obligations Mapped
Rebates identified & I Not Quantified £436,000 £436,000
Realised
Other Value adds I Not Quantified e 7 contracts with
Identified Service Credit
Provisions.
e Ability to move
quickly during CVv-
19.
Spend vs £300k I £300,000 £38,000 £100,000 - £180,000*
approved

4. In addition to the numbers set out above, 13 Other Contracts have also been uploaded onto
Web 3.0 and had their obligations mapped. The full list of Material Contracts which have
been mapped, and those Material Contracts for which we have not yet located a confirmed
latest version of that contract (with all ancillary documents) is included at annex 1 and 2
respectively.

5. The RCC will note that although the project will exceed its target to map the obligations for
50 Material Contracts by 19 May 2020 (the completion date for the pilot), there will still be
a significant number of Material Contracts which the PO Group is party to which will not
have been uploaded onto Web 3.0 platform, nor had their obligations mapped.

5 Of the 24 material contracts without contract managers, this is in large because of the ongoing structural changes

* The reason for the delta (c£81,000) is the difference between providing external training or not. Other material savings which
have been made against the original budget include £30k in external legal advice, £15k in programme resource costs, £20k in
licence fees and the quote from the external training providers was £30k below the original provision.

Confidential

56 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework

@

POL00423569
POL00423569

6. The following options are available to the ARC:

External Training for Contract Managers of Material Contracts

Within the approved budget for the pilot was a provision for accredited external training.
The external training would create a common contract-management language, knowledge-
base and baseline level of capability across the PO Group. The associated accreditation is
based upon the Contract Management Professional standards as endorsed by the
Government Commercial Function, International Association for Contract & Commercial
Management, and the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply.

Post Office is not however committed to this spend and we have paused the associated CAF
process, pending a decision by the RCC and ARC. Not proceeding with this spend would
release approximately £80k of the budget which could be released back to the business or

re-purposed to deliver the options described below.

Option Timeframe to Cost Residual Risk I Recommended?
Complete Implications

1. End pilot on 19 I Pilot ends on 19 I Ending the pilot on Ie c82 material NO
May 2020 with I May 2020 19 May 2020 with contracts
no further no further wider won't have
implementation implementation been located,
of wider rollout will result in uploaded

savings of either: onto Web
© £120k 3.0, nor had
against the their
original obligations
300k of mapped and
funding benefits
provided, if (service
the decision credits, price
is taken to reviews,
still provide rebates etc)
external identified.
training to};* Thesame will
contract be true of
managers c1,500 Other
of material Contracts
contract; or which we
¢ = £200k if the believe Post
decision is Office to be
taken not to party to.
provide the
external For these
training. contracts, Post
Office will be
exposed to the
risks described
in previous
papers to the
RCC.

2. Complete the Ie We expect toIe The current runI+ Post Office YES
implementation be able to rate for the would not
forall 142 locate, programme have the

4
Confidential
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 57 of 123
POL00423569

POL00423569
Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework
Opt Timeframe to Cost Residual Risk I Recommended?
Complete Implications
material upload onto (excluding complete
contracts with Web 3.0, and external picture of its
no further map the training costs) contractual
implementation obligations is c£26k per landscape,
or rollout for all 142 month. and be
thereafter material * Thus, this exposed to
contracts by exercise would the risks
30 June cost c£26k to described in
20209. complete, previous
e For speed, which could be papers to the
the obligation offset by the RCC, albeit
mapping may projected for only
however £120k - £200k those
have to be underspend contracts
done without described deemed not
the contract above. to be
manager. material.

« Over time,
this — would
remedy itself
as non-
material
contracts are
renewed /
expire / new
agreements
are entered
into.

3. Complete ¢ This would be I* Current e All current NO
implementation a significant resource levels contracts
for all 142 undertaking would need to which Post
material and require a increase from 1 Office is
contracts and programme PM and 2 party to
all c1,500 non to be paralegals to 1 (material and
material appropriately PM and 6 non material)
contracts resourced paralegals® would be

and funded Ie This would uploaded
for, at oa result in onto Web 3.0
minimum, 6 monthly run with their
months costs increasing obligations
to c55k per mapped.
month - an There should
additional cost not,
over 6 months therefore be
of £330k any residual
risk through
adopting this
approach.

7. Given the current challenges faced by the Business, the recommended approach is:

58 of 123

5 With 4 contracts being uploaded and mapped each day (2 per paralegal). Thus, c20 per week and c80 per month.
5 With 12 contracts being uploaded and mapped each day (2 per paralegal). Thus, c60 per week and c240 per month.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework

@

e Not to proceed accredited external training to those individuals identified as contract
managers for Material Contracts, accepting the risk that this may result in a baseline
level of capability not being established amongst this group of individuals.

e Re-allocate £26k of the £80k originally included in the pilot’s budget to complete the
uploading and mapping of all Material Contracts, accepting the risk that the PO Group
will not have a complete picture of its contractual landscape in respect of the circa 1,500
Other Contracts. It is understood that that the Source 2 Settle Programme is seeking
to raise a change request to fund the uploading of the circa 1,500 Other Contracts—
albeit from a static data perspective only (i.e. start date, end date etc.) as opposed to
mapping obligations, setting automated alerts etc.

e¢ That the implementation of CMF across those contracts not identified as being material
by the GE be done outside of this project, as part of BAU as contracts are renewed,
cease or new agreements are entered into. This will release c£700k from the 20/21
Change Portfolio Budget.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 59 of 123
Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework

@

POL00423569
POL00423569

Annex 1 — Material Contracts Mapped

Contract Name Other Party
1 An on-line advisory service Adviser plus
2 Affilliate Management AWIN
3 ‘Agreement for the Provision of Money Transmission
Services MoneyGram Payment Systems, Inc
4 AllPay Bill Payment Agreement AllPay
5 ‘ATM agreement Bank of Ireland
6 Audit of Notes Circulation Scheme, MDA, DVLA BIS
loan PWC
7 Back Office IT Tower contract Accenture
8 Banking Framework (& Banking Framework 1.3) Various
9 BT Bill Payment Agreement BT Telecommunications plc
10 Car, Van and Home Insurance Budget Insurance Services Ltd
11 Common Digital Platform Agreement Accenture
12 Creative Agency Ogilvy & Mather Group (Holdings) Ltd
13 Crown Transformation - Self Service Kiosks (SSK's) NCR Ltd
14 DAM tool Splash
15 Duck Creek Policy Duck Creek
16 EDF Bill Payment Agreement EDF Energy Customers pic
17 End User computing (provision of equipment &
support/maintenance) Computacenter
18 Financial Services Joint Venture Agreement Bank of Ireland
19 Front Office Counter Services (FOCS) Framework -
Framework Agreement, DVLA Call Off, DVLA Extension
and Novation to Crown Commercial Services Crown Commercial Services
20 Retail Arrangement Agreement WHSmith (supply of stationary and
packaging in our branches
21 Grant Agreement- Support NT NFSP
22 Home Insurance Ageas Insurance Ltd
23 Horizon IT hardware, application, data centre and
network services Fujitsu Services Limited
24
Interims and Contractors Intelligent Resource
25 Life Insurance Royal London Life Contract
26 Media audit Ebiquity
27 AEI Contract Thales
28 0365 Services &Products Microsoft
29 Portfolio & Service Management (Including IT
Helpdesk) Service Now
30 Ped (Pin Entry Device) Ingenico UK Limited
31 Network IT Tower contract Verizon
32 Paystation Agreement Ingenico
33 Pension provider - Money4Life Service Agreement Zurich
34 POL's Outsourced Contact Centre (Home Insurance)
(POMS) Firstsource Solutions UK Ltd
35 POL's Outsourced Contact Centre (Travel, General Telecom Services Centres Limited t/a
Insurance and other Products) (POMS) Webhelp
36 PowerNI Bill Payment Agreement PowerNI
37 Private Medical Care Insurance Provision Bupa
38 PwC external audit Pwc
39 Grant Thornton 3rd party data audit Grant Thornton
40 Technology Services
Accenture
rd
Confidential

60 of 123

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework

@

POL00423569
POL00423569

41 Travel Insurance Ergo Travel Insurance Services Limited
42 Travel Insurance Collinson Insurance Services Ltd

43 Verify ID Checking Digitentity

44 Verify ID Checking DWP (Cabinet Office)

latest version of th

at contract

Annex 2 - Material contracts for which we are still locating a confirmed

Kindred

Lord Mayor & Citizens of
Westminster/ Hammersmith &
Fulham Borough Council

FRES : FSJVA

BT Telecommunications
: Services relating to

FRES : International Money

BEIS : Entrustment

FRES: Foregin Currency Exchange

Bill Payment Servest Transfer

Royal Mail : Swindon Warehousing
Capita: Travel & Events Agreement CBRE
Eon POMS : MSA BNP Paribas
ePay Verizon: Core Telecoms Network Kings Security Ltd
SAP UK Ltd : Master
Agreement KPMG Nunwood Insafe International Ltd
nPower Quadrangle Santander
Ingenico Trinity McQueen Santander : Payout
Scottish Power Kantar British Gas: Bill Payment
SSE Energy ABA GPUK
Yorkshire Water GFK Mediazest
Capita Travel Kouros
Postmaster/Main/Local : 1) Key Fuels (CH Jones) -
Agency and Branch Fuel Card Provider
network Vocalink Ltd 2) Harvest Fuel - Main
POMS : Distribution Supplier Fuel for forecourts.
Agreement CWU 3) Enfilade - Tank
BEIS : Government Management
funding provision of 4) Allstar - Fuel Backup Card
network Unite

5) Portland Fuel Fuel Trading
Company - Provide Fuel
Hedging

Royal Bank of Scotland

WorldPay

UKGI

ATOS

McKinsey & Company
Inc UK

Bank of England (Note Circulation)

1) Belfast Bunker = LCC Fuel
2) Birmingham = Certas
Energy

3) Hemel = Watson Fuel

4) Newcastle = Certas Energy
5) Norwich = Watson Fuel

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

61 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 6 Progress Update on the Pilot Implementation of the Contract Management Framework

@

Annex 3 -Pilot Scope

¢ Identify and ratify with GE & the Business the top 50 material contracts based on financial

and strategic value and risk profile.

Identify contract owners and contract managers for the top 50 material contracts.

Map out roles and responsibilities for contract managers and owners.

Identify and agree KPIs for contract managers and owners.

Review the job descriptions and objectives of identified contract owners and managers.

If required, amend job descriptions and objectives of identified contract owners and

managers where necessary.

e Identify the appropriate suite of training to be provided to the top 50 material contract
owners and managers.

e Deliver training on core skills and Web 3 (Source to Settle (S2S) to contract owners and
managers of the top 50 material contracts.

e Upload top 50 client/supplier contracts on to S2S.

e Map the obligations for top 50 client/supplies contracts.

Confidential

62 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569

POL00423569
Tab 7 Horizon Scanning Update
POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
Title: Horizon Scanning Report Meeting Date: I 6 May 2020
Author: hes Sponsor: Ben Foat (Group General Counsel)

Input Sought: Noting

The Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC) is asked to note the new or proposed material
changes to laws and regulations this month.

Executive Summary

There are 5 matters for the Committee to note (details of which are set out in the Appendix):

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting Update;
Morrisons Supreme Court Appeal;

IR35 ‘Off-Payroll’ Rules Update (Covid-19);
Employment Legislation Update (Covid-19); and
Business Area Update (Covid-19).

VPwNe

Those matters that relate to Covid-19 are continuously monitored to assess the short and long
term risks and potential impact to the Post Office through the relevant working groups that
have been stood up and a robust governance framework.

With regard to the other matters referred to, significant work has already been undertaken to
ensure any material risks that may arise for the Post Office are being managed to ensure
compliance. Where no action is required, the matter has been noted and any further
developments will be reported on.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk a

Compliance Committee-06/05/20 63 of 123
g
2
N
Py

dog pue ¥SRy - pa}

o
®
S
3
S
&
8

Appendix 1

1. RCC Horizon Scanning Report: New material updates

POL00423569
POL00423569

Issue Why it matters? Latest Developments Impact on Post Office Action
Streamlined I In April 2019, the SECR scheme was I The scheme came into force April 19 and I Post Office are expected to report under the I A draft report has been shared with Al
energy and I introduced under the Companies Act I therefore April 2020 is the first reporting I SECR the following items: Cameron and a final report was sent to
Carbon 2006 and imposed greater reporting I cycle under SECR. Electricity usage; PWC for review on 22 April. We are
Reporting obligations than the previously Gas usage; and expecting their feedback during week
Update abolished CRC Energy Efficient - Transport emissions. commencing 4 May.
(SECR’) Scheme. Post Office hasn't previously reported on
transport emissions and __ therefore
Under SECR, Companies now are operational changes were required in order
obliged to report on vehicle to collate this information to report on.
emissions and also provide a
narrative commentary on any Post Office’s property team instructed Inspire
energy efficiency action taken in the to collate the data required for Financial Year
previous financial year. 2019/2020 and prepare the SECR report that
will be used in the Annual Report and
Accounts.
The narrative of initiatives implemented also
sets the baseline for future annual reports
and sets out the objectives by which Post.
Office will measure against over the next ear.
PWC have assured Post Office that as a
company we are ahead of other client's and
there has been relative comfort over the
figures shared.
Morrisons In a Court of Appeal decision, it was I Morrisons appealed the decision made by the I Although vicarious liability is not new law, I There is no action required by Post
Supreme found that organisations could be I Court of Appeal, and the Supreme Court I this Supreme Court finding provides helpful I Office following the Supreme Court
Court Appeal I vicariously liable for data breaches I found that the decisions of previous courts I clarification on the potential scope of I Decision. The decision does provide

caused by rogue employees, even
where an organisation had taken
appropriate measures to comply
with data protection obligations.

This decision would have set a
precedent for future victims of data
breach breaches to argue an
employer is vicariously liable for the
actions of a former employee and

and the Court of Appeal were ‘contrary to the
established approached to questions of this
kind, and were based on a misunderstanding
of this Court's decision’.

The Supreme Court found that the test of
vicarious liability is limited to circumstances
where actions of the employee were carried
out in the pursuing the business of the
employer _and were not in an effort to

vicarious liability as it may apply to ‘rogue
employees’ and ‘insider threat scenarios’ in
the context of data breach incidents.

In light of the first Court of Appeal decision
back in 2018, Post Office reviewed its
approach to Joiners, Movers and Leavers and
highlighted several weaknesses. A project
was undertaken to address these
weaknesses and several changes were made

comfort in regards to ‘rogue employee’
in the context of data breaches, and
Post Office will continue monitor for any
further guidance published as a result of
this decision.

Strictly Confidential

dog pue ¥SRy - pa}

o
®
S
3
S
&
8

€ZL Jo G9

POL00423569

POL00423569

JOH 2 GEL

Issue Why it matters? Latest Developments Impact on Post Office Action
exposed organisations to group I deliberately harm the employer, as in the I to a variety of IT policies to implement these.
claims where this had occurred. Morrisons Case. This was previously reported on at RRC in
detail by Jonathan Acres.
TR35 ‘Off IR35 is tax legislation aimed at I Due to various factors arising from COVID- I Post Office has had to comply with the IR35 I The minimal impact of the delay has
Payroll’ combatting tax avoidance by I 19, the Government made the decision to I rules since April 2017 given the applicability I meant there is no immediate action for
Rules workers who supply their services to I delay the implementation of IR35 until April I to public sector organisations came into force I Post Office however work has now
Update clients through an intermediary but I 2021. previously. Therefore there has not been a I completed on an historical audit of all
who would be taxed as employees if big impact compared to other businesses, I the previous decisions regarding IR35,
engaged directly. Although this however it has provided Post Office a chance I and it found all decisions were found to
legislation was in place for over 17 to ensure we were complying with the rules I be compliant.
years, compliance was low and the correctly and provide the opportunity to
Government set to change the way correct historical mistakes, for example going I As the position currently stands, 9/66
in which the legislation operated. forward earlier contact will be made with line I contractors are on contracts inside of
managers regarding their contractors who I IR35.
The new legislation was due to come are approaching the two years of,
into force on 6 April 2020, however engagement with Post Office in order to
many private organisations have ensure effective resourcing and sufficient
raised various concerns with the time for replacements to be found if
new legislation. The Government necessary. 22 individuals were flagged as an
announced a review into the IR35 IR35 risk, all have been dealt with having
rules which provides an opportunity either moved to full time positions, exiting
for stakeholders to demonstrate the business or being placed an inside IR35
quite how damaging the rules might contract.
be.
The decision to delay the implementation of
IR35 has therefore had minimal impact to
Post Office, with the only practical change
being that Post Office are no longer required
to inform upcoming contractors whether they
are inside or outside of IR35. However, as
best practice Post Office has made the
decision to do this anyway.
Employment I Due to the impact of COVID-19, I Of those that will be most applicable to Post
Legislation there have been many legislative I Office:
Update changes in the employment
(COVID-19) I landscape in order to accommodate
and effectively react to the changing I a) Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (‘JR I a) Whilst the Government has announced it I a) No further action necessary, the JR
requirements. Scheme’) - The JR Scheme was introduced I does not expect many public sector I Scheme is being considered alongside
to support businesses and employees I employers to use the JR Scheme, it does I other options. Continue to update the
The Coronavirus Act 2020 was I affected by COVID-19 where employers were I acknowledge that, in some cases, it may be I employee FAQs as and when necessary
introduced by the Government on I unable to maintain their current workforce. I appropriate and with BEIS approval, POL I and assess impact.
the 19 March and came into force on I Employers could apply to the Government for I may be able to use the JR Scheme.
the 25 March. The Act introduces I a grant covering up to 80% of its usual I At the current time, no decision has been
emergency powers to handle the I monthly wage costs. The JR Scheme I made to furlough Post Office staff but the
COVID-19 pandemic, and out of this I launched on 20 April, and as it stands I option is being considered alongside other
introduces several employment I currently will run until 30 June; options to redeploy employees where they
changes. are not being fully utilised.

Strictly Confidential

2
8
2

N
Py

duo pue ¥sRy - pay

o
®
S
3
S
&
8

POL00423569
POL00423569

Why it matters?

Latest Developments

Impact on Post Office

Action

There has also been changes made
to existing employment legislation.

Emergency Volunteering Scheme
Scheme’) - The Coronavirus Act included
provisions for the introduction of a new
temporary statutory right to emergency
volunteering leave. The provisions will need
secondary legislation to be passed before the
EV Scheme becomes law, however the
expectation is that this will occur imminently.
Once the law is passed, a worker with a valid
emergency volunteering certificate (for
example an NHS Body or Department of
Health) will be able to apply for unpaid
emergency volunteering leave. The EV
Scheme will apply for an initial 16 week
period, allowing workers to take one period
of volunteering leave of two, three or four
complete weeks with a minimum of 3
working days’ notice;

c) Workin Time ‘Coronavirus!
Amendment) Regulations 2020 - Carry-over
of Annual Leave - Under EU Law all workers
are entitled to 28 days annual leave
(including bank holidays) each holiday year,
although Post Office enhances this
entitlement, 20 days of each employee's
annual entitlement is statutory holiday.
Usually, this holiday has to be used in the
relevant holiday year and days can only be
rolled over if someone has been too sick to
take their holiday entitlement.

The Government has recognised that due to
the response to COVID-19 some employees
may not be able to take their holiday
entitlement. Due to this fact, where it is not
reasonable practicable for someone to take
some or all of their leave due to the effects
of coronavirus, carry over of the 20 statutory
days’ holiday will be allowed for up to 2
years; and

d) Gender Pay Gap Reporting Postponed -
At the end of March, The Government
Equalities Office and the Human Rights
Commission announced that enforcement of.

b) Post Office are currently keeping a
watching brief on the passing of any
secondary legislation. However as it stands,
there is no right to refuse a request and
therefore Post Office will have to
accommodate any that might come through.
There are certain exemptions for small
employers, civil service and the police
however Post Office currently is not listed as
an exempt employer and therefore expects
to be subject to the legislation. There is
however a provision for the Secretary of
State to add to the list of exempt employers
which may change this.

It is important to note that this is not a
blanket right for all volunteering activities
during the coronavirus to take unpaid leave,
rather those who are required for a specific
period because they have suitable medical or
social care skills.

c) Post Office will be required to carry over
the 20 days’ of statutory leave however a
decision has not yet be made about carrying
over of holiday over and above 20 days. It is
not anticipated at all staff will be affected by
this, as only those who are unable to take
leave due to their required ongoing
contribution would be able to roll over their
unused holiday entitlement.

d) Post Office usually publish their figures at
the end of March, however we haven't
Published this year’s figures as of yet. It is
unknown at this time whether Post Office

b) Watching brief over any secondary
legislation that formally introduces the
EV Scheme as law. Post Office will
continue to assess the impact the EV
Scheme might have and continue to
update the employee FAQs as and when
necessary.

c) Post Office will have to make a
decision on whether carry over of above
and beyond 20 days will be permitted.
Full impact still remains to be assessed
and what processes may need to be put
in place in order to facilitate carrying
over of higher amount of days. Further
guidance to be published for employees
as and when necessary.

d) No action required.

Strictly Confidential

duo pue ¥sRy - pay

o
®
S
3
S
&
8

€Z1 JO 19

POL00423569
POL00423569

Why it matters?

Latest Developments

Impact on Post Office

Action

the gender pay gap reporting requirements
would be suspended for this year due to the
unprecedented uncertainty and pressures
which employers are feeling due to COVID-
19. The decision came only 10 days before
the deadline to report and at that time only
26% of employers had published their
reports. Many more employers may have
also already run their numbers and may still
publish their results anyway albeit perhaps
after the usual April date.

intent to publish anyway, or whether this
year will be skipped.

It is worth mentioning that the expectation is
that next year’s reports could be radically
different given reports are based on snapshot
data taken on 5 April each year. Many
employers may have already furloughed
staff, reduced their pay or hours which will
impact their data. Although Post Office hasn't
undertaken any of these activities and
therefore data won't be affected, it is
important to note when comparing against
other companies next year.

General
updates
across
business in
light of
COVID-19

The impact of COVID-19 has been
felt in all areas across the business
and it important for the business to
remain responsive to these changes
and keep updated as the landscape
continues to evolve and change.

Compliance

It has become clear from the regulators that
all rules and regulations still stand as they
were and a focus has been on tackling new
scams that have arisen taking advantage of
vulnerable customers.

Several consultations were expected over the
coming months, and these have been
postponed due to other priorities.

Compliance

Post Office continues to ensure that
vulnerable customers are being protected
and it is reacting efficiently to the changing
landscape. Senior members of Post Office
met with Ofcom and discussed the approach
to ensure that Post Office was dealing with
the changing environment and could react
to increased calls from customers, as the
offer of forbearance has been exercised by
customers across the various financial
services products.

The issues facing vulnerable customers at
this time has also led Post Office to
announce several access to cash schemes in
order to address this.

Compliance
The situation is being closely monitored
and regular meetings taking place to
ensure that the impact to the business
is being managed efficiently through
sufficient resourcing, implementation of
new schemes and support provided
The team will continue to update at the
relevant forums and provide updates

Financial Crime

In March, Post Office saw the highest level of
SARS since last June, with issues still being
identified relating to cash deposits, and
investigations are currently underway in 28
branches.

From a regulatory perspective there is a
reasonable amount of forbearance and
understanding in complying with regulations.
Supervisory activity has been suspended,
however the situation is being closely
monitored.

Financial Crime

Sally Smith is attending a bi-weekly meeting
with various stakeholders in the industry,
including UK Finance that is looking
specifically at new scams and issues arising
from COVID-19 that target vulnerable
customers. There is some concern that once
lockdown is over there will be a large amount
of cash arising from illegal activity that hasn't
been banked, and this will arise in more
people looking to take advantage of products
with a risk of financial crime.

From a regulator perspective, Post Office did
not send agent data to HMRC in April and is
proposing that this will remain the case in
May also.

Financial Crime

The situation is being closely monitored
and regular meetings taking place to
ensure that the new issues arising from
COVID-19 are appropriately dealt with
and Post Office is in a position to tackle
the concerns once any restrictions are
lifted

The team will continue to update at the
relevant forums.

Strictly Confidential

€Z1 JO 89

o
®
S
3
S
&
8

POL00423569
POL00423569

Why it matters?

Latest Developments

Impact on Post Office

Action

Post Office Insurance
The Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) has
introduced many measures and provided
guidance in many areas of insurance. Most
recently the FCA have decreed that where
insurance cover has been taken out in one
period and there was a reasonable
expectation that this cover was to be
renewed, customers have a right to the
renewal on the same terms and conditions.
The FCA has also delayed several
consultations back to 1 October 2020 and has
also delayed the implementation of
signposting rules for medically impaired
customers discussed at the last Law and
Trends Forum, with no new date being given.
Regulatory and public pressure is also being
felt as motor insurance firm, Admiral,
announced a refund of £25 for their 4.4
million customers due to a reduction in
vehicle use due to lockdown.

Post Office Insurance
Any clarifications from the FCA regarding
products Post Office Insurance offer will
require action and implementing. Post Office
Insurance are ensuring that customers are
aware of changes and ensuring where there
has been changes in circumstance
customers are still covered when
appropriate.

Post Office Insurance
The situation is being closely monitored
and regular meetings taking place.

The team are working to ensure that
clarifications from the FCA regarding
products are implemented and that
there is support for the customers as
changes are introduced.

The team will continue to update at the
relevant forums.

Strictly Confidential

POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 8 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

ites Supplier Contracts out of 7 . I eth
Title: Paipenaaien Meeting Date: I 6 May 2020
- Barbara Brannon, Procurement Alisdair Cameron, Group Chief
uthor: . Sponsor: 7 7 ;
Director Financial Officer

Input Sought: Noting
Noting - For discussion and further action if required.

Previous Governance Oversight
e March 2020 - Quarterly Risk Report

Executive Summary

As a business in receipt of public funds POL is bound by the Public Contract Regulations (2015).
PCR 2015 oblige POL to behave in a fair, objective & transparent way when contracting with 3
party suppliers. Additionally, set procedures must be followed for spend above £25k and £189k.

The purpose of this report is to set out both breaches to Post Office governance and key controls
around contracts and compliance to PCR regulation in the award of contracts.

The aim of collating this information is to drive improvement in awareness and compliance
behaviour across the organisation. The second and primary aim is to work with GE and Business
Units to commence commercial reviews in a more timely way ensuring POL obtains value,
commercial and contractual flexibility fitting the requirements and business strategy of the
organisation.

Since the last RCC report in March, Board has requested prior approval of all Exceptions >£189k
in a revision to existing governance. A Procurement Risk Exception Note will be required to
accompany all Exception Requests and a Legal Risk note for requests >£500k, with Exemptions
or with Medium/High Risk of challenge.

STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk a

Compliance Committee-06/05/20 69 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 8 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

@

70 of 123

Questions addressed

1. How many and what types of procurement non-compliance have occurred in the past
quarter?

Since the last RCC report at the beginning of March there have been 13 non-compliant
incidents:

a) 4 are direct awards under Regulation 32 for Covid19 operational response. These are
assessed as Low Risk under PCR Regulation 32 due to unforeseen circumstances etc.

b) 3 legacy software support contracts which make up the Swindon Galaxy solution. This
is an end of life system scheduled for replacement. Alternative support options are not
available within the market due to IPR, and the age of the systems involved which are
no longer commercially available. These are the subject of an existing IT/Supply Chain
REN and remediation planning on the system is underway within IT.

c) 2 tactical short-term extensions 30-90 days to allow contractual negotiations to
conclude on compliant contracts.

d) 1 Professional Services agreement in respect of Horizon System Strategy

e) 1 direct award on specialist marketing software.

f) 2 Contract extensions required in order to complete procurement processes [Media
Planning & Global Payments]

A list of these awards is set out at the beginning of Appendix A.

2. What are we doing about it?

Active reviews continue with Business Units with the highest values relating to non-
compliance.

Our overall non-compliance value has reduced from £21.01 in March to £19.5m in May.

This was driven by the completion of in-flight procurement processes offset by Covid19
operational response direct awards [PPE and Cash support] and two high value interim
contract extensions required while tender processes are underway. These have been
assessed as Low Risk and/or fall under Regulation 32 exemptions.

A visual breakdown on Open incidents is available in Appendix A.

3. What is in the current Procurement pipeline which is high value and at risk of being
awarded or extended non-compliantly?

a) £10m. EUC - A project has been initiated to re-procure End User Computer services
for both Branch and Colleague Services. The current plan is to have a new supplier(s)
in place before the end of the current contract [April 2021 with 2 years exit services]
with a targeted migration by April 2021. The project is currently gathering
requirements to go to market however funding is constrained and some key resources
have been diverted due to Covid19 operational responses.

STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 8 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

@

b) £5m. Common Digital Platform - This is a tactical 2 year DOS contract which was
let in June 2018, with a compliant six month extension option to Dec 2020 on a short
term basis to allow for cloud migration and long term strategy adoption. At 31
December 2020 there is a hard stop with no Exit assistance period. Discussions are
underway with the supplier to trigger the compliant six month extension option while
procurement process(es) are run. CDP hosts a number of services including the
external commercial website and the longer term strategy is to include the
replacement services in the cloud convergence project with a possible insourcing of
some service elements. Therefore, the current final scope of the re-procurement is
under discussion. A short- term extension may be required in order to exit the
remaining scope of services in early 2021. Detailed transition planning is underway
but it would not be optimum to migrate during peak trading period at Christmas.

c) £1.3m. Brands/Rapp - this expires in November 2020. A business strategy, funding
and sourcing plan needs to be agreed.

d) £5m. Identity Services - a paper went to GE in March outlining POL options to re-
procure services which will end in November 2020. This is now critical path if POL
wishes to continue as a supplier to Verify. Due to Covid19, negotiations were reopened
with the incumbent provider to extend to March 2021 but these have not as yet
concluded. Preparations continue on the OJEU RFP as new commercial business will
be secured on certainty of POL supply chain in this respect.

e) £350k. ATM Support - A number of interim ATM support contracts expiring in August
2020 may need to be extended non-compliantly while the ATM tender process
continues.

Conclusion

Non-compliant awards of contracts are already subject to extensive internal governance,
legal and risk review, in line with POL governance guidance on value and risk.

Individually, all large value non-compliant contracts have been reviewed by appropriate Post
Office governance forums with agreement on next steps and actions towards remediation
allocated where appropriate and/or available.

Executive support towards moving POL towards a more compliant footing is very strong, but
equally as important there is extensive support towards the cultural change required to
ensure that Procurement activities and outcomes will support longer term business strategies
and we reduce commercial risk making our 3" party arrangements fit for purpose.

Report

4. What are the potential consequences of non-compliant awards?
a) Pre-contractual remedies overview: During a Procurement, an aggrieved party can
seek an interim injunction suspending the tender or the implementation until the court
decides on an outcome.

STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 71 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 8 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

@

b) Post-contractual remedies: The court can order an ‘ineffectiveness order’ rendering
the contract void &/or can award damages.
5. Why are these incidents of non-compliance occurring, and what can be done about it?

Non-compliant awards may be made for a number of reasons at the Post Office.

a) Low value, time constrained or highly sensitive/specialist engagements are not
uncommon.

b) Large commercial arrangements cannot often be easily competed or unravelled
without operational impact, and re-procurement may be subject to a pending evolution
of a supporting Business Strategy and/or completion of large, and complex technical
programmes of work to maintain or enhance services prior to a possible exit.

c) The contractual arrangements may pre-date PCR 2015 regulations or the contract
novated during separation from RMG, automatically becoming non-compliant at the
renewal point. Non-compliant awards are frequently made on a tactical basis to extend
contractual services while public tender processes are executed.

d) Delays to public sector panels of suppliers becoming available. The Post Office makes
extensive use of this low-cost route to market and new/refreshed panels are subject
to frequent delays from Crown Commercial Services. Single interim extensions [of
periods under 12 months] while tender processes are run are considered to be low
risk legally.

e) Changes in scope or value over the term of a contract may render the extension or
renewal of services non-compliant. Material changes to the scope of a contract may
render the whole contract non-compliant.

f) Disregard for, or lack of understanding of the regulations.

6. Why are we receiving this report?
A decision to collate this information into a single location was taken in the Autumn of 2016.
The aim is to track and improve our overall compliance and commercial results as an
organisation, while also ensuring perceptions are accurate. However, it should be noted that
it will facilitate timely responses to Freedom of Information requests which adds risk to the
Post Office commercial landscape.

7. Are any of these breaches arguable on regulatory grounds or are they all breaches?

A full explanation of the individual compliance breaches for direct awards over £189k
[previously £164k & £181k] threshold is attached in Appendix A. Each entry details the
nature of, and the value of the breach. The threshold is altered annually based on the FX
rate between GBP and the Euro.

The Procurement Compliance Register does not at present give an indicative risk level
attached to the award. This information is provided to the accountable executives under
internal governance processes in the form of a PCR risk note before a contract above
threshold is entered into, and if necessary, under Legal Privilege. In addition, all signatories
to a contract have sight of the Risk note as part of the Contract Approval Form [CAF].

All entries are compliance breaches. A period of challenge applies to each PCR breach once
an aggrieved party becomes aware or ought to have become aware. This risk finally expires

4
STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

72 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 8 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

@

at 6 years from the date of breach. The defensibility of a legal challenge is outlined within a
Risk Note.

8. How many of the breaches were approved in advance and how many retrospectively?

All contracts entered into during this period were compliant with internal governance
processes on contract and commercial review.

9. Why were the approvals given?

The rationale for approval is relevant to the individual service and is detailed within Appendix
B.

10. What were the unapproved, material breaches?
There were no unapproved, material breaches during this period.

11. Describe what you are doing about the breaches. Where we are in breach, do we have a
plan to come back into compliance and over what time period will that plan take effect?

a) A forward view of material contracts falling under each Business Unit is currently
prepared by the relevant Procurement Manager for discussions with their key
stakeholders. The maturity of this look ahead view does vary currently and is
consistently a high priority activity within the team.

b) Sourcing options papers are prepared for review by contract managers and key
stakeholders [risk, legal, security] with routes to market agreed. In many cases these
are dependent on evolving business and operating model strategies and the
Procurement team are actively involved helping to advise and review options as
thinking evolves.

c) Where a non-compliant award is proposed due to time pressure, Procurement are
actively working on long term mitigation with awards made on an interim basis to
meet urgent operational needs.

d) Each RCC member now receives a regular report on compliance within their business
unit[s].

e) A Risk & Governance process requires a Risk Exception report to be created for non-
compliant direct awards with GE sign off.

f) Awards over £189k must have prior Board approval before being entered into.

g) All Professional Services engagements must be approved in writing in advance by the
CFO/COO. A compliant panel of preferred consulting partners has been appointed and
proposed engagements outside of this panel are subject to additional review and
challenge.

h) Procurement provides training as part of the revised Induction process for new staff.
Training packs are being updated for existing staff and a new training module made
available on Successfactors. Ad hoc training sessions for interested Business Units are
also run.

i) Anew Intranet site has been launched for Procurement to improve visibility of process,
regulation, and the panels of approved compliant suppliers available to POL business
units.

j) Arevised POL Procurement Policy and supporting processes is in progress giving more
granular guidance.

k) Using Crown Commercial Services frameworks, panels of Preferred Suppliers are being
refreshed and updated across a wide range of spend categories to reduce time to
market, improve compliance and greatly improve commercial outcomes and legal risk.

STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 73 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 8 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

@

!) A planned change to operational systems will, once live, give Procurement earlier
visibility of potential compliance issues e.g.: contractual value thresholds.

Risk Assessment, Mitigations & Legal Implications

As a business in receipt of public funds POL is bound by the Public Contract Regulations (2015).
PCR 2015 oblige POL to behave in a fair, objective & transparent way when contracting with 3"
party suppliers. Additionally, set procedures must be followed for spend above £25k and £189k.

Failure to abide by the legislation or “slicing and dicing” contracts exposes POL to risk, both as
far the commercial outcomes of the contracts as well as the reputational damage, legal
remedies, censure & fines that can follow the discovery of a breach. Our compliance to PCR can
be requested under a Freedom of Information request at any time.

The PCR Compliance Register allows for the tracking of breaches to PCR regulations at the Post
Office and internal governance processes. One aim of collating this information is to drive
improvement in awareness and compliance behaviour across the organisation. The second and
primary aim is to work with GE and Business Units to commence commercial reviews in a more
timely way ensuring POL obtains value, commercial and contractual flexibility fitting the
requirements and business strategy of the organisation.

Contract and financial governance policy and processes at Post Office are set by the Legal, Risk
and Governance team with clear guidelines for staff availably on the Company Secretariat team
intranet site. This sets out steps to be taken to obtain financial and contractual approvals prior
to making a binding commitment to an external party. Non-compliance to internal governance
processes are also captured within this report.

STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

74 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
02/S0/90-2en!WWOD eoue!IdWOD PUE ¥SI4 - PAIILUI] eOYJO 1SOq

€ZL JO SL

POL00423569
POL00423569

Appendix A — All Open Material Incidents

Value/ Breach Type 1
PCR Threshold

Date

nent Category Function Gi Supplier Name Risk Rating Reason for Breach

23/03/2017 [Professional Services IMR lisa Cherry Various £ Requirements and HR personnel changed. OLD PS fell

into disuse.

‘Annual maintenance and support provided under

Regulation 32 exemption for IPR. Tender planned for

new systems/software in 2020/21 subject to funding.

Iwas a previous compliant contract - now extended

non complantiy.

'Variation to non compliant contract to reduce charges

following Ux Verity changes

[CRO Optimisation Services on POL website which have

‘organically grown in value overtime. Compliant

process has now been run with service transitioning to

rnew provider in April 2020 subject to contract. Interim

lextension entered int in February to provide services

until acutover can be completed.

(Current contract expired 14/12/18. Retrospective

extension was prepared but not executed (to

'31/12/19). Services have now ceased with full and

fina settlement letter to be drafted with legal for

‘series t.06/01/20. There have been no final

Icosts/claims yet submitted by WebHelp (29/04/20) so.

POL has not been able to confirm “ull and final

settlement" eter

‘Medium threshold Business Preference. Contract and intemal governance’

retrospectively completed.
ILower threshold (PCR not IINCOME £450: Contracts for wholesale and online
applicable) [channels were renewed under existing existing
[contracts which were advertised under PCR and

Iwithout stand alone contracts being put in place (this

!action would bring them into compliance as neither

fallinder CCR or PCR)

15/06/2019 [Marketing ‘Marketing & Brand imma iRAPR/ CODE = 3,000,000 High PCR OVEU level [OIEU expired

Springham

14/11/2019 IManagement consultancy —_I Finance INick Read McKinsey. £ 2,000,000 low IPCR OJEU level \Business Preference. Contract and internal governance
retrospectively completed.

26/11/2019 [Management consultancy — IFinance INckRead_IMekinsey = 250,000 tow PCR O1EU level Business Preference. Contract and intemal governance’
retrospectively competed

23/12/2019 PR ‘Corporate Affairs & Comms INick Read \Cardew Group £ 127,000) Medium [Medium threshold IGLO Response. Business Preference. Contract and
internal governance retrospectively completed.

30/12/2019 _ Digital Services [Retail & Franchise IAmanda Jones = Abcomm £ 42,000] Medium [Medium threshold 'Business Preference. Contract and internal governance

(interien) I retrospectively completed

10/01/2018 IT Software Retail & Franchise ‘Amanda jones INCR £ 1,800,000 Low
(interim)

73/08/2018 I Marketing (Marketing & Brand [Emma ac er £ ‘600,000 Medium

19/10/2018 [Identity Services Identity Services, [Owen Woodley [Digidentity Services I £ '920,000

B0URUI@AON Jo INO s}oeNUOD Jaliddng g qeL

18/12/2018 (IT Software Financial Services [Owen Woodley ISpace Between £ 250,500 low

(04/01/2019 Digital Services Financial Services [Owen Woodley IWebhelp ri 321,000 low

(05/03/2019 IMarketing (Marketing & Brand [Amanda Jones ITwo Visual A 50,000]
(interim)
27/03/2019 I Goods for Resale Retail & Franchise ‘Owen Woodley Vow Retail Ltd £ ,

g

g

STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

POL00423569

POL00423569
3 a
ea &
s ©
FS o
° s
3
g
9
s
3
Q
2
g
z 5 F 7 Breschityped 9
Date Procurement Category Function GE Member Supplier Name Risk Rating Mitigation eaten Reason for Breach 8
30/12/2019 [Digital Services Retail & Franchise ‘Amanda Jones I9XB 30,000 Medium threshold [Business Preference. Contract and internal governance g
(interim) retrospectively completed. Fa
30/12/2019 (Comms, R&I & PR Corporate Affairs & Comms Richard Taylor — IKantar £ 52,000 low ‘Medium threshold Business Preference. Contract and internal governance 3
¢ retrospectively completed. ®
a 30/12/2019 Market Research ‘Corporate Affairs & CommsIRichard Taylor [AB Publishing £ 100,000 low (Medium threshold ‘Business Preference, Contract and internal governance,
Q retrospectively completed.
2 27/03/2020 IT Software i Jeff Smyth Interchange £ 292,995, low PCR OJEU level POL inherited the Galaxy system and support
® (interim) contracts from Royal Mail was part of, then descoped
5 from compliant OJEU tender for Back Office in 2015
2 29/03/2020 IT Software ir {eff Smyth ICSM Accent £ 30,000) low (Medium threshold Part of the Galaxy solution for Swindon stocks, the
& (interim) future of Swindon has been under consideration for
' sometime and these licenses and support contracts
have been rolled over year on year in the absence of a
long term direct
29/03/2020 IIT Software i Ueffsmyth [DW £ 169,000 low ‘Medium threshold art of the Galaxy solution for Swindon stocks, the
(interim) {future of Swindon has been under consideration for
sometime and these licenses and support contracts
have been rolled over year on year in the absence of a
long term direction
29/03/2020 IMedia ‘Marketing & Brand Emma [carat £ _1873,000 tow (Contract extended to cover OJEU process timeline
‘Springham 'which has been extended . Approved by Board March
[2020
23/03/2020 IMarketing ‘Marketing & Brand Emma lcact £ 392,380 low [No frameworks and no appetite in business for fall
‘Springham COJEU. Limited other suppliers who have access to the
= ‘market or simillar software. Software Reseller not an
g cption. Approved by Board Merch 2020
Ha 29/03/2020 [Banking Services (Operations & Supply Chain [Alisdair Cameron IRBS I £ I low Lower threshold (PCR not ICovidi9 crisis - cash services. Approved by Board
8 ‘March 2020
$ (03/04/2020 [Occupational Health HR ‘Alisdair Cameron [Optima £ 100,000 low Interim extension to rectify CCS Framework legal
N rafting fault on GOPR. Approved by Board March
s '2020
79/04/2020 IGoods for Resale Retail & Franchise es ‘Woodley Vow Retail ltd I z I ia saiar tne o RCHTNESE corr war ato Sm aT CS EM
applicable) 31/03/20. Approved by Board March 2020
29/04/2020 Goods for Resale Retail & Franchise ‘Owen Woodley  IGlobal Payments € 6,000,000 low Interim extension to allow CCS tender process to be
run. CCS Framework 9 months late to market on a
rolling 2 month notice. Approved by Board March
2020
04/05/2020 _IStaff Uniforms & PPE Operations & Supply Chain Alisdair Cameron [SM [£___47506) tow ‘Covidi9 crisis. Approved by Board March 2020
30/04/2020 [Management consultancy IT JeffSmyth [McKinsey £ ‘400,000 low Strategic review of Horizon system options. Approved
(interim) {at March 2020 Board
(01/05/2020 _IStaff Uniforms & PPE (Operations & Supply Chain [Alisdair Cameron [Pink Office [e£_ 1739,880) igh (Covidi9 crisis . Approved by Board March 2020,
(01/05/2020 Staff Uniforms & PPE (Operations & Supply Chain [Alisdair Cameron [Fluid Branding £ 195,450 low CCovid9 crisis . Approved by Board March 2020

8
STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

02/S0/90-2en!WWOD soueIIdWOD PUE ¥S>R - PAIILU!T BO4JO 180d

ZL IO LL

Appendix B - Breakdown of Open Non-Compliant Risk by £/Vol./Owner

Row Labels _~ ‘Sum of Value/

Alisdair Cameron £ 2,210,436.00
Nick Read £ 2,377,000.00
Owen Woodley £ 7,491,500.00
Lisa Cherry £ 800,000.00
Emma Springham £ 3,865,380.00
Amanda Jones (interim) £ 1,922,000.00
Richard Taylor £ 152,000.00
Jeff Smyth (interim) £ 692,995.00
Grand Total £ 19,511,311.00
‘Risk... Breach Type 1... -Y

‘Value Operations & Supply Chain

11%

Corporate Affairs & Comms

1%

STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

s

@

Financial Services

Identity Services

i il

= Finance
= Financial Services

eo HR

POL00423569
POL00423569

BOUBLIAAOD Jo Ino sjoBUOD JeIIddng g qeL
POL00423569
POL00423569

€Z1 JO BL

4
a
ca
o
o

s

z
g
fe}

Row Labels ~ Count of Value/Income A
Finance 2 -
Financial Services 2 °
HR 2 3
Identity Services 1 FA

2 IT 2

4 Marketing & Brand EB}

g Retail & Franchise 4

8 Corporate Affairs & Comms 3

3 Operations & Supply Chain 3

& Grand Total 24

2

z Risk... ~Y° Breach Type 1... -¥

2

o Count of...

8

3 ™ Operations & Supply Chain zy Finance

2 13% 8%

s = Financial Services — ™

8 8% .

9 = Finance

4 = Corporate ites & Comms on aiEinancial Services

& oe = HR

8

S = Identity Services

a T—_] = Identity Services

8 pi aIT

= Marketing & Brand
= Retail & Franchise eT

17% 8% a Retail & Franchise

® Corporate Affairs & Comms

= Marketing & Brand
21%

10
STRICLTY CONFIDENTIAL

POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: Cooperation with Law Meeting Date: I 6 May 2020

Criminal Misconduct and

Enforcement Agencies

Author: (Dispute Resolution) Sponsor:

Rodric Williams, Head of Legal Ben Foat, Group General

Counsel

Hannah Laming, Peters & Peters

The RCC is asked to:

1.

APPROVE for submission to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) the
proposed "Group Policy: Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing
Suspected Criminal Misconduct” (the "Draft Policy”; Appendix 1), which promotes a risk-
based approach to law enforcement cooperation.

In order to approve the Draft Policy, the RCC is also asked to:

. DECIDE whether POL’s policy will be to cooperate with mandatory requirements and

voluntary requests by law enforcement agencies where the risk to undermining the integrity
of HNGA is low or low/medium;

. APPROVE with respect to the Tools supporting the Policy:

a. the process for determining what information can be provided to law enforcement
agencies for intelligence purposes (Tool 1);

b. the process for determining when evidence can be provided to law enforcement
agencies (Tool 2); and

c. the process for proactively disclosing to law enforcement agencies disclosable material
in criminal cases where Horizon-derived data is being used (Tool 4);

. DECIDE whether POL’s policy should be not to conduct any private prosecutions at present;

and

. DECIDE whether Post Office should report internal criminal misconduct to the police and

ask Post Office operators to advise Post Office if they make a victim crime report;

for onward submission to the ARC.

Previous Governance Oversight

The Draft Policy has been prepared with assistance from specialist criminal law solicitors Peters
& Peters Solicitors LLP (“P&P”) and input from Operations, Security, and Compliance teams
including Financial Crime and Information Rights.

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 79 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

Post Office is a limited company owned by the Government and consequently it is important
that it protects public monies and adheres to appropriate business practices and lawful
requirements. The Draft Policy has been prepared to set the operating standards relating to
Post Office’s management of suspected criminal misconduct within the organisation and
cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies.

Executive Summary

The Draft Policy specifically seeks to balance the risk that the reliability of Horizon, in particular
the HNG-A version currently in use, is put in issue in criminal court proceedings to which Post
Office is not a party (the findings of which could adversely impact Post Office’s operations),
against the risks that arise if Post Office does not provide or unnecessarily limits assistance to
law enforcement agencies when criminal misconduct is suspected.

The Draft Policy does so by implementing a risk-based approach to the provision of information
and evidence deriving from Horizon. The aim is to ensure that the findings in the Horizon Issues
Judgment are drawn to the attention of law enforcement agencies as appropriate when
information deriving from Horizon is provided on an intelligence basis and, where any evidence
is to be provided that presents a medium or high risk in terms of the possibility of adverse
findings in the future, this is escalated for risk assessment and appropriate mitigation in
accordance with the Tools supporting the Draft Policy.

The Draft Policy also addresses the risks that arise from Post Office continuing to conduct its
own criminal investigations and private prosecutions by precluding this activity for the time
being.

Questions addressed

1. Why is the Draft Policy necessary?

2. What are the key risks the Draft Policy seeks to address?

3. What is the current position regarding Horizon’s reliability?

4. What are the risks and impact of a judicial finding or comment in relation to the
reliability of HNG-A against the risks and impact of Post Office refusing voluntarily
to provide Horizon data to law enforcement agencies?

5. How does the Draft Policy work in practice, including in relation to: (i) private
prosecutions; (ii) providing information or evidence to law enforcement agencies in
respect of criminal investigations and prosecutions; and (iii) Post Office or
postmasters making Victim Crime Reports to the police.

INTERNAL 2

80 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

operation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

Report
Q1. Why is this Policy necessary?

1. Historically, Post Office has conducted numerous criminal investigations and brought private
prosecutions in cases where it suspects that it (or its operators) have been the victim of
criminal misconduct by Post Office employees or operators. In recent years, it has almost
entirely stopped doing so and, since January 2015, Post Office has only bought three private
prosecutions.’

2. In addition, Post Office regularly provides wide-ranging assistance to the police and other
law enforcement agencies.?

3. In light of the “Horizons Issues Judgment” given in the Post Office Group Litigation and the
Criminal Cases Review Commission's (“CCRC”) referral of (at least) 39 past prosecutions to
the Court of Appeal (“the CCRC Referrals”), these activities now give rise to the key risks
identified below, all of which could give rise to significant reputational harm and/or result
in financial damage to Post Office.

4. The critical risk, of most concern to the business is that the provision of Horizon-derived
data to law enforcement agencies could result in the integrity and credibility of the current
Horizon system (HNG-A) being unreasonably undermined in the course of criminal
proceedings (e.g. because a court finding is made on an incomplete picture). This could
bring Post Office’s entire operating system into disrepute, thereby causing a material
business continuity issue.

5. Post Office is subject to various legal duties which oblige it to provide Horizon-derived data
to law enforcement as part of BAU activity. The Draft Policy ensures that Post Office
continues to comply with those duties. Where no such legal duty arises, it will still generally
be in the public or Post Office’s interests to provide Horizon data proactively or on request,
but in limited circumstances, Post Office has determined that legal, operational and
reputational risks outweigh these interests. These risks arise most acutely when Post Office
is asked to provide evidence, i.e. formal statements for use in court proceedings, as
opposed to data on an “intelligence-only” basis.

6. The Draft Policy’s objective is to enable the careful management of the risks that arise from
the provision of Horizon-derived data by implementing a risk-based approach to assisting
law enforcement as outlined in the Draft Policy and supporting Tools. This would enable
Post Office to respond to the majority of requests for assistance from law enforcement
agencies with minimal risk and disruption to business, whilst ensuring that appropriate
escalation, scrutiny and management apply to higher-risk cases.

7. In addition, the Draft Policy directs that Post Office will no longer conduct private
prosecutions. This is to avoid the risk that Post Office is subject to the same or similar
criticisms as those levelled against it in the current CCRC Referrals, with the consequent
litigation, financial and reputational risks. Where suspected criminal misconduct is
identified which Post Office might historically have prosecuted itself, Post Office will consider
making Victim Crime Reports to the police as appropriate.

1 These prosecutions are briefly summarised in para.26 below.

2 In this context law enforcement agencies includes any agency able to conduct criminal investigations or bring prosecutions, e.g.
the police, National Crime Agency ("the NCA”), HMRC, the Financial Conduct Authority, the Prudential Regulation Authority, OfCom
and the Information Commissioner's Office.

INTERNAL 3

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 81 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

8. The RCC is asked, subject to consideration of the issues discussed further in this report, to
APPROVE taking the Draft Policy forward for consideration by the ARC.

Q2. What are the key risks the Draft Policy seeks to address?
9. The key risks the Draft Policy seeks to address are:

a. If a court makes adverse findings about the reliability of the current Horizon system
(HNG-A), this could undermine POL’s ability to rely upon the Horizon system and have
very serious operational implications for Post Office’s business continuity;

b. A blanket refusal to provide voluntary assistance to Law Enforcement Agencies where
data derives from Horizon might result in reputational harm to Post Office and, in the
case of regulators, may undermine their confidence in Post Office’s ability to conduct
regulated activities if they cannot vouch for the reliability of Horizon;

c. That data deriving from Horizon is provided to law enforcement agencies and
ultimately relied upon as evidence in circumstances where it is unreliable, which may
result in adverse findings about Horizon data and/or against Post Office employees,
could result in miscarriages of justice, and could cause reputational and financial harm
to Post Office;

d. Private prosecutions conducted by Post Office are subject to legal challenge on the
basis that the investigative or prosecutorial process constitutes an abuse of process
(for the same or similar reasons to those forming the basis of the CCRC Referrals),
resulting in reputational and financial harm to Post Office.

Q3. What is the current position regarding Horizon’s reliability?

10.In the Horizon Issues Judgement, Fraser J considered the Horizon system used by Post
Office between 2000 and 2018. In his judgment he found (amongst other things) that it
was possible for bugs, errors or defects in the Horizon system to have the potential to cause
discrepancies or shortfalls in a subpostmasters' branch accounts or transactions, and also
to undermine the reliability of Horizon to accurately process and record transactions. He
further found that this had happened on numerous occasions and that subpostmasters were
not alerted to such bugs, errors or defects.

11.Fraser J's findings as to reliability can be summarised by reference to the three versions of
Horizon in use between 2000-2018:

a. Legacy Horizon (2000 to 2010) and HNG-X (2010 to 2017/8) were not reliable and the
issues identified with Horizon could have caused discrepancies in branch accounts and
undermined the reliability of Horizon to accurately process and record transactions;

b. HNG-A (currently in use following a staged roll out across Post Office’s branches which
took place between approximately February 2017 and November 2018) is “relatively
robust”;

c. The findings in the judgment apply to Horizon historically and do not apply to HNG-A
as at 16 December 2019 (the date of the judgment).>

3 It should be noted that the Historic Shortfall Scheme established following the settlement of the Group
Litigation excludes claims relating to HNG-A relying on Fraser J’s findings in the Horizon Issues Judgment.

INTERNAL 4

82 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

12.Fraser J’s adverse findings go primarily to the reliability of data deriving from historic
Horizon systems, rather than the current HNG-A system. Post Office does not have any
reason at present to believe that data deriving from HNG-A is inherently unreliable, but it
is important for Post Office to be alive to the possibility that such issues might arise or come
to light in the future and ensure that any issues are escalated appropriately and
investigated.

Q4. What are the risks and impact of a judicial finding or comment in relation to the reliability
of HNG-A against the risks and impact of Post Office refusing voluntarily to provide Horizon
data to law enforcement agencies?

13.If HNG-A's reliability were to be reasonably undermined in the course of criminal
proceedings, this could bring Post Office’s entire current operating system into disrepute,
thereby causing a material business continuity issue.

14.The potential impact of this risk if it materialised is very high as it could cause Post Office’s
entire business to fail, if, as a result of a judicial finding, it was unable to rely on HNG-A in
its normal business activities.

15.An adverse finding by a court, in the criminal context, is most likely to arise where Post
Office has provided data or information deriving from HNG-A as evidence (i.e. by way of a
formal witness statement and exhibits, not simply on an intelligence-only basis). This is
most likely to arise where a defendant applies to exclude Horizon data either as inherently
unreliable or on the basis that it would unfairly prejudice the proceedings. Regardless of the
legal determination, the potential reputational damage of media reports of such proceedings
would undermine the confidence in the system.

16.These risks have to be weighed against the risks of refusing to cooperate with law
enforcement agencies and, conversely, the benefits to Post Office of such cooperation, as
well as the risk of regulatory and/or audit scrutiny if Post Office take steps that imply
(without justification) that HNG-A is unreliable.

17.In certain circumstances, Post Office is legally obliged to provide information and assistance
to law enforcement agencies, e.g. the obligation to submit Suspicious Activity Reports
(“SARs”) to the National Crime Agency where money laundering or terrorist financing
offences are suspected. The Draft Policy ensures that Post Office continues to comply with
those duties.

18.Even where there is no legal obligation to provide information, there is generally a
significant public interest in supporting the prevention, detection and deterrence of criminal
misconduct.

19.There is a risk therefore that Post Office will suffer significant reputational damage if it does
not assist law enforcement agencies, especially if Post Office’s customers, trading partners
and shareholder stakeholders expect it to provide such assistance. The impact of the Draft
Policy if implemented may be that the police are unable to proceed with investigations
and/or prosecutions of criminal misconduct in the absence of cooperation from Post Office.

INTERNAL 5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 83 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

84 of 123

20.Furthermore, failing to maintain a good relationship with the police, Crown Prosecution
Service, National Crime Agency etc. could make them reluctant to address criminal
misconduct where Post Office, its operators or customers are the victims of crime. It may
also undermine Post Office’s ability to be involved in groups and initiatives whose objective
is to prevent crime and facilitate its investigation, for example the Joint Money Laundering
Intelligence Task Force.*

21.Similar considerations apply to Post Office’s cooperation with its regulators. Were Post
Office to refuse to provide information to one of its regulators or provide it with a caveat
that it may not be reliable, consistently or over a significant period, then there is a risk that
the regulator will make its own inquiries or conduct its own investigations (e.g. into the
reliability of HNG-A and supporting processes) and, in the worst case scenario, may
challenge whether Post Office should be permitted to conduct regulated activities
unless/until any issues are resolved. Similar risks arise if a regulator learned that, in certain
circumstances, Post Office did not consider its own data to be sufficiently robust to be used
in criminal proceedings.

22.These issues may also be relevant in the context of Post Office’s relationship with its
auditors.

23.In order to balance the risks discussed above, the Draft Policy permits the provision of
information and evidence to law enforcement agencies:

a. where information is provided for intelligence-only purposes;

b. where information or evidence is provided in accordance with mandatory legal
requirements or a voluntary basis with approval for the Board in higher risk situations;
and

c. ona voluntary basis in circumstances without the approval of the Board where the risk of
adverse findings in relation to the integrity of HNG-A is low to medium-low.

Q5. How does the Draft Policy work in practice, including in relation to: (i) private prosecutions;
(ii) providing information or evidence to law enforcement agencies in respect of criminal
investigations and prosecutions; and (iii) Post Office or postmasters making Victim Crime
Reports to the police.

Private Prosecutions

24.Historically, Post Office has brought many private prosecutions (i.e. where Post Office
conducts the criminal investigation and prosecution itself, rather than this being undertaken
by a public body).

25.Post Office has no special power to bring private prosecutions; it brings them pursuant to
s.6(1) of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985, which enables any individual or corporate
to bring private prosecutions. Despite having the ability to do so, most corporations do not
bring private prosecutions where they suspect that criminal misconduct has occurred, rather
they refer such cases to the appropriate law enforcement agency.

* JMLIT is a partnership between law enforcement and the financial sector to exchange and analyse information relating to money
laundering and wider economic threats. Post Office is currently a member of JMLIT.

INTERNAL 6

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

operation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

26.Since January 2015, Post Office has only conducted three prosecutions on its own behalf.
Those private prosecutions can be summarised as follows:

+ a branch assistant who pleaded guilty on 5 November 2015 to three charges

lerly customers by taking over their accounts;

— postmasters who both pleaded guilty to theft on 22 January 2015.

ted to a shortage identified at audit which they explained they had taken;

C. IRRELEVANT!— a non-branch, Finsbury Dials Post Office employee who pleaded guilty on

or about 22 March 2019 to fraud by abuse of position relating to his abuse of postal
orders, Virgin gift cards and marketing and promotion schemes.

27. The benefits of Post Office bringing private prosecutions generally include:

a. Enabling Post Office to bring cases that the police would not accept for investigation
(generally due to lack or resources and/or the cases not falling within one of their
operational priorities);

b. Successful prosecutions can be effective in deterring criminal misconduct;

c. Successful prosecutions can help maintain the trust and confidence of Post Office’s
customers and the general public that their interests are being protected by Post
Office.

28. The risks of Post Office bringing private prosecutions include:

a. Reliance on Horizon data as part of the key evidence has the potential to give rise to
the key risks identified above if not properly managed;

b. To date, these risks have manifested in the GLO litigation, civil claims and
consequential loss, reputational damage, as well as the extensive resource and
management time spent dealing with these issues;

c. Whilst the exact basis of the CCRC Referrals is not yet known, it is possible that the
appeals will consider allegations that systemic failures in Post Office’s investigation
and prosecution processes rendered those cases an abuse of process. Continuing to
conduct private prosecutions in such circumstances carries the risk that previous
mistakes are repeated, giving rise to the same reputational and financial
consequences; and

d. There are also the operational risks to Post Office bringing private prosecutions (e.g.
whether there is sufficient resource to undertake activity which had not been done
for several years) and reputational risks (e.g. Post Office could be criticised for
conducting new private prosecutions while its conduct of historical prosecutions is
still being scrutinised through the CCRC Referrals).

29. Given the very high risk associated with bringing private prosecutions, particularly in light
of the Horizon Issues Judgment and the CCRC Referrals and the fact that this is not a
necessary activity because suspected criminal activity can be referred to the police for
investigation, the Draft Policy directs that Post Office will not bring private prosecutions.

INTERNAL 7

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 85 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

Cooperating with law enforcement agencies and providing data for intelligence or
evidential purposes:

Data provided for intelligence purposes (Draft Policy Tool 1)

30. The risks associated with the provision of data to law enforcement agencies varies according
to the purpose for which the data is supplied. Where the information is to be used solely for
“intelligence” purposes, it will ordinarily constitute a line of enquiry to be pursued by the
relevant law enforcement agency, and may not therefore ultimately end up being used in
court. Whilst every endeavour should be made to ensure that the data provided is accurate,
no express assurances are being given as to its accuracy or reliability. Where the police
wish to put into evidence data initially provided as intelligence, they will generally ask Post
Office to provide it in evidential form i.e. in a signed statement or formal exhibit.

31. As material provided for intelligence purposes will not feature in a criminal trial, the risks
associated with providing it to law enforcement agencies is low. Post Office could however
be criticised if it provided the data and failed to advise the law enforcement agency of any
issues it knows about which could challenge that data, e.g. as identified in the Horizon
Issues Judgment or CCRC referrals.

32. This risk can be mitigated by implementing Tool 1 to the Draft Policy, the Provision of Data
to Law Enforcement for Intel Purposes flowchart. As presently drafted, Tool 1 envisages
that an Advisory Notice will accompany any Horizon-derived data provided to law
enforcement agencies for intelligence purposes, where that data derives from Legacy
Horizon or HNG-X. As matters currently stand, the Advisory Notice is only to be provided in
respect of Legacy Horizon and HNG-X data, as the findings in the Horizon Issues Judgment
only apply to those historic versions of the Horizon system.

33. Given that Horizon is a live and evolving system, further issues may arise or be identified
which affect the accuracy and reliability of its data. It is therefore recommended that the
provision of the Advisory Notice is kept under review and is revisited should anything come
to light that indicates that there may be issues with later versions of the system. This is
reflected in the Draft Policy’s Minimum Controls.

Data provided for evidential purposes (Draft Policy Tool 2)

34. Where information is being provided in “evidential” form (i.e. for use in court), the
associated risks are significantly higher. This is because such data is intended to be relied
upon in criminal proceedings and assurances are being given as to its accuracy and
reliability. Post Office witnesses providing statements sign a statement of truth and may be
subject to cross-examination on the accuracy and reliability of that evidence (including that
obtained from Horizon). Such evidence can also be the subject of legal challenge, which
may result in the court making findings as to its reliability and accuracy (which could be
adverse to Post Office).

35. These risks can be managed by a requirement that all requests for evidence (save for those
which are categorised as “low-risk” in accordance with Tools 1 and 2) are referred to Post

Office Legal, which will consider such requests and advise whether the evidence requested
can be provided. Decisions as to whether data can be provided in evidential form will be

INTERNAL 8

86 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

operation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

made with reference to Tool 2: the Provision of Evidence to Law Enforcement tool. Data
which is categorised as “high risk” or “medium risk” will not be provided to law enforcement
agencies unless Post Office is legally compelled to provide it or the Board approves its
provision. Data which is categorised as “low risk” or “medium-low risk” can be provided to
law enforcement agencies on a voluntary basis without Board approval.

36.The non-provision of high or medium risk data gives rise to the following risks:

a. Certain crimes which are committed against Post Office may go unpunished, often
involving many thousands of pounds;

b. Postmasters, Operators and/or counter clerks may become aware that Post Office does
not support prosecutions for certain types of misconduct, thereby increasing the risk
that such crime is committed against Post Office;

c. The Police may decline to share any independently sourced evidence they have which
would be relevant to (and may reduce) the risk assessment Post Office has to make;

d. If a postmaster reports theft by a counter clerk and Post Office declines to provide
evidence to the police to support the criminal investigation, Post Office may not be able
to recover the losses from the postmaster.®

37.To mitigate these risks insofar as possible, Tool 2 enables evidence to be provided in such
cases, should Post Office wish, with Board Approval, facilitating a case by case analysis
which balances the risk of an adverse finding or comment about Horizon against those
identified above.

38.By way of example, one type of criminal conduct which is frequently encountered by Post
Office is theft committed by “remming out” cash on Horizon to the cash centre, where no
cash is physically dispatched. In these circumstances, the Stock Unit would balance as the
cash appears to be sitting in “cash in pouches” when the allegation is that it had been taken
by the Operator or counter clerk. There are a number of current theft prosecutions
(prosecuted by the Crown Prosecution Service) which have utilised this, with sums in excess
of £100,000 being stolen from individual branches.

39.This type of case would be categorised as Medium Risk, where Horizon HNG-A data is the
sole or key information going to the alleged criminality. Whilst there is no reason to believe
that HNG-A data is inherently unreliable, the chances of it being challenged by the defence
are increased where there is no corroborative evidence. The Draft Policy therefore restricts
provision of the data unless Post Office is legally compelled to provide it or Board approval
is obtained.

40.If data is sought from Legacy Horizon or HNG-X as evidence of an underlying transaction
or loss, this would be categorised as High Risk given the findings in the Horizon Issues
Judgment, even where there is corroborating evidence. This reflects the findings in the
Horizons Issues Judgment which suggest that the Horizon data sought by way of evidence
may be unreliable. Again therefore, a mandatory order or Board approval is required before
this data can be provided (and it must be provided with an Advisory Notice).

Monitoring of ongoing criminal cases (Draft Policy Tool 3)

5 The impact of the implementation of this Draft Policy on Post Office’s ability to assert contractual liability and
pursue civil action to recover loss is outside the scope of this paper.

INTERNAL 9

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 87 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

operation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

41.Once evidence is provided to law enforcement agencies, it will be necessary for Post Office
to monitor the investigation or prosecution to ensure that it is aware of any challenges
made to Horizon data by the defence. This will enable Post Office to have an opportunity to
mitigate any risk this presents.

42.Such monitoring can be achieved by implementing Tool 3: Monitoring of Ongoing Criminal
Cases Checklist, which requires Post Office to liaise with the external, non-Post Office
Prosecution Team (e.g. police and CPS) to obtain, so far as possible, the key information
identified in that Tool. In addition, Post Office shall maintain a list of ongoing Criminal
Investigations or prosecutions where Post Office or its employees or Operators are the
victim. This list shall be updated with developments and a weekly report of such cases shall
be provided to the General Counsel.

Disclosure Checklist (Draft Policy Tool 4)

43.An additional risk associated with the provision of Horizon-derived evidence is that the
issues raised in the Horizon Issues Judgment and by the CCRC Referrals may mean that
there is disclosable material in the possession of Post Office of which the external
Prosecution Team may not be aware.

44.If this is not drawn to the Prosecution Team's attention and disclosed as appropriate, this
could result in legal challenges that could undermine the criminal proceedings, a potentially
unfair trial and/or an unsafe conviction resulting in an appeal. This risk can be mitigated by
the use of Tool 4: the Disclosure Checklist, which will assist in identifying any material in
the possession of Post Office which satisfies the disclosure test. Such material can
subsequently be supplied to the Prosecution Team, following a review by Post Office Legal.

Post Office making a Victim Crime Report to the police

45.Where Post Office no longer conducts private prosecutions, it may consider that it
appropriate to report suspected criminal misconduct to the police. The benefits of doing so
include:
a. public interest factors referred to above;
b. operators or customers may seek (and expect) Post Office’s assistance and/or support
in making Victim Crime Reports;
c. reporting criminal misconduct to the police and the risk of a police investigation and
prosecution will likely deter criminality within the Post Office network.

46.The risk associated with making a Victim Crime Report is that such a report may include
allegations that derive from or rely upon relevant Horizon data which may be provided in
the crime report and/or be requested subsequently in evidential form. It would be
unreasonable for Post Office to make an allegation of crime, but refuse to provide the
evidence needed by the police to substantiate it.

47.In order to mitigate this risk, before any decision is taken to report a suspected crime, the
relevant employee within Post Office who suspects criminality shall have regard to Tool 5:

Factors to Consider When Determining Whether to Report Suspected Criminal Misconduct
to the Police. If the employee, having had regard to those factors considers that a crime

INTERNAL 10

88 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

report should be made, they shall recommend to the General Counsel that a Victim Crime
Report should be made. The General Counsel will make the final decision on whether to
report suspected criminality having regard to Tool 5.

48.It is also a reality that the police do not investigate every crime reported to them owing to
their own resource constraints. As such, Post Office may not wish to report all criminal
misconduct, but focus on the most egregious cases, cases that have vulnerable victims and
those which do not contain a medium or high risk of undermining HNGA Horizon. Tool 5
includes factors of this kind.

How would the Draft Policy work in practice?

49.Peters & Peters Solicitors LLP has attached as Appendix 2, the case of Achmore, which is a
worked example of how the Draft Policy operates in practice.

Next Steps

50. It is proposed that the Draft Policy be submitted to the ARC for consideration at its meeting
on 19 May 2020.

INTERNAL ai

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 89 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

Appendix 1

@

GROUP POLICY

Cooperation with Law I
Enforcement Agencies’ and
Addressing Suspected Criminal

Misconduct

Version — V0.2

@

INTERNAL 12

90 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

POL00423569
POL00423569

1. Overview...

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner
1.2. Purpose
1.3. Core Principles .
1.4. Application ..
1.5. The Risk...
1.6. Legislation...
1.7. Industry Guidance..
Re Risk Appetite and Minimum Control Standards
2.1. Risk Appetite ....
2.2. Policy Framework ...

2.4. Minimum Control Standards...
3. Tools & Definitions...
3.1. Tools
3.2. Definitions

4. Where to go for help
4.1. Additional Policies

https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/postoffice/Pages/policies.aspx...

4.2. How to raise a concern...
4.3. Who to contact for more information

5 Governance..
5.1. Governance Responsibilities .....
6. = Control...
6.1. Policy Version...
6.2. Policy Approval.
Company Details

INTERNAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found at: .

13

91 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

1. Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

The General Counsel has overall accountability to the Board of Directors for the design and
implementation of controls relating to cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and the
manner in which Post Office will address suspected criminal misconduct, including whether
to conduct Criminal Investigations and Private Prosecutions. Cooperation with Law
Enforcement Agencies and addressing criminal misconduct is an agenda item for the Audit
and Risk Committee and the Post Office Board is updated as required.

1.2. Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimum operating standards relating to
cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and the manner in which Post Office will
address suspected criminal misconduct.® It is one of a set of policies which provide a clear
risk and governance framework and an effective system of internal control for the
management of risk across the Post Office. Compliance with these policies supports the
Post Office in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs of shareholders,
employees’ and other stakeholders.

1.3. Core Principles

Historically, Post Office Limited has conducted its own Criminal Investigations and Private
Prosecutions; undertaken Criminal Investigations in conjunction with the police; and
provided a wide range of cooperation and assistance to Law Enforcement Agencies.

In conducting these activities, Post Office Limited has relied upon data deriving in whole
or in part from the Horizon computer system that is used throughout its operations. The
accuracy and reliability of data deriving from historic versions of the Horizon system
(known as Legacy Horizon and HNG-X (collectively “Relevant Horizon Data”)) was the
subject of the recent High Court case of Bates & Ors v Post Office Ltd (No 6: Horizon
Issues) [2019] EWHC 3408. Furthermore, the Criminal Cases Review Commission
(“CCRC”) has recently referred the convictions of 39 individuals whose cases featured
evidence derived from Relevant Horizon Data to the Court of Appeal.

In recent years, Post Office Limited has almost entirely stopped conducting its own
Criminal Investigations and Private Prosecutions. It does however continue to receive a
large number of requests to assist Law Enforcement Agencies in the prevention, detection,
investigation and potential prosecution of alleged offences.

The governance arrangements described in this Policy are based upon the following core
principles:
« Post Office is committed to supporting Law Enforcement Agencies in the prevention,
detection, investigation and potential prosecution of alleged offences;

® In this Policy “Post Office” and “Group” means Post Office Limited, Post Office Management Services Limited
and Payzone Bill Payments Limited.

7In this Policy “employee” means permanent staff, temporary including agency staff, contractors, consultants
and anyone else working for or on behalf of Post Office.

INTERNAL 14

92 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

« Post Office Limited is committed to ensuring that prosecutions are fair and that the
Prosecution Team is made aware of, and provided with Disclosable Material in its
possession;

e In accordance with the above commitments, Post Office will as far as possible,
cooperate with Prosecution Teams and voluntarily provide information and evidence
on request;

« Post Office must, however, consider and manage the risks associated with providing
such support in light of the Horizon Issues Judgment and the CCRC referrals.

1.4. Application

This Policy is applicable to all areas within the Post Office and defines the minimum
standards to control financial loss, customer impact, regulatory breaches and reputational
damage in line with Post Office’s Risk Appetite.

In exceptional circumstances, where risk sits outside of Post Office’s accepted Risk
Appetite a Risk Exception can be granted. For further information in relation to the risk
exception process please contact the Central Risk team.

For definitions please see section 3.1.

The risk to Post Office in relation to cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and the
manner in which it addresses suspected criminal misconduct, is reviewed by the Board
annually.

1.5. The Risks

Post Office is frequently asked to provide data derived from its Horizon computer system
to Law Enforcement Agencies and prosecutors for use in Criminal Investigations and
prosecutions. This may arise either when Post Office is a victim of crime or when it holds
data which is relevant to other suspected criminal misconduct.

The Horizon Issues Judgment raises questions about the reliability of data which is derived
from Relevant Horizon Data (i.e. Legacy Horizon and HNG-X). As a result of that judgment,
and the referral by the Criminal Cases Review Commission of 39 cases to the Court of
Appeal on the basis that they amounted to an abuse of process, Post Office is currently
under intense scrutiny in respect of cases which it has privately prosecuted in the past.

The risks which this policy is intended to address are therefore as follows:

« Acourt may make or be asked to make an adverse finding against HNG-A
(the current Horizon system in use), which is c ‘al to Post Office
continuing to operate;

« An unnecessarily broad refusal to provide voluntary assistance to Law Enforcement
Agencies where data derives from Horizon might result in reputational harm to Post
Office and, in the case of regulators, may undermine their confidence in Post
Office’s ability to conduct regulated activities if they cannot vouch for the reliability
of Horizon;

« Post Office might instigate or support cases in which unreliable data is served as
evidence;

« Law Enforcement Agencies or Public Prosecutors might rely on Horizon data in
ignorance of potential reliability issues;

« Post Office might be in possession of further information (whether derived from
Horizon or not) that points towards or away from the suspect's guilt of which the
Prosecution Team are unaware;

INTERNAL 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 93 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

« Post Office witnesses might be called to give evidence and be cross-examined about
Horizon reliability or related issues.

1.6. Legislation

There are a number of relevant legal and regulatory requirements which are applicable,
including (but not limited to):
« Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996
Proceeds of Crime Act 2002
Terrorism Act 2000

.
« The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds Regulations 2017
¢ Crime and Courts Act 2013

In addition, Post Office can be legally required to provide data to relevant parties if it is
served with a compulsory order from a Court or Law Enforcement Agency. For example,
the police can compel Post Office to provide such material by way of a production order
under Schedule 1 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, or (if a charging decision
has been made), either the prosecutor or defence counsel can apply for a witness
summons under section 2 of the Criminal Procedure (Attendance of Witnesses) Act 1965
requiring an individual within Post Office to give evidence or produce a document or other
item in court as evidence.

INTERNAL 16

94 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

2. Risk Appetite and Minimum Control
Standards

2.1. Risk Appetite

A Risk Appetite is the extent to which the Group will accept that a risk might happen in
pursuit of day to day businesses transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of
activity and levels of exposure that the Group is willing and able to tolerate.

The Group takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has®:

« Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited circumstances
where there are significant conflicting imperatives between conformance and
commercial practicality

« Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues

« Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to Financial Services matters

« Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation from
business’ conduct standards for financial crime to occur within any part of the
organisation

« Averse risk appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by our staff.

The Group acknowledges however, that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls
have been implemented, a matter may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite. In this
situation, a risk exception waiver will be required (See section 1.4 for further details).

2.2. Policy Framework

Post Office has established a suite of financial crime policies and procedures, on a risk
sensitive approach which are subject to an annual review and which are relevant to this
Policy. The Policy suite is designed to combat money laundering, terrorist financing,
bribery, corruption and fraud and ensure adherence to relevant sanctions regimes. Post
Office has also historically had policies relating to criminal investigations and prosecutions
but these are not currently up-to-date or formally approved by the Board.

2.3 Who must comply?

Compliance with this Policy is mandatory for all Post Office employees.

Where non-compliance is identified, the matter must be referred to the General Counsel.
All investigations will be carried out in accordance with the Investigations Policy. Where is

it identified that an instance of non-compliance is caused through wilful disregard or
negligence, this will be treated as a disciplinary offence.

® The Risk appetite was agreed by the Group’s Board January 2015

INTERNAL 17

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 95 of 123
€ZL JO 96

OD soUeIIdWOD PUE ¥SIY - PAIL! BONO 1S0d

0z/S0/90-30n:

2.4 Minimum Control Standards

A minimum control standard is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the risks, so they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. There must be mechanisms in place within each business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum control
standards can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks are
managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required minimum control standards in consideration of the stated
risk appetite. The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards Who is responsible I When
Adverse finding I If HNG-A data is provided Preventative control: General Counsel Ongoing
against HNG-A I for use in criminal Implementation of the controls set out in this
by a court proceedings, there is a risk Policy to ensure, insofar as possible, that
that there may be adverse data deriving from Horizon is only relied
findings as to the accuracy upon in criminal proceedings where a proper
or reliability of HNG-A (the risk assessment and risk mitigation exercise
current Horizon system in has been conducted by Post Office.
use), which is critical to Post
Office continuing to operate.
Regulatory If Regulators (many of Preventative control: General Counsel Ongoing
concern about whom also exercise powers I Implementation of the controls set out in this
conduct of as Law Enforcement Policy would ensure that Advisory Notices are
regulated Agencies (e.g. FCA, PRA, only provided in relation to HNG-A data
activities if Ofcom, ICO)) have reason where justified.
HNG-A data is to believe that data deriving
inaccurate or from HNG-A is unreliable,
unreliable there is a risk that the
Regulator may advise Post
Office that they cannot use
a system that they cannot
rely upon.
INTERNAL 18

POL00423569
POL00423569

4
a
ca
©
9°
S
i}

3
g

ID pajoadsng Bulssappy pue sepuaby juewedlo\U MET

Katjog janpuoss
Wg eoUe!IdWIOD pUe YI - Parl! eD1YJ0 IS0q

0z/S0/90-30n:

€Z1 30 16

Prosecutions

prosecutor results in a trial
collapsing or an unsafe
conviction which is the
subject of legal challenge.

Prosecutions or Criminal Investigations with
a view to bringing Private Prosecutions.

Reputational An unnecessary refusal to Preventative control: General Counsel Ongoing
damage if Post I provide voluntary assistance I Implementation of the controls set out in this
Office refuses to Law Enforcement Policy to ensure that data deriving from
to provide Agencies where data derives I Horizon is provided to Law Enforcement
voluntary from Horizon might result in I Agencies where it is appropriate to do so,
assistance to reputational harm to Post adopting the risk-based approach set out in
Law Office (including as a result I the Policy and supporting tools.
Enforcement of justified investigations or
Agencies prosecutions being
discontinued) and may
result in the information
being compelled in any
event.
Conduct of Failure to comply with Directive Control: General Counsel Ongoing
Private duties of a private Post Office shall not conduct Private

Law
Enforcement
Agency
investigations
and
prosecutions

INTERNAL,

If, in the course of providing
assistance to a Law
Enforcement Agency on an
intelligence-only basis, Post
Office provides Relevant
Horizon Data, Post Office
may be criticised for failing
to advise the Law
Enforcement Agency of the
issues identified in the
Horizon Issues Judgment
and arising from the CCRC
Referrals

Preventative Control:

Where any Law Enforcement Agency makes
a request to Post Office or its employees for
assistance involving the provision of
information for intelligence purposes, the
recipient shall comply with the “Flowchart:
Provision of Data to Law Enforcement for
Intel Purposes” tool (Tool 1) in determining
whether/how to respond. Tool 1 provides
that an Advisory Notice must be provided
where data is provided that derives from
Relevant Horizon Data and is not Low Risk
Data.

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

Group Chief
Information officer

18

POL00423569
POL00423569

e1edoog 6 qeL

2
a
s
8

UD payadsng Bulssaippy pue seiouaby

g
s
a
a
o
S
£ZL JO 86

OD soUeIIdWOD PUE ¥SIY - PAIL! BONO 1S0d

0z/S0/90-30n:

Law
Enforcement
Agency
investigations
and
prosecutions

Where a Post Office
employee provides a
witness statement, they will
be providing an assurance
as to the accuracy of any
information or data
provided. Where
information/data is or
derives from Horizon data
they may be subject to
cross-examination on the
accuracy and reliability of
the Horizon system. This
gives rise to risks that the
witness may not be
competent to deal with
these issues and/or that
there will be adverse
findings about the accuracy
and reliability of data
deriving from Horizon
and/or Post Office
witnesses.

Directive Control:

Where Post Office or its employees are asked
or compelled to provide witness statements
relating to Horizon data that is not Low Risk
Data, the request must be escalated to Post
Office Legal.

Preventative Control:

In responding to requests for the provision of
evidence deriving from Horizon (i.e. a
witness statement or exhibits), Post Office
Legal shall comply with the “Provision of
Evidence to Law Enforcement” Tool (Tool 2)
in determining whether/how to respond.

Preventative control:

Horizon data categorised as Medium or High
Risk in accordance with the “Provision of
Evidence to Law Enforcement” Tool (Tool 2)
shall not be provided as evidence to Law
Enforcement Agencies unless pursuant to a
Mandatory Notice or Order or following
approval by the Board. Advisory Notices
shall accompany such data in accordance
with the “Provision of Evidence to Law
Enforcement” Tool (Tool 2).

All Employees

General Counsel

General Counsel

Law
Enforcement
Agency
investigations
and
prosecutions

If Post Office becomes
aware of issues with the
reliability of data deriving
from HNG-A and does not
deal with these
appropriately in the context

Detective Control:

Post Office Employees must notify Post Office
Legal if they become aware of issues that
may undermine the reliability or accuracy of
data deriving from HNG-A (or subsequent
versions of Horizon).

General Counsel

INTERNAL,

20

POL00423569
POL00423569

e1edoog 6 qeL

ID pajoadsng Bulssappy pue sepuaby juewedlo\U MET

Katjog janpuoss
0Z/S0/90-2eY!WWOD eoUe!IdWOD pUe ¥SRY - PArIWUIT e011 1SOq

€Z1 30 66

of provision of information
to Law Enforcement
Agencies and/or the
provision of
evidence/disclosure in
prosecutions, this could
result in criticism of Post
Office, as well as the issues
relating to adverse findings
and unsafe convictions
identified above.

Preventative Control:

If Post Office Legal becomes aware of issues
that may undermine the reliability or
accuracy of data deriving from HNG-A (or
subsequent versions of Horizon) they must
review this Policy and the Tools that support
it (including but not limited to the wording of
the Advisory Notice and the circumstances in
which it is provided) to implement any such
revisions as are appropriate.

General Counsel

Provision of
information or
evidence to Law

Data is provided on a
voluntary basis resulting in
non-compliance with other

Preventative Control:
Nothing in this Policy or Tools shall be
interpreted as permitting the voluntary

General Counsel

Group Operation

prosecutions

Office may fail to identify
potential reliance on
Relevant Horizon Data or
challenges made to Horizon
data by the defence. Post
Office may therefore not

aware, updated with developments and shall
provide a weekly report of such cases to
General Counsel.

Preventative Control:

Enforcement legal requirements disclosure of data where such provision Director
Agencies would result in non-compliance with other
legal obligations (for example, but not Group Chief
limited to, the Data Protection Act 2018 or Information officer
the General Data Protection Regulation).
Mandatory Orders must be sought if
necessary to ensure the lawful provision of
data.
Law If Post Office does not Preventative Control: Group Operation
Enforcement monitor ongoing Post Office shall maintain a list of ongoing Director
Agency investigations and Criminal Investigations where Post Office or
investigations prosecutions by Law its employees or Operators are the victim
and Enforcement Agencies, Post I and any Public Prosecutions of which it is

Group Operation
Director

INTERNAL,

21

POL00423569
POL00423569

e1edoog 6 qeL

seippy pue seiouaBy 1UaWw90/0JU3 Me

Aoljog jonpuossI
€ZL JO OOL

DALILUIT] SOLO 1S0d

09 souelIdwiog pue yshy -

0z/S0/90-30n:

have an opportunity to
mitigate any risk this
presents.

Post Office shall liaise with the Prosecution
Team to obtain, so far as possible, the
information set out in the “Monitoring of
Ongoing Criminal Cases Checklist” (Tool 3).
Post Office shall make regular contact with
the Prosecution Team to request an update
in relation to any developments in the case
(for example, whether the defence seeks to
challenge Horizon evidence).

Extant Law
Enforcement
Agency
investigations
and
prosecutions
(as of the date
of the
implementation
of this Policy)

Post Office has already
supplied evidence in a
number of extant criminal
investigations and
prosecutions (prior to the
implementation of this
policy). This gives rise to
the same risks identified
above in relation to Horizon-
derived data.

Preventative Control:

Where Post Office is aware that there are
live, ongoing Criminal Investigations or
Public Prosecutions commenced by Law
Enforcement Agencies prior to the
implementation of this Policy in which
evidence deriving from Relevant Horizon
Data has been provided, they shall notify the
Officer in the Case or the Prosecution Team
of the Horizon Issues Judgment and the
CCRC Referrals.

Preventative Control:

Post Office employees must provide Post
Office Legal Team with copies of all Horizon-
derived data which has been supplied to
Prosecution Teams. Post Office Legal (or any
Nominated Criminal Law Advisors acting on
their behalf) shall review the material and
provide advice as to whether it can be relied
on and any steps that should be taken to
mitigate the risk of legal challenge. Such
review must have regard to the “Provision of
Evidence to Law Enforcement Tool” (Tool 2)

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

General Counsel

INTERNAL,

22

POL00423569
POL00423569

e1edoog 6 qeL

WUD payadsng Bulssaippy pue selouaBy jueweoiojuz meq

g
s

a
a
o
OD soUeIIdWOD PUE ¥SIY - PAIL! BONO 1S0d

0z/S0/90-30n:

€ZL JO LOL

but their decision will be dependent on the
facts of the individual case
Provision of In cases where Horizon data I Preventative Control: General Counsel
Relevant or is relied upon by a Where Post Office is aware that Horizon data
Disclosable Prosecution Team, the is relied upon in a Criminal Investigation or Group Operation
Material to a issues raised in the Horizon I Public Prosecution, Post Office shall apply the I Director
Prosecution Issues Judgment and by the I “Disclosure Checklist” (Tool 4) to assist in
Team CCRC Referrals may mean identifying material which satisfies the Group Chief
that there is potentially Disclosure Test. Information officer
Relevant or Disclosable
Material of which the
Prosecution Team may not Preventative Control: General Counsel
be aware. If this is not Where any request for Relevant Material or
drawn to the Prosecution Disclosable Material is made by a Prosecution I Group Operation
Team’s attention and Team, Post Office shall have regard to the Director
disclosed as appropriate, “Disclosure Checklist” tool in determining
this could result in legal what material shall be provided. Group Chief
challenges that could Information officer
undermine the criminal
proceedings, a potentially
unfair trial and/or an unsafe I Preventative Control: General Counsel
conviction resulting in an Material to be disclosed will be submitted to
appeal. Post Office Legal for review by them (or by
any Nominated Criminal Law Advisors acting
on their behalf) prior to its disclosure. They
will review the adequacy of the disclosure
against the “Disclosure Checklist” (Tool 4).
Provision of Where material is provided Preventative Control: General Counsel
Relevant or to the Prosecution Team by I Material to be disclosed will be submitted to
Disclosable way of disclosure, it may Post Office Legal for review by them (or by
Material to a contain material that is any Nominated Criminal Law Advisors acting
Prosecution sensitive, subject to Legal on their behalf) prior to its disclosure. Post
Team Professional Privilege or Office Legal will make the final decision on
INTERNAL 23

POL00423569
POL00423569

e1edoog 6 qeL

2
iu]
z
8
3
g
>
&
g
&
2
a
z
a
8
g
é
2
g
g
o
a
9

Katjog janpuoss
€ZL JO ZOL

OD soUeIIdWOD PUE ¥SIY - PAIL! BONO 1S0d

0z/S0/90-30n:

include personal data that
should not be disclosed.

what material shall be disclosed and on what
basis.

Making a Victim
Crime Report

A Victim Crime Report
submitted to the police by
Post Office or one of its
Employees or Operators
may include allegations that
derive from or rely upon
Relevant Horizon Data which
may be provided in the
Victim Crime Report and/or
requested subsequently.

Preventative Control:

Where any Post Office internal investigation
finds that Post Office, its Employees,
Operators or Customers may have been the
victim of crime, an assessment must be
undertaken to determine whether to
recommend to General Counsel that Post
Office should make a Victim Crime Report.
Such assessment shall be undertaken in
accordance with the “Factors to Consider
When Determining Whether to Report
Suspected Criminal Misconduct to the Police”
(Tool 5).

Preventative Control:

General Counsel shall make the final decision
on whether Post Office will make a Victim
Crime Report having regard to the
recommendation and the “Factors to
Consider When Determining Whether to
Report Suspected Criminal Misconduct to the
Police” tool.

Preventative Control:

Where any information deriving from Horizon
is to be provided with a Victim Crime Report,
it shall be provided in accordance with the
“Flowchart: Provision of Data to Law
Enforcement for Intel purposes” (Tool 1).
Any evidence shall only be provided in
accordance with the “Provision of Evidence to
Law Enforcement” Tool (Tool 2).

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

Group Chief
Information officer

General Counsel

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

Group Chief
Information officer

INTERNAL,

24

POL00423569
POL00423569

e1edoog 6 qeL

2
iu]
z
8
3
g
>
&
g
&
2
a
z
a
8
g
é
2
g
g
o
a
9

Katjog janpuoss
Wg eoUe!IdWIOD pUe YI - Parl! eD1YJ0 IS0q

0z/S0/90-30n:

€ZL JO COL

POL00423569
POL00423569

e1edoog 6 qeL

Preventative Control:

Where a Victim Crime Report is made,
consideration shall be given to the Disclosure
Checklist.

Detective Control:

Post Office Operators shall be asked to
advise Post Office if they make a Victim
Crime Report so that a central record can be
maintained.

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

Group Chief
Information officer

Group Operation
Director

Record keeping

Information or evidence
provided to a Law
Enforcement Agency is not
retained resulting in Post
Office being unable to
identify the information or
evidence provided and
assess the risks arising from
the provision of any data
deriving from Horizon.

Preventative Control:

Each function shall maintain centralised
records for 6 years or until the end of any
criminal proceedings, whichever is the
longer:

1. Of any Victim Crime Report made by
Post Office to the police;

2. Of any known ongoing Criminal
Investigation or prosecution arising
from a Victim Crime Report or where
Post Office has been asked to provide
assistance;

3. Of any information, data, material or
evidence (witness statements or
exhibits) provided to Law
Enforcement Agencies.

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

Group Chief
Information officer

INTERNAL,

25

y2010JUQ M7

>
Fa
g
8
2
a
z
Ey
3
§
a
2
g
8
°
a
9

g
s
a
a
o
S
€ZL JO POL

Wg eoUe!IdWIOD pUe YI - Parl! eD1YJ0 IS0q

0z/S0/90-30n:

Training

Breaches of the Policy occur
as a result of inadequate
training

Preventative Control:

Training shall be provided to ensure that
those to whom the Policy applies understand
their obligations and how to fulfil them.

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

Group Chief
Information officer

Breach of legal
obligations or
requirements

Post Office is subject to
various legal obligations
relating to the provision of
information and evidence to
Law Enforcement Agencies.
It is also subject to some
legal restrictions on the
dissemination of information
provided. If Post office
breaches these legal
provisions this could result
in the commission of a
criminal offence or other
sanctions, for example the
imposition of fines.

Preventative Control:

Any policies or processes devised to assist in
the implementation of this Policy shall
expressly state that nothing in the Policy or
associated documents or guidance shall
prevent Post Office or its employees from
complying with legal obligations and/or the
requirement to protect, to the fullest extent
possible, the identity of whistleblowers.

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

Group Chief
Information officer

Engaging in
conduct that is
unlawful or
contrary to
public policy

INTERNAL,

The imposition of a policy
preventing third parties
from reporting crime would
be contrary to public policy
and could be unlawful.

Preventative Control:

Any policies or processes devised to assist in
the implementation of this Policy must not
impose (or appear to impose) restrictions on
the ability of third parties to report crime.

General Counsel

Group Operation
Director

Group Chief
Information officer

26

POL00423569
POL00423569

e1edoog 6 qeL

y2010JUQ M7

>
Fa
g
8
2
a
z
Ey
3
§
a
2
g
8
°
a
9

g
s
a
a
o
S
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

3. Tools & Definitions

3.1. Tools

1. Flowchart: Provision of Data to Law Enforcement for Intel Purposes

The Provision of Data to Law Enforcement for Intel Purposes flowchart has been designed to
determine the level of risk exposure and escalation required when providing data to external Law
Enforcement Agencies. It sets out the process which must be followed in all cases where Post Office
employees or associates are asked or compelled to provide information to Law Enforcement Agencies.

2. Provision of Evidence to Law Enforcement

The Provision of Evidence to Law Enforcement flowchart has been designed to assist Post Office Legal
(and/or any Nominated Criminal Law Advisors acting on their behalf) to assess the risks associated
with providing evidence in a particular case and to reach a risk-based determination as to whether
such evidence should be provided.

3. Monitoring of Ongoing Criminal Cases Checklist

The Monitoring of Ongoing Investigations and Prosecutions by Law Enforcement Agencies Checklist
has been designed to ensure that Post Office obtains the information it requires from Prosecution
Teams to properly monitor the progress of ongoing criminal cases. This will ensure that Post Office
is alerted to any issues which are raised in respect of Horizon-derived evidence.

4. Disclosure Checklist

The Disclosure Checklist has been designed to assist Post Office Security Team with identifying
categories of material which are in Post Office’s possession and which are most likely to satisfy the
Disclosure Test. In every case in which Horizon-derived evidence is relied upon, the Security Team
should, as a minimum, proactively consider the categories of material identified in the checklist for
potential disclosure, even if such material has not been requested by the Prosecution Team.

5. Factors to Consider When Determining Whether to Report Suspected Criminal
Misconduct to the Police

The guidance on Factors to Consider When Determining Whether to Report Suspected Criminal

Misconduct to the Police has been designed to assist the General Counsel in making consistent

decisions as to whether suspected criminal misconduct should be reported to the police. It identifies

a number of factors which are relevant to determining whether it is in the public interest and/or the

interests of Post Office to report the suspected misconduct

3.2 Definitions

“advisory Notice” - refers to the Notice which must be sent to any Law Enforcement Agency where required by
Tool 1 or Tool 2. The wording of the Advisory Notice can be found in Tool 1.

“CCRC Referrals” -refers to the Post Office cases which are being referred to the Court of Appeal (Criminal Division)
by the Criminal Cases Review Commission (“the CCRC”). As of the date of this document, the CCRC has decided to
refer for appeal the convictions of 39 Post Office applicants.

“Criminal Investigation” - refers to an investigation conducted to the criminal standard, for the primary purpose
of ascertaining whether a person should be charged with a criminal offence.

“Disclosable Material” - refers to material which satisfies the Disclosure Test, i.e. it is material which might
reasonably be considered capable of undermining the case for the prosecution or of assisting the case for the
accused.

INTERNAL 27

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 105 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

“Disclosure Test” - refers to the test set out in s.3 Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996. Material is said
to satisfy the disclosure test if it might reasonably be considered capable of undermining the case for the prosecution
or of assisting the case for the accused.

“Horizon Issues Judgement” -refers to the judgment of Fraser J in Bates and others v POL (No.6: Horizon Issues
Judgment) [2019] EWHC 3408 (QB) which concerned the operation and functionality of the Horizon computer
system.

“Law Enforcement Agencies” -refers to any agency which is responsible for law enforcement in the United
Kingdom, including (but not limited to): police forces, the National Crime Agency, Her Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs, Immigration Enforcement and Border Force, the Financial Conduct Authority, the Information
Commissioner's Office, the Prudential Regulation Authority, and the Office of Communications (commonly known as
OfCom). Where a Law Enforcement Agency also conducts regulatory (or other functions), this Policy apples to
circumstances in which the body is exercising criminal law functions.

“Low Risk Data” - refers to the categories of data which have been identified in Tool 2 as being “low-risk”,
namely: CCTV; confirmation of a bank card number used in a particular transaction and details of a payment made
using a particular bank card.

“Mandatory Order” - refers to an order or notice that Post Office is legally required to comply with (including, but
not limited to: a witness summons or a production order).

“Nominated Criminal Law Advisors” - refers to external criminal legal advisors that may from time to time be
appointed by Post Office Limited.

“Operator” - refers to Franchisees and Agents of Limited Companies who operate Post Office Limited Branches.

“Private Prosecution” - a prosecution brought by, or on behalf of, Post Office Limited, rather than by a Law
Enforcement Agency or public prosecutor.

“Prosecution Team” - refers to the individuals who are responsible for the investigation and prosecution of a
criminal case. This will most commonly be the police officer in charge of the investigation and the Crown Prosecution
Service reviewing lawyer who has conduct of the case, but extends to any external law enforcement investigator
and reviewing lawyer.

“Public Prosecution” - refers to a prosecution brought by a Law Enforcement Agency or public prosecutor (such
as the Crown Prosecution Service).

“Relevant Horizon Data” - refers to Horizon data derived from Legacy Horizon or HNG-X.

“Relevant Material” - refers to any material that appears to have some bearing on any offence under investigation
or any person being investigated or on the surrounding circumstances, unless it is incapable of having any impact
on the case.

“victim Crime Report” - refers to a report made by Post Office to the police when Post Office suspects that it or
its Operators or customers may have been the victim of criminal misconduct connected with the Post Office.

INTERNAL 28

106 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

4. Where to go for help

4.1. Additional Policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found on the SharePoint Hub under
Policies.

4.2. How to raise a concern

Any Post Office employee who suspects dishonest or fraudulent activity has a duty to:

¢ Discuss the matter fully with their Line Manager; or, .

« Report their suspicions by telephoning Grapevine oni

* If either or both are not available, staff can contact the Post Officé’s General Counsel, wh
be contacted by email at: whistleblowing@postoffice.co.uk or by telephone on:!_

« Alternatively staff can use the confidential Whistleblowing reporting service Ethicsp
by Navex Global available oni” jor secure on-line web portal:

https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/en/report_custom.asp?clientid=106826

Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this policy or wish to report an issue in relation to this policy,
please contact the Post Office Legal team.

INTERNAL 29

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 107 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

5. Governance

5.1. Governance Responsibilities
The Policy sponsor, responsible for overseeing this Policy is the General Counsel of Post Office Limited.

The Policy owner is the General Counsel who is responsible for ensuring that the Compliance Director
conducts an annual review of this Policy and tests compliance across the Post Office. Additionally, the
General Counsel and the Compliance Director are responsible for providing appropriate and timely
reporting to the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.

The Audit and Risk Committee are responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting Post Office’s risk appetite.

INTERNAL 30

108 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

6. Control

Date

Version

Updated by Change Det:

0.1

Draft Version

6.1. Policy Approval

Committee
POL R&CC

Date Approved

Delete if not

needed

POL ARC

Delete if not

needed

Oversight Committee:

Policy Sponsor:
Policy Owner:
Policy Author:

Next review:

Company Details

Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit and Risk Committee

[name of policy sponsor]
[name of the policy owner]
[name of the policy author]

[date of next review in DD MM YYYY format]

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers 2154540 and 08459718
respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is ZA090585.

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its Information Commissioners Office
registration number is 24866081.

INTERNAL

Post

31

Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 109 of 123

POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

In of Information to Law Enforcement for Intel Purposes

Tool 1: Flowchart: Provi

1. This Tool is to be used when Post Office receives a request to provide data to law enforcement
agencies for intelligence purposes only. If a request is made for a witness statement, or for data

to be exhibited for use in evidence, please refer to Tool 2: Provision of Evidence to Law
Enforcement.

=a

INTERNAL 32

110 of 123

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

2. The wording of the Advisory Notice referred to in the Chart is as follows:

“Post Office Limited wishes to assist law enforcement agencies wherever possible. However, please
note that the information provided derives in whole or in part from a historic version of the Horizon
computer system used by Post Office. The accuracy and reliability of data deriving from this version
of Horizon was the subject of the recent High Court case of Bates & Ors v Post Office Ltd (No 6:
Horizon Issues) [2019] EWHC 3408. Furthermore, the CCRC has recently referred the convictions of
39 individuals whose cases featured evidence derived from the Legacy Horizon and HNG-X systems
to the Court of Appeal.”

3. Nothing in this Tool shall be interpreted as permitting the voluntary disclosure of data where such
provision would result in non-compliance with other legal obligations (for example, but not limited
to, the Data Protection Act 2018 or the General Data Protection Regulation). Mandatory Orders
must be sought if necessary to ensure the lawful provision of data.

INTERNAL 33

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 111 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

Tool 2: Provision of Evidence to Law Enforcement

1. This Tool is to be read in conjunction with the Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and
Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy and will adopt the definitions therein.

2. When determining whether Horizon-derived evidence can be provided to Law Enforcement
Agencies, Post Office Legal (or any Nominated Criminal Law Advisors acting on their behalf) shall
have regard to the following flowchart, in order to assess the risk associated with providing the
data:

INTERNAL 34

112 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

3. Once the above risk assessment has taken place, Post Office Legal shall determine whether the
data can be provided and any controls which are necessary to mitigate risk in accordance with
the table below:

High Risk The data must not be provided, unless Post Office is legally compelled
to provide it or the Board approves its voluntary disclosure.

If Post Office is compelled to provide the data, it must advise the Law
Enforcement Agency of the risks associated with relying upon the data
before providing it.

If Post Office is still compelled to provide the data, the relevant witness
statement must contain an Advisory Notice and the Disclosure Checklist
(Tool 4) must be complied with.

Medium Risk The data must not be provided, unless Post Office is legally compelled
to provide it or the Board approves its voluntary disclosure.

If Post Office is compelled to provide it, the Disclosure Checklist (Tool 4)
must be complied with.

Medium- Low The data can be provided as evidence on a voluntary basis. No Advisory
Risk Notice is required. The Disclosure Checklist must be complied with.

Low Risk The data can be provided as evidence and does not need to be escalated
to Post Office Legal. No Advisory Notice is required.

4. Nothing in this Tool shall be interpreted as permitting the voluntary disclosure of data where such
provision would result in non-compliance with other legal obligations (for example, but not limited
to, the Data Protection Act 2018 or the General Data Protection Regulation). Mandatory Orders
must be sought if necessary to ensure the lawful provision of data.

INTERNAL 35

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 113 of 123
Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal M

POL00423569
POL00423569

sconduct Policy

@

Tool 3: Monitoring of ongoing investigations and prosecutions by Law Enforcement Agencies

1. This Tool is to be read in conjunction with the Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and
Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy and will adopt the definitions therein.

2. Once Post Office becomes aware that a suspect is under investigation for a criminal offence
relating to the Post Office, it shall liaise with the Prosecution Team to obtain the following
information:

a. the suspected offences or charges in each case;

b. any information which summarises the prosecution case and defence case, however brief;

c. procedural updates - e.g. the current stage of proceedings, next hearing date, current
trial date (if applicable);

d. whether the suspect was interviewed under caution by the police and/or Post Office
investigation team and whether any admissions were made during those interviews
regarding the conduct in question;

e. whether evidence has been provided by any Post Office Employees or Operators and
details of such evidence (e.g. witness statement, exhibits);

fi whether any evidence used by the prosecution team derives from the Horizon system. If
so, the nature of such evidence (e.g. evidence from Horizon transaction logs relating to
spoilt label refund transactions) and the date range covered by the data;

g. whether the suspect has raised issues regarding the veracity of the Horizon evidence or
referred to the lack of training by Post Office or the possibility of remote access by Fujitsu
at any stage (whether during a Post Office/police interview or a defence statement or the
pre-trial stage);

h. whether any Post Office Employee or Operator has provided any other corroborating
material, other than evidence derived from Horizon system (e.g. emails, bank statements,
audit reports);

i. whether any expert reports have been provided and whether Post Office has been asked
to respond to such reports.

3. If Post Office becomes aware of a challenge to data deriving from Horizon, Post Office Legal will
consider any steps that should be taken to mitigate the risks arising from such challenge and may
seek advice from its Nominated Criminal Law Advisors in this regard.

INTERNAL, 36

114 of 123

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

POL00423569
POL00423569

@

Tool 4: Di heckl

1. This Tool is to be read in conjunction with the Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and

The Checklist

2»

Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy and will adopt the definitions therein.

In addition to reacting to requests for Disclosable Material made by a Prosecution Team, Post

Office should be alert to the possibility that it may possess further Disclosable Material which has

not been specifically requested.

In order to ensure that such material is not overlooked, Post Office will take a proactive approach

to assisting the Prosecution Team and will draw such Disclosable Material to the attention of the

Prosecution Team.

In every case in which Horizon-derived evidence is relied upon to prove a loss to Post Office or a

third party, the person(s) conducting the review (hereinafter referred to as “the Relevant Person”)

must, as a minimum, proactively consider the following categories of material for potential

disclosure, even if such material has not been requested by the Prosecution Team:

a) Any calls made to any Post Office helpline (NBSC/ Horizon helpline) relating to the
particular branch;

b) Any requests made for interventions in the branch;

c) Any requests for further training made by any staff member of the branch;

d) Any relevant human resources records (e.g. disciplinary records of any staff member
which may be relevant to the prosecution);

e) Any audit reports demonstrating previous shortages within the branch (and the actions
taken following such audits);

f) Any material generated in contemplation of civil proceedings relating to the branch,
including CIRT/SSRT Reports;

g) Any material held by the Loss Recovery and Contracts Teams;

h) Any further Horizon-derived data which contradicts/ undermines the prosecution case

or assists the defence case.

5. Post Office should similarly have regard to the above factors prior to making a Victim Crime Report

in respect of a suspected loss to Post Office or a third party.

INTERNAL

37

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 115 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

6. The above list is intended to assist Post Office with identifying the categories of material which
are most likely to satisfy the Disclosure Test. It is not an exhaustive list. If there is material which
does not fall into any of the above categories, but which the Relevant Person considers may be

Disclosable Material, this should be escalated to the Post Office Legal Team.

7. In deciding whether material satisfies the Disclosure Test, consideration should be given to,
amongst other things:

a) the use that might be made of it in cross-examination;
b) its capacity to support submissions that could lead to:
i. the exclusion of evidence;
ii. a stay of proceedings (as an abuse of process), where the material is
required to enable a proper application to be made;
iii. a court or tribunal finding that any public authority had acted incompatibly
with the accused’s rights under the European Convention on Human Rights;

d) its capacity to suggest an explanation or partial explanation of the accused’s actions;

e) its capacity to suggest that another individual may be responsible for the alleged
offence;

f) its capacity to suggest that an element of the offence is not made out by the

prosecution;
g) the capacity of the material to have a bearing on other evidence in the case.

6. If the Relevant Person is in any doubt about whether a particular item satisfies the disclosure
test, the material should be referred to the Post Office Legal Team.

7. Any material that is identified by the Relevant Person as potentially satisfying the Disclosure Test
will be provided to Post Office Legal for review. The review of material will consider:

a) Whether it meets the test for disclosure;

b) Whether it is subject to legal professional privilege;

c) Whether there are any legal issues or commercial sensitivities that would arise from
its disclosure;

d) The extent to which any documents require redacting;

e) Whether Post Office should request a notice or order compelling the provision of
any of the information or material (for example because it contains personal data).

8. Post Office Legal Team may delegate any review of material to its Nominated Criminal Law
Advisors as it deems appropriate.

INTERNAL 38

116 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

9. Once the material has been subject to review, Post Office Legal Team or its Nominated Criminal
Law Advisors will confirm to the Relevant Person the information and/or material to be disclosed
to the Prosecution Team.

10. The Relevant Person will be responsible for making the disclosure to the Prosecution Team and
for ensuring that all information and material disclosed is recorded in their Function’s centralised
records, together with the date and method of disclosure; the basis upon which disclosure was
made (i.e. whether it was voluntary or subject to compulsion - if the latter, copies of the
notice/order must also be retained); and the name(s) and contact details of the individuals to
whom disclosure was made.

INTERNAL 39

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 117 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

Factors to Consider When Determining Whether to Report Suspected Cri
conduct to the Police

To

1. This Tool is to be read in conjunction with the Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and
Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy and will adopt the definitions therein.

2. The following is a non-exhaustive list of the factors which Post Office will have regard to when

determining whether it shall report suspected criminal misconduct to the police (or other Law

Enforcement Agencies):

a) Whether there is a cogent evidential basis for suspecting that a criminal offence has been
committed.

b

Whether the matter has already been reported to the police;

c) Whether loss or harm has been suffered by Post Office Limited, POL Employees or
Associates or third parties, including any financial loss or any adverse impact on Post Office

Limited’s business, brand, image or reputation;

d) The extent of any actual loss or harm suffered;

e) The extent to which Post Office relies on data deriving from Horizon, including:

i) whether such data derives from the HNG-A system, or a historic version of the
Horizon system;

ii) whether it is relied upon to establish a loss to Post Office or a third party; and

iii) the extent to which there are other sources of data to corroborate such loss.

f) Whether the individual involved in the alleged criminal misconduct has repaid or offered

to repay any financial loss arising from the misconduct;

Whether the alleged misconduct relates to a single offence or multiple offences;

S

h) The period of time over which the offending conduct has been committed;

i) The degree of sophistication employed to commit the offence(s);

INTERNAL, 40

118 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

j) Whether there is evidence of concealment or attempted concealment by the alleged

perpetrator;

k) Whether the alleged criminal misconduct involves serious or significant breaches of trust
by Post Office Employees or Associates;

I) Whether the victims of the alleged criminal misconduct are vulnerable. Vulnerable victims
include the elderly; those who are infirm or physically disabled; those who have mental
health issues or who are less competent; and those who rely upon the state benefits
system for their income.

m) The personal circumstances of the offender, for example, matters pertaining to the health
or well-being of the offender or someone close to them, including any mental health
issues; their age; any family or personal circumstances that are relevant to the
commission of the alleged misconduct and previous good character.

n) The particular circumstances of the offence, for example, the pattern of any repeat
offending; pressure to offend applied by others; force of circumstances particular to the
offender or their close family, e.g. unequal spousal relationships, familial illness, etc.; a
desire to assist others with no gain for the offender; or offending intended to hide personal
shame or embarrassment arising out of incompetence or inability to properly fulfil duties.

©) The level of Post Office Limited resources (human and financial) involved in making a
report to the police;

p) The likely deterrent effect of reporting suspected criminal misconduct.

INTERNAL, 41

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 119 of 123
POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

@

Appendix 2

THE ACHMORE BRANCH INVESTIGATION

APPLICATION OF THE DRAFT POLICY: “Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and
Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct”

Introduction

1. The Achmore branch investigation can be used as a working example to demonstrate how the
Policy and associated tools would operate in practice.

2. The Achmore branch investigation is an investigation being conducted by Police Scotland’s
Economic Crime unit. The case involves a targeted scam attack which took place between
February and March 2020, whereby an unknown suspect contacted the branch purporting to be
from Post Office’s IT Department. The suspect requested that the elderly Operator carry out
numerous deposit transactions over several days, to ‘test’ a problem which they had identified.
The suspect had a sound working knowledge of Horizon and Post Office procedures. The total sum
stolen exceeded £800,000.

3. Attempts followed at several other branches, with one additional branch being similarly duped
into depositing £50,000. However, on that occasion, the bank was successful in preventing the
sums from being transferred.

4. To date, Post Office has provided the police with one witness statement from the auditor, Jane
Lawrence, who attended the Achmore branch after the relevant deposits had been made. The
underlying Horizon data has not been supplied.

5. As the Achmore case is an extant investigation, the policy would trigger the following controls:

i. Post Office notifying the Prosecution Team of the Horizon Issues Judgment and the CCRC
referrals;

ii. Post Office liaising with the Prosecution Team to obtain, so far as possible, the information
set out in the “Monitoring of Ongoing Criminal Cases Checklist” tool and engaging in
regular contact with the Prosecution Team to request an update in relation to any
developments in the case;

iii. Post Office employees providing Post Office Legal Team with copies of all Horizon-derived
data which has been supplied to the Prosecution Team. This will include the statement of
the auditor, as the original audit report will have relied upon Horizon Data;

iv. Post Office Legal Team (together with P&P, if needed) reviewing the material and providing
advice as to whether it can be relied upon and any steps that should be taken to mitigate
the risk of legal challenge. Such review will have regard to the “Provision of Evidence to
Law Enforcement” Tool (Tool 2). The Flowchart would categorise the evidence in this case
to be “medium-low risk” because it is being used to prove a loss, it is derived from HNG-

INTERNAL, 42

120 of 123 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20
Tab 9 Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies and Addressing Suspected Criminal Misconduct Policy

POL00423569
POL00423569

@

A, there is no reason to consider that it is unreliable and there is other corroborative
evidence in the case. The result of the data being classified as “medium-low” risk is that
the data could be provided on a voluntary basis. No Advisory Notice would be required,
but the Disclosure Checklist must be complied with.

ve Post Office including this case in its list of ongoing Criminal Investigations and Public
Prosecutions of which it is aware, and providing a weekly report of such cases to the
General Counsel, including any relevant developments;

vi. Post Office applying the Disclosure Checklist to assist in identifying whether there is any
material in its possession which may satisfy the Disclosure Test;

vii. I Any material which is considered to satisfy the Disclosure Test being referred to Post Office
Legal (or any Nominated Criminal Law Advisors instructed to act on their behalf). Post
Office Legal will make the final decision on what material shall be disclosed and on what
basis (voluntary or subject to compulsory notice/order).

Further assistance requested by the police

Any further requests for assistance from the police would be addressed in accordance with Tools
3 and 4. If the police requested further intelligence from Post Office, the Policy would refer the
recipient of that request to Tool 1: Flowchart: Provision of Data to Law Enforcement for Intel
Purposes. As the material requested derives from HNG-A (the branch having migrated to HNG-A
in 2018) and it is requested solely for intelligence purposes, at least initially, the Flowchart
provides that the material can be supplied to the police with no further escalation to Post Office
Legal Team.

If the police made a further request for evidence, the Policy would refer the recipient of that
request to Tool 2: Provision of Evidence to Law Enforcement. Post Office Legal would make any
decision to provide evidence in accordance with Tool 2: Provision of Evidence to Law Enforcement
(and as set out above at paragraph 5(iv)).

Conclusion

In practice, the controls identified in the draft policy operate to mitigate the risks faced by Post
Office in the following ways:

i, the fact that there is a live case relying on Horizon data would be identified;

ii the case would be escalated for oversight and management;

the nature of the evidence relied upon would be identified and subject to a risk assessment

by Post Office Legal Team;

iv. Post Office would consider whether any proactive disclosure is needed/appropriate;

Vv. Post Office Legal Team would consider the risks/benefits of providing additional evidence
and whether any additional disclosure is required;

vi. if any challenge is made to the Horizon data, this will be identified during the monitoring
process.

INTERNAL 43

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 121 of 123
Tab 10 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting agenda 19 May 2020

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00423569
POL00423569

122 of 123

Carla Stent (Chair)

Ken McCall (SID)

Tom Cooper (NED, UKGI)
Zarin Patel (NED)

Meeting: Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee
Date: 19 May 2020
Time: 09.30 - 12.00
Location: 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y
9AQ / Microsoft Teams
Present: Invited Attendees:

Amanda Bowe (Post Office Insurance ARC Chair)
Rod Williams (Head of Legal - DR & Brand) - item 4
Tan Holloway (POI Director, Risk & Compliance) - item 6

Caroline Scott (Portfolio Director - Organisational
Effectiveness): Item 7

Martin Hopcroft (Head of Health & Safety): Item 7

Regular Attendees:

Jeff Smyth (Interim Group Chief Information Officer): Item
9.1

Tim Parker (Chairman, POL)

Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer): Item 9.2

Alisdair Cameron (Group CFO)

Sherrill Taggart (Interim Legal Director) - items 10 & 11

Ben Foat (Group General Counsel)

Andrew Paynter (Audit Partner, PwC)

Stewart Light (Audit Director, PwC)

Rosie Clifton (Audit Manager, PwC)

Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit)

Mark Baldock (Head of Risk)

Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director)

David Parry (Senior Assistant Company Secretary)

I dein. Micresoft Teams Meeting
H GRO I United Kingdom, London (Toll)
Conference 1D: 690 753 1334

Pin (if applicable): 58042

Time Item Owner Action
09.30 1. Welcome & Conflicts of Interest Chair Noting
09.35 2. Update from Subsidiaries:
Post Office Management Services (ARC) Amanda Bowe Noting
09.40 3. COVID-19 Response Update Caroline Scott/ Discussion & Noting
Mark Baldock/
Martin Hopcroft
09.55 4. Governance
4.1 Internal Audit Plan 2020/21 Johann Appel Approval
4.2 Internal Audit Charter Review Johann Appel Approval
4.3 Review against Terms of Reference David Parry Noting
4.4 Committee Evaluation Report David Parry Discussion & Noting
10.10 5. Cooperation with Law Enforcement Agencies Ben Foat / Rod Approval
and Addressing Suspected Criminal Williams
Misconduct Policy
10.25 6. Previous Meetings Chair
5.1 Minutes (24 March 2020) Approval
5.2 Action List Noting

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20

POL00423569
POL00423569

Tab 10 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting agenda 19 May 2020

POST OFFICE LIMITED

5.3. Draft Risk and Compliance Noting
Committee Minutes (6 May 2020)

10.30 7. Deep Dive: POI Board Risk workshop Ian Holloway Discussion

10.50 8. Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance
and Internal Audit

8.1 Risk Report, including update on Mark Baldock Noting
internal controls software
8.2 Compliance Report, including the Jonathan Hill Noting
Mails Dangerous Goods Compliance
Action Plan
8.3. Internal Audit Report Johann Appel Noting
11.20 9. PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update Discussion
9.1 PCI-DSS, including broader Fujitsu Jeff Smyth
relationship
9.2 Cyber Security Tony Jowett
11.35 10. Contract Management Framework Update Sherrill Taggart Discussion
11.45 11. Horizon Scanning Sherrill Taggart Noting
11.55 12. Any other business All Noting

Next ARC Meeting: Monday 27 July 2020 at 14.30 to 17.00 in 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-06/05/20 123 of 123
