POL00028579
POL00028579

Meagher, John

From: Meagher, John

To: Miller, Dave (Horizon) .
Ce: Holleran, Ruth; Mohindra, Naresh

Subject: Acceptance Progress

Date: 17 December 1998 09:57

Dave

We held a meeting yesterday on the Progress of the acceptance specs. The purpose was to evaluate where
we were in relation to our target date of 18th December for sign off of all specs.

The meeting was attended by Pathway (John Dicks), DSS (Paul Wootton), POCL (Ruth Holleran) and Horizon
(John Meagher, Jeff Austin and Tony Houghton).

As an observation, it was very helpful to have Ruth attending acting as formal ‘sponsor this allowed us to
make good progress.

The currently situation is:
1) 12 specs are already agreed

2) 7 specs are at the point of agreement i.e. have agreement at the working level and now need to be
formalised.

3) 1 spec - BPS Service Boundaries the 24th spec - is operating outwith the agreed time-scale and we have
agreed a schedule for this.

4) 2 specs - POCL Infrastructure and Policies and Standards - have outstanding differences, are still in
debate (as of last night) but I estimate these could be resolved if escalated, assuming this would be necessary

5) 1 spec - Reference Data - has outstanding differences which I estimate would not be resolved by
escalation, however, I have devised an approach which may give us the assurance we need in testing and
LRDP, whilst not including in the acceptance spec but still allowing us to raise acceptance incidents if faults
emerge. I am working this up this morning and will advise you of progress.

6) This leaves BES. Ruth was advised by Mena not to proceed on the basis of a caveat. Itis probable that
Pathway would have been unable to agree any caveat that was acceptable to us anyway. We therefore

advised Pathway that we were not in a position to agree the spec as written due to an outstanding dispute on
the BES/PAS boundary. I felt it only fair to advise Pathway that in the event of the boundary being agreed as
currently drawn (DSS agree its current position) then POCL would accept the evidence currently being
nominated in the spec, This is now very urgent, we risk attracting criticism for not being able to negotiate an
agreement. There are however major concerns within POCL with the risks associated with this. This needs to
be advanced with utmost urgency.

I'll keep you abreast of developments.
John

Page 1

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

Bringing Technology to Post Offices and Benefit Payments

REDEFINITION OF THE BES/PAS BOUNDARY
- ADDITIONAL RISK TO POCL

Author: Jeremy Folkes
Authority: John Meagher
Reference: jf/REDEFI~1.DOC

Contents

1, PURPOSE
2. CAVEATS

3. BACKGROUND

3.1. Boundary Dispute...
3.2. Requirements Viewpoint
3.3. The Distributed Solutio
3.4. Historical Perspective

4. TWO VIEWS OF THE BOUNDARY

4.1. POCL View - Requirements Orientated...
4.2. BA/Pathway View - Solution Orientated
4.3. Diagrammatic representation of boundary view:

5. HELPDESK AUTHORISED TRANSACTION:

5.1. Historical position.
5.2. Disputed positior

6. FINANCIAL RISKS.

6.4. Indirect Costs.
7. NON-FINANCIAL RISKS.

8. RELATED ISSUES.

8.1. Legality of the Boundary.
8.2. Separability of BA and POCL services
8.3. Contractual Acceptance
8.4. Control, Audit and Reconciliatio

9. SOLUTION BACKGROUND

9.1. Oracle vs Riposte Domains ..
9.2. Payment Authorisations vs Encashments....

Version: Issue 1.0 Draft
25th November 1998

Page

SSL &© wo wm IUDAH UH BHREL WY

BO GB GONB= =

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

Page ~ 1 of 28

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

9.3. Protection of Payment Authorisation:
9.4. Distributed Solution..
9.5. Multiple Payees

10. CAUSES OF MIS-PAYMENT..

10.1. Specific to Pathway solutio1
10.2. General solution failure

12, QUANTIFICATION OF RISK.

12.1. Own Analysis..
12.2. Payment Authorisation Lial
12.3. Service Levels.....
12.4, Pathway Actuarial Valudation

13. UNQUANTIFIED RISKS...

14. CONCLUSION. .

1. PURPOSE

1.1. This paper aims to explore and document the issues around the additional risk placed
on POCL through the redefinition of the BES/PAS boundary. It is intended to
inform the debate within POCL and is therefore nof intended for circulation to
Pathway or BA.

1.2, Nothing contained within this message shall be deemed or construed as affecting
existing contractual obligations between ICL Pathway, the DSS and/or POCL.

1.3. The author would like to put on record the specific assistance of Tom Patterson of
Post Office IT Services for providing much useful background information on this
issue, and of Janet Dore of ICL Pathway for providing verbal briefings on the BPS
design.

2. CAVEATS

21. Because of the nature of the contract with ICL Pathway, neither sponsors nor the
Horizon programme have full visibility of the Pathway solution, and Horizon have
not been afforded access to Pathway’s detailed design for the Benefits Payments
Service. This report is therefore based on a current understanding of the design,
which although believed to be correct at this point in time has not been formally
validated by Pathway. It is therefore possible that additional failure conditions (and
therefore risk) may exist outwith those identified to date.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1 .doc Page ~2 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

2.2. To enable this work on the Boundary Issue to progress, ICL Pathway agreed, slightly
reluctantly, to provide the author with access to one of Pathway’s designers to enable
some understanding on the design to be obtained. Unfortunately, this offer did not
extend to the provision of any formal design documentation on BPS (indeed, no
evidence has been seen of the existence in ICL Pathway of such full documentation’),
and hence the process has been restricted to two “whiteboard” type sessions. To
mitigate this lack of documentation, the author has created an informal “BPS Design
Overview” document to provide a baseline for analysis, and attempts are being made
to validate its contents through the Pathway designer. At the time of writing this
report, a number of queries remain extant, although these are not believed to
significantly alter the risk profile.

2.3. From the discussions with ICL Pathway it has become apparent that their solution
has yet to reach stability and is still undergoing significant change. This is
supported through examination of the latest Service Architecture Design Document
(SADD 5.1), which appears to be at odds with the verbal descriptions from ICL
Pathway”,

24. A significant side effect to the lack of visibility of the solution afforded to the
Authorities is that they have a corresponding lack of control over the solution at the
design level. It is therefore possible that ICL Pathway can make further changes,
which may affect the risk to POCL, or indeed the split of risk between BA and
POCL, without our knowledge or agreement.

2.5. This study has been based upon the assumption that the delivered service is
implemented as per the ‘design’ as explained by ICL Pathway - it has not considered
weaknesses of the specific implementation. It is of course possible that further

‘ ‘features’ of the solution will emerge during the test phases and during live running,
and that these could affect the risk profile to POCL’.

3. BACKGROUND

3.1. Boundary Dispute

3.1.1. A long running dispute exists between POCL and BA regarding the definition of the
boundary between PAS (the Payment Authorisation Service) and BES (the Benefit
Encashment Service), two components of the overall Benefits Payments Service
(BPS) being provided by Pathway.

' Documentation may exist within Escher Group Ltd for their part of the system.

? SADD 5.1 Appendix B (Interfaces). The discrepancies have been flagged to Pathway’s designer for
confirmation and resolution .

3 Features which appear on the Known Problem Register (KPR) will of course be visible to POCL; POCL will
therefore need to consider items on the KPR in the light of the likely outcome of the boundary issue.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~3 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

3.1.2. The primary significance of this dispute relates to the liability for incorrect payments
- if the error for an incorrect payment is deemed to have occurred in PAS (a BA
service), then it would be for BA to recover any loss from ICL Pathway, whereas if it
is deemed to have occurred in BES (a POCL service), it would be for POCL to make
that recovery.

3.1.3. In addition to the issue of liability, other concerns have been raised regarding the
legality of POCL’s operation should they be responsible for the functionality up to
the new boundary. These are considered later within this paper.

3.2. Requirements Viewpoint

3.2.1. At the time of the drafting of the original requirements set for BA/POCL, the model
shared by BA and POCL was that of a Payment Authorisation Service (linked to BA
(CAPS)), to which the Benefit Encashment Service at the counter would seek
authorisation to make a payment. This model was based on a centralised view of the
service, where authorisation would be sought from a central PAS service at the time
of the transaction. In this environment, the boundary was clear cut, and the
opportunity for dispute was small.

3.3. The Distributed Solution

3.3.1. Pathway’s solution for the Benefits Payments Service is based on a unique
distributed design, which, in place of real time authorisation from a central PAS,
pushes payments out to offices in advance of demand, building on the strong link
between a payee and their nominated office. As a result, in the majority of cases,
BES needs to only seek authorisation from the locally held data, rather than having to
refer to the central site at the time of the transaction. The debate effectively revolves
around whether this locally held data forms part of BES (POCL service) or PAS (BA
service).

3.3.2. This distributed solution has considerable advantages in terms of availability (the
transaction is not impeded by loss of communications), performance (not requiring
delay in remote authorisation) and cost (not requiring immediate communications),
but at the expense of some loss of integrity due to potential delay in synchronisation
between the distributed elements of the system.

3.4. Historical Perspective

3.4.1. It is worth noting that ICL Pathway, in their original proposal’, contended that their
PAS service comprised of three components:

* For example, see Pathway’s Response to the OJEC notice, s4.4 “Benefit Payment Service”, page 20 fig 3, dated
28/09/95, and/or Pathway’s risk assessment dated 6.9.95.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 4 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

. a Payment Management System (PMS)*
¢ Transaction Management Service - TMS
. the Counter Interface

and that therefore there was no physical “PAS” system as such. Unfortunately the
term “PMS” gradually fell into disuse and was finally lost during a blanket change to
the contract at “dropdown” in late 1996.

4. TWO VIEWS OF THE BOUNDARY

The crux of the dispute relates to the location of the boundary between BES and
PAS, and specifically at what point “authorisation” is given. In very simple terms,
“who owns the functionality and data which authorises the transaction at the
counter”?

4.1. POCL View - Requirements Orientated

4.1.1. The POCL view is that PAS - as the Payment Authorisation Service - is responsible
for authorising transactions, and that therefore BES is seeking authority from PAS at
the time of each benefit transaction at the counter - and therefore that the payment
authorisations held in Riposte are part of PAS and therefore are the responsibility of
BA and not POCL.

4.1.2. Note that this point of view could appear to be supported by BA’s stance that POCL
(as an organisation) do not have the right to view these unencashed payment
authorisations.

4.1.3. This POCL model therefore has an element of PAS implemented within TMS and
OPS (on the POCL Infrastructure), i.e. with PAS extending down to the counter
(although not necessarily visible to the clerk). This actually mirrors the situation
with CMS, where some (uncontested) CMS functionality is provided at the counter,
in the form of PCDF (Payment Card Distribution Facility).

4.1.4. Although the boundary at the counter could presumably be identified through
detailed examination of the software (if we had access), it is not one which is easily
auditable by outside parties, as it sits deep within the (so-called) BES counter
application. Due to the design of the solution such a boundary would still be subject
to considerable interpretation.

5 PMS effectively represented the present Oracle domain on the central Sequent hosts - that is, what BA and ICL,
Pathway would now term “PAS”.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1 .doc Page ~5 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

4.2, BA/Pathway View - Solution Orientated

4.2.1. The current BA view is that the boundary should be drawn at the physical interface
from the so-called PAS “Sequent” central host and the Riposte Agents on the TMS
layer. Responsibility for payment authorisations would therefore shift from BA to
POCL at the time they are passed into TMS and would remain POCL’s responsibility
within the POCL Infrastructure. This would include the processing of foreign
payments, the functionality for which is wholly within the Riposte domain (TMS and
its agents).

4.2.2. This is the location of the boundary as now proposed by ICL Pathway’, and
embodied in the Service Architecture Design Document (SADD), including within
the Interfaces appendix.

£ To be precise, Pathway put the interface just inside the Sequent/Oracle domain, so that the loaders/harvesters
would sit within the POCL domain; however, the key point is that the Oracle database would remain in the BA.
domain.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~] .doc Page ~ 6 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579

POL00028579
RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL
43, Diagrammatic representation of boundary views
Centralised "banking model" envisaged by Requirements
iA
PAS Nw
“ > BES at counter ——r Sp)
cms or
TMS OPS
Distributed Model as implemented - showing where requirements implemented (POCL viewpoint)
i ‘CMS extends to counter (as PCDF)
PAS ie Toque <>)
chs PAS extends to counter (through agents on TMS) cl  Southortantions BES ———— Tail
TMS L OPS
Distributed model as implemented - Pathway definition (BA viewpoint)
CMS extends to counter (as PCDF)
PAS eroquont >)
cus BES functionality on TMS and OPS snunnortoation ES 5
T™S I OPS
c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~7 of 28

25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

5. HELPDESK AUTHORISED TRANSACTIONS

5.1. Historical position

5.1.1. In cases of loss of either the ISDN line or counter equipment in the office (and
potentially other failure scenarios), the clerk can make use of a telephone
authorisation service to be able to continue making benefit payments.

5.1.2. The authorisation service is provided by what Pathway call the “PAS Helpdesk” or
“Payment Card Help Line” (PCHL), using the (PAS) Oracle application running on
the Sequent platform. Traditionally this has been seen as part of the PAS service,
and that the authorisation call therefore crosses a BA-POCL boundary’.

5.1.3. This in itself generates an additional complication, as it means that (if we take the
BA definition of the BES/PAS boundary), a payment can be authorised from BES or
PAS, i.e. from either a POCL service or a BA service. This raises the spectre of a
duplicate arising from simultaneous authorisation from both sides of the boundary* -
that is, one clerk being given authority to pay from the counter terminal, and another
by the PAS Helpdesk.

5.1.4. The liability in this case does not appear to be clearly defined, even with the BA
BES/PAS boundary, however it could be reasonable to assume that as two
authorisations have been given by the PAS element of the service (one in advance via
BES, the other in real time by the helpdesk) that this is a BA/Pathway liability.

[DN: Happy to be proven wrong it the liability is defined....]

5.2. Disputed position

5.2.1. However, the exact status of this telephone authorisation service now also appears to
be subject to some dispute. It appears that it is BA’s contention that this is now a
wholly POCL service, although hosted on what has traditionally been known as
PAS’. This view is now reflected, apparently at BA’s behest, in the latest draft of
the Service Architecture Design Document (SADD), although it is believed that
objections have been raised by POCL.

7 At the time (Dec97/Jan98) of debate with Pathway over the security of the office-helpdesk exchange, Pathway
and BA appeared to concur with this view that the exchange cross the boundary.

* Note that the window for such duplicates is relatively small - of the order of a few minutes - if the system is
operating as intended (see later) - as the Oracle database is updated when possible from the Riposte database.

° SADD 5.1 (draft) reviewed September 1998 now shows the helpdesk as sitting within the POCL Service
Infrastructure rather than DSS Service Infrastructure. However, in technical terms the Helpdesk operators are
accessing the PAS database, and are therefore seeking authorisation, in real time, from PAS (and not from the
TMS copy of the data).

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc. Page ~8 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

5.2.2, This change is important as it further complicates the boundary - accepting BA’s
contention would mean that significant POCL functionality was running on the BA
side of the Oracle-Riposte or Sequent-TMS boundary.

5.2.3. This change, if allowed, would place the entire front end of the payment
authorisation service into the POCL domain, and therefore the risk for inappropriate
encashments via the Helpdesk would appear to fall fully to POCL and Pathway.

[DN: The SADD 5.1 does not make it clear exactly where the boundary would sit if
this further change was allowed - although the Helpdesk itself would be on the
POCL side, the key question is whether the data against which it is authorising is
down to POCL or Pathway, and whether BA are responsible for the merging of the
two streams (the Riposte and HD encashments). Taken to its logical conclusion, a
large slice of the Oracle functionality would have to move to POCL.....J

6. FINANCIAL RISKS

6.1. Where risk lies

6.1.1. The risk for the majority of technical failure conditions’ identified below are
believed to fall to ICL Pathway, who as PFI service provider have the responsibility
for the security and integrity of the IT infrastructure on which the service is
provided".

6.1.2, However, these risks are generally realised through the payment of monies,
authorised by the Pathway service, across the counter - in other words a payment has
been made by POCL for which BA do not wish to settle. Therefore, although the
tisk is theoretically held by ICL Pathway, it is POCL who will initially be out of
pocket.

[DN: Does a shift in boundary have any affect on the liability (between BA and
POCL) for non-duplicate fraudulent transactions - eg card counterfeiting,
repudiations, etc, etc? I do not have visibility of the BA-POCL contract but I
presume someone has checked for knock-ons.]

6.2. Recovery

6.2.1. From a financial perspective therefore, what is therefore primarily at dispute is that
of responsibility for recovery of losses from ICL Pathway - i.e. whether the losses
should be recovered by BA or by POCL.

"° Liability for non-technical failure - eg error in the fallback authorisation exchange - is less clear.

" Authorities Agreement, Clause 808 - Liability. This includes “copied, altered or forged cards, unauthorised
access to the Service Architecture, hacking” but subject to Schedule B08 Benefit Encashment Fraud.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~l .doc Page ~ 9 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

DN: Is this overly simplistic?

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

6.2.2. In financial terms, this can be viewed as a cash flow issue, in that the party
responsible for recovery may have to stand the loss until such time as it can be
recovered, Settlement is believed to be due on a quarterly (13-week) basis from ICL
Pathway, and therefore (in undisputed cases) the recovering party may have to fund
sums due for an average of 13/2= 6.5 weeks.

[DN: Believe POCL could recover costs of finding from Pathway - lost interest etc]

[DN: Does this shift affect the ability to recover incorrect payments from
customers? In other words, if BA cease to have any responsibility for payment
authorisations once they have crossed to TMS, will POCL and/or Pathway have any
means of extracting duplicate payments from a BA beneficiary. What is the effect on
investigations and prosecution - if the fraud is now occurring within the POCL
service?]

6.3. Cap on Liability

6.3.1. There is, however, an upper limit of liability on Pathway of £200M, pooled between
POCL and BA, in the agreed proportion of £80M POCL to. £120M BA. It is
presumed, however, that this split between the two Authorities was agreed against a
particular understanding of the BES/PAS boundary, and that this split may be viewed
as inappropriate (at least by by POCL) should they take on larger element of the risk
on BPS.

6.3.2. In the case of this pool becoming exhausted during the term of the contract, further
sums would become unrecoverable and full liability for risk would fall to BA or
POCL depending on the boundary location. At this stage the location of the
boundary would therefore become of primary importance.

6.3.3. Should the liability then fall to BA, they have the option (at least in theory) to
attempt to recover overpayments from beneficiaries directly. _POCL, however,
having no direct relationship with the beneficiary, does not have this option without
the active support of BA.

[DN: Does POCL-BA contract cover recovery of overpayments?]

6.4. Indirect Costs

6.4.1. In addition to the direct costs - whether related to delayed recovery of mis-payment
or, post-cap expiry, funding of mis-payments, of potentially greater significance are
the indirect costs of having to manage mis-payments. If the boundary shifts to
POCL’s disadvantage, it is assumed that these costs will be significantly increased.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1 .doc Page ~ 10 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

6.4.2. Given that the average payment authorisation of the order of £65, it is quite possible
that the costs of handling the investigation of a mis-payment could outweigh the
actual value of the original payment.

1. NON-FINANCIAL RISKS

TAL Although this paper, by design, is focused on the direct financial effects of mis-
payment within the Benefit Payment Service, a shift in boundary may open up other,
softer, non-financial risks to POCL, including: -

(a) _ lack of public confidence in POCL’s services
(b) poor customer perception
(¢) poor staff perception
(d)  poorclient perception, etc etc

7.2. In reality, the ownership of non-financial risks around customer perception and
satisfaction may be irrelevant, as it will be “the service” which is getting the
publicity, and that POCL, as the front end to this service, will suffer any

consequences wherever the actual liability sites.

(DN: Are POCL at any risk of legal action from a customer if that customer is
denied monies as a result of mis-operation of the BPS - especially if POCL now have
responsibility for a significant part of PAS?]

8. RELATED ISSUES

8.1. Legality of the Boundary

8.1.1. It has been suggested that POCL would be acting outside their legal powers if they
adopted the boundary now being suggested by BA and Pathway. In particular, it
may be possible that POCL could be construed as operating as a bank, outwith the
defined Post Office Powers, if it accepted the revised boundary position.

(DN: Need a view from expert on Post Office Powers (eg Legal Services)? If it were
true that this is outwith Powers, this could be a deciding factor]

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 11 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

8.2. Separability of BA and POCL services

8.2.1. Requirement 736” specifies that the BA and POCL services should be capable of
separation. In the context of this issue, these means that the BA part of BPS and the
POCL part of BPS should be separable - in other words that PAS and BES should be
separable.

8.2.2. From Pathway’s viewpoint, they have specified the boundary at the simplest point
for separation - at a physical interface between two computer systems. Although
this interface is complex, it is on the face of it considerably more “separable” than
that if we consider PAS to extend to the counter. For example, it would be hard to
imagine being able to re-tender for PAS but not for BES in the case where PAS and
BES are both running over TMS and OPS and are both represented within the
Counter Application”.

8.2.3. If, however, the fallback helpdesk is deemed to be part of BES and not PAS, and the
boundary moves further back into the Oracle domain (including the main database
tables), this physical separability would be destroyed. This may be a key point in
influencing ICL Pathway over this additional shift in boundary.

8.3. Contractual Acceptance

8.3.1. The dispute over the location of the boundary is currently restricting progress on the
agreement of the PAS and BES Acceptance Specifications. Currently, the BES
Acceptance Specification contains a large number of “PAS” requirements, that is
requirements which state that “PAS shall...”, as the coritracted functionality is
actually performed in (what they call) BES - and indeed, within that document,
Pathway have stated in the Acceptance Specifications that “Comments relating to the
inclusion of PAS functionality within BES are not addressed, because these would

entail changes to the contracted Pathway Solution”.

8.3.2. The POCL position is that these criteria, as they relate to PAS requirements, should
-be located in the PAS specification; BA are believed to be content for the criteria
stay in the BES ATS, however, they would also like corresponding criteria in the
PAS ATS to test that the Services are separable. ICL Pathway have stated that it is
not possible to do this, as the criteria only have-to be tested (accepted) once.

® Requirement 736 - Benefit Payment Service - CMS: Logical Separation between CMS, PAS, and POCL
Infrastructure

“The CONTRACTOR shall ensure that a logical separation is maintained between CMS, PAS and POCL
Infrastructure Services and shall have in place a detailed interface specification agreed between the
CONTRACTOR and DSS to support this.”

" In reality, however, the BA supported boundary, if placed at some point within the Sequent platform, may
have dubious separability. .

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 12 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

@

8.4. Control, Audit and Reconciliation

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

8.4.1. Wherever the boundary is located, if POCL have responsibility for data within the
solution then they will require the correct tools and means to be able to discharge that
responsibility. If POCL now become responsible for Payment Authorisations within
the Riposte domain, then it is likely that they will require a number of controls,
including:

(a) to ability to audit and reconcile across the interface between the BA domain
and the (new) POCL domain. This may require additional functionality in
both domains, plus the agreement of BA to participate in such reconciliation
(and agreement of BA to POCL having access to this data).

(b) the ability to be able to determine the total value of outstanding Payment
Authorisations within the (new) POCL domain."

(c) _ the ability to control and assure the design of the authorisation elements of
BES.

(DN: If the boundary is accepted as per BA, then the relevant bodies in POCL will
need to work up their control requirements for this new responsibility.]

9. SOLUTION BACKGROUND

Although it is not intended to involve the reader in the full details of the Pathway
solution, there are a small number of key concepts of which some knowledge may
aid the understanding of the discussion of the modes by which mis-payments can be
made,

9.1. Oracle vs Riposte Domains

9.1.1. Physically, the ICL Pathway solution is implemented in two fairly discrete domains:

™ According to the latest draft of ICL Pathway’s Solution and Service Reconciliation document (CR/REP/011
dated 23/10/98 version 0.3), some additional functionality is being developed by Pathway for “PAS Additional
Monitoring” to perform such a check between domains, although the full version of this will not be available at
NR2 and its suitability to provide the control POCL would require has not been assessed.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 13 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

(a) Oracle: central “hosts” with applications written in Oracle and running on
Sequent hardware. This includes the central PAS/CMS functionality and the
fallback helpdesks. The Oracle domain consists of a single physical database
on a managed central site'’ and given proper implementation, leaves little scope
for lack of integrity.

(b) Riposte: a distributed system covering both the central TMS layer and the
office layer, implemented on Escher’s Riposte message replication architecture
running on NT boxes. This database is spread between central NT
Correspondence Servers and the terminals in the office, with synchronisation
between the various instances on a “eventual, best endeavours” basis, however
due to the distributed nature of the solution over a fallible wide area network,
some inconsistencies can occur at any particular point in time.

9.1.2. Although there is natural tendency to equate Oracle with PAS/CMS and Riposte with
BES, the crux of boundary issue is that (in POCL’s view) PAS extends into the
Riposte domain.

9.2. Payment Authorisations vs Encashments

9.2.1. Authorised Payments from CAPS are translated, by the Oracle functionality, into
Payment Authorisations which are passed to the Riposte domain. The counter
application (whether viewed as PAS or BES) authorises against these Payment
Authorisations messages,

9.2.2. When an payment is made and committed, an Encashment message is written to
Riposte. It is the presence of this Encashment message which prevents further
encashment and effectively renders the Payment Authorisation marked as “paid”"*,
More pertinently, the absence of the Encashment message for any reason allows the
Payment Authorisation to be reused".

9.2.3. This concept is crucial as it encompasses much of the reason for the importance of
the boundary dispute. A single message, written at Encashment, prevents further
use of a Payment Authorisation. The dispute could, maybe slightly simplistically,
be distilled to a consideration of ownership for the Encashment message, which in
effect has dual uses - one to record payment, and one to prevent further payment.

'S Note that only one central site is “live” at any one time as far as providing Oracle host functionality; the
second site is on warm standby and can take over live running after a short delay if required, but that then
becomes the single “live” site.

'6 Additional functionality writes additional messages to mark other instances of the Payment Authorisation as
being unavailable for collection, but the principle is the same.

"7 Subject, of course, to stop notices, expiry dates and other business rules

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 14 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

9.3. Protection of Payment Authorisations

9.3.1. Payment Authorisations within the Riposte domain of the ICL Pathway solution are
“digitally signed” using strong cryptographic means, in a manner which means that
undetected modification of a Payment Authorisation record is extremely unlikely'®.
For the purpose of this paper we can assume that the details of a Payment
Authorisation record, including the amount and card details, cannot be modified once
properly signed at the centre.

9.3.2. This protection, however, does not in itself protect against the ‘re-use’ of a signed
Payment Authorisation, and in particular against the repayment through separation
from the cancelling Encashment record.

9.4, Distributed Solution

9.4.1. The ICL Pathway solution is based on the Riposte message replication architecture.
A key benefit of the architecture is that is designed for “real world” scenarios where
a permanently available wide area network is neither achievable or affordable. The
distributed solution is a trade-off of integrity for availability, based on the importance
of the ability to pay benefit without the immediate reliance on communications links
to acentral site.

9.4.2, The system is therefore designed to be able to withstand the loss of communications
to the centre; in other words to withstand a (temporary) delay in the transmission or
replication of data between the outlet and centre. I Although giving considerable
benefits in availability (and performance and cost), this opens up the risk that a
payment could be made against “out of date” data, or that multiple payments can be
made against separate copies of the same data item.

9.4.3. This may be best illustrated in the context of a “failed stop” - if the ISDN line to an
office is down, a payment could be made in an office although that payment has
already been ‘stopped’ by BA centrally, due a delay in the stop message getting to
the office. The stop message will eventually reach the office, but after the payment
has been made.

9.4.4. In the centralised model, all authorisations would have to be sought from the centre
(and therefore the failed stop would not exist as such), however no payments could
be made if the communications were unavailable.

9.4.5. In summary, the distributed model, in order to give high availability, gives rise to the
tisk of some types of mis-payments, through a combination of:

'* This protection, of course, relies on the correct operation of the software in checking the signature, and the
correct storage and handling of the public and private keys.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~l.doc Page ~ 15 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

. delay in replication - that is, data has been successfully introduced into the
Riposte message store (RMS), but due to natural latency or failure of the
infrastructure does not achieve replication in time to prevent a business failure

«use of local copy of data - that is, using a local copy of data, which may be “out
of date” is used in preference to checking with some remote copy of the data.

9.5. Multiple Payees

9.5.1. An additional complication is the handling of multiple payee scenarios within the
Pathway solution. Where two or more customers are permitted to pick up an
Authorised Payment, functionality within the Oracle applications explodes the
payment into a number of separate Payment Authorisations, linked by Payment ID,
and passes each one of these across the BA-positioned boundary. Functionality in
the Riposte domain is designed to prevent more than one of these Payment
Authorisations from being paid, although in certain scenarios this can fail.

9.5.2. It has been suggested that if the Riposte domain authorises payment against more
than one copy (i.e. if the linkage mechanism fails), this would be a BA liability, as
BA have passed the multiple versions over the boundary to POCL.

9.5.3. In reality, examination of the solution shows that the functionality which is
responsible for marking off the multiple versions is similar to that employed in
handling foreigns. Although the author does not have sight of any discussions
between BA and POCL over the liability on this point, it does appear inconsistent for
liability to be assigned in a different way for this case.

[DN: Has this been explicitly agreed? If we conceded this boundary issue, I would
feel uncomfortable about assuming we were not conceding the multiple payee case]

10. CAUSES OF MIS-PAYMENT

Due to the nature of Pathway’s solution, we can categorise failure into two broad
types - those that occur due to the distributed solution, and those which would occur
in any generic solution. Although the two categories are fairly clear cut, it is of
course possible for a failure in one to open up a risk in the other. For the purposes of
this analysis, the failure are classified into four classes, Classes A, B, C and D.

10.1. Specific to Pathway solution

10.1.1. This category describes those conditions which are a feature of the ICL Pathway
implementation of the Benefits Payments Service specifically on a distributed
architecture, with a design aimed at high availability.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 16 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

10.1.2. Analysis has shown that we can subcategorise these conditions as follows:

(a) Class A - perfect world - where the system is operating at 100% availability,
but where mis-payment is allowed by the design in certain conditions.

(b) Class B _- real world - where the software and central systems are operating as
they should, but where certain of the distributed elements of the infrastructure
are unavailable (eg ISDN lines, office equipment)”.

(c) Class C - system failure - where certain elements of the central systems are
failing to operate at full performance, although individual software components
are still operating to some degree of specification.

10.2. General solution failure

10.2.1. This category is intended to cover those cases where the system does not operate as
per design, and does not specifically relate to the distributed design - examples could
be:

« where some software fault exists which just pays out the wrong amount of
money

. where a telephone authorisation results in the wrong amount being paid

. where an attacker manages to circumvent security controls and modify data
within the system

. where an Authorisation/Encashment is not properly on the system due to user
or system failure during the encashment.

These general failures are considered to be Class D.

il. MISPAYMENT SCENARIOS

11.1. This section attempts to define the mis-payment scenarios which are exposed by the
boundary shift - in other words, scenarios which are considered to exist and be
POCL’s liability in the both boundary positions (and where the level of risk is now
changed between positions) are not shown. Where it is not clear whether this is new
tisk, the list errs on the side of caution and includes the item but with a shaded
background.

1° The exposure from such failures is highly dependent on the time to detection in addition to the time to fix.
The time to detection of an ISDN failure will be dependent on the ability of ICL Pathway to pro-actively manage
the ‘network’ and to educate of users to report faults in a timely fashion.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 17 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft ,

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL,

11.2, The assignment of liability is based on the author’s understanding of the contract and
has not been validated by ICL Pathway, POCL or BA. Given the nature of this
dispute, it is likely that different interpretations could be put by the different parties.

11.3. In attempting to assign frequency, a simple random distribution of failure has been
assumed - in particular, no attempt has been made to model any opportunistic change
in customer behaviour to target, for instance, offices with certain types of failure;
likewise, no attempt has been made to model the effect of detection and recovery as
means of deterrence of such behaviour. Likewise, intentional denial of service
attacks (which increase the probability of Class B or Class C failure) have not been
modelled.

11.4. The list of scenarios is arranged by Class, as defined in the previous section.
11.5. The following volumetrics and assumptions have been used within the table:

e Payments per day - 6M payments, £400M

© Secondary payees - £7.3M per day out of £400M daily” (1.8%)

¢ ISDN availability - ~99.75%, assumed occurs as one failure of 5 working hours
per year, plus 0.5% of calls unsuccessful due to congestion etc.

¢ Helpdesk transactions - assume 2000 per day

¢ Riposte replication - assume average 7.5 minutes for synchronisation to occur
(random distribution 0-15, ignoring effect of priority messages and centre-outlet
calls).

© Oracle-Riposte synchronisation - assume average 5 minutes for synchronisation
to occur (encashment harvesting, loading of HD authorisations)”

e LAN failure - consider 1 hour per year per terminal

¢ Working days - 305 per year”

11.6. Note that risk of actually making an incorrect payment - especially due to delayed
replications (Classes A-C) - is highly dependent on customer behaviour. Although a
payment may be theoretically available for collection, the risk is only realised if a
customer does try to collect a payment, at a point when in theory none is supposed to
be due.

Note from Colin Oudot to Ruth Holleran, Aug98
2" SADD 5.1 B2.4 refers to 5 minute poll interval.
2 Workload Brief, table 1.1

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 18 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579

POL00028579
RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL
Class I Condition How occurs Frequency Impact
A Lack of synchronisation The Oracle and Riposte domains provide authorisations autonomously I Risk of accidental double payment low- in normal I Duplicate
between Oracle and (Oracle for helpdesk, Riposte for automated use at the counter). operation customer or proxy would have to attempt I payment.
Riposte domains Updates from Oracle to Riposte, TMS and Riposte TMS to Oracle are I second payment within 15 minutes.
processed by an agent running at 5 minute intervals. Update between ‘ .
Riposte Office and Riposte TMS on average 7.5 minutes. Pathway estimate 2000 HD transactions per day.
Duplicates are possible as: setae to deliberately choose to
© ahelpdesk authorised transaction can take say 15 minutes to Risk - low
teach the nominated office and prevent duplicate payment
¢ —anominated office transaction can take say 15 minutes before it
teaches the Oracle tables to prevent payment
Note that the liability for this form of duplicate is unclear, as the two
authorisations are on different sides of the boundary!
IFPAS HD became POCLs, then this risk would appear to fall wholly to
POCL.
A Synchronised encashment I Two customers attempt to collect the same payment atthe same time —_I Very low- requires precision timing due to the Duplicate
in same office at different counters in the same office - if extremely well synchronised I additional checks now added by Pathway. payment.
it may be possible for both to be authorised and paid.
B Lack of synchronisation The lack of synchronisation between the nominated office Riposte Assume ISDN 99.75 availability, so 0.25% of time I Duplicate
between Oracle and domain and the Oracle domain can increase from 15 minutes to the ISDN unavailable. Model as one failure for 5 payment.
Riposte domains (Office length of an ISDN outage. working hours per year per office.
link down)
c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 19 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579

POL00028579
RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

Class I Condition How occurs Frequency Impact

B Duplicate between foreign I Loss of ISDN link between nominated office and centre results in ISDN availability 99.75%. Assume 8% foreigns on I Duplicate
and nominated office foreigns being authorised against Correspondence Server without 6M transactions, therefore 2400 per day performed I payment.

teference to nominated office. without check.
(ISDN down)

B Duplicate between foreign I Failure of ISDN call to nominated office from centre results in foreigns
and nominated office being authorised against Correspondence Server without reference to
(Congestion) nominated office.

B Duplicate between Loss of ISDN link between primary payees nominated office and centre I ISDN availability 99.75%. Assume 2% secondary I Duplicate
secondary payee and tesults in secondary payee being authorised against Correspondence —_I payee on 6M transactions, therefore 300 perday I payment
primary payee Server without reference to primary payees nominated office. performed without check,

(ISDN down) [May be considered to be BA risk as two Payment Authonisations sent
over the ‘boundary]

B Duplicate between Failure of ISDN call to primary payees nominated office from centre
secondary payee and results in secondary payee being authorised against Correspondence
primary payee Server without reference to primary payees nominated office,

(Congestion) [May be considered to be BA risk as to Payment Authorisations sent
over the ‘boundary’]

B Failed stop (next day) Loss of ISDN link between nominated office and centre results in Assume 5000 next day stops per day. Payment of

payment being made despite stopped . stopped
Assume 0.25% unsuccessful due to ISDN failure authorisation
=> 12.5 per day, Low

B Failed stop (urgent) Loss of ISDN link between nominated office and centre results in Assume 5000 urgent stops per day Payment of

payment being made despite stopped 9 - stopped
Assume 0.25% unsuccessful due to ISDN failure authorisation
=> 12.5 perday. Low

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 20 of 28

25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

)

POL00028579

POL00028579
RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

Class I Condition How occurs Frequency Impact

B Recall and reissue Loss of ISDN link between nominated office and centre results in recall I Assume 8000 recalls and reissues per day Duplicate
failing to be applied before the payment is made; the reissued version I _. payment
is then also available for payment. > 20 perday. Low

(Has occurred in Ric due to network failure)

B Delayed Encashment Loss of ISDN link in middle of a foreign or secondary payee transaction I V Low

Notifications can cause the EncashmentNotification to be delayed and for any Hold
to expire before it arrives. The encashment can therefore be repeated
in this window.

For secondary multiple payees, could stil be BA responsibility?

B LAN failure Loss of replication between terminals could result in duplicate payment. I Pathway's claim LAN failure v low. Duplicate
[Note some evidence that Pathway may prevent this, however not payment.
known whether this means that that terminal would be considered ‘out"
for SLA etc purposes]

B Change of Nominated PO I If the nominated PO link is down, it will not receive messages cancelling I 3000 ChNPO per day from CAPS. Duplicate
when nominated office link I that the nominated office for the specific customer. However, a new payment.
down, office will be enabled as that customers nominated office, and both will

therefore make payments against local data until the former nominated
offices re-synchronises with the centre.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc

25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

Page ~ 21 of 28

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

POL00028579
POL00028579

Class

Condition

How occurs

Frequency

Impact

Disk failure

An encashment, although properly committed to the local disk in an
office, could be “lost” due to equipment failure prior to replication to the
centre, and therefore a payment could be repeated.

(Risk low as dual disks in single position office, multiple terminals
otherwise. Operational procedures require that “lost” transactions be
recovered from receipts)

[This is viewed as a new risk as if the failure occurs itis the “PAS”
functionality re-authorising the payment. It therefore seems as if the
recovery process is serving BA by recovering the authorisation as wells
POCL by recovering the encashment)

VLow

Duplicate
payment

Slow running
TMSAuthorisation agent

There are certain central agents which, if not running in a timely
fashion, would fail to distribute EncashmentNotifications to cancel other
copies of a paid Payment Authorisation.

Liability is messy here, as this affects both foreigns and multiple payee
scenarios.

Depends on Pathway's system management
capability.

Duplicate
payments

Slow running
Harvester/Loader agents

There are harvesting/oading agents, which if not running in a timely
fashion, would fail to maintain synchronisation between Oracle and
Riposte domains, and therefore increase the window for duplicate
authorisations,

Liability also messy, as it affects the Riposte-Oracle boundary. BA
would choose, probably correctly on their logic, to put the Agents into
the POCL domain as elements of TMS.

Depends on Pathway's system management
capability.

Duplicate
payments

Failure of inter-site
replication

If the Riposte replication between Bootle and Wigan fails, it would be
possible for authorisation for foreigns and secondary multiple payees to
be

Should be low (redundant links etc) but depends
on Pathway's system management capability.

Duplicate
payments
(many)

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc

25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

Page ~ 22 of 28

POL00028579

POL00028579
RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

Class I Condition How occurs Frequency Impact

Cc Arrival of multiple payee If different copies of a PaymentAuthorisation for multiple payees arrive I Low- enough lag in system Duplicate
authorisations on different I on different days and one is encashed before the remainder have payments
day arrived at the centre, later copies may not be marked off.

Cc Duplicate between foreign I Failure of the Redirector agent in the office could cause a similar effect I Depends on Pathway's system management Duplicate
and nominated office due to I to ISDN failure, where requests for verification of payment status may —_I capability payment
failure of gateway agent not be available.

Cc Duplicate between Failure of the Redirector agent in the office could cause a similar effect I Depends on Pathway's system management Duplicate
secondary and primary to ISDN failure, where requests for verification of payment status may —_I capability payment
office due to failure of not be available.
gateway agent

D Lost transactions / The Pathway solution fails to correctly record that an encashment has I Depends on whether R1C design weaknesses Duplicate
Incomplete Transactions taken place, and therefore leaves the authorisation “live” for further use, I corrected. payments,

This can occur if the transaction is not properly completed at the Ric experi 9
. " ‘perience ranges from 0.6% at peak to
counter, or when various forms of failure occur. 0.03% affer software fixes applied. Ifpersists at
0.03% this could result in

D Misheard helpdesk call Incorrect amount could paid through miscommunication between 2000 helpdesk transactions per day Payment of
helpdesk and clerk (eg mishearing £14 for £40). BA settle on the incorrect
authorisation (apparently) given by the HD. amount,
[Appears that this is already considered to be a POCL lability and is inability to
therefore not ‘new" - certainly would appear to become fully POCL tame a
responsibility of PAS Helpdesk shifts to POCL] of amount,

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 23 of 28

25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579

POL00028579
RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

Class I Condition How occurs Frequency : Impact

D Spoofed helpdesk call Clerk could be tricked into making a payment against false authority, or I Deliberate action Payment of
could make a payment without getting authority from PCHL. unauthorised
(Appears that this is already considered to be a POCL liability and is footer ral
therefore not ‘new” - cerlainly would appear to become fully POCL {po ntially
responsibility of PAS Helpdesk shifts o POCL] arge).

D Date change If the terminal date is reset to some past time, it would be possible for Low. Specific controls in Riposte theoretically Duplicate or
expired Payment Authorisations to be rejuvenated and repaid. prevent excessive clock changes. expired

payment
(many)
D Rogue software An insider manipulates the service to allow additional payment. Cannot quantify - may relate to a Pathway failure I Potentially
to implement adequate security controls or quality I large.
controls .

D Hacking of TMS/OPS An outsider manipulates the service to allow additional payments, Cannot quantify - may relate to a Pathway failure I Potentially

platforms to implement adequate security controls, large.

D Unpredictable failure The system could fail to operate as per design (eg through a software I Cannot quantify Potentially
error, and make incorrect or unauthorised payments in an unpredictable large.
manner.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc. Page ~ 24 of 28

25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

a

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

12. QUANTIFICATION OF RISK

In this section we will try and assign some quantification to the risk. By nature of
the lack of available information, this should be seen as providing “high level” steers
rather than massive detail.

12.1. Own Analysis

12.1.1. Our own analysis, based on the identified and quantifiable mis-payment conditions
outlined in the last section, suggests that under normal running (ignore any deliberate
attack) the risks of mis-payments are low, although they will occur.

12.1.2. However, this statement has to be considered alongside the dangers of either
deliberate interference with the service or of some other failure of the service pushing
it outside the parameters of normal running.

12.2. Payment Authorisation Liability

12.2.1. An average of (say) £200M payments will pass through the service each day (£1B per
week) - either as payment authorisations being passed to the Riposte domain, or as
Encashments flowing back to the Oracle domain. Estimates of the unencashed
payment authorisation sitting within the Riposte domain at any point in time are of
the order of £500M™

[DN: Can the commercial people help here - this seems low - we must have a view
Srom funding angle as to the rate of pickup?]

12.2.2. An alternative approach is to consider the total value of Payment Authorisations -
encashed or otherwise - which will be sitting within the Riposte domain at any point
in time’, Given a 100-day retention period, this could be of the order of £40B.
This figure would, of course, a significantly larger if the archiving mechanism within
Riposte were to fail (and therefore potentially all Payment Authorisations that had
ever existed within Riposte had to be considered).

12.3. Service Levels

12.3.1. Pathway are committed to an SLA® of “no more than 0.1% of Transactions shall
result in errors”, “total value of errors outstanding shall not exceed £lm.” , and
“100% of all errors shall be cleared within 5 days”. I These would suggest a
possible acceptable (in contract terms) error rate of 3,000 per day.

2) Estimate from Tom Patterson briefing notes to sponsors on Accounting and Reconciliation, eg 3 June 1998.

* This is on the rationale that a Payment Authorisation is cryptographically protected against modification, but
that this protection does not prevent “re-use”.

25 DSS Agreement - Schedule D08 “PAS Service Levels” section 4 Accounting and Reconciliation.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 25 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

[DN: Presumably this SLA would still apply if much of the functionality ceases to be
BA and moves to POCL? Need a contractual view.]

12.3.2. Given an average payment amount of £65, and an assumption that these errors are
now fully within the POCL domain, as a result of the boundary shift, this would
suggest that without breaking the SLA, errors could related to some ~£200k per
working day, or say £1M per week. This level would, of course, quickly exhaust
the £80M liability cap.

12.4. Pathway Actuarial Valuation

12.4.1. It is understood that ICL Pathway have quoted” a figure of £6M per year as their
actuarial valuation of the risk; this figure is that which will therefore be included
within their financial accounts.

12.4.2. Given the £80M cap and a 7 year contract, this figure would fall within the cap,
however with limited headroom. It is not known whether the actuaries had full
visibility of Pathway’s design, development methodology, track record, etc at the
time of provision of these figures.

13. UNQUANTIFIED RISKS

13.1. It is important to note that the “quantifiable” risks outlined in previous sections could
be dwarfed by risks which on which a single figure cannot be assigned. These relate
not to identifiable one-off failure conditions, but to the effect of events such as some
catastrophic failure of the benefit payment service, such that unauthorised payments
are made to customers (eg all previous payments repeated”’), through either failure or
deliberate attack.

13.2. Such risks of course exist in all such systems, although it could be argued that a
complex distributed system offers more scope for such events and less ability to
control, than say a (lower availability) central solution.

13.3. Risks would normally be controlled through a combination of strong control over the
whole project lifecycle, from design through development, test and implementation,
and live running. Unfortunately, within the constraints of the contract and
relationship with ICL Pathway, we have not been able to provide assurance of these
controls. No rigorous application design assurance has possible (indeed, this study
has probably given us the best insight to date into the BES design), and the testing

26 Verbal report of statement by Tony Oppenheim to CAPS Project Board, circa March 1998. The full scope
referred to by this £6M is not known.

27 In reality, some quantification could be made - as earlier we have tried to estimate the total number of
unexpired Payment Authorisation records - but this becomes increasingly less scientific.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 26 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

strategy is focused towards white-box, positive testing rather than an adversarial,
black box approach.

13.4. Note also that the quantification above is based on random, unintentional, failures,
rather than specific, targeted, criminal activity. It would obviously be possible to
manipulate the service, either through opportunistic use of genuine failures, or by
deliberately inducing failures, to cause significantly higher numbers of mis-
payments. The level of such loss is gated by the ability of ICL Pathway and the
Authorities to detect and respond to such events and in the success or otherwise of
investigations and prosecutions.

14. CONCLUSION

14.1. Although this paper started out with the aim of trying to identify the financial risks
on POCL of accepting the revised boundary position, it is now clear that the issue is
significantly larger than one of a pure financial cost. In taking on responsibility for
much of PAS, POCL would be shouldering potentially the largest slice of risk within
the BPS and for a significantly complex design over which it has had little control.

14.2, Examination of the BES design shows that, if the system works according to that
design and is not subject to deliberate attack or misuse, the number of mis-payments
should be low. However, due to the complexity of the system and the manner in
which it has been constructed, the number of mis-payments could be dramatically
increased if the infrastructure was deliberately targeted or should some major system
failure occur.

14.3, The financial risk becomes significant once the liability “cap” approaches
exhaustion, However, at the point when which such exhaustion seems likely,
POCL may have little control over the service and little choice but to continue with
its operation.

[DN: What if we accept this boundary position, and the £80M liability, and after 2
years find that £60M has been eroded? At this stage we do not have ability to “turn it
off”, but we could not afford to continue. How do we gain control?]

14.4. Before POCL make any decision to accept this revised boundary position and the
financial risks associated therein, it is recommended that a number of other areas
need to be considered, including:

(a) check that POCL are legally permitted to act in this role
(b) consider how the risk/liability can be shown in the PO/POCL accounts

* In reality, one would want to retain headroom for at least one single catastrophic failure.

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 27 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

POL00028579
POL00028579

RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL

(c) ensure that the revised boundary is fully and explicitly defined in technical
teams (as this analysis has shown that this new boundary is not without
ambiguities) and that its effect on the remainder of the ICL Pathway contract is
understood.

@) consider what financial control mechanisms POCL require to be able to
manage this risk, including to be able to quantify the liability at any period in
time.

(©) consider what business controls can be implemented to allow timely detection
of some significant failure of the solution (eg by monitoring transactions
volumes or cash supply)

(consider what additional verification and validation of the Pathway solution is
needed to be able to control their risk (this could include requiring a full and
open design review of the solution, in a traditional design assurance manner).

(g) consider what additional control POCL require over the Pathway solution to
maintain this position (given that much of the risk is beneath the detail of the
contractual documentation, how do we ensure that they do not change the risk
profile to suit their commercial needs?)

(h) consider that rights POCL requires to be able to prevent losses if the service proves to
make a large number of mis-payments (noting that the SLA is unlikely to be an
adequate control). I What rights would be need to have to force major design
changes?

c:\windows\temp\bespas~1.doc Page ~ 28 of 28
25th November 1998 Issue 1.0 Draft

