POL00355475
POL00355475

Message

From: Andrew Carpenter [

on behalf of I Andrew Carpenter +

Sent: 04/09/2015 11:03:4:

To: Kevin Gilliland [7

[sa Angela Van-Den-Boger

BCC: Andrew Carpenter

Subject: RE: Crichton Avenue - 2793490 - YO30 6HB UPDATE2
Dear all,

I have now spoken to Wendy Martin and to be brief, she has agreed to our proposals. I will liaise with the
ATOS team and Debbie, and ensure that Wendy is kept informed of what is happening and when, she also
has my contact details and knows she can call me at any time if need be.

I realise we have some work to do to see how we ended up in this situation but hopefully we can now
move forward and get the branch up and running on Monday.

Thank you all for your assistance with this case.

Kind regards
Andy

® Andy Carpenter
Agents Contract Advisor

Post Office Ltd
Upper Floors, 6/16 New York Street,
Leeds, LS2 7DZ

From: Kevin Gilliland

Sent: 04 September 2015 11:08

To: Michael Larkin

Cc: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Lesley ] Sewell; Debbie Arthur; Jackie Meylak; Andrew Carpenter; Craig Tuthill
Subject: Re: Crichton Avenue - 2793490 - YO30 6HB UPDATE2

Can we make sure legal are comfortable with any proposed wording...

We also need to get back to the MP.

Thx

K

Kevin Gilliland
Network & Sales Director

POL00355475
POL00355475

On 4 Sep 2015, at 07:42, Michael Larkin <_

Thanks Angela,

You are taking a completely fair approach, we can justify the ‘exgratia’ payment based on the hassle she
has had to go through over the last few months.

Thanks again,

Michael.

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: 04 September 2015 07:38

To: Michael Larkin; Kevin Gilliland

Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Debbie Arthur; Jackie Meylak; Andrew Carpenter; Craig Tuthill
Subject: RE: Crichton Avenue - 2793490 - YO30 6HB UPDATE2

Michael,

That the postmaster has been experiencing unresolved issues with Horizon connectivity
since February is unacceptable (Ian Thomas’ background note is attached). We as a
business should have resolved these issues way before now and a drains up will be done
once we have resolved the immediate situation of getting the branch re-opened.

And whilst I appreciate the postmaster’s frustration the conditions she is trying to set are
not reasonable. She is already in breach of her contract as she is refusing to open the
branch and given she is on variable pay then there is an obvious consequence to this refusal
to trade and that is a loss of remuneration. What we need to do is stabilise the Horizon
connectivity so that she is able to operate Horizon without connectivity issues - to do this
we need to reduce the usage of the telephone line ie switch off the lottery and paystation
machines. This will then ensure sufficient capacity to operate the Horizon system and the
majority of PO services. It would be appropriate to cover the remuneration for these
products whilst they are switched off ie until the second line is installed.

Andy Carpenter is to have a conversation with the postmaster today to discuss how we can
move to re-opening as quickly as possible and if she agrees to switching off the lottery and
paystation equipment then this can happen on Monday next week. Her losses to date are c.
£700 so not a large amount and I have already instigated an investigation into when these
losses have occurred and why. Horizon does not cause losses; we know this but the recent
Panorama coverage may have put doubt in her mind. It is feasible that when the Horizon
system has lost connectivity if the recovery screen instructions have not been followed
correctly then a discrepancy could have occurred as a result.

In order to move forward in amicable way with the postmaster I would be comfortable with
agreeing to cover without prejudice the c.£700 losses she has incurred to date however I
am not comfortable in underpinning future losses or agreeing to pay her the remuneration
she has lost due to her refusal to trade if she continues to maintain her position of refusing
to open. If she agrees to move forward as per our proposal then given we have not resolved
her connectivity issues sooner then I would suggest that agreeing an exceptional payment
for loss of remuneration up to this point would be appropriate and the fair approach to take
given the circumstances.
POL00355475
POL00355475

Andy - would you please provide an update once you have spoken with the postmistress.

Thanks,
Angela

<image001.png> Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Support Services

1st Floor, Ty Brwydran,
Atlantic Close,Llansamlet
Swansea SA7 9FJ

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and
privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you
are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original
message.

From: Michael Larkin

Sent: 04 September 2015 06:51

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Kevin Gilliland

Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Debbie Arthur; Jackie Meylak

Subject: FW: Crichton Avenue - 2793490 - YO30 6HB UPDATE2
Hi Kevin,

The issues Crighton Branch have experienced are outlined by Debbie Arthur below and I have highlighted in yellow
what Wendy has been looking for and Debbie’s response.

Angela, can you advise on our response to get the branch open? Thanks Angela,
Best regards,

Michael.

POL00355475

POLO00355475
From: Debbie Arthur
Sent: 03 September 2015 08:43 poverty
To: Drew Mcbride; Andrew Carpenter; Michael Larkin; Thomas, Jani == GRO} Julian Davis

Cc: Mark D Lawrence; Mitesh Parbat; Hayley L Brown; Patricia Bursi; Stephen Hayes;
PostOfficeServiceDesk; Network Support Admin Team; Rebecca Barker; Branch Support Team; ESG; John
Cawthorn; Steve Beddoe; Kendra Dickinson; Andy Garner; Property Projects Central Admin Team
Subject: Crichton Avenue - 2793490 - YO30 6HB UPDATE2

Update 2 after my conversation with Wendy at 18:30 last night

I advised POL would not promise to cover any losses incurred as per her request which she didn’t take
too well.

However I also advised I would ensure an engineer was on site when she opened and Fujitsu were
monitoring the system but I would need her to serve to complete these checks. Wendy was repetitive in
her insistence, POL didn’t have faith in their system and that was why we were not prepared to cover
any losses. I advised this was not the case. So I suggested having an auditor on site at the same time as
the engineer, this seemed to appease her and she agreed to open if I could get and engineer and an
auditor to site.

I will be progressing today. I promised her I would contact her with the agreed date later today.

<image002.png> Debbie Arthur
Service Design
Mobile number

From: Debbie Arthur

Sent: 02 September 2015 18:41

To: Drew Mcbride; Andrew Carpenter; Michael Larkin; Thomas, Ian
Cc: Mark D Lawrence; Mitesh Parbat; Hayley L Brown; Patricia Bursi
PostOfficeServiceDesk; Network Support Admin Team; Rebecca Barker; Branch Support Team; ESG; John
Cawthorn; Steve Beddoe; Kendra Dickinson; Andy Garner; Property Projects Central Admin Team
Subject: Crichton Avenue - 2793490 - YO30 6HB UPDATE

Julian Davis

Please forward this update to whom I may have missed off the list. I have tried to cc in all the people
that have been involved in the numerous emails I have receive re this office.

Background

The branch in Feb converted under Network Transformation from a SPSO to a MAIN branch. The agent
at the site also changed at that time to a member of the Post Office Team.

I have looked at the project paperwork and requested POL Property team investigate all the BT template
requests for the site. I can confirm POL had one line at the site which the project paperwork requested a
move not a cease.

It is customary for POL to only install one voice line at our post office branches. Any additional POL lines
will be dedicated lines with calls barring on them or ISDN lines, this site didn’t have any. Before I spoke
with Wendy I concluded that the additional line must have been the outgoing agent’s which was
cancelled by him.

The 5 units using the current ADSL line were listed as
POL00355475

POL00355475

Horizon modem
Branch phone
Norland Alarm system
Paystation

¢ Camelot Lottery terminal
This is not a usual configuration for a branch. We have Horizon, phone, alarm and paystation operating
with no issue at other sites, however in the contract for the paystation it requires the agent to provide
their own telephone and electric. The lottery terminal would usually have its own means of
communicating.

POL property team have confirmed with Camelot their terminal is not using the POL ADSL line. It is using
its own satellite system. I have requested they double check there is not a telephone back up linked to
the POL ADSL line and I’m awaiting a response.

The POL Paystation was not changed during the refurb, the project paperwork states no action required

The Norland alarm system was changed to match the new configuration of the branch during the
refurb. It swapped from Redcare signalling to Webway last Sept with no issue. This means the alarm
uses an internal mobile sim to signal and only uses the POL ADSL line when it can’t connect to the
mobile network.

All the above means we have only got the Horizon Alarm and Paystation on the line. The line carrying
this much POL equipment works fine in other branches. The only machine that may be affecting the
amount of REN being used is the paystation but to truly test this we would need for the branch to open
with the paystation plugged in and if the ADSL drops out then remove the paystation and see what
happens then.

I have investigated what it would take to get a new line into the branch there are 2 options.
1. 15 working days (3 weeks) to get the line installed and then an additional 15 working days (3
weeks) to get the ADSL placed on it. We would then be able to put the Horizon on its own line.
We would need to send someone to site to ensure the faceplate was changed on the new line
box and move the Horizon connection to the new line.
2. Only placing a new line in for the paystation and alarm system would take half this time but we
would need to get a Norland engineer to site to rewire the alarm system into the new line.

I have spoken with Wendy today.
We discussed the above.
e The 2 lines
o. Asshe has been on site for a number of years she remembers post office installing a
second line due to issues with connectivity at the time. She couldn’t tell me how far
back this was but she has confirmed it was a separate line for the alarm system redcare.
In light of this new information I will contact Norland about the alarm system again.
e ADSL connection
o Wendy has been reporting a loss of ADSL connection since February. BT have been sent
to site a number of time before she showed a balance loss in March. After then the BT
attended site for the 3 time, this was a broadband engineer who noticed a fault with
the wiring at the exchange and fixed it. Wendy tells me the with each BT visit they
stated the PSTN had too many devises attached. After the 3 visit for the next 2 months
the branch balance was £8 up and £12 down which she tells me is normal. BT have been
to site again more recently after the alarm system was fixed because she was still losing
connectivity. The engineer at that time could not find any faults and again stated the
line had too many devises.
© Lottery on PSTN line
POL00355475
POL00355475

o Wendy confirmed she has since been told about the lottery having its own satellite
connection
e Alarm system
o Wendy said it had not been right since the change in Feb and last week they sent
someone to site to fix it. The outcome was the aerial for the wireless was not wired in
properly but this has been resolved now.
e Balancing
o Wendy tells me that subsequent to her May balance she has shown
= £144 loss in Jun
= £195 loss in July
= £171 loss in Aug (last Wednesday)

I asked would she be prepared to open the branch with the paystation not in use so we could establish if
it was the paystation causing the issues. She stated she would only open if POL will guarantee to cover
any future losses should they happen. Her concern is that so far she considers the losses to be an
amount she can cover but if it were to be a large amount which she can’t cover she would like to know
POL will. I told her I was not in a position to agree this and would have to contact her again.

I have contacted Andy Carpenter with the conditions Wendy has applied to her opening, he is seeking
guidance.

I will be talking to Wendy again once Andy responds. In the meantime I will investigate the Alarm
situation and if we can get an engineer to site to support the branch opening to monitor this loss of
ADSL.

<image003.png> Debbie Arthur

Service Design

Post Office Customer Support Center,
Ground Floor, Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street

LONDON EC2Y 94Q....

Mobile pumberI GRO 1

Conference. Call...
or mobile I.
Participani

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged

information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
