POLO0099088
POL00099088

Message
From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To:

Mark R Davies

ula Vennells i” .
~ 5 Alwen Lyons

; Martin Edwards I -

GRO

J
Hugh Flemingto!
‘odric Williams

Subject:

Dear All
From the document there are two areas which we do not agree with SS:

Rudkin: We and Fujitsu have provided evidence to SS that there was only Testing systems in the basement in 2008. The
equipment (hardware) and the testing system were located in the basement. This has been a constant challenge with SS
as they contest that Rudkin has signed an affidavit and therefore there is a conflict of evidence. There appears to be a
lack of willingness to accept the detail we have provided. We have also had the tester who Rudkin believes took him to
the basement complete a witness statement. He has confirmed that there was only a testing system in the

basement. This has been a constant challenge with SS and Im not sure how this will get resolved.

5R001 ~ The connection failure. Both Fujitsu and POL do not agree with SS findings. They comment that the
information was not timely, accurate and complete. The time delay was due to the actions taken by the sub post
master — the actual delay to printing the receipts was 4 minutes by which time the customer had left. The information
was accurate and complete ~ having seen the receipts it can be said that its not particularly easy to read. This is
definitely a one for improvement which we have said to SS that we will accept.

Lesley

Lesley J Sewell
Chief Information Officer

148 Old Street, LONDON, ECLV 9HQ
Direct:!
Mobile} _

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: 07 July 2013 21:30

To: Paula Vennells; Mark R Davies; Martin Edwards; Alwen Lyons; Lesley J Sewell; Hugh Flemington; Simon Baker; Rodric
Williams

Subject: Re: Fwd: Draft statement

POL-0098671
POLO0099088
POL00099088

We will do a commentary and send it through, just one point though I think it likely that AB may have seen the report as
it was being drafted.
Susan

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: Sunday, July 07, 2013 07:40 PM

To: Mark R Davies; Martin Edwards; Alwen Lyons; Susan Crichton; Lesley J Sewell; Hugh Flemington; Simon Baker;
Rodric Williams

Subject: Fwd: Draft statement

Dear all, note to AB below. He has texted and asked for a call tomorrow am - I have suggested around 9am. I
imagine he will be reading the report with great care tonight.

Do we have either a marked up copy of the SS report or a commentary from Simon/Rodric, which I could have
as background to the call? I don't expect a forensic challenge from Alan, but if one reads it fresh as he will,
there will be points that seem very stark, which if I can calm or reassure him on, can only be to our benefit.
Could Simon advise what is possible?

Also Mark, could you advise when we will get the final Q&A pls? Even though we have rehearsed the answers
indirectly over the last few days, I would like to read the proper version.

If anyone has any thoughts now or overnight before I speak to Alan in the morning - don't hesitate to jump in. I
would like a steer from Mark/Martin as to whether I pick up the idea of a joint statement? (There will still be
time later, as we are meeting at 3pm; he will bring Kay Linnell and Alwen is coming with me.)

Btw - Like Susan I caught the last few games -GO ANDY MURRAY!! Good man :)

Paula

Ps. I am about to send both docs to Alice, who I expect will also want the commentary and Q&As.

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennell!
Date: 7 July 2013 20:

Subject: Fwd: Draft statement

Dear Alan, I haven't heard back from you, so I trust you don't mind receiving this mail on a
Sunday evening. (I texted earlier this evening to check if it would be ok to send you our draft
statement and a copy of the SS report.)

Tunderstand you already have the report. I attach the Post Office draft statement. We have
worked hard on this to retain balance but also to demonstrate as I mentioned when we spoke on
Thursday and Friday, that I am very serious about how we do respond - with openness to listen
and with a keenness to improve where things could be better.

You will see that I have suggested three commitments, which we will put in place and I hope as

you indicated on our calls, that you will be prepared to work with us to participate
collaboratively and to oversee or help implement the recommendations.

POL-0098671
POLO0099088
POL00099088

Additionally, I will as promised meet with you personally after tomorrow, to hear the detail on
how one or two of the past cases were handled, which you think should be brought to my
attention.

Alan - I have just received your text. That is fine, I will try to call you around 9am tomorrow.
And we can fix up where to meet at 3pm at the same time.

Kind regards,

Paula

POL-0098671
