POL00047500
POL00047500

Witness Statement
(CJ Act 1967, s9; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r 70)

continuation of statement of

due to the customer will be paid out to them. The screen is then cleared when the transaction has

been completed. In the event of the bar code not working the pension and allowance voucher can be

paid by using the manual system for payment. In this case one payment will be paid and the book

impounded and returned to the benefits office. During the cash account week, the clerk will obtain a

horizon print off in respect of pension and allowance vouchers already paid. This is a summary of all

pension and allowance vouchers paid out during a given period of time. Once the print off has been

obtained no further pension and allowance transactions can be placed onto this summary and a new

anew summary will begin. The clerk will then check the horizon print out. After checking the summary

sheet will be placed around the pension and allowance vouchers. The sheet and vouchers will be held

together with elastic bands. They are then placed in the same filing cabinet as the date stamp boxes.

The accounting week is from Thursday to Wednesday. The horizon system keeps a running total of all

receipts and payments made at the Post Office. On a Wednesday the office account is balanced. A

summary of all the pension and allowance vouchers paid that week will be obtained. This summary

together with all the vouchers will be placed in a grey plastic pouch and sealed. The pouch is such that

if it is opened you cannot reseal. This pouch is addressed to the paid order unit in Lisahally Northern

Ireland. On the Thursday after the cash account the sealed pouch will be collected by the postman

for despatch to Northern Ireland. I now produce as exhibit KR/1 a copy of the sick leave and annual

Leave for the period May 2001 to June 2002 in respect of Lisa Brennan. I also produce as exhibit KR/2

A copy of the stocks and date stamp used by Lisa Brennan during the same period.

Signature. Signature witnessed by

csot1A Version 3.0 11/02
