POL00137533

POL00137533

Weekly Horizon Call - Terms of Reference — v.1 G Peacock

Weekly Horizon Call — Terms of Reference
Purpose

The role of the weekly Horizon call is to facilitate a forum of key stakeholders, with the purpose of
the group being to identify and discuss issues which may impact on or be impacted by the specific
points raised in the Second Sight interim report. It will be the responsibility of the nominated
business areas to highlight issues relating to specific cases or policies/processes/new initiatives
which the wider group may want awareness of given the concerns regarding the Horizon system,
branch training and support, accounting processes or issue management, including investigations.
The purpose of the forum is to ensure issues are given the appropriate level of visibility with the
right group of people and a consistent approach is adopted by all areas. The group will agree
whether the information shared:

1. Has minimal impact, is for information only and it can be managed within normal business
processes

2. May have some impact and therefore decisions or guidance on the approach needs to be
provided

3. May have a serious impact and therefore decisions or guidance on the required action and
points of escalation are to be agreed and provided

Approach

The call will take place every week on a Wednesday at 10am and from the 2" October 2013 it will be
chaired by Gayle Peacock, Branch Training and Support Programme. The conference call details are:

Participant PIN: 4994898#

Notes will be taken, actions captured and circulated by Bond Dickinson using the agreed Security
document password protection system. The action matrix will identify what the issue was, who
raised it, who is responsible for progressing, the owner of the action and the status of the action. The
approach of the call will be to understand the progress regarding actions outstanding from the
previous meeting and then ask each area in turn to then raise specific issues. It is mandatory for
someone from each business area to attend the call and on time.

Stakeholders and Governance

Team/Function Attendees

Legal Rodric Williams, Jarnail Singh, Martin Smith,
Renata Prywerek, Andrew Parsons

Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay, Andrew Winn

Security Dave Posnett, Rob King, John M Scott

Weekly Horizon Call - Terms of Reference — v.1 G Peacock

POL00137533
POL00137533

Communications

Sophie Bialaszewski, Ruth X Barker

Network

Nick Beal, Gayle A Peacock, (Anne Allaker, Kathryn
Alexander, Shirley Hailstones as required)

Information Technology & Change (IT&C)

Steve Beddoe, Jeff Burke

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Kendra Dickinson

The call will come under the wider governance of the Branch Training and Support Programme.
Issues from the weekly call will be escalated to the Programme Board and the wider Project Sparrow

as appropriate.
