POL00175710
POL00175710

From: Jason G Collins!
Sent: Sat 30/01/2010 9:

To: John Longmant:_ }
Subject: Re: URGENT - Defence Request

Attachment: pic08583.gif

John,

I took the opportunity on Thursday to have a mini conference on this subject with Andy Hayward, John Scott,
Sue Lowther (SSM for Information Security) and Dave M King (Info Sec). We didn't go through the whole
document but discussed the current situation of multiple challenges and multiple responses being dealt with by
the Fraud Strand individuals and no clear definitive individual/s that can answer these types of issues. The up
shot was that it is something they are working towards for the future and recognise that there isn't something in
place now. Dave King is a former investigator so he more than understands the position, and he made sure that
I forwarded the email to him straight away so that he could attempt to tackle aspects of the report left to us to
deal with.

I don't know what he'll be able to deal with or leave so I would suggest that you contact him on Monday to get
an update, he is Dave M King on the system.

Regards,

Confidential information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended redpients) and may
contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disdosure or distribution is
prohibited. Ifyou are notthe intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of
the original message.

4 Please consider the environment before printing ths email

PXVohn Longman

John Longman To: Jason G Collins/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
ce!

27/01/2010 15:36 Subject: URGENT - Defence Request

Jason

T have been speaking to Warwick Tatford about the defence request for further information. He would like a
POL00175710
POL00175710

response from someone in Post office Ltd to the questions that Fujitsu cannot answer. I attach the report and the
responses are in blue. Some have been answered by fujitsu and some have been referred to POL to reply. I do
not know who in POL will provide a statement to all the questions passed to us to respond. Ideally Warwick
would want this information by Monday. Can you please help.

Regards,

Jon Longman

Security Advisor,
Post Office Ltd, National Security Team

LAND LINE PHON
MOBILE NO!

confidentialand privileged information, Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
If you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-maifand destroy all copies of the original message.
?? Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (5) and may contain E

>>>> 9c15.misra - 2nd interim technical expert's report 19.11.09.doc attachment was removed from this email
<<<<
