POL00091483
POL00091483

@

Branch Support Programme

Work stream meeting — Friday 13" June 2014

Post Offic

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00091483
POL00091483

Agenda €

1.Programme Overview (45 mins)

2.Programme Governance

+ Link into Transformation Committee

+ Roie of Steering Group and working group

3.Overall Programme Status
* High level milestone plan

4,Work Stream Status (1 hour 15)

+ Discussion on what each work stream is doing — high level vision, key activities
5. Risks and Issues (30 mins)

6. Dependencies

Past Office” CONFIDENTIAL

POL00091483
POL00091483

Branch Support Programme - Overview

Purpose

The purpose of the Branch Support Programme (BSP) is to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the
support we provide to our subpostmasters and operators in the running of their Post Offices from an
operational and engagement perspective.

Business Case
+ Spend £8.678m (£4.678m exceptional £4m VR)

+ Payback £3.2 years

KPIs

+ Reduce operating costs by £3m pa

+ Spmr suspensions less than 60 pa

+ Agent debt reduced by £1m pa

+ NBSC call volumes reduced by 25%

+ Satisfaction with on-line training modules 95%
+ Audit losses over £10k reduced by 50%

Agent Engagement Survey Index will be tracked to assess impact ~

}
NA

PostOttics® = 3 CONFIDENTIAL

POL00091483
POL00091483

Post Office Limited Governance Structure

meetings per Jat

“Rua Risk & Compliance Commiioe

“ . a lene ange pt je

f ‘Nominations Committee en Pensions Committee
(2ar3 macings por yen) {erteast3 reeangs pe yar)

I

Faanercenarion
comsrree

ANCE COMETTEE

‘COMMERCIAL
‘CONWETTEE

( ‘eu chennat } =)

een

“I owned tenting

I communicstions
Forum

BUSINESS MEETINGS

Post Offioe®

POL00091483
POL00091483

Branch Support Transformation Programme > <a Time
Programme Summary ~ To improve the support we provide to subpostmasters ‘rogramme Scale Cost
and operators in the running of their Post Offices from the moment they join to Gost ©. £4.25m (+ VRe tim) I. I I Benefit
the point where they leave the business. imescales - complete by March 2015 I I" quality

Customers, Colleagues and Third Party Engagement

Performance (Benefits)

Period 2 Full Programme
if ‘i ___I I [Customers Whist there is no drect impact on customers, the actviy wih the work
eu Target a ue ‘streams should have a positve impact onthe customer experience. The reduction n
Seopa re pao) I Bevel Fereeset I] Isuopostmaster suspens.ons has meart a contnuty of service n areas where the branch
loperating cost reduction am I1en6-tyeorI I may previously have been closed due fo sourcng and transferring to @ temporary

‘subpostmaster
Number Gt spmr suspensions

Reduction in agent net im Irsm6
“ a I Seetuiaen laste (Colleagues Anumber cfagency branches, Crown branches and Blakemore (multple

[Satisfaction wit training 0 Tsc__I "95% IFull yeer I I partner) have signed up to participate in on-ine reguiatory complance prototype testing.

Reduction in calls to NBSC 28 25% I Fullyear_I} \Coleagues contnue to be engaged n inddual work steam actvly, Large exercise

[Reduction in >£10k shortages 7 50% I Fullywar I Iundertaxen with wide range of stakeholders to understand IT requrements for branch

view tool
[Sisus pane (iy Brmnss Gave a Tung ayrood by POL (AV aguraanis Tor ORT
Isystom agreed win stakahotders andor: approach agroed w th (3) Onno rogulrory [Third Parties Postive feedback fom NFSP conference regardng work the Programme’

[tne erens an reco rersactr spied anipersoo repay fr bat and ening) Toy II I ® 20 10 make improvements, Workshop wih NFSP is Harned fred Junelary dy

Joranch contact nia NSC process launched win Exanch Suppor Tear to understand Programme workstreams n more deta and dent areas where the
INFSP can add specic vale. Atending NFSP regonal meetings in June’ Jy.

So Delivery Plan RAG status (Time) ‘Onine
Gd taining
i Goes [een tome [OEM aie
IThe majonty of operating cost IManage the resource plan with HR ensure ‘HOF Regulatory faunched
Jeactoniscetmestiust I ap I, Ig ireonimserspnmentareatniee aed II [ Roveed launched Somlianee
fesconinreouce, ako ena vRhowewrR mares ering
ses wn esoue tee Notirg wn TEC enced pte
Jeaoesccserotgiecet I 4g I y Ig fenortrosapicsteig ay
Jeroen cena oars am be atsess esi th a BEE
priest, [sacs prin fone nit uase =

Performance

12 suspensions in Period 2, however, only 5 were due to audit shortages which is the metric impacted by the change in policy. 4
other cases were due to insolvency, bankruptcy etc, 1 was due to abandonment of service and the other was due to a Royal Mail
investigation. We will be doing a retrospective exercise to review last year’s numbers to ensure they are accurate.

In terms of debt, the Period 2 figure is a £23k positive change in debt, resulting in a cumulative figure of £113k. This was
impacted by a £181k audit shortage which has not been recovered. The £1m reduction equates to an approximate 15%
reduction in overall debt.

There is an issue with the reports provided by NBSC. However, we would not expect to see a downturn in numbers until 2015.
The number of audit shortages over £10k is showing amber at the moment due to a delay in the implementation of HORIce. It
is amber rather than red as we expect to recover it before the end of the financial year.

Delivery Plan

The delivery date for HORIce has not been achieved and has been re-planned for middle of Q2. The delay has been created by
the time it has taken ATOS and Fujitsu to formally respond to a Change Request to something which was positioned as a tool
that was already built.
POL00091483
POL00091483

Roles and responsibilities of groups

Steering Group meeting

+ Understand progress against the milestone plan,
costs, benefits and quality of the Programme and
report this to Transformation Committee

+ Ratify milestone changes if necessary

+ Understand risks and issues of delivery of the
Programme and ensure actions proposed by work
streams will be adequate to mitigate those risks

+ Make decisions on deliverables as required by the
Work Stream meeting

+ Challenge each other and respective teams who are
responsible for delivering certain areas of the
Programme

+ Ensure Programme is administered in line with Post
Office governance standards and controls are in place

Attendees: Kevin Gillfand, Paul Brown, Michae! Larkin, lan Kennedy, Bian Deveney,
‘Dave Hulbert, Hamy Clarke, . Sharon Bul, Nck Beal, Angela Van-den Bogerd, Gayle
Peacock

Working Group meeting

+ Formal up-date on progress with each work stream
+ Manage interdependencies between each work stream

Identify risks and issues associated with delivery of
milestones and benefits, proposing mitigating actions

+ Agree proposals and make decisions regarding
deliverables to present to the Steering Group

. Agree on which issues need to be escalated to
Steering Group

Attendees: Pam Heap, Drew McBride, Craig Tuthi/ Lin Norbury, Sarah Malone, Jule
Tomas, Ann Miter, Clare Langiey, Amanda Stevens, Kendra Dickinson, Red Ismay.
Doug Brown, Andy Hayward, Miche! Brown, Andy Hot, Kar! Olver. Andy Garner
Richard WeavertJenathan Knox. Gecrgina Bla. Angela Van-den Bogerd, Gayle
Peacock, A er, Patar Proriils, Dave ireland

Past Oice®

N

CONFIDENTIAL

A

POL00091483
POL00091483

Timings of meetings

[13% June -11-2:30pm venue TEC 9 din
22r7 July
c

fii September : “ 4® September
46 October 22% October Se Oclobe
26" Nov ~ veriue TBC. 2° December 17* December
sia

What we will need from each work stream it

Detailed lower level plan regarding how the activities will be delivered ~ to be produced at work stream
meeting

Detailed measurement plan - how do we know what is working

+ Up-date every two weeks regarding progress against milestones and delivery of benefits ~ reporting plan to
be provided

Raising of risks and issues immediately and associated mitigating actions where they have an impact on
delivery of the Programme benefits

Effective working relationship with other work stream owners to ensure dependencies are managed

The Programme Team (Gayle, Anne, Peter and Dave) will support you in the production of the plans and getting
involved in specific activities to deliver the required milestones.

a CONFIDENTIAL WY

Post Offic

POL00091483

POL00091483

Milestone Plan

i. ssvocied _. I. I

Training Sarah Malone/suls 180k saving teeecamamnagrenvomman tne
Thomas 95% satisfaction es

‘Operational ‘Amanda Stevens 3 BA. vcs
‘Support 3 Dates for revising call categorisation into NBSC, call Oeste
review, review of PSC teams and Network Services to I
be identified and agreed 1

Peter Prior Mis Deen oe
Di eet rttepto nap sedan

, A

On-line Sayle Pe B orien
Regulatory £235k addtionally By erp nce tas
Compli full migration Dy. \eesoetest nme

Past Office” CONFIDENTIAL

POL00091483
POL00091483

Workstream status

‘Operational Support

*End-siate’ vision agreed + Agree iower level nia
progress fo end state

Activilies identified to deliver busin
beneft with high leve! mlesiones
identified

*End-state’ vision agreed with group + Agree iower level pia

High level ist of required activities progress fo end state and to
identified deliver business case benefits

+ Analysis done on NBSC call types to

inibate areas for root-cause analysis. Top
3 areas are "mais", “stock” and
“telephone numbers” driving in 25% of

Input into branch profile tool
reated with NBSC
ck wins" in bau

+ Agreement next week

‘18 June workshop fo agree.

Past Oice®

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00091483
POL00091483

Workstream status

oe -

+ Suggested aporuach discussed with NT

ng + 21° July for model office
testing for bureau receipt
10! June for CRM mesting

Bran
wl

profile requirements identified + Agr
business stakehoiders

‘complete formal
assessment of options

and architecture

+ Bureau 2" receipt transaction seripted

and passed to Fujitsu for busd

+ Revisad cheque rem process identified

ory
Comatiance Training

‘Supplier curently progressing bulk! of Test prototypes

prototype + Agree short, medium and long + EMC pratotype demoon 11%
Users identified for involved in testing term plan dune
prototype + Testing for users 16% June

Saba providing ORBIT prototype for
te

Past Oice®

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00091483

POL00091483

Risks and Issues

Slr"

Majorty of savings castsare 4 4 6 Planta be created across Programme where Drew
through peapletresouros resource efficiencies are Identitied Craig
savings, ineveasing disk of ‘Vacancies ta be sourced on temporary basis Amanda
‘surplus poo! oF pot filled where there is a reduction Rod

Sudposimastors and

Involvement throughout in or-tine bud and

AngelaGayle
‘operators don't embrace new testing of solutions, Planned shases of
on-line training mettiads delivery to ensure buy-in

HORIce may not betoolio 3 8 Requirements fully scoped with experts trom Gayle
reduce debt the acea based on knowledge of fraudinea-
conformance activay

Potential double counting of As above, Amanda 20" June 2044
benetits for NSC cost Sayle
savings

(41)
Past Office? a
sa ie CONTIDENTIAL

