POL00028479
POL00028479

THURSDAY 22ND JULY 1999

F \ ‘ i ‘COUNTERS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING I : I

! Present: Stuart Sweetman (chair)
David Morphey
Basil Larkins
I Scott Duncan I
Peter Turgoose
Tony Baxter (notes)

Apologies: Roger Tabor
Richard Close
Dave Miller
Eric Logan
Caroline Labadie
ACTION

Item2 Horizon Project Feedback From Post Office Board

21 Stuart Sweetman updated CEC on the presentation and
discussion from the Post Office Board on 19'8/20' July
regarding the Horizon automation project. Stuart
confirmed the presentation was virtually unchanged to

} that delivered to CEC previously by Tim Brown.

The Board provided support for the strategic

implications of the review and the future work to be

undertaken. Anthea Bourne has been asked to produce = Scott Duncan
an action plan on strategic activity by Friday 23" July.

23 The Board gave support for the proposal to employ
external lobbyists over the next 2-3 years. Dave Miller
and Keith Hardie have initiated discussions with Alan
Williams on issues which required communication.
24 Concern was raised that POCL was not working closely
enough with NFSP and keeping them fully informed.
Stuart Sweetman will speak with Colin Baker to update Stuart Sweetman
him on the latest position.

25 It was noted that the Board had empowered Neville Bain
and John Roberts to make the final decision on whether
to sign the agreement with ICL Pathway.

2.6

2.7

28

29
2.10

Item3

3.1

Item 4

POL00028479
POL00028479

SS

Stuart Sweetman advised there were two remaining

areas of concern:-

¢ The level of incidents occurring in trial offices was still
too high for technical acceptance, although
improvements should be confirmed over the next few
days to allow acceptance to take place.

¢ Negotiations with the Benefits Agency to recover
increases in POCL’s cost base have still to be resolved.

It was noted that the intention is to sign the contract on
Wednesday 28 July 1999 prior to the Heads of
Agreement coming into force on 1s August 1999.

Technical acceptance is now anticipated on 18 August.

Scott Duncan will check with Keith Baines the nature of
the ‘Fujitsu Guarantee’ and whether this should be
signed in advance of the main contract.

CEC discussed the impact the decision would have on
future financial results of business units across the Post
Office and the options to allow the Horizon impact to be
clearly reported.

CMA Pay Review

Peter Turgoose updated CEC on the present status of pay
negotiations with the CMA.

Communications

The following communications opportunities were

agreed:-

¢ Stuart Sweetman to speak to Colin Baker as outlined
in Item 2.6.

¢ Aninternal Newsbrief would be issued when the ICL
agreement had been signed.

¢ Further communications would be required regarding
technical acceptance and rollout. Keith Hardie is
currently working on the plan.

Scott Duncan

Stuart Sweetman

POL00028479
POL00028479

Item 5

51

Item 6

61

6.2

Recognition

The following were recognised for their recent

contributions:-

¢ All involved in the passport extension agreement
which has seen 100,000 plus processed to date. Stuart
Sweetman advised that Jack Straw had written
directly to John Roberts expressing thanks.

¢ Tim Brown and Anthea Bourne for their Horizon
review work.

¢ Sue Donaldson for successfully completing the CMA
pay negotiations.

Forward Agenda

Stuart Sweetman advised he would be writing out prior
to his annual leave on interim roles and responsibilities.
These principally included:-
¢ Responsibility for the Commercial Portfolio moving
from David Morphey to Basil Larkins.
¢ Dave Miller to assume wider responsibility for the
network.
¢ Dave Morphey to concentrate on the Cash Handling
& Distribution unit.

The way forward for future CEC meetings was agreed:-

¢ Monday 24 August 1999 to continue in Stuart
Sweetman’s absence.

« Future CEC dates to be kept in diaries and used by
Dave Miller and Basil Larkins with their new teams as
appropriate.

¢ Wednesday 29th September to be held for final CEC/
recognition.

¢ BUPR meetings to continue as arranged.

