POL00095442
POL00095442

Alwen Lyons

From: WALKER, Janet 4 GRO
Sent: 21 August 2013 11:20 ~

To: Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons
Subject: Follow-up to today's meeting

Dear Susan and Alwen,

Thank you for the catch-up today. I do hope you were not put out by the meeting's brevity; it is simply that
having read the documents, and believing them to be very good indeed, there is not much I can add.

1. Ihave now sent them on to James, and asked him to let me have any thoughts by the end of this
weekend. I will let you know of his response as soon as I receive it.

2. Announcement — I have spoken to Alan, and explained James’ absence, asking if Alan would be
content to leave the announcement until Tuesday. He is, but asked if I could let him (and you) know if
anything comes through from James (as above) earlier. I will do.

3. Quote from James — I've drafted one for James to approve, and will forward as soon as I hear back
from him.

4. Independent chair — I've asked James for his thoughts, and let him know I put forth the suggestion of
Sir Stephen Sedley. Baroness Amos might be another person thinking about. I can help with contact
details if and when...

5. New cases — I will forward 2 spreadsheets to you tomorrow: the first is current cases, the second new
ones that have come in following the 8 July meeting. I need to cross-check some details, and will need
to do this tomorrow morning. I-hope this is OK with you.

Many thanks indeed, and kind regards
Janet

Janet Walker
Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
“AP for North East Hampshire
ouse of Commons
London SW1A OAA

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it from your system.
Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any
damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.
INITIAL COMPLAINT REVIEW AND MEDIATION SCHEME

SCHEME PACK

PART 1: APPLICATION PHASE

DRAFT — CONFIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE

Version: 3 2.

BY CASE BASIS]

48_27904995_1

POL00095442
POL00095442
POL00095442

POL00095442
[TO GO ON POST OFFICE LETTERHEAD]
[JFSA / SHOOSMITHS]
[ADDRESS]
[DATE]
Dear Sirs
Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme
As you will be aware, Post Office has been undertaking an in lepe review into the Horizon system

and associated issues.

standards. To address these concerns, Post Office Appointe i

Second Sight, to investigate this situation.

In collaboration with the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA)

nda group of MPs led by the Rt
Hon James Arbuthnot MP, Post Office established an Inquiry) ito Horizon. Second Sight was appointed
to lead this Inquiry and has been working with a number of St DPC simasters for over 12 months. A copy
of Second Sight's interim report is available at http://www. I postoffi .co.uk/post-office-statement-horizon.

Post Office now wishes to offer a Scheme to Subpostmasters so that individual Subpostmasters have an
opportunity to raise their concerns directly with Post Office. In partnership with Subpostmasters, the
JFSA, Second Sight and interested MPs, all sides can then work towards resolving those concerns.

Please find enclosed a pack of documents describing how the Scheme will work. We should be grateful
if you would forward this letter and the enclosed pack to any Subpostmasters who you believe may be
interested in this Scheme.

If a Subpostmaster wishes to take part in the Scheme he/she should:

. Carefully read the information enclosed with this letter.

. Complete and return an Application Form which can be found at www.ifsa.org.uk

A Subpostmaster is not obliged to submit his/her case through the Scheme and they may leave the
Scheme at any time. Their legal rights will remain in full force, whether or not they choose to enter the

Scheme.

f
A Subpostmaster's Application must be received by Second Sight by 31 October 2013 if they wish to be
involved in the Scheme.

This letter has been sent to a number of interested parties. It is therefore possible that a Subpostmaster

may be notified of this Scheme more than once, but the Subpostmaster should only make one
Application.

4A 27904995_1 2
POL00095442
POL00095442

Yours faithfully

Enclosures

1 Scheme Guide + FAQs

4A_ 273049951 3
POL00095442
POL00095442

Overview of the Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

The Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme has been established to help resolve the concerns
of Subpostmasters regarding the Horizon system and other associated issues.

Post Office is determined to ensure that Horizon and its associated processes are fair, effective and
reliable, and that Subpostmasters can have confidence in the,s\

standards. To address these concerns, Post Office appointedinc
Second Sight, to investigate this situation.

suas Subpostmasters have an
witht Subpostmasters, the
; resolving those concerns.

opportunity to raise their concerns directly with Post! Office:
JFSA, Second Sight and interested MPs, all sides can the \

This Scheme has been developed by Post Office, Second’ Si
Alliance.

Justice for Subpostmasters

Mediation

In essence, mediation is a face-to-face discussion between two parties. The discussion is chaired by a
neutral and independent.mediator.

The purpose of mediation is to give each side the opportunity to explain their position. The mediator will
then discuss matters with both parties, sometimes together in the same room, sometimes privately with
each party.

The mediator's role is to help the parties find common ground. Where common ground cannot be
reached, the mediator will help the parties identify their differences and then try to find a resolution to
those differences.

The mediator cannot impose a solution on any party (unlike a judge in a courtroom). He can recommend
possible solutions to any disagreements. The parties are then free to accept or reject any
recommendation. A solution is only binding on the parties where they both agree to that solution and
that agreement is captured in writing and signed by both parties.

4A 27904995_1 4
POL00095442
POL00095442

Eligibility

The Scheme applies to both current and former Subpostmasters as well as counter clerks employed by
Post Office.

Where we refer to "Subpostmasters" this includes Subpostmistresses, nominee Subpostmasters of
multiple branches and counter clerks.

The Scheme is open to any Subpostmaster who believes they have suffered a loss or been treated
unfairly as a result of the Horizon system or any associated issues.

If a serving Subpostmaster wants to use the Scheme, he or she must have already raised their case with
Post Office and have completed all Post Office's internal complaint processes. For example, a

Subpostmaster who wishes to dispute a transaction or series of transactions in their branch should first
raise this matter with NBSC and assist with any subsequent Post Office enquires. If a currently serving
Subpostmaster needs advice how to raise a matter internally’ ith Post Office they should email ENSER

The Scheme

The Scheme is being supervised by a Working Group corfipri
Second Sight and the JFSA. The Working Group's role

The starting point for the Scheme is for Subpostmasters to; i ils heir case to Second Sight
as part of an initial application process. Second Sight, in laboration‘with the Working Group, will

: 3 Ae?
recommend whether the case should be investigated.

Second Sight will then work with each Subpostmaster and Post Office to gather information about and
investigate that case. The Subpostmaster will be sent a Case Questionnaire setting out requests for
more detailed information. Post Office will also provide additional information from its own records.

As a result of this investigation, Second Sight will produce a Case Review summarising its findings and a
recommendation on whether the case is suitable for mediation. The Working Group will however take
the final decision on any cases that may not be suitable for mediation.

The Case Review should bring clarity to many cases. Post Office may contact a Subpostmaster directly
to discuss the Case Review and to seek.closure of any outstanding issues. If a solution cannot be
reached directly between Post Office and the Subpostmaster, both parties will then be invited to attend
mediation.

The mediation process will be administered by an independent mediation body and the mediator will be
selected by the parties from a panel! of mediators. The mediation administrator and the panel of
mediators will be nominated by the Working Group.

4A_27904995_1 5
POL00095442
POL00095442

Subpostmaster
submits Application to
Second Sight

Subpostmaster
engages
professional advisor
(optional)

Case confirmed as
suitable for
investigation

Post Office’ provides: Second Sight
information on the investigates the
Subpostmaster's Subpostmaster's +
case case

Subpostmaster
submits Case
Questionnaire

Second Sight produces a Case
Review of its findings and a
recommendation on whether the
case is suitable for mediation

Mediation Administrator
liaises with Subpostmaster to
arrange mediation

Mediation meeting

If an agreement is
reached, the case
is resolved

4A_27304995_1 s
POL00095442
POL00095442

The Subpostmaster's role

In order for mediation to work, it is important that each case is properly investigated by Second Sight
before the mediation begins. It is therefore critical that each Subpostmaster provides complete and
accurate information to Second Sight in a timely manner.

if an Application is accepted following Second Sight's recommendation, the Subpostmaster will be asked
to submit a more detailed explanation of his/her case along with any supporting documents in the form of
a Case Questionnaire. Subpostmasters will have 4 weeks to complete this Case Questionnaire and to
submit relevant evidence. Subpostmasters will receive guidance on the information required and may
use a professional advisor to help with this process. Second Sight may also contact a Subpostmaster
(by phone, letter or email) to seek more information or to clarify some matters.

The information provided in the Case Questionnaire is likely to be shared with Post Office so that Post
Office can make its own internal enquiries and provide furthers ant information to Second Sight.
é

If the information provided by the Subpostmaster is insufficier
not provided promptly, it may mean that a case is not investig:
that the information provided is accurate and truthful.

Support for Subpostmasters

. up to £1,500 + VAT towards the reasonable costs of a professional advisor assisting a
Subpostmaster during Second Sight's investigation (ie. gathering information, completing the
Case Questionnaire, responding to Second Sight's questions, etc.)

. up.to £750 + VAT towards costs of a professional advisor in preparing for and attending a half-
day mediation or up to £1,250 + VAT for a full day mediation.

Post Office will also pay the reasonable expenses of travelling to and from the mediation for a
Subpostmaster and up to 2 representatives.”

Subpostmasters will not be asked to contribute towards the costs of the mediator or the mediation venue.
Subpostmasters may engage a professional advisor to provide additional support in other areas or in
excess of the above contribution levels however they will be responsible for these costs. In exceptional
circumstances, a Subpostmaster may make a written request to the Working Group for additional
financial support.

If an Application is accepted, the Subpostmaster will be sent a Funding Agreement that will explain how
Post Office will provide this financial support.

Further information

For further information, please see the enclosed Frequently Asked Questions.

4A_27304995_1 7
POL00095442
POL00095442

Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

Frequently Asked Questions

The Scheme
What is the Working Group?

The Scheme is being supervised by a Working Group comprising, t representatives from Post Office,
Second Sight and the JFSA. The Working Group's role is to ensure the Scheme is run in a fair and
efficient manner. It will also be involved in making decisions;on how particular.cases should be managed
through the Scheme. \

ility criteria for the Scheme?

You must meet both the following criteria.

tions in their branch should frst
raise this matter with NBSC and assist with any subsequent Post Office enquires. If a currently s
Subpostmaster needs advice how to raise a matter internally with Post Office they should email

My case is very old. Can I still mediate it?

Post Office's records. only date back 7 years.and therefore it may be more difficult to investigate very old
cases unless you are able to provide information and documents.

If your case is very old, you may still submit it to Second Sight for consideration. However it may be
decided by the Working Group that your case is not suitable for investigation or mediation.

What if my case has already been settled by Post Office?

You may put your case through the Scheme even if you have already entered into a settlement with Post
Office.

What if my case has already been considered by the civil courts and they have given judgment
against me?

You may put your case through the Scheme even if the Courts have already given judgment against you.

4A_27304995_1 8
POL00095442
POL00095442

What if my case involves a completed criminal prosecution or conviction?

You may put your case through the Scheme even if you have already received a Police caution or have
been subject to a criminal prosecution or conviction.

However, Post Office does not have the power to reverse or overturn any criminal conviction — only the
Criminal Courts have this power.

If at any stage during the Scheme, new information comes to light that might reasonably be considered
capable of undermining the case for a prosecution or of assisting the case for the defence, Post Office
has a duty to notify you and your defence lawyers. You may then choose whether to use that new
information to appeal your conviction or sentence.

What if my case is subject to on-going court proceedings 5

You may still submit your case but it may not be eligible at this

Where should I send my Application?

Please email your application to (NSERT SECOND SIGHT EMAIL ADDRESS).
If you would prefer.to submit a hardcopy Application, please send this to INSERT POSTAL ADDRESS}.

5

How should I. complete my application?
The Application Form can, be downloaded from the JFSA website — www jfsa.org.uk

If you would prefer to complete. the Application in hardcopy, please contact Second Sight (details below)
who will send you a paper version of the Application Form.

If I'm not sure if my case is eligible, what should I do?

If you need advice on the Scheme please contact the JFSA.

What is the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance?

JFSA is an independent organization, established to raise awareness of the alleged problems within the
Post Office Horizon system. The organisation mainly comprises of ex-Subpostmasters.

http://www. jfsa.org.uk/

4_27304995_1 9
POL00095442
POL00095442

Second Sight Investigation

What is Second Sight?

Second Sight is a firm of independent forensic accountants and investigators which has been engaged to
investigate and report on the Horizon system

www.secondsightsupport.co.uk

ia estigate your case. It will then

definitive answers to all questions. It will however provid
based on the evidence available.

partial and reasoned assessment

What information do I need to provide to Second.Sight?
At this stage, you just need to provide preliminary details of your case in your Application Form.

If your case is accepted for the Scheme, Second Sight will send you a full Case Questionnaire to
complete. You need to provide as much detail about your case as possible in the Case Questionnaire
along with any supporting.documents and other evidence. You will receive guidance on the information
required.

Can I use a professional advisor to help prepare my written submissions to Second Sight?
Yes — you may engage a professional advisor, such as a lawyer or an accountant, to help with this.

Post Office will pay up to £1,500 + VAT towards the reasonable costs of a professional advisor assisting
you during Second Sight's investigation (ie. gathering information, completing the Case Questionnaire,
responding to Second Sight's questions, etc.).

You will be sent an Investigation Funding Agreement for this financial support if your Application is
accepted.

4a_27304995_1 10
POL00095442
POL00095442

You are solely responsible for any costs incurred before the Investigation Funding Agreement is signed
or for costs that are outside the scope of the Investigation Funding Agreement.

Will my case definitely get investigated by Second Sight?

The depth of Second Sight's investigation is very much dependent on the quality of the information
provided by you. The more specific and comprehensive you can be, the better the chance of Second
Sight providing good answers.

If there is insufficient information for Second Sight to investigate a case, the case may not be
investigated or may not proceed to mediation.

How will Second Sight investigate my case?

some cases, Second Sight may contact you or Post Office (by pho
case or to request more information.

impact on your case.

oF
my case?
&
It is estimated that it will take between 1-3 months from rec Be

Questionnaire to investigate a case depending on its complexity:

How long will it take for Second Sight to investigate

roperly completed Case

What will Second Sight's findings reveal?

This very much depends on the nature of:your case but Second Sight will provide the best assessment
possible based on the available information.

However, you should bear in mind that Second Sight is independent of both Post Office and you. Its
investigation may therefore. reveal information that could assist either you or Post Office.

In particular, the investigation into your case could reveal that you owe a debt or loss to Post Office. In
that circumstance, Post Office will be entitled to act on this information and seek to recover this loss from
you.

Should Second Sight discover evidence of any criminal wrongdoing, Post Office may pass this
information to the Police, the Crown Prosecution Service or seek to prosecute directly.

Likewise, the investigation could disclose information that may assist you in a claim against Post Office.

If you have been previously involved in criminal proceedings, Post Office also has a duty to disclose to
you and your defence counsel, any new information which comes to light that might reasonably be
considered capable of undermining the case for the prosecution or of assisting the case for your defence.

4_27304995_1 "
POL00095442
POL00095442

Will my case definitely be referred to mediation?

lf your case is suitable and you provide accurate, detailed information to Second Sight, then this is likely
in most circumstances.

However, the Working Group may consider that some cases are not suitable for mediation. For
example, if there is insufficient information about a case or the case is not one requiring resolution.

Also, once Second Sight has submitted its findings, Post Office may contact you to discuss your case
and to seek a resolution without needing to attend mediation.

If your case is not referred to mediation, then you may still pursue other methods of resolution such as by
bringing a claim through the Courts.

Mediation

What is mediation?

In essence, mediation is a face-to-face discussion between twovparties e discussion is chaired by a
neutral and independent mediator.

. The mediator will
imes privately with

The purpose of mediation is to give each side the op
then discuss matters with both parties, sometimes
each party.

reached, the mediator will help the parties accept their differ
those differences. ¥

Who is the mediator?

The mediator is a neutral individual who specialises in resolving disputes. Typically, mediators are
independent professionals.

The Working Group will be nominating a panel of suitable mediators. A mediator from this panel will be
jointly chosen by you and Post Office. If the‘parties cannot agree on a mediator then the mediator will be
selected by the independent Mediation Administrator.

Who is the Mediation Administrator?

The Working Group will be nominating a Mediation Administrator. This will be an independent body
specialising in providing mediation services.

The Mediation Administrator's role will be to organise the mediation process by helping the parties chose
a mediator and by finding an appropriate location and time for the mediation.

Full details of the Mediation Administrator will be provided to you if your case proceeds to mediation.

4A.27308995_1 12
POL00095442
POL00095442

What powers does the mediator have?

The mediator's role is to facilitate a discussion between you and Post Office. He/she is there to help the
parties find a solution to their disagreement.

The mediator cannot order the parties to do anything or to impose an outcome on the parties.

What will happen on the mediation day?

The course of events at the mediation will be set by the mediator. The mediator will look to use the time
available at the mediation in the most productive way possible.

A typical mediation will run as follows:

. The parties arrive at the venue and are each allocate parate private rooms.

. The parties convene in a joint meeting. Each party or thei pi
opening statement (lasting just a few minutes) setting out their

. The parties retire to their separate rooms. /
their thoughts and opportunities for resoluti

. Further face-to-face meetings may be held between, people at the mediation.
Ps

. If a dealis reached, the mediator may help the parties to draw up a settlement agreement.
Who attends mediation?

There are no strict rulés on who can attend. However it is usual to have only 2 or 3 people representing
each side. You may-bring with you anyone you consider appropriate. However, Post Office will only pay
reasonable travelling expenses for you and 2 representatives.

Can I bring a professional advisor to the mediation?

Yes — you may bring a professional advisor, such as a lawyer or accountant, to the mediation. JFSA may
be able to assist you with selecting an advisor and the Working Group will be looking to establish a panel
of professional advisors that could be engaged by Subpostmasters.

Who will pay for my professional advisor to attend the mediation?

Post Office will make a contribution towards the reasonable costs of a professional advisor in preparing
for and attending mediation on your behalf.

For a half-day mediation, Post Office will contribute up to £750 + VAT.

44 279040951 13
POL00095442
POL00095442

For a full-day mediation, Post Office will contribute £1,250 + VAT.

You will be sent a Mediation Funding Agreement for this financial support if your case is deemed suitable
for mediation by the Working Group. This decision will be made after Second Sight has produced its
Case Review.

You are solely responsible for any costs incurred before the Mediation Funding Agreement is signed or
for costs that are outside the scope of the Mediation Funding Agreement.

Will Post Office pay my expenses of travelling to the mediation?

Yes — Post Office will pay the reasonable expenses for you and up to’2 representatives to travel to the
mediation. Full details of this support will be provided in your Mediation Funding Agreement.

How long will the mediation last?

lex cases; the mediation may
last a full day (8 hours).

Where will the mediation be held?

The venue will be
ice will seek to find a venue
aranteedsin all situations.

The mediation will be held in a set of meeting room
selected depending on the location of the mediator and thi
within 3 hours travel of where you live, but this cannot be g

When will the mediation happen?

The precise date depends on your availability and the availability of the mediator and Post Office. The
aim is to hold most mediations within 6 months of receipt of your Application Form.

The Mediation is likely to happen on a weekday so you may need to take time off work.

Will Post Office compensate me for taking time off work to attend mediation?

No.

How might my case be resolved?

The advantage of mediation is that the parties can agree any solution that is legal, realistic and
enforceable. Post Office is keeping an open mind to all possibilities for resolution.

Compensation is one possible solution that could be agreed by the parties but this will depend on what
happened in your case.

If a resolution is reached by the parties, then this is likely to be drawn up into a formal settlement
agreement for you to sign.

4A_27304995_1 4
POL00095442
POL00095442

What if my case is not resolved at mediation?

If your case is not resolved at mediation, you are free to pursue any other method of resolution, including
through the Courts.

Information about my case

Will Second Sight share my information with Post Office? :

Yes — Second Sight will share your information with Post Officé'in order to investigate your case.

JFSA are part of the Working Group, alongside Second Sight and
Scheme.

The Scheme is also being kept under review by a grt
Your MP may therefore request details of your casé
communicated to your MP and not to other MPs.

Will my case be kept confidential?

Both you and Post Office must endeavour to keép details of your case confidential however details of
your case may.be discussed within os .

° Second Sight

. YourMP

. JFSA !

. Professional advisors ,

. With other appropriaté persons where you have already made or have chosen to make public

statements about your case.

However, all matters discussed in the actual mediation will be strictly confidential and subject to "without
prejudice" privilege. This means that the matters discussed during a mediation cannot be disclosed to
any third party or to any Civil Court.

This protection allows both parties to speak freely in the mediation room, without risk of their words being
repeated back to them in public or in the Civil Courts. Under this protection, the parties can then accept
responsibility for their actions and make concessions in order to move towards a resolution.

4A 273049951 15
POL00095442
POL00095442

Can Second Sight's pre-mediation findings be used in subsequent Court proceedings?
Yes. A Subpostmaster may use Second Sight's findings against Post Office in later Court proceedings.

However, the investigation into your case may reveal that you owe a debt or loss to Post Office. In that
circumstance, Post Office will be entitled to act on this information and seek to recover this loss from you.

Likewise, should the investigation reveal any criminal wrongdoing, Post Office may pass this information
to the Police, the Crown Prosecution Service or seek to prosecute directly.

The matters discussed at the actual mediation cannot be later used in later Civil Court proceedings but
might be disclosable in the Criminal Courts.

Other questions

You are not waiving any of your legal rights by subi

mediation. ‘3

nd Sight or attending a

Your legal rights will only be affected if you settle your cate a¢ inst Pos

oa
The Funding Agreements and the Mediation Agreement may contain
duties to keep information confidential.

Office in a written agreement.

some obligations on you such as

Am I obliged to mediate my case?
No — the Scheme is voluntary.

Post Office will not use the fact that you have not mediated your case (or may have pulled out part way
through the Scheme) against you in any future Court proceedings.

Can I pull out part way through the Scheme?
Yes — at any time you may confirm in writing (to either Second Sight or the Mediation Administrator as

appropriate) that you no longer wish to be part of the Scheme. Should you pull out of the Scheme, you
may not be able to re-join the Scheme at a later date.

What happens if I pull out?

Second Sight will stop its investigation into your case.

4A. 273089951 16
POL00095442
POL00095442

If you pull out before signing a Funding Agreement, you will be responsible for any professional advisor's
costs you have incurred.

If you pull out after signing a Funding Agreement, Post Office will still make its contribution towards your
professional advisors’ reasonable costs as described in that Funding Agreement.

What is a Funding Agreement?

A Funding Agreement is a contract between you and Post Office under which Post Office commits to
provide you with financial support.

An Investigation Funding Agreement will be sent to you if your Application is accepted. This will provide
up to £1,500 + VAT towards the costs of you engaging a professional advisor-during Second Sight's
investigation. -

A Mediation Funding Agreement will be sent to you if, after Second Sight's investigation, the Working
Group decides that your case is suitable for mediation. This williprovide up to £750 +. VAT or £1,250 +
VAT (depending on the length of the mediation) towards the costs ¢ f rofessional advisor attending
mediation on your behalf “€ e S

Unless you sign a Funding Agreement, Post Office is , osts that you may incur.

&

Post Office is also not responsible for any costs you, ‘ny Funding

Agreement or in excess of the above funding cot
What if I need more financial support? I

It is for you to manage your professional advisor's costs.
In exceptional circumstances, you may make a written request to the Working Group for additional
financial support. .

What is a Mediation Agreement?

A Mediation Agreement outlines the basic principles of the mediation process and confirms the
appointment of the mediator.. It also contains the obligation on the parties to keep the Mediation

discussions confidential.

You will be sent a Mediation Agreement after Second Sight's investigation is complete and your case is
considered suitable for mediation.

4_27904995_1 v7
POL00095442
POL00095442

Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

Application Form

For Second Sight use only

Case ref:

Your Details

Surname:

Your address:

Postcode:

Telephone number 1:

Telephone number 2:

My current Member of Parliament is:

Your Branch

Please insert the details of the branch where you worked. If you worked at more than one branch,
please provide details on an extra sheet of paper.

Name of branch: poe FAD Code of branch:

Address of branch:

Postcode:

Your role at the branch (ie. Subpostmaster, Subpostmistress, clerk, etc):

When did you begin in this role? Are you still in this role?
O YES
ONO

If no, when did you leave this role:

4A_27308995_1 18
POLO00095442
POL00095442

Initial Case Overview

To the best of your knowledge, is your case (or any part of it) currently subject to any on-going criminal
investigations or proceedings (including the issue of a summons, sentencing hearings or a confiscation
order)?

0 YES - you may still submit your case, but Second Sight may not be able investigate it whilst criminal
investigations or proceedings are on-going.

ONO

The purpose of the ‘Initial Case Overview’ is to summarise the main issues you wish Second Sight to
consider. If your case is accepted for mediation, you will then have an opportunity to supply much more

detail together with supporting evidence. ae

The following Key Questions may help you with this Initial Case

verviéw but please feel free to supply
any information that you consider may help explain your complaint:**

What is the main issue or issues you wish us to consider that rélat
processes?

What prior contact have you had with the’ ‘Post Office in regard to the incidents/issues that you are now
reporting?

How was the issue or issues resolved at the time they occurred?

What is the monetary value of the issue or issues you are now reporting?

48_27304905_1 19
POL00095442
POL00095442

Were you the subject of either civil recovery action or criminal prosecution regarding the main issue or
issues you are now reporting?

How were these actions against you (if any) resolved?

Did you request assistance from the Post Office regarding the issue or issues you are now reporting?

What assistance if any was provided?

Please attach additional sheets of paper if you require more space.

4A_27304995_1 20
POL00095442

POL00095442
Declaration
I acknowledge that:
. As part of the Scheme, I must promptly provide information about my case to Second Sight. If
do not provide full information in a timely manner, I accept that it may not be possible to
investigate or mediate my case.
. Information I provide about my case or the findings of Second Sight's investigation may help

reach a resolution with Post Office but that it may also reveal further claims against me.

. I am only entitled to financial support from Post Office if

lave signed a Funding Agreement.

I confirm that:

. The facts and matters set out in this App!
knowledge and belief.

1 confirm that I am: .

. es
C Currently serving as.a Subpostmaster and:have already raised my case with Post Office and have
completed all Post Office's internal complaint processes.

0 Not cufrently serving asa Subpostimaster.

(Please tick one‘ box)

If you are unable to give all the above acknowledgements and confirmations, your case may not be
eligible for the Scheme. Inthat circumstance, please contact the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance for
assistance.

This Application Form and your involvement in the Scheme do not create any legally binding contract or
obligations between Post Office and you.

The Working Group, its members and their advisors owe no obligations or duties, and accept no liability,
to you in connection with the Scheme.

Signed

Name

Date oe

4A_27304995_1 21
POL00095442
POL00095442

4A_27304995_1 22
