POL00102551

POL00102551
popariment Department
or Culture for Business
Media & Sport Innovation & Skills
Baroness Nevilie-Roife DBE CMG
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
and Minister for intellectual Property
Tim Parker 1 Victoria Street
c/o Diane Blanchard Win DET
Post Office Limited :
Finsbury Dials E
20 Finsbury Street .
London
EC2Y SAQ

10 September 2015

I am writing to you ahead of your taking up the role of Post Office Limited Chairman
to confirm our conversation last month regarding the Post Office Horizon system.
The issues surrounding the Horizon IT system have not been resolved. Indeed,
some of the MPs concerned have written to me again following the Panorama
programme pressing the case for an independent investigation.

The Government takes seriously the concerns raised by individuals and MPs
regarding the Post Office Horizon system and the suggestions that there may have
been miscarriages of justice as a result of issues with Horizon. The Government also
recognises the commitment that Post Office Limited have demonstrated to resolving
those issues, including through creating a mediation scheme and appointing
independent investigators to scrutinise the system.

As you will be aware, there have been some three years of scrutiny of Horizon and
the Criminal Cases Review Commission is considering a number of cases which
have been brought to it by individuals, and the Government cannot intervene in that
independent process.

As the sole shareholder of Post Office Limited, the Government wants to make sure
that the Post Office network is successful and sustainable across the country. We
recognise that the Post Office is a commercial business and we allow it to operate as
such, but of course, we expect it to behave fairly and responsibly in doing so. I am
therefore requesting that, on assuming your role as Chair, you give this matter your
earliest attention and, if you determine that any further action is necessary, will take
steps to ensure that happens.
I look forward to hearing your conclusions and to working with you to secure the
future of the Post Office network.

lam copying this letter to Paula Vennells, Chief Executive of Post Office Limited.

BARONESS NEVILLE-ROLFE DBE CMG

POL00102551
POL00102551
