POL00101783
POL00101783

Message

From: Tim McCormack} i
on behalf of — Tim McCormack I... tn GRO niacin tet
Sent: 10/12/2014 07:59:32

To: Paula Vennells i

Subject: FW: Second Sight - Horizon Errors - Media Coverage

Angela ...

I think you should make sure that Paula gets to read the message below.

In an absolutely bizarre coincidence shortly after sending the email I was made aware
that yesterday, as a result of the stress caused by an occurrence of this problem and the
subsequent refusal by NBSC to acknowledge that it could happen, a Subpostmaster was
rushed to hospital with stress related heart problems. He had the presence of mind to
record details of the incident as proof that it had happened which for the first time gave
me an indication of what might be happening to cause it.

This could well make the news today or at the weekend as a follow up to yesterday's
events. Paula should be prepared to answer the obvious questions.

Cheers, Tim

PS I have never in my life come across such an amazing coincidence - if I was in the
least bit religious and knowing of Paula's faith I would declare it a divine intervention.

You learn more from one criticism than from ten compliments

From: timandagi
To: paula.vennel
Subject: Second Sight - Horizon Errors - Media Coverage
Date: Wed, 10 Dec 2014 00:04:28 +0000

Dear Paula

Yet again today Mark Davies, speaking on behalf of POL, relied on the defence that there
are no systemic errors in Horizon and this is proved because we deal with so many
customers per day in so many branches. I think Mark and yourself might like to review
the periodic Message to Branches that are sent out via Horizon. There are a catalogue
of systemic errors that arise from time to time and are fixed. Some involving automatic
transaction corrections.

Paula, as I keep saying, you are surrounded by people in your office that tell you all is
well. You have no personal knowledge of operating Horizon nor probably any in depth
technical knowledge. What if the people that are telling you all is well have the same
attributes?

POL-0101366
POL00101783
POL00101783

So forget systemic errors for the moment and consider ‘intermittent’ errors which by and
large are caused by communication problems.

I know of more than one but one in particular:
It exists.

It occurs at different times in different branches.
It is noticed.

They are reported to NBSC (I would really like to see the number of times this has been
reported to NBSC)

It causes a financial loss to the SPMR.

They are not fixed BUT the wise SPMR knows how to get his money back so you don't
hear many complaints. You would from the Audit team if they caught someone doing it
though.

So why haven't these intermittent errors been fixed. To put it simply - because they
are intermittent. There is no known sequence of events that can cause this error to re-
occur in any particular branch. How can you fix something if you don't know what
caused it in the first place? You have to throw the whole thing out and start all over -
the only way.

On our 'chat' forums, there are documented reports over the years of the same error
repeating itself randomly in a wide number of branches, including at Duns and my
previous PO.

I am pretty sure I can arrange for the error to be replicated though by asking a large
sample of offices to repeat the process until the error occurs - and I am also sure that I
can obtain transaction logs and associated CCTV coverage of the error manifesting itself.

I can show you it happening. I can explain the financial consequences but neither I nor
your best technical team will be closer to fixing the underlying problem. You cannot
make it go away.

I would also be happy to stand up in court and declare that Horizon has intermittent
faults, probably caused through communication errors, provide clear and undeniable
evidence as well as bring along a fair number of your most trusted SPMRs to bear
witness that it has happened to them too.

I hope you get my point - I can show one error occurring that you can't fix nor can you
explain - if you could explain it then you could probably fix it - so how many other
intermittent errors like this are in the system that cause unexplainable financial losses to
SPMRs?

POL-0101366
POL00101783
POL00101783

Iam trying to help you but the hole you are digging for yourself is getting deeper by the
day. Please stop trying to defend the indefensible.

Cheers, Tim

You learn more from one criticism than from ten compliments

POL-0101366
