POL00118002
POL00118002

From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
L Melanie Corfieldf,
Subject: Post Office Group Litigation Update - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

All,

Yesterday, the Court heard evidence from two Lead Claimants, Pamela Stubbs and Mohammad Sabir. The evidence,
which did not raise anything new, can be summarised as follows:

- Both Lead Claimants’ complaints arise from their own particular circumstances:

o Mrs Stubbs’ stem from a period when her branch was temporarily relocated into a portacabin in 2010;
and
© Mr Sabir’s concern how he accounted for lottery scratch cards in 2009.

- Both witnesses accepted that they were responsible for running their branches and that they could be
responsible for branch losses.

- Both had problems recollecting events, demonstrating the challenge in taking to trial old cases which would
typically be statute-barred from a Court hearing.

- This was further compounded with Mr Sabir, for whom English is a second language. Mr Sabir asked for
questions to be repeated on numerous occasions, before answering “I can’t remember” to many of them.

- We were able to advance creditable possibilities for each witnesses’ branch losses, challenging the inference
that these losses were “unexplained” and therefore could have been caused by a fault in Horizon.

- The strongest point for the Claimants today was Mrs Stubbs’ evidence about Post Office seeking recovery of
branch losses of c.£27k through standard BAU letters, at a time when she was disputing these losses and we
had said we were investigating them.

- This is of questionable relevance to the Common Issue being tried, but does feed into the Claimants’
narrative of Post Office being dismissive of postmaster complaints and blithely holding them responsible for
branch losses.

The Lead Claimants will continue to give evidence today.
Kind regards, Rod

Rodric Williams

Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand
20 Finsbury Street

2017 Winner of the Global
Postal Award for Customer

Experience

