POL00098158
POL00098158

Message

From: Alice Perkinsinan-

on behalf of Alice Perkins ¢

Sent: 08/05/2013 14:20:46
To: Paula Vennells!
Subject: Re: JA meeting

Thanks v much, Paula. Alwen gave me a heads-up. This sounds like a useful approach.
I am happy to be briefed more fully when the work you describe has been done.

And as you'd expect!, I agree we need to crack on with it.

Alice

coon- Original Message -
From: Paula Vennells £-
Sent: Wednesday, May 08, 2013 01:35 PM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: JA meeting

Alice,

Thank you for the challenge this am (honestly). Alwen, Mark, Susan and Simon have just finished briefing
me.

I'm happy the team have a suggestion that could wrap this up for us and for James. (Based on something he
wrote to Alan Bates of the JFSA, which is helpful.)

That's the good news.

The not so good is that it will not be popular with the JFSA, nor with Second Sight and possibly not with
some MPs.

Top line thoughts:
SS being wary of a different approach is not unhelpful or unexpected as they were employed as independent
investigators. James’ authority should be sufficient for their reputation and integrity, and ours.

James is also crucial for the other stakeholders. And so Mark is going to do some detailed plans for
stakeholder engagement, to help James think through what he might say to which group. We will have plans
for ourselves as well

The team are now going to prepare a detailed brief for the JA meeting, inc., stakeholder plans, internal
actions, his original concerns, training and improvements, etc. And I think it will work. We shall try to
go for next week.

It will be important to have your backing too for the suggested approach. Our next 121 is Wednesday. As I
am out for a couple of days, I will ask Alwen and Mark to brief you.

I hope that's ok?

Paula

Sent from my iPad

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended “for “the "addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0097741
