DO I NEED A CASH REMITTANCE?

Offices on ‘FLEXIBLE PLANNING’ will receive a ‘PLANNED
ORDER’ report on Horizon Online the day before any cash rem
is delivered.

To print the PLANNED ORDER report:

From Back Office

"Reports (F1)

"office Daily (F2)

"Planned Orders (24)

"Touch the line in the pick list for the Planned Order you
wish to print,

"SELECT, Then Enter

"PRINT or PREVIEW.

Most of the time this should meet your needs, but if you
are aware of something that will change your requirements
(Receiving a large deposit of making a high repayment), you
can alter the amount by contacting Network Support Services
on the day you receive the ‘PLANNED ORDER’. The PLANNED
ORDER will also show if you are required to send back a
cash remittance.

Coin is not included in the Flexible Planning and if coin
is required OR you have a Standard Remittance for Coin then
this should be ordered or amended separately by timescales
listed below.

Offices not on Flexible Planning will either have a
standard that will be sent to them each week, or they can
order as and when required. If you wish to change this
standard then call Network Support Services on the Numbers
below, by the times indicated.

Remember to give Network Support Services your Branch Code

Notes should be ordered by
cash arrives

v4.3 Aug 2011 Chris Gil

POL00033486
POL00033486

Coin should be ordered by .....

STOCK REMITTANCES

Stock must be ordered from the National Secure Stock Centre
(NSSC).
Refer to Stock and Stores Operational Manual.
From Front Office
e Licences and Government F5
© Compliance F2
e Stock Ordering 54

MY Stock is delivered ona. day

RECEIVING A REMITTANCE:

NOTE: You must deal with the CvIT delivery officer as soon
as possible. Extend your apologies to any customers who are
waiting to be served whilst this it taking place.

Once you have finished serving your current customer...

From Back Office
"Rems and Transfers (FS)
"Pouches - Delivery (21)

You must scan the barcode on each pouch or coin advice that
you receive. Then touch ENTER and PRINT (42) then touch
ENTER. Then touch ENTER again to produce your copy of Cash
Auto Settlement Receipt. Sign and date stamp both copies of
Delivery Receipt and hand one to the CvIT Delivery Officer
Retain the other copy with your weekly records.

The pouches and coin should immediately be secured in the
safe and left for at least 30 minutes until they are opened
and checked against the enclosed Remittance advices. This
should be done as soon as is operationally possible after
30 minutes, but should be done by the end of the day. You
must check the contents of each pouch carefully
POL00033486
POL00033486

If you have a discrepancy with any of your Remittances
please refer to Horizon Online Help facility or contact the
NBSC

V4.3 Aug 2011 Chris Gilding

46/1
ENTERING THE REMITTANCE ON TO HORIZON ONLINE

CASH (and FOREIGN CURRENCY)

Under the Automated remittance process, you SHOULD NOT have
to enter the cash received as it is automatically done by
the Horizon system. But you must check that the pouch has
the correct amount enclosed as soon as operationally
possible.

STOCK

From Back Office

"Rems & Transfers (F5)

"In From ADC (F2)

"From the enclosed advice note

"Enter Quantity (F15

"Select Product using Product Group buttons

"(View Full Basket F10 to check entries)

"Make sure that the grand total agrees with the advice
before you touch SETTLE.

DESTROYING VALUE STOCK
PHILATELIC ITEMS (FIRST DAY ENVELOPES AND STAMP CARDS)

These items are not returned but are destroyed after 1
Year. To account for the Destruction of this Stock:

From Back Office
"Stock Balancing (F3)
"Destroyed Stock (F3)
"Quantity (F15)
"Enter Number
"Select Product
"SETTLE

v4.3 Aug 2011 Chris Gil

POL00033486

POL00033486

SENDING A CASH REMITTANCE: NOTES AND

FOREIGN/MUTILATED COIN

Before starting this you should obtain a grey
bar-coded Remittance pouch. These pouches are for returning
‘Usable notes’ or ‘Unusable notes and coin’ to your LOCAL
Distribution centre. DO NOT use them for any other purpose.

The total value of any Cash remittance pouch must not
exceed £25,000

Note: You should only return Notes and Foreign and
Mutilated Coin once every 4 weeks OR when the total amount
is £1000 or more.

From Back Office
"Rems & Transfers F5)
"Out To ADC (F4)

Select - Notes (81).

On page 1 of the pick list, enter the value of each
different denomination of notes you are returning
(Remember - you can only return full envelopes of £20, £10
and £5 notes and any value of £50) Non Bank of England
Banknotes and mutilated notes should be entered as
‘unusable notes’ on page 2

Select - Coins (83)
Enter the total value of foreign and mutilated coin you are
returning.

When all of the cash is entered check the final total
figure then touch “ENTER”. Then SETTLE. The screen will
tell you to scan the pouch bar-code. Obtain the GREY pouch
and scan the barcode on the front. The system will print a
Rem Out list, which you should sign, datestamp and place in
the pouch along with the items you are returning. Seal the
pouch, enter the name of your Cash Centre on panel C AND
the amount contained in the Pouch.
POL00033486
POL00033486

Round the value up to the nearest thousand and write the
first digit in box C i.e. £845 would be rounded up to 1,000
and £11,400 would round up to £12,000 and 12

Finally, touch the screen to produce the office copy, which
should be retained with your weekly records. Place the
pouch in the safe until the next CvIT collection.

v4.3 Aug 2011 Chris Gil

sic SENDING A STOCK REMITTANCE:

Each month you will receive an RS1 which
will detail any stock you are scheduled to
return. Complete this form, and then
obtain a green bar-coded STOCK remittance
pouch.

NOTE: These pouches are for returning STOCK ONLY. DO NOT
use these pouches for any other purpose.

REMEMBER Do not overfill the pouches. If you have to use
more than one pouch to return stock, then complete the RS1
for the whole despatch, BUT complete a separate despatch
for each pouch. Then place the RS1 in the first pouch, and
mark each subsequent pouch Accordingly (i.e. 1 of 2, 2 of
2 etc)

From Back Office
"Rems & Transfers (F5)
"Out To ADC (F4)
"Enter Quantity (F15
"Select Stock Item

Enter all items of stock to be returned.

When all items are entered check the final Total figure
then touch ENTER then SETTLE. The screen should tell you to
scan a pouch. Obtain the Green stock pouch you will use for
these items and scan the barcode on it. The system will
then produce a receipt. Tear this receipt off, sign and
date stamp and attach to the top copy of the RS1 return
form. Put this into the green pouch with the stock, and
seal.

Touch the screen to produce the office receipt and attach
it to the under copy of the RS1 and file with the weekly
reports.

If you are using more than one pouch, repeat this process,
but as the RS1 is in pouch one, place the printout in the
pouch, preferably attached to some of the items being

v4.3 Aug 2011 Chris Gilding

46/1

POL00033486
POL00033486

returned. (Use an elastic band when possible) You can, of
course, attach the second copy to the RS1 as usual.

Enter your Branch code and the total number of STOCK
pouches you are returning (1 of 2, 2 of 2 etc

Place the pouch(es) in the safe until the next CvIT
collection.

SENDING A CASH REMITTANCE:
FULL BAGS OF COIN

Before starting this you should obtain a bar-coded label
(P6097). These come in a booklet.

REMEMBER. You can only return FULL bags of ‘usable’ coin
unless you have been given specific instructions otherwise.

From Back Office

"Rems & Transfers (F5)
"Out To ADC (F4)
"Usable Coin / Full Bag

Enter the number of bags you are returning against the
denomination

When all items are entered touch ENTER confirm the figure
then touch SETTLE

Scan the bar-coded label. This will produce a receipt with
the number of bags of each denomination of coin being
returned and total number of coin bags. This needs to be
signed and date stamped.

The bar-coded sticker should be stuck to the back of this
receipt, which should then be placed in a secure location,
to be handed to the CvIT Delivery Officer when they arrive
at your office

Touch Continue/Enter to produce the office copy, which
should be retained with your weekly records. Remember -
POL00033486
POL00033486

Keep the receipt and coin secure until the next CvIT
collection.

v4.3 Aug 2011 Chris Gilding

SENDING A FOREIGN CURRENCY REMITTANCE

Most Offices only need to return ‘Buy Backs’,
but any office that needs to return ANY
foreign currency should follow this process

First obtain a purple remittance pouch. These pouches must
not be used for any other purpose.

From Back Office

"Rems & Transfers (F5)

"Out To ADC (F4)

"Select either - Currency (51) or Travellers Cheques (53)

Select the Currency and type in the amount. Select next
Currency and type in the amount. When all have been entered
touch ENTER. Confirm amounts then touch SETTLE

Scan bar-code on the pouch. Place printed Stock Return
Advice in Pouch and touch Continue/ Enter to print the
office copy of the despatch, which should be retained with
your weekly records.

Complete section C on the front of the pouch and place it
in a secure place until collection.

For amounts under £9000 - Round the value up to the nearest
thousand and write the first digit in box C i.e. £845 would
be rounded up to 1,000 and 1 written in box C.

For amounts over £9000 - Round the value up to the nearest
thousand and write the first two digits in box C lee.
£11,400 would round up to £12,000 and 12 written in box C

PREPARING FOR YOUR COLLECTION

Once you have completed the remittances you can then get
them ready for collection by CvIT Delivery Officer You can
do this any time after you have completed the Rem Out
procedure and before CvIT Delivery Officer arrives.

v4.3 Aug 2011 Chris Gilding

46/1

POL00033486
POL00033486

From Back Office
"Rems & Transfers (F5)
"Prepare Collection (22)

And you will be prompted to scan the barcodes on each pouch
or coin rem you have prepared. When you have finished
scanning, touch ENTER and then Print. The system will print
two receipts. If you have prepared a coin rem then you must
write the number of each type of coin bag against the
relevant line on this printout. If you discover that you
need to do another remittance, complete the above, but only
scan in the extra pouches/coin slip. When the system prints
out the collection receipts, this will replace any ones
printed earlier (which can be discarded).

Place all remittance pouches and coin, being collected in a
fully secure area (i.e. your safe) until the CvIT Delivery
Officer arrives.

COLLECTION OF REMITTANCES BY CIT:

When the CvIT Delivery Officer arrives, inform them that
you have items to be collected.

They MUST produce an Authorised Collectors Card
(ACC), which looks similar to this:

The large red numbers indicate the expiry date of
the card and the black stripe shown here is in
fact a barcode.

Back Office
*"Rems & Transfers (F5)
"Despatch (23)

Scan the barcode on the ACC. Accept the message on the
screen

PLEASE NOTE
If Horizon Online is becomes unavailable before the Prepare
Collection is done, hand the pouches to CvIT Delivery
Officer who will scan the pouches and produce a receipt
that lists the pouch numbers and the Authorised Collector
Card number for entry into Horizon Online when it becomes
available again.

v4.3 Aug 2011 Chris Gil

ng GRO

46/1

POL00033486
POL00033486
