POL00100223
POL00100223

Message

From: Theresa Iles [IMCEAEX-
__O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=THERESA+2EC+2EILESFI

72BC-4825-9716-387136971F13

on
behalf

of

Sent: 11/02/2014 15:4
To: alasdairmarnoc}

Hi Alasdair

As I’m going to be travelling during the ARC call and may have problems with the signal, I thought I’d send you quick
note in advance summarising my thoughts on the prosecutions paper.

In short, on balance I agree with the recommendation to pursue option B, at least for the time being.

As I set out in my email on Sunday, I do believe there are a number of factors which distinguish us from other financial
institutions who are content not to pursue their own prosecutions — our scale, our unique relationship with sub-
postmasters, the amount of cash that is handled by our branches (and in many cases by individuals who are not
employees), our large number of vulnerable customers who are more easily defrauded, and the fact that public money is
at stake.

While I can appreciate the attractiveness of a ‘clean’ option like C, the three key considerations in my mind are as
follows:

e With the sub-postmaster mediation process underway and continued close interest from the media and MPs in
all our actions in this area, any change of policy is likely to be closely scrutinised and over-interpreted — with the
likely inference drawn that this is an admission that we were wrong to pursue prosecutions in the past. This is
compounded by the fact that we will be shortly launching the procurement process for the replacement to the
Horizon system — something which we were due to do now in any case, but the media will inevitably attempt to
link the two stories and suggest this is an admission that we needed to fundamentally overhaul our systems and
processes in the wake of the Second Sight report. This will overshadow the positive story we have about the
actual changes we’re making in the context of the Business Improvement Programme.

e Secondly, I do believe there is a need to have an effective deterrent effect and to protect our vulnerable
customers. If the view is correct that the CPS is overstretched, then relying on the CPS is likely to be inadequate
in this respect. By retaining the option to pursue prosecutions in certain circumstances, but putting in place
effective filters to reduce substantially the number of cases which go down this route and outsourcing the
associated investigatory activity, we will still be able to meet these objectives while extracting the PR and
operating cost benefits of option C.

e Thirdly, I do not believe it is currently in the business interests (including those going through the mediation
process) to put anything relating to this policy adjustment on our website, nor to communicate that adjustment
proactively. The fewer cases coming through, the fact that fewer ‘on hold’ cases will proceed to prosecution
and the improved ways of working should speak for themselves. We may want to revisit this view over time and
the end of the mediation process would be a sensible moment to do that.

If the ARC agree with the overall conclusion in the paper, we should of course review the situation in 12 months and

periodically thereafter to check that the filters are operating as effectively as intended and we're still striking the right
balance between these difficult considerations.

POL-0099806
POL00100223
POL00100223

look forward to speaking later.

Paula

POL-0099806
