POL00151290
POL00151290

From: Belinda Crowe[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FY DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=BELINDA+20CROWE79B93F 1 1-569F-4526-A078-
F5B4958A8917220@C72A47 ingest.local]

Sent: Thur 26/02/2015 10:50:49 AM (UTC)

To: Patrick BourkeI
Wechslerf.

Andrew{}.

Jonathan, ; Loraine
Barkerfj¢
Ce: Rodric
ark R Davies[tt "GRO
Chris
Subject: 260215 0934 Scheme Report (2).docx
Attachment: 260215 0934 Scheme Report (2).docx

Please find attached a further draft of the final report. It is still rather messy in terms of formatting but that can be
sorted out at the end.

Patrick will spend the rest of the day working on this.

Below is my view of what we are aiming for and where we are. Please let me know if you agree/disagree or whether I
have missed something.
© The aim of the report is to:
o Tell the story of the Scheme so far — all that we have done
o Provide a comprehensive document to which we can point media and Fol requesters — it should answer
most questions
o Provide a rebuttal to Second Sight’s Part two in the event that that becomes public (we should know
pretty well what it will say from what they have produced previously and their questions to date
© Set the scene and start to explain
e The tone of the report should be factual, dispassionate but robust without being defensive
e The report should:
o Tell the story with as much detail as possible
o Have annexed to it -or contain relevant links - as many documents as possible so that the ‘evidence’ is
all in one place)
o Include full details of Post Office’s assessment of the investigation findings, responses to the second
Sight ‘themes’ and what steps we have taken to make improvements - the latter being without any
suggestion of systemic failings (which there were not) but to illustrate that we took this seriously
(which we did), we listen, learn and improve (because we do) and that the fact that we have defended
our position where appropriate based on the facts and evidence of the cases does not mean that we
have simply ignored the feedback of spmrs (because we have not)
e The report is work in progress as follows:
o Mel has drafted an exec summary — this is included for comment
o Andy parsons is drafting something about the Scheme process and how it has changed over the lifetime
of the Scheme
o Jonny and Paul are pulling together the bumper section which sets out under each theme:
= The Second Sight allegations/questions
= Ashort summary of what Post Office found from its investigation findings
" Post Office’s position (there is a lot of detail, especially in relation to prosecutions and ‘remote
POL00151290
POL00151290

access’ which must go in and on the latter I think we should draw as heavily as we can on Spot
review 5 without breaching confidence)
= What Post Office is doing under branch improvements (if anything)
e Inthe meantime Patrick is going to run through the report to tidy the narrative, consider the structure and
organise it so that it makes sense and tells the story in the most compelling way. Patrick will also look at how
best to present the allegations and responses in a way that best meets the requirements of the document.

In terms of timings, this needs to be finalised as early as possible next week, therefore:
e Jonny/Paul to have their section completed tomorrow
e Andy Parsons, could you please let us have your bit on the Scheme processes today?
e Inthe meantime could everyone make any drafting suggestions and let mark have them and he will maintain
version control.
¢ I would like to be able to put round, by close of play tomorrow, a version with most of the content in so that
Monday can be spent going through it. I also want Angela to be able to see a version over the weekend.

Happy to discuss
Best wishes
Belinda
