POL00139711
POL00139711

Meeting: 16 October 2013

Attendees:

Team/Function Attendees

Legal Rodric Williams (RW)
Jarnail Singh (JS)
Martin Smith of Cartwright King (CK)
Andy Parson (AP)
Kayleigh Harding (KH)

Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay (RI)

Security Dave Posnet (DP)

Communications N/A

Network Gayle Peacock (GP)
Wendy Mahoney (WM)

Information Technology & Change (IT&C) N/A

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) Kendra Dickinson (KD)

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps
Prestbury Waiting for feedback — to remain open
ATM Gluing DP

Case

1. Monday 9 Sept - met with Alan Smith met with Phil Dowdry of
BO! - BO! view investigation will have to run its course and will
not settle any cases until Police investigation complete.

2. PO legal reviewed contract, likely to get back what was lost.
Each department liable for actions of sub-contractor. Liability cap
£100k.

3. Do not want to go contract route and seek to settle goodwill.
4. Phil arranging meeting to discuss.

Cap on losses at 2 branches. Engineer has visited branches. If
charged and prosecuted it will be in the public domain. Business
decision to be made whether to resolve issues. GP and RW to

4A_27613975_1 1
POL00139711
POL00139711

discuss approach to branch losses.

Bonymean and Sandy Park Road - 2 other branches which may
not be related. 2 branches in Wales which have had ATM visit,
both have had Wincor engineer and losses ever since. Contract
manager contacting Wincor direct.

GP to forward details to DP for review.

Rhigos Branch

Ongoing - same approach as Nelson

Post & Go

No update as SB not present.

Belfast Refresh

RW - reviewed information sent by SB. IT expert to be sourced to
look at the system and be satisfied migration preserves integrity of
the data. Project team made aware.

Nelson Requested SB team goes to branch and explains technical side of
system to SPM.
Pontycymer Same approach to be used as in Nelson. Visit to explain system to

prevent issues being raised.

Martin Griffiths

DP — No further details on Horizon issue. SPM passed away.

Stock

reconciliation

Branch training and support — to be closed on log.

Branch accounting issue but no Horizon issue.

Carluke Post
Office

MS — no update. Discussed with Scottish Solicitors BTO and
ordering Police to release statements. Informed decision on how
to respond once statements received. To be kept open.

South Darenth

Question as to whether NBSC properly capturing complaint.

KD — where Horizon cited as a problem, in particular a system
error, issue to be flagged to NBSC with reference number so
decision can be made as to whether it can be resolved through
the normal process or whether it needs to be escalated for special
attention.

KD to feed back to this call regarding how many complaints raised
versus the numbers escalated.

RW - Once Horizon disputed, it needs to be flagged. SPM to be
questioned as to where discrepancy exists. To prevent further

4A_27613975_1
POL00139711
POL00139711

issues in debt recovery process.

New Issues Identified

Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments

RW Legal No Issues

JS Legal No Issues

MS Legal No Issues

AP Legal

RI FSc Twitter — Incorrect address lists used. Data managing team called

the branches as a result of tweets and apologised. Approach
appreciated by the branches and issue resolved.

DP Security Bruce Grow — Officer in charge cashing forged Giro cheques.
Matter escalated through Court from DWP. Evidence provided to
confirm user name which cashed Giro cheques. Defence were to
cite Horizon integrity. Questions raised in Court with regard to
Horizon and issues with system. POL employee (Sharon)
confirmed she had not encountered any glitches personally and in
any event she is not technical expert.

KD NBSC No issues
WM No issues
GP Network Rodmill — issues log amalgamated. Complaint sent before second

site came into play direct to Paula. Complaint cited many issues
with Horizon. Stock reconciliation, numbers do not match and
challenged. Recording of 1* and 2"¢ class label sales. Not clear
whether this has been investigated.

GP to circulate information on Rodmill.

JFSA agreed if offices with similar problem — only one branch to
be investigated.

GP to look into which branches with complaints that have not
been dealt with and report back.

4A_27613975_1 3
POL00139711
POL00139711

Action Points
1. Prestbury — await feedback. GP to report back.
ATM Gluing Case - GP to forward details to DP for review regarding 2 other branches.
ATM Gluing Case - GP and RW also to discuss 2 branches on hold and way forward.
Nelson, Rhigos and Pontycymer — member of SB team to visit branch and explain technical side
to SPM.
Post & Go — SB to update further in due course.

Pen

Belfast Refresh — RW to update further in due course.
Carluke Post Office — MS to liaise with BTO in an attempt to obtain statements from Police.
South Darenth — KD to update regular figures re Horizon complaints and matters escalated.

© anon

Rodmill — GP to circulate information regarding Rodmill. GP also to look into branches where
complaints may have not been dealt with and report back.

4A_27613975_1 4
