POL00245685
POL00245685

Message

From: PearceA

on behalf of  PearceA

Sent: 24/10/2016 15:22:28 = ~
To: Rodric Williams

Subject: CCRC - Ron Warmington’s report?

Hi Rodric,

I’ve managed to find a bit more information about the report which Ron Warmington apparently
wrote. Ron tells me that:

“I wrote the report on The Investigations Function in 2013 at the specific verbal request of the
then General Counsel Susan Crichton - who later shared with me her concerns about POL's
Investigation Department ('POID').

Later, in the latter part of January 2014 as I recall, my colleague lan Henderson sent a copy of
the report (still marked 'Draft' as Far as I recall) to Chris Aujard, who at that time was Post
Office's General Counsel, copying Belinda Crowe at POL. Aujard had asked to see a copy of
the report after its existence was mentioned at a meeting of the Mediation Working Group.
POL ought to be able to locate a copy of that email - to which the report was attached. As
mentioned, it was sent by lan to those two POL employees, copying also myself. “

I hope that will help to track it down.
I’m not in work for the rest of the week, but I'll be back on Monday 31° if you need to speak to me.

Thanks,
Amanda

Amanda Pearce

Group Leader

Criminal Cases Review Commission
Tel:

www.ccre.gov.uk

The Criminal Cases Review Commission

5 St Philip's Place
Birmingham
B3 2PW

JOH IOI O IOSD IO IDI IOI IID IIB IOI EIST IOI II ISO II IIIS ODI IAI IIS IIIA

The information contained in this e-mail and any files transmitted with it is
confidential and is intended for the use of the person(s) or entity named above.
If you are not the intended recipient of this communication, any disclosure,
copying, distribution, or any action taken in reliance on it is prohibited and

POL-BSFF-0083748
may be unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please
return it immediately to the sender by replying to it and then delete the
message from your computer.

We may monitor the content of e-mails sent and received via our network for the
purposes of ensuring compliance with policies and procedures.

Viruses: Although we have taken steps to ensure that this e-mail and attachments
are free from any virus we advise that in keeping with good computing practice
the recipient should ensure they are actually virus free.

POL00245685
POL00245685

POL-BSFF-0083748_0001
