POL00096584

POLO0096584

Terms of Reference

Post Office Ltd —- proposal for an independent review of the Company’s systems
relating to the occurrence of apparent shortfalls in individual PO branch accounts

Objectives & Scope

The Post Office has instructed, 2nd Sight Limited to conduct an independent review of existing cases
where concerns have been raised by MPs, and/or Shoesmiths have issued proceedings.

This will include the following:

Reviewing all company-held documentation focussing on why shortfalls occurred.

Interviewing company investigators to gain insights and to verify their findings,

Reviewing defence submissions.

[Reviewing all materials from the viewpoint of the Defence — DN Don't understand this; do we need
it? And if so, why do we need the previous bullet, and do we want only to focus on the viewpoint of the
defence?] .,

Studying and selectively testing, the ‘Horizon’ system, (to the extent possible given the change in
systems in 20..).

The reviewers will meet any MP or any of the SubPostmasters/SubPostmistresses affected at their
request.

The review will reach conclusions on each case and identify any systemic issues/concerns
Information independent investigators

2nd Sight Limited investigators have extensive knowledge of complex financial computer systems; Ron
Warmington, is a Director of 2" Sight and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and a
member of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners. He spent 35 years working for two of the
world's largest banks latterly specialising in forensic fraud investigations. His fellow Director is lan
Henderson, is also a Chartered Accountant, IT Auditor and a Forensic Computer Examiner. His
previous roles have included Head of Investigations at the Personal Investment Authority and prior to
that he held a number of roles with Lloyds of London. .

Timescales and Costs

It is anticipated that the review will commence in late June or early July. Post Office Limited hope to be
in a position to publish its findings in the autumn.
