POL00099103
POL00099103

Message
From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To:

ce:

Subject:

Paula

I don't believe that we can use systemic in relation to Post Office, and he's missed the point that this relates to
Horizon - this shouldn't change. If it does we will need to agree with Fujitsu.

Thematic in terms of support and processes would work, as long as its clear it relates to the cases which have
been raised. We must remember that these cases are a small proportion of the vast number of agents we have.

Regards
Lesley
Sent from my iPad

On 8 Jul 2013, at 07:30, "Paula Vennells" GRO + wrote:

Morning all!

Can we do something to diffuse this? See below note from Alan Bates. Helpful that we now have
arelationship is the starting point. The subsequent is that he has a problem - he has been using
the word systemic in relation to the PO and not Horizon.... I suggest you read the note.

I could do with a line before I speak with Alan at 9am. The problem is that the statement he
doesn't like is in the SS report, which of course produced the outcome we needed in respect of
Horizon. I do not wish to change that. We could show willing by adapting something in our
statement. But I need to understand better from him what is wrong as we have clearly said there
were shortcomings in handling and response. Mark, if you are in, it might be good if you sit in
the 9am call, so that you can hear his issue.

What is good news is that he is looking for another word (last line). It would be good to find one
because if he goes back to using 'systemic’ in relation to the PO failures to respond, we are not
necessarily in a much better place.

Paula

Sent from my iPad.

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alan Bate
Date: 7 July 2013 21
To: ‘Paula Vennells'
Subject: RE: Draft statement

POL-0098686
POL00099103
POL00099103

Hello Paula, I know we will be speaking in the morning, but I thought it
only fair let you know that apart from a few general points there is one
comment that we, JFSA, would have a problem with if asked.

"The report confirms that no systemic problems have been found in relation
to the Horizon system, but suggests that the Post Office should examine its
support and training processes for subpostmasters."

It is the "no systemic problems" comment, and from reading the report it
seems to be because they replaced the word "systemic" with "thematic".

In the past I have made it very clear to many others that it is the

"systemic failures of Post Office" in areas relating to investigation,
support, training, etc., that we believe have been the root cause of so many
victims problems. With that comment as it stands undoubtedly I would be
asked many questions about it.

It seems the use of the word "systemic" is causing us both concem, is there
an alternative?

Regards
Alan

From: Paula Vennells
Sent: 07 July 2013 20:26

To: Alan Bates

Subject: Fwd: Draft statement

Dear Alan, I haven't heard back from you, so I trust you don't mind
receiving this mail on a Sunday evening. (I texted earlier this evening to
check if it would be ok to send you our draft statement and a copy of the SS
report.)

I understand you already have the report. I attach the Post Office draft
statement. We have worked hard on this to retain balance but also to
demonstrate as I mentioned when we spoke on Thursday and Friday, that I am
very serious about how we do respond - with openness to listen and with a
keenness to improve where things could be better.

You will see that I have suggested three commitments, which we will put in
place and I hope as you indicated on our calls, that you will be prepared to
work with us to participate collaboratively and to oversee or help implement
the recommendations.

Additionally, I will as promised meet with you personally after tomorrow, to
hear the detail on how one or two of the past cases were handled, which you
think should be brought to my attention.

Alan - I have just received your text. That is fine, I will try to call you
around 9am tomorrow. And we can fix up where to meet at 3pm at the same

POL-0098686
POL00099103
POL00099103

time.
Kind regards,

Paula

IRI OIRO OI ISI SICIRICIOII OI IOI ICICICI IDI] IOI ISI CI ICICI I I ROR OR ICIC ICICI aR aR aR FHC AIC CCK aR aR OR ICRC HCC aK Ra
eo

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,

disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

Tf you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email

and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed
within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise

specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

HEC RR RR FAIR RR RRR OR RR FCF OR RF Ao RR RR Ra aR RR AC a a
dee

POL-0098686
