POL00099037

POL00099037

Message

From: Alan Bates;

on behalf of Alan Batesi_

Sent: 06/07/2013

To: Paula Vennells

Subject: RE: Proposed way forward

Thanks Paula, look forward to seeing you then. - Alan

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 06 July 2013 11:22
To: Alan Bates
Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Sorry - if course - 3pm is fine. P

Sent fro’

On 6 Jul

m my iPhone

2013, at 11:13, "Alan Bates" < _> wrote:
Paula, can we set time to meet, as I have mentioned previously any time after 3pm would be alright with
both Kay and me, whatever suits your diary. - Alan

From: Paula Vennells {. GRO i
Sent: 06 July 2013 10:35

To: Alan Bates

Subject: Re: Proposed way forward

Alan, thank you for the note. Yes, I thought the meeting with James was positive too. My main concern
is still how we manage the publicity, to avoid - as you said - it 'going ballistic’.

We had a useful conversation re a statement from James with quotes from you and me, or possible joint
statement. And agreed we would pick up again on Monday.

Ours is now bring re-worked in the light of that and as we liaise with SS over the weekend on some
changes to the report where it is factually inaccurate. I am hopeful these will be addressed.

Once I have a final draft, I would be happy to send across to you.

It would be good to meet on Monday. And as I haven't met Kay, then I would be happy to extend the
meeting to include her and I would bring Alwen Lyons, who is our Company Secretary - Alwen has been
the key lead on the liaison with James' office.

In the meantime, I hope you enjoy the glorious weather - at last!

Paula

Ps. You were on my list to call today but I imagine this email exchange is sufficient now? However, if you
would like to speak at any time, don't hesitate to text me.

Sent from my iPad

On 6 Jul 2013, at 09:51, "Alan Bates" <

POL-0098620
POL00099037
POL00099037

Hello Paula

I understand the meeting with James Arbuthnot went well on Friday and I believe he will
be discussing his views with me on Monday morning.

1am sure you will agree that it is important that we have even an outline document of
the proposed way forward we have discussed, before the MPs’ meeting. As soon as it is
available, I would appreciate seeing your version of what is proposed, hopefully
amended to address the comment below.

Looking through my notes from our last conversation, there is an early item of concern,
that being the name of the panel which you referred to as the ‘user group’. Whilst I can
appreciate you want such a group to continue on into the future, at which time such a
name may be suitable. Initially, and whilst it is also looking at the issues surrounding the
report and the cases, possibly ‘task group’ or ‘working party’ might be more accurate, as
technically, the bulk of JFSA are ex users, and others will no doubt pick up on the

name. I could offer ‘review board’, but I could see that might not be acceptable.

Regarding Monday 8", do you still want to meet? If we do meet, and others are to
attend, I would like Kay Linnell, who has been working with us for the last year, to
accompany me. With travel arrangement to finalise, I would appreciate a response to
that point as soon as you are able to let me know.

Regards

Alan

peeeeerrenrenererrecirerererersrreretrnierrererrrrerrer re rtr rrr titty

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH IRI ISO ADO IO HOD IO IO DIO SIO IOI III SOIT ADI AISA IIIII A IIE

POL-0098620
