POL00065471

POL00065471
Message
From: Jane MacLeod < _— 1
onbehalf of Jane Macleod <} GRO kK]
Sent: 03/08/2015 07:43 —
To: Avene O'Farrell J; Mark R Davies I J Alisdair
Subject: RE: Sparrow

Thursday morning works best for me as I chair the RCC in the afternoon

& Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number

From: Avene O'Farrell

Sent: 03 August 2015 08:41

To: Mark R Davies; Alisdair Cameron
Cc: Jane MacLeod

Subject: RE: Sparrow

Dear ail,

if we did have a say in the timings of the meeting on Thursday, should it go ahead, morning would be preferable, ideally
between 9-1pm if possible. Paula is due to be travelling from around 3pm onwards and then out of office on Friday fyi.

Best,

Avene

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 03 August 2015 08:11

To: Alisdair Cameron

Cc: Jane MacLeod; Paula Vennells
Subject: Re: Sparrow

Hi all

I've been thinking about this at the weekend and agree broadly with Al.

There is a political element to this as well. BNR is discomfited because Bridgen is a Tory MP when govt has
tiny majority. He also chairs a key committee which will be overseeing work she is directly responsible for. So

our approach should focus on Bridgen as much as possible.

He has responded to our (fourth) offer to meet him and his constituent (Rudkin) and agreed to put the offer to
Rudkin.

POL-0061950
POL00065471
POL00065471

So we should keep up the pressure here and I think also consider how we can get the reality out there: could we
brief Govt lawyers on the individual cases in confidence so BNR has full picture? Can we do the same with
BBC lawyers?

T've thought about trying to hook in with a journalist to counter brief but it is hugely risky in my view. But we
should discuss.

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

© wrote:

Thanks Jane. My feeling is that anything we give that is process oriented — another review etc — will not
satisfy our critics but simply make them hungrier. Our position today should be, I think, “You can’t make
them happy with this stuff, the only way to reduce the noise is to hold your nerve and let them go to law
if they have a case.” I am very supportive of getting another MP in there to balance Bridgen. The issue in
BNR’s mind, turns, I suspect, on Panorama, which airs while she is on holiday. I also gently reminded
officials last week that we are still playing nice but that doesn’t have to be the case with the others
making stuff up and breaching confidentiality. Would we, for example, start counter-briefing a couple of
journalists, using some of the MPs who felt Bridgen misled them? Al

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 02 August 2015 18:30

To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Alisdair Cameron; Mark R Davies
Subject: Sparrow

Paula

Apologies for interrupting your holiday, but I wanted to give you a heads up on further Sparrow
developments while you have been away, and which you will need to be aware of before Thursday.

In summary, the Minister has had incoming from Andrew Bridgen last week, as a result of which she has
asked for a meeting with you this week (likely to be Thursday) and has asked for ‘options’. Both Al and!
have had conversations with BIS regarding this, and Mark and I will be working further on this over the
next few days, and will brief you as soon as you are back in the office.

The background to this week’s issue is as follows:

e AsI think you are aware, although SS have now completed their work and we have agreed to mediate all
cases which do not involve a court finding, the majority of applicants have now advised that are
withdrawing from mediation pending some sort of government sponsored enquiry. We have written to
them asking them to re-engage with us, but stating that if we have not heard from them by early
September, we will consider that they have withdrawn permanently from the Scheme.

POL-0061950
POL00065471

POL00065471

Last Monday (27) we wrote to Second Sight advising that as their work had concluded, they should
return all documentation to us in accordance with the terms of the confidentiality undertakings
contained in their Engagement letter. We also addressed a data protection point which is not relevant
to this discussion, but may become an issue going forward.

It is clear that following receipt of that letter, Second Sight (in breach of their confidentiality
undertakings) ensured that Andrew Bridgend was immediately aware of our instruction to return/
destroy materials, and he then complained to the Minister that we were destroying materials. As a
result, I wrote to the Minister on Wednesday and have given her an undertaking that any materials
returned to us by SS would be held by Bond Dickinson. This undertaking was (mis)-reported in the
Sunday Telegraph today:

“The Government assured MPs in June that an independent report had found “no evidence” of
difficulties with the Horizon IT software used in 11,500 post offices. However, the authors of the report
have now written to ministers to complain that their findings have been misrepresented.... Mr Bridgen
said he had asked ministers to order the Post Office to pass its evidence to a firm of solicitors to ensure
it was not destroyed. The minister responsible, Baroness Neville-Rolfe, told Mr Bridgen last week that
she had taken up the issue with the Post Office, which had agreed to pass on its evidence.”
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/royal-mail/11778288/Post-Office-under-fire-over-IT-
system.html)

I spoke to Laura Thompson from BIS on Friday and asked what she thought the issues were from the
Minister’s perspective. The messages from LN-R are clearly mixed and Laura wasn’t really clear whether
the concerns were as to merit or process. The three points I took away are:

‘no one is opining on the merits of the case’
LN-R wants something to happen
LN-R wants options.

The latter two are consistent with the conversation that Al had with BIS on Tuesday. We have proposed
(and had accepted) a further meeting between Post Office and the Minister this week (likely to be
Thursday) and subject to your thoughts, this should be you, plus Mark and me.

I have also suggested to Laura that we will:

prepare a pack for the Minister which we will send ahead of the meeting, and which we will then talk to
in more detail in the meeting.

ask CEDR if they would be prepared to speak to either LN-R or BIS regarding their observations of the
mediation process which they conduct. In particular why mediations are ‘failing’ (we have 8/20
mediations which failed to reach a resolution). CEDR issued us a letter on Friday setting out their
observations of the process and have confirmed that they would be prepared to meet LN-R/BIS. Their
letter is consistent with the one they issued in March. It confirms that one of the issues is that applicants

POL-0061950
POL00065471

POL00065471

expect the scheme to be about compensation and are therefore dissatisfied when that is not the
outcome.

reach out to the MPs that we have spoken to and see if they would be prepared to have a discussion
with LNR about their observations. Patrick has initiated this and we are waiting to hear back.

As regards ‘options’ —we are all very nervous about this, particularly as it is unclear whether the issue is
‘merit’ or process. The focus now seems to be on ‘non-criminal cases’ given that the CCRC is reviewing
criminal cases. The difficulty is that a review as to ‘merits’ effectively replicates a judicial process, and is
not a process that we could deliver in so far as we do not have access to the applicants’ materials, so we
are only able to give ‘our side’. This doesn’t really take us any further than what we have done to date
through the investigation and review process undertaken by SS.

There are 3 law firms who have, over the last 3-4 years, been instructed to act for multiple applicants;
however to date, nothing has emerged from that process (and indeed, despite assertions from JFSA that
there are many other affected postmasters, no one new has come forward other than those who
originally sought to be included in the scheme). We have already funded each applicant in so far as we
have (a) paid Second Sights’ costs to review each applicants’ file, and (b) made a contribution towards
the applicants’ professional adviser’s costs of preparing for mediation.

As you are aware, we have had over 40 applicants lodge Data Subject Access Requests (‘DSARs’). I don’t
have with me the split of criminal/non-criminal cases, nevertheless my expectation is that these
materials will make their way to the various law firms that are now involved with a view to those firms
considering whether there are grounds for a civil action (possibly a class action) against PO.

It is clear that disgruntled applicants (JFSA, Bridgen and others) believe that we should be paying
compensation. Accordingly any ‘option’ that does not result in compensation is bound to fail to meet
expectations and will only prolong the issue. Financial settlements have been made in certain cases
through mediation, although this is not a pre-determined outcome.

lam therefore struggling to identify what further ‘options’ are available that we could propose that
would be an appropriate use of PO money (eg I am not advocating payments to applicants outside the
mediation process) in addition to the significant amounts that we have already spent, or that would give
rise to a different outcome. Clearly the Minister is entitled to call for some kind of public enquiry at
government cost but again, she would need to be certain that this will produce a different outcome
from that already available to applicants. Details of what we have spent to date (including though
mediation) will be included in the briefing pack.

We are meeting with Laura tomorrow (Monday) so that we can review where we have got to. Laura &
Richard Callard are briefing LN-R on Tuesday on another matter, and Laura is concerned that Sparrow
will come up.

POL-0061950
POL00065471
POL00065471

We will brief you on developments as soon as you are back in the office, but should you wish to discuss,
we are all available to do so.

With apologies for interrupting your holiday,
Kind regards,

Jane.

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
<< OLE Object: Picture (Device Independent Bitmap) oe rs Steet
>> LONDON
EC2Y GAQ

Mobile number:

POL-0061950
