POL00311320

POL00311320
From: Melanie Corfield[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MELANIE CORFI1DE623C2-38B2-49FB-AEQA-
12E4B20D626720C]
Sent: Fri 30/01/2015 1:45:40 PM (UTC)

To: Mark R Davies!
Subject: FW: Remote Access: in strictest confidence

To see — will check if I have heard back from Lesley on the second part of this re compliance tests etc.

From: Melanie Corfield

Sent: 30 January 2015 09:22

To: Lesley J Sewell

Subject: Remote Access: in strictest confidence

Hello Lesley

Below is the current Q and A we have been using on this, in liaison with Fujitsu (and which is in line with FOls we have
had on the subject).

Regarding the testing and standards, I have pasted below what we have said in FOI but this is from 2011 so might well
have changed. Grateful for detail on this.

Many thanks

Mel

Remote Access
There are very concerning stories about remote access to Horizon that might have contributed or
been the reason for unexplained changes being made to postmasters accounts — how do you
explain changes to accounts at times when postmasters could not possibly have had access
themselves?

¢ Transaction data in branch accounts can’t be changed remotely

« No evidence of malicious tampering

There is very selective, misleading and incorrect information being put into the public

domain about a number of cases. Much of this is not actually included in any allegations or complaints put
to us by applicants and also changes in nature and detail.

Post Office cannot breach the privacy and confidentiality of individual applicants by discussing their cases,
even in the face of unsubstantiated, baseless or malicious allegations. To do so would lead to us being
accused of breaching confidentiality and undermining the Scheme and mediation process. So we have
been limited in the public comment we can make.

‘ost Office or Fujitsu to edit, manipulate or
Temove transaction data once it has been
recorded in a branch's accounts. It is possible for Fujitsu to view branch data in order to
provide support and conduct maintenance but this does not allow access to any
functionality that could be used to edit recorded transaction data.
There is also no evidence at all of any malicious remote tampering.

So it is not possible to alter postmasters’ accounts remotely?

itis not possible to edit or tamper with a transaction once it has been made.

It is possible to add transactions in order to make a correction. This is extremely rare, is carried ou
the right level of security and it cannot be done without a postmaster’s knowledge.

Can you rule out remote fraud or cybercrime?

There is no evidence at all of this in any of the investigations carried out - there is no evidence that
Horizon has not worked as it should do. No company can completely prevent cybercrime but there is
nothing to suggest that this has caused any of the issues that have been complained about.

We adhere to industry standards , regulatory and compliance requirements. [Details to be provided
separately]

POL00311320
POL00311320

Mel Corfield
Communications Team
1* Floor — Old Street

