POL00231031
POL00231031

From: Melanie Corfieldf
Sent: Fri 07/08/2015 10:11:24 AM (UTC)
To: Mark R Daviesff

Subject: RE: Panorama

Good - cos I thought his email was a bit snotty and patronising (and why was I getting mentioned so much?!)
James Millen gave me a call, he's sensible - think comms reporting to Marketing is always a mistake....!

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 07 August 2015 09:52
To: Melanie Corfield
Subject: Fwd: Panorama

T spoke to Simon and all ok.

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Post Office Ltd

Begin forwarded message:

From: Carter Simon <
Date: 7 August 2015 1

Ce: Melanie Corfield ¢ “GRO. >, Millen James

Mark,

As we have agreed with Mel, Fujitsu is NOT planning a separate response, but as always, we are
happy to support & contribute to the Post Office's rebuttal, and will refer any enquiries we receive
following the broadcast to your Press Office.

In terms of the whistle-blower, I guess my candid response is that we will need to see/hear what
they say, and then decide whether a response is required. However, we are NOT planning on the
need for a response - and to be clear - if we did feel the need having seen/heard it, we would
discuss that with Mel first.

Tam very happy to join a call, or leave it to Mel/my team - we are confident in how all parties
have acted in this situation, but these are some of the challenges that we have to face as major
brands - it was the same when I was doing your job, as I am sure it is for you today!

Simon
POL00231031
POL00231031

From: Mark R Davies [
Sent: 07 August 20

mailto:

Millen James

Cc: Melanie Corfield
Subject: Panorama

Simon, James.

As you will know Panorama is planning a programme on the Post Office and the Horizon
computer system on August 17. We have issued a very strong rebuttal and statement.

I understand that Fujitsu has issued a short line to the programme and I understand why. But as
you will know the programme plans to feature a whistleblower who will make allegations which
we are unsighted on except in broad terms.

I wanted to get a sense from you as to how you plan to respond: will you put someone up to deal
with media generated off the back of a Panorama? I am concerned that however far fetched the
allegations they could be regarded as "new" and a detailed rebuttal will be necessary.

Can you let me know your thoughts? We might also look to have a call today or next week?

Best wishes
Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director Post Office Ltd

Mobile:

2A RR AR A RR I RR IRR A RR IRR A CCAR RI ACRE RCAC RI CORO GR ACO a a a aE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2 RR RR ORR A ORR AO RR A ORR FO RR ORR FOR GRR AOR RI RGR ao oR a a

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu
(FTS) Limited, or from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of
confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been

intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street,
POL00231031
POL00231031

London W1U 3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street,
London W1U 3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office
Hayes Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office
Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
