POL00097786
POL00097786

Message
From:
Sent:

To:
Subject: Fwd: Meeting next Monday

Hi Mark - hope you're having a good weekend (I'm on the train back from Scotland hence catching up on emails!)

Would be good to have a quick word in the morning about MP handling re the horizon investigation. Paula asked me on
Friday morning whether I still thought it was the right call that we should not attend the meeting with Arbuthnot and co
- I said yes on balance, but it might be sensible to get a separate opportunity for her to engage directly with the relevant
MPs, given that she was persuasive and convincing in explaining that we're taking this all seriously and are changing the
culture of the post office (the MPs have been poisoned by accounts from spmrs of bad treatment from POL in the past). I
said I'd discuss with you.

And then of course there might be other direct tactics as you suggested on Thursday...

Looking at the list, Tessa Munt is obviously a good friend of ours (and a fan of Paula) - I wondered if it was worth Paula
speaking to her before the meeting to feed in our side of the story. Although not without risk, so I'm unsure. Let's
discuss.

Thanks,
Martin

Martin Edwards
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive
Post Office

Begin forwarded message:

From: Simon Baket

Susan Crichton
Martin Edwards

Subject: FW: Meeting next Monday

All

Fyi list of potential MPs attending the meeting - in case you didn’t receive earlier.

Simon

From: Ian Henderson
Sent: 22 March 2013 10:06
To: Simon Bak
Cc: rwarming: i
Subject: FW: Meeting next Monday

Simon

This is the email we discussed yesterday

POL-0097369
POL00097786
POL00097786

rm waiting for an update on the names and numbers
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

UK Mobile:

GRO 3

Email: I
Website: http://advancedforensics.com
Linkedin: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
ivi t the intended recipient, please notify me at
and delete the email and any attachments.

From: WALKER, Janet
Sent: 19 March 2013 12:
To: Ian Henderson; Ron Warmington
Subject: Meeting next Monday

Dear Ian and Ron,

I promised I would draw together some information about next Monday’s meeting for you.
James is looking forward to it.

I would also like to confirm a phone call between Ian and James, taking place tomorrow at
2.30pm. Ian, James will call your mobile unless you let me know otherwise. This call is following
his meeting with Alice Perkins today.

Tam sending out a meeting reminder today, which should net a few more attendees, and will
do so again next Monday, which will net a few more.

Here is the list of RSVPs received thus far:

James Arbuthnot MP

Andrew Bridgen MP

Jonathan Djaongly MP — Penelope Tay attending on his behalf
Mary Glindon MP

Rt Hon David Jones MP — Naomi Roose-Lloyd attending on his behalf
Edward Leigh MP — Jane Rapson attending on his behalf
Jonathan Lord MP

Karen Lumley MP — Lucy Lermer attending on her behalf
Tessa Munt MP

Albert Owen MP

Ashok Sharma MP — John Higgins attending on his behalf
Andrew Tyrie MP — Damian Hind attending on his behalf

Mike Wood MP

John Woodcock MP

POL-0097369
POL00097786
POL00097786

Alan Bates
Kay Linnell
Tadge Channer — Shoosmiths
Rose Donoghue — Shoosmiths

And I shall be there as well.

T hope this helps, and will keep you updated with further attendees should any further
acceptances come in.

Kind regards
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons.

London SW1A OAA

POL-0097369
