POL00116580
POL00116580

0. Communication Key Messages (within TOR) @

« Weare committed to thoroughly investigating all cases that have been submitted to the
scheme.

* We are determined to be as transparent as possible and will provide applicants with a
comprehensive report of these investigations.

« We believe our approach is reasonable and fair, and balances the position of applicants with
wider public interest

¢« We have confidence in the Horizon system which process six million transactions every day.
« Applicants in the Scheme represent less than 0.001% of the 68,000 people using the system.

* The on-going investigations and previous reviews over the last two years have found no
evidence of systemic issues with the Horizon computer system

« We have recognised that improvements could be made to training and support in wider areas
and are implementing improvements

* Wewill provide a summary report when all investigations are have been completed.

« It would be inappropriate to comment on individual cases as details have been provided in
confidence.

* independent assurance quoted if/when possible

Ss;

Post Office® COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED
POL00116580
POL00116580

0. Communication Key Messages (in-house) @

* As aresponsible business the Post Office is committed to listening and learning from our people.
That is why we set up inquiry into Horizon computer system in 2012.

* During that time no evidence of systemic issues with the system has emerged.

*« Weare concerned at the length of time it is taking to investigate cases and we want to complete this
process quickly so that applicants can fully understand what happened in their case. [SO? YOU
MADE YOUR BED, LIE ON IT]

* Having investigated 26 of the 70 cases submitted it has now become clear that the Scheme will not
work in the interests of those who have submitted cases [WHY?]

* We have therefore decided to move to a new approach where Post Office will investigate all cases
and provide applicants with a comprehensive report. We will mediate in cases where appropriate.

* We have full confidence in the Horizon system which process six million transactions every day.
Applicants in the Scheme represent less than 0.001% of the 68,000 people using the system.

* Once we have investigated all cases we will provide a summary report and make any improvements
that can be made in-light of these findings

* — It would be inappropriate to comment on individual cases as details have been provided in
confidence.

* independent assurance quoted if/when possible

Ss;

Post Office® COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED
POL00116580
POL00116580

Media assessment @®

* The following assesses the likely levels of media interest in the issue should we
take decisive action over the coming weeks (either becoming more assertive or
moving to close the Scheme)

* Now to summer: Allegation of white wash by Post Office resulting in 1-2 days
media coverage (poss BBC, Computer Weekly as well as nationals such as
Mirror, Mail as well as regional print and broadcast) This will be drive by and
include quotes from JFSA, MPs and applicants.

* Over the summer: Potential for media coverage driven by any Fol placed by
JFSA on cost of the scheme.

¢ Summer — Christmas: Possible regional and national stories by those who
continue to follow the story e.g BBC and Computer Weekly and regionals

¢ Run up to election: Potential remains for follow up around any announcement on
digital/ITC developments though our judgement is that while the JFSA would
continue to seek to generate coverage, media interest in the issue would start to
fade, certainly at national level.

(>
Post Office® COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED LY
Stakeholder handling

POL00116580
POL00116580

Stakeholder

Concerns

Handling

Minister

The Minister will have concerns in

relation to the role of Second Sight

following the statements made in

Parliament in July 2013, and the

associated risk of calls for a further

ministerial statement and BIS select

committee interest.

The prospect of adverse media coverage

is a further factor as well as:

Further issues include:

+ Value for money and related FOI

requests on spend

+ Potential to play into general election
timing:

+ MPs with cases may become critical
of the Post Office

+ — Issue having potential to detract from
positioning Post Office across
Government as a good partner.

Many of the risks set out here apply
whatever decision is made on the
Scheme. Indeed it could be argued that
the potential for hostile coverage playing
out across the next 12 months, up to and
including the election in May 2015 is
significant.

Our proposed approach is to seek
opportunities to set out the position as
fully as possible to the minister,
signalling a preferred approach and
associated options, but with clarity that
we need to make changes to the
Scheme.

We will develop a detailed
communications strategy (supported by
external advice) and ensure approach
where timing is carefully considered and
the Post Office “fronts up” messaging.
We would include within this detailed
assessment of MP-related factors.

Post Office®

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED

(>
Ne

POL00116580
POL00116580

@

Stakeholder handling

Stakeholder

Concerns

Handling

Sir Tony Hooper

* May resign as Chair if Post
Office approach changes

+ Will not assist Post Office if it
looks to disband the Working
Group and end Second Sight’s
engagement

+ We do not believe he will take
a public stance against or for
the Post Office .

+ Believes Post Office should
accept that the Scheme will take
around 18 months and that is
normal for a Scheme of this type

* As Chair, will maintain the
status quo rather than
managing conflict necessary to
redesign the Scheme.

* Continue with one to one
meetings

+ Discuss how we can handle any
changes in a way that helps him

+ Stress importance of putting the
business and applicants first

* Build a narrative (supported by
Linklaters positioning) to assist
in handling

Post Office®

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED

O

POL00116580
POL00116580

Stakeholder handling

Stakeholder

Concerns

Handling

James Arbuthnot MP/other MPs

+ Being seen to champion the
concerns of subpostmasters

+ The rate of progress

+ Receiving progress updates and
providing them to MPs

+ The impact on his legacy as he
is standing down at the next
election

* Oliver Letwin MP, a member of
the Cabinet, has a high profile case
with decision whether to mediate or
not imminent

+ Face to face meeting (AP and
PV) —- use letter as basis

+ Play back concerns raised by
JA in last letter

* Stress positive legacy of his
involvement

+ If we don’t take action the work
will not be completed before the
general election when JA stands
down

+ Write to all MPs with a
constituent in the Scheme and
offer face to face meetings

Post Office®

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED

O

POL00116580
POL00116580

Stakeholder handling

campaign

+ Alan Bates believes there is an
issue with Horizon and is
determined to uncover it (even
though there is no evidence)

* He will continue to go to MPs,
Ministers and the media to
highlight his cause, no matter
what we do with the scheme

+ Will continue to call for a public
inquiry and pursue media
coverage during or at the end of
the Scheme, regardless — this is
the case in whatever scenario
we pursue

Stakeholder Concerns Handling
JFSA + This is a very personal * Stress that we are committed to

investigating every case,
including yours and progress
cases as quickly as possible

* Stress the need to manage
subpostmaster expectations

+ Beclear and robust about our
decisions on individual cases

Post Office®

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED

O

