POL00291032
POL00291032

From: Melanie Corfield,

Sent: Wed 18/12/2019 11:49:39 AM (UTC)
To: Patrick Bourke GRO
Subject: RE: Horizon verdict v3 (003)

It absolutely has to be challenged in strongest terms because it is factually incorrect throughout about what the
Judgment actually says. It would be libellous to both PO and FJ to publish this.

Extremely unhelpful — ultimately more to Fed though.

Last para is where he needs to go much more quickly in this — with some vision of their direction of travel.
Otherwise this essentially says: Bad PO, Fed were duped and are hopeless. Judge was right in Common Issues.

Mel

From: Patrick Bourke

Sent: 18 December 2019 11:29
To: Melanie Corfiel
Subject: FW: Horizon verdict v3 (003)

Would like your views...

From: Calum Greenhow
Sent: 18 December 20
To: Nick Beal, GRO

Subject: Horizon verdict v3 (003)

Hi Nick/Patrick,
Please find attached version 3 of our statement.
Thank you both for your telephone calls. I appreciate the sentiment behind the calls very much.

As you will both understand, the NFSP has not been involved in either case, nor had the ability to defend ourselves
against some of the accusation put against us in court. This has left us in a very, very difficult place. As such our
response to the verdicts, our opponents and most importantly the message we send to our members has to be
balanced very carefully.

It cannot be downplayed, that from the two court cases, the culture in the Post Office at that time, misled the NFSP in
relation to Horizon. As much as I wasn’t party to the decisions of Colin Baker nor George Thomson over the last 20
years and the decisions they made, either way, the NFSP has taken the stance publicly that Horizon is robust as a
result of the information received from the Post Office.

There are three aspects that came out of the members survey in February that members want from the NFSP. These
are; challenge the Post Office, increase remuneration and engage with members. In light of both trials, as an
individual who was exposed to the culture and flaws in the Horizon system and as the voice now of my colleagues, I
have to challenge the Post Office on this. I cannot be seen to be in the pocket of the Post Office, as our critics would
suggest, on such an important aspect.

However, I am very conscious of the work that the Post Office and NFSP need to do collaboratively moving forward to,
as Nick Read has so eloquently put it, reset the relationship between the Post Office and Subpostmasters. To do this

correctly it cannot be from a dominant/subservient position that the culture of the past led to where we are now.

I don’t intend to release anything till later in the day so open to discuss this further the content before then and also
POL00291032
POL00291032

‘on to how far and wide the release goes.
Yours,

Calum
