POL00274039
POL00274039

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce: Veronica Branton
Rodric Williamst.
uk.com]
Subject: RE: Post Office -Note of calls with AG QC [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Attachment: RE: Post Office -Note of calls with AG QC [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Jane

I had heard. I will miss working with you.

I attach an e mail setting out where I understood this issue got to. The note produced (i.e., the PDF in the attachment)
accords with my recollection (and, I believe yours) and so I regard it as an accurate record of the conferences held. I
had not sought specific sign off by Lord Grabiner. If you would like me to seek specific sign off, then I can do that. I
don’t believe that to be a needed step and I have a sense that Lord Grabiner will be focussed on the CIT appeal
grounds at present.

I am happy to confirm the note in the attached e mail is accurate. If specific sign off is needed by LGQC please let me
know.

Kind regards
Tom

Tom Beezer
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com

BOND
DICKINSON

From: Jane MacLeod
Sent: 01 May 2019 13:52

To: Tom Beezer

Cc: Veronica Branton; Ben Foat; Rodric Williams
Subject: FW: Post Office -Note of calls with AG QC

Hi Tom

As you will have heard, I am leaving Post Office at the end of May, so am chasing up outstanding actions — apologies.
Were we able to get the attached note settled by Counsel?

Many thanks,

Jane
POL00274039
POL00274039

Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ
Mobile number:

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 28 March 2019 17:48
To: Tom Beezer { GRO J
Subject: Post Office -Note of calls with AG QC

Tom

With apologies for the delay, please find attached the note of the telephone conversations with Lord Grabiner last
week. From the Board’s perspective they would like these as settled notes of the discussions — would you please
confirm that they now have this status?

Many thanks,

Jane

HEE 2 4 2228 24 2K 2 FAR 2 2 RF ARR 2K 2 2 KR Ff 2 8 Do a oR aaa

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

(He Ae oR 2 2 Ae Re fe eR 2 ER oR A AC oR A A A oR 2 AC oR AR AE AG OR R22 A oe fe 0 oR 2 2 Ae oe 2 eo 2 a aR oR Ce
“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

only is authorised to access

mail and any attachments is confides
nts. If you are not jane.
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this commu
Privaey Policy on our website.

The information in this
this e+

be legally privileged and prot
se notify tom.he
hments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how w

ail and any at

‘any copies. Unauthorised use.

personal data is in our

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been ch

loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before openi

ius detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

POL00274039
POL00274039

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law, Please see

www. womblebonddickinson.cony legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
