POL00162098
POL00162098

From: Sophie Bialaszewski[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FY DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SOPHIE+20BIALAS2CEDC720-E52F-453B-B67E-
81536EC8DF7E049@C72A47.ingest.local]

Sent:
To:

Subject: RE: Mediation Scheme Comms Plan Draft

Mark,

Just a few other notes re the Mediation Scheme

- [have revised Q&As to make them more releavnt to the mediation scheme (these are now with Ruth and Belinda)

- I have drafted closing comms which Belinda has and have been reviewed by the lawyers

- draft statement to close comms for JFSA is with Belinda (I drafted this yesterday) so it would be a good reference point
- Drafts external comms plan you have

- it would be good to get view of what people think now and what we want them to believe (media, MPs, JFSA etc). I
drafted a managing expectations paper with Andy Parsons (Belinda has it) which highlights some of the tactics we may

take to manage expectations.

- It would be good for me to meet with MPs re this to explain the process (having been in all the sparrow project calls
and submission calls I understand this well)

- Lalso have a full track of all MPs who have engaged with the Horizon issue and what that engagement looked like.

- Lasked precise (sparrow team paid) to created a media report on Horizon, there are a few things I want to go back
with them on, but on the whole it shows that most covergae has been balanced and that there are only a few journliasts
covering the story. If we can ensure MPs are happy that the process is robust then I think this will help enormously.

There will not be a mediation day whilst I am away and the first, I suspect, will be the end of Decmber.

Hope that helps.

Sophie

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 27 November 2013 07:05
To: Sophie Bialaszewski

Ce: Jane Hill
POL00162098
POL00162098

Subject: Re: Mediation Scheme Comms Plan Draft
Amazing - thank you very much Sophie.
Have a wonderful holiday.

Mark

Sent from my iPhone

On 26 Nov 2013, at 22:01, "Sophie Bialaszewski"

Hi Mark and Jane,

Attached is a draft comms plan for the Mediation Scheme (Mark, i think this may be one of your actions
from one of the exco meetings?).

I've got this as far as I could today (apologies for not being able to talk you through it).

My suggestion would be that once you're both happy with it you send to Belinda to make sure it ties in
with her plans. The MPs that have a case in the mediation process may change slightly - as in not all will
go through and I suspect some of the names etc may not be correct (I can work through all the
applications when I'm back) - as applicants wrote them in themselves.

Hopefully there will not be too much to add and I can pick up when I am back from holiday. My idea was
that when I am back I will contact all MPs offices and try and meet with them (with your support where
possible). The aim would be to get them to understand the mediation process and that we have done
everything we can to make it a robust and credible process for subpostmasters and ex-subpostmasters.
If you do have any comments you want to send over tonight I'll get it updated and send it straight back.
Thanks so much

Sophie

<Mediation Scheme Communications Plan 26.11.2013.doc>
