POL00373817
POL00373817

Message

From: Paula Vennel

Sent: 15/02/2014 1

To: Chris M Day

cc: Martin Edware

Subject: Culture/Pervez incident

Chris, a note to a smaller no of people, now we've resolved the immediate problem:

Most important, is making sure Rod (and Angela) sees through some in-depth training for
Chesterfield/helplines: not just explaining a process change (ie., thresholds if we introduce them) but much
more importantly an understanding of tone of voice, culture, starting point - this was definitely a ‘guilty till
proven innocent’ approach by frontline 'support’ colleagues. ExCo and SLT have shifted their views but it isn't
filtering down. I am sure Neil will have views about a wider comms/culture project at some stage, but this needs
picking up now - had it gone wider it would have been so unhelpful in the current context.

I worry that the culture is pretty deep-set around TCs. Pam's words made me feel quite sick: "His actions seem
to be honest and his error was down to capability only around what to do when things go wrong..." That is
exactly the SS and JFSA point - instead of understanding and helping so that he understood, we pursued the
money. (Both are important but the perspective was wrong.)

Do consult with your colleagues of course but can you then let me know what you think the best way forward?
Thanks, Paula

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennell:
Date: 15 February 201

I Neil Hayward
Chris

Subject: Re: ATM Payment for £411.86

This is just great. I'm delighted with the responses all round: Chris for getting on the case
straightaway; Rod for completely the right behaviour pledge; Nick - thanks for a good pointer re
training; and Kevin, for taking the action on the ground (I will thank Pam personally).

It's good news that we have retrieved the situation and even more that Pervez leaves us feeling
better about the way we have handled this.

Chris, Rod and Angela, it is now critical that we review step by step how it happened, what a
better process would be, that we consider a threshold /different approach for low level
TCs/disputes, as per my original mail. This should come to ExCo - either standalone or as part of
Angela's programme. (It should certainly be captured as a quick win for Business Support, and if
it can be implemented quickly, is it another example for the Board paper?).
Thanks again and for those starting half-term holidays, enjoy them! And for everyone else, I
hope you have a great weekend.
Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 15 Feb 2014, at 14:25, "Kevin Gilliland" wrote:

Hi all,

Please see Pam's note of her visit earlier today. I think this is really helpful and
also looks as if this will help to keep the NFSP on side.

As you can see pervez is taking a considered and sensible approach to NT -
selling his branch because he doesn't have the retail space and buying into a
mains. I have had dealings with him in the past and would back up what Pam
found.

On the face of it I would recommend that we make a goodwill payment bearing in
mind, the background to this, his attitude and long term commitment to the
business.

I'm grateful to Pam for how she has responded so quickly and professionally. Her
email follows:

‘Thave just returned from what was a lovely visit with the sub postmaster. Pervez
appears to be quite a gentleman, I have met him once before when I was RSM for
the North West. The letter he sent to Paula I believe haven spoken to him was sent
out of frustrations and not intent on doing anything but cause some noise so he
could be heard. He spoke highly of Paula and has a lot of respect for her, in fact
he was delighted that she had just replied to him earlier today. He was extremely
grateful for the visit and would love additional support if it was available. I did
commit to David Atkins RSM for the area to send one of his team for a few hours
to help him win back some mails customers and secure some drop and go
customers, I know he isn’t account managed but he left an impression so wanted
to try and help where I could. He spoke positively of our speed of response when
he took a call off Bhavna whilst I was there. I also spoke to her and she thanked
us for the support.

His actions seem to be honest and his error was down to capability only around
what to do when things go wrong with an ATM balance, he now knows exactly
how to do this since Clare Bell visited his office and I am confident it wont
happen again.

He had a steady flow of customers whilst I was there (hour and half) and he has
great rapport with all of them and offers a very professional and friendly service
to all.

POL00373817
POL00373817
He has done the survey and his intent is to leave his current business as it is a
small retail offering which does not fit in with an ideal ‘Local’ branch, but he is
keen to re-invest in a Mains branch in the future.

In summary, Pervez appears to be an honest and trustworthy individual who
wants support and watching him with all his customers, complying 100% with
dangerous goods requirements, I believe he strives at all times to do things right.

I promised that I would call back in this week if we had any news on his
complaint."

Regards,
Kevin
Sent from my iPhone

On 15 Feb 2014, at 09:25, "Chris M Day’

wrote:

Thanks Kevin

From: Kevin Gilliland

Sent: Saturday, February 15, 2014 09:14 AM

To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Chris M Day; Neil Hayward; Mark R Davies; Chris Aujard; Lesley J
Sewell; Nicholas Kennett; Martin Edwards

Subject: Re: ATM Payment for £411.86

Hi Paula/Chris,
He is a non asm supported branch. However Pam heaps only lives
10 minutes away from him and can drop in today to assure him f2f

that we are taking this seriously.

As you know, Pam is v good at this type of thing and I think this

will help.
Regards,
K

Sent from my iPhone

Hi, I have reread my note below and as it is always
so difficult to strike the right tone in mails, I wanted
to ask for your help and support in sorting this out.
I'm concerned that in the rush of writing it last

POL00373817
POL00373817
night, It may seem too strongly worded. But I do
know that if it became mixed up in Sparrow/SS and
if Alice had been copied we would find the Board
Sparrow discussion more difficult.

When you read the attachment you will see it is a
similar to the kind of issue that we are dealing with
as part of Sparrow. This is about us being
considerate of Spmrs and treating their queries with
respect, rather than being seen to impose an
impersonal and rigid process.

As you read his letter, it will help if you put
yourself in Pervez' shoes: he has tried to resolve
something and not found anyone listening. I can't
see from his letter but it isn't obvious that he had
any escalation option.

Chris, I hope you don't mind taking the lead; it
needs dealing with sensitively and seriously, the
ExCo Sparrow discussion is a good context for
why. Rod had been briefed and is part of Angela's
wider group, so perhaps this is a one-off; but even
so as you'll see from my note below, we should
review the process.

Thanks,
Paula

Sent from my iPhone

Apologies for the tone, if my
frustration comes through - it is only
because I care deeply about changing
our culture; and it is letters like this
that sometimes make me despair. To
fix the wider issue, this does needs
your joint commitment please.

I would like Chris D to look into it
asap as I think it is Chesterfield
generated. Other ExCo directors are
copied because your staff are, or
should be involved. Neil, there is a
culture challenge and possibly NFSP
handling. (Nick copied FYI - ATM;
Lesley FYI - BPM.)

POL00373817
POL00373817
. Pervez is a long-standing, trusted
SPMR, no issues as far as I know
and known to us - so for £400 he is.
someone I would take a risk with and
trust. He has given long and loyal
service to both the PO and the NFSP.
He is sometimes a challenging
individual - but here's one
explanation why that might be.

. it has cost us £000s more than £400
in chasing up this payment. Even if.
he wasn't long-serving and trusted,
£400 should go into what retailers
call shrinkage - lost or too
difficult/costly to recoup. Just as
Angela has introduced thresholds for
suspension, where we have disputed
TCs over small sums - let's balance
the costs and have a write-off
threshold.

. we have turned off an influential
SPMR who will now (rightly if he
only ‘owes' £400) speak against us at
every possible turn

. how does this square with the
principles we are supposing to be
adopting in relation to SPMRs? It is
bureaucracy and process gone
utterly mad! I completely agree with
every word he writes. I will be
writing back to say as much.

. Imagine SS or JFSA reading this,
or Sir Tony Hooper - it may be an
example of why SS want to write
their report.

So...

How quickly can we turn this round?
How soon can we have a threshold
and new guidelines? How could
internal comms help and use this as a
catalyst to change the culture? If it is
Chesterfield, then let's set up a team.
to go in and help? Ideally every
individual who touched this process
should be coached about it.

POL00373817
POL00373817
POL00373817
POL00373817

The only possible good outcome is
that this incident becomes the one
that causes the change we need! "Use
your failures to drive success’.

Chris, bring in your colleagues to
help; I'd like to know what happens
when I get back.

Paula

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Pervez Nakvi

2014 20:31:17 GMT
Ce: "(POL CEO)
Paula Vennells"

Subject: ATM
Payment for £411.86

Thanks

Pervez Nakvi
<POL Letter.doc>
