POL00304030
POL00304030

Message

From: Sophie Bialaszewski

Sent: 25/04/2014 09:43:43

To: David Oli Belinda Crowe
ie nnreeee BRO Ruth X Barker

Subject: RE: Draft paper for the Board

Attachments: POL_Initial Complaints Review and Mediation dissemination paper.doc; A18048844 v0.3 140422 Post Office_Ltr to
WG.DOCX

Hi All,

Ruth — I’ve copied you in as it would be good to get your view on media reaction to attached.

I understand that Alice has asked for the papers to be split however I think it should be stressed that we need to take a
strategic approach to this (as I know you all know too) and make sure that we consider all aspects and have a decision
on what we want to happen overall with the scheme before we communicate externally.

In an ideal world I would say the sequence of events would be:

e Board agree overall approach to the Scheme (ideally option 3) — we need to know this first as what we say publicly
will need to be aligned with the approach that we take. We do not want to be in a position of having to go back on
anything we say publicly.

e Agreement of BIS and the Minister secured.

e Finalise the letter and draft a press statement to be used (DN comms to confirm proactively/on a reactive
basis) including finalising the commentary on Second Sight which will be informed by the decision the Sub
Committee takes under item four. David, I would say that we have a reactive statement ready to go which
focuses on Deloitte assurance piece, will need to distance ourselves from SS with this statement so as
above we need to make sure that the approach we take allows us to public distance ourselves.

e Statements to be prepared in case of JFSA or Second Sight resignation from the Working Group As above
we need to decide whether we take this decision (approach 3) or wait for them to walk. Whether we make
the decision or respond to them walking has implications on the content of the statement.

e Discussion with Tony Hooper to inform him of the intention to write and share a copy of the letter with him.

e Final revision of the letter in light of discussion with Tony.

e Dispatch letter to Tony Hooper.

e Paula to call James Arbuthnot to inform him of the letter and brief him on its contents.

e Upload letter to Post Office website with statement and simultaneously (and separately) brief Second Sight
and JFSA on the contents of the letter.

« Comms to call key interested MPs and flag the letter to them.

« Proactive briefing of key media contacts on the development — of we made a reactive statement we would
only send it to those with an interest and not go wider e.g. Matt Prodger BBC, Karl Computer weekly.

I also think that if we could have NFSP involved it might balance out JFSA walk away / push?
Sophie
Sophie Bialaszewski I Public Affairs Manager

POL00304030
POL00304030

148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ
@ postoffice.co.uk
© @posotticencws

Sent: 25 April 2014 07:34
To: Rodric Williams; Sophie Bialaszewski; Belinda Crowe; Carolyn.Low:
Subject: Draft paper for the Board

Mark R Davies

All,

Attached is a draft paper on the dissemination of the legal position and the deloitte report. Grateful for any comments
particularly Rod on the privilege waiver point and Sophie on the various comms questions.

Thanks

D

David Oliver
Programme Manager

