POL00057623
POL00057623

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL & SUBJECT TO LEGAL PROFESSIONAL PRIVILEGE
BRIEFING NOTE
erview

This note relates to the proposal to instruct Deloittes to prepare a written report in respect of the
allegations made by former subpostmasters regarding (a) the integrity of the Horizon system, (b) the
underlying accounting processes and (c) the adequacy of the training and support provided to
subpostmasters. It is intended that Deloittes will be instructed to focus on (a). These allegations form the
basis of four threatened legal actions notified to Post Office Ltd by Shoosmiths in letters before action.
Shoosmiths confirmed on 18 April 2012 that these claims continue to be investigated.

Court proceedings were commenced in respect of a fifth claim which raised identical issues to those in
the other four claims. This claim was struck out on procedural grounds. It does, however, demonstrate
that a real and substantial risk of litigation exists.

Post Office Ltd are on notice that there are potentially a further 85 to 150 cases in respect of which
Shoosmiths have or are in process of advising, It is, therefore, likely that further claims will be received.
There is a high degree of probability that those claims will raise similar issues to those raised in the
existing actions.

Issues for consideration

* To maximise the business’ ability to claim privilege in the instructions to Deloittes and the report (so
that those documents can be withheld from disclosure), the terms of reference must be tightly
framed so that the report is restricted to considering the issues raised in the threatened legal
actions only. If the terms of reference require Deloittes to consider other issues which are not raised
in the threatened legal actions, there is a substantial risk that privilege would not apply.

¢ Careful consideration ought to be given to whether or not a report prepared on the basis of those
narrow terms of reference will achieve the business’ overriding objective. To be verified at a later
date,

« The business should avoid documenting (including by email) the fact that Deloittes have been
instructed, the terms of reference and/or the conclusions reached by Deloittes without prior
reference to Legal Services. Those documents may not be privileged. Please note that simply
copying Legal Services in on emails is not sufficient to enable privilege to be claimed in that
correspondence. Any written communications on this issue should be directed to or originate from
Legal Services.

* Please note that the business’ right to assert privilege in a document is capable of being challenged.
© Consideration needs to be given to which version of the Horizon system Deloittes are being
instructed to report on. Our understanding is that version changes have been made to the system.

which may mean that Deloittes cannot address the allegations made in the threatened legal actions
if those allegations are based on an older version. This will need to be considered with Fujitsu.

s
eo:

& aso
doin
hereusee
ralegalg
3
Hem rer
evttaclocl .

_——
Asse
pew iege

Steps taken to date

Bond Pearce have been instructed to prepared the terms of reference and liaise with Deloittes
regarding the preparation of the report. Input from the business will be required to scope the
precise issues to be addressed by Deloittes. Gavin Matthews and Helen Watson of Bond Pearce are
the lawyers dealing with this matter.

Deloittes have confirmed that there have no conflicts of interest. Gareth James is the Partner
dealing with the matter

Bond Pearce is considering directly with Fujitsu the potential impact of any version changes to the
Horizon system, Those issues will then need to be addressed with Deloittes as part of the scoping

exercise.

Simon Baker has been tasked with managing this process from an internal perspective,

Next steps

Bond Pearce are to contact Fujitsu regarding the terms of reference prepared for the proposed
investigation which was to be carried out by KPMG.

‘A meeting has been set up with Bond Pearce for Friday 20 April 2012 to begin scoping the terms of
reference for Deloittes. James Davidson from Fujitsu will also attend by telephone.

Input is required from the business as to the scope of the Deloittes report and its intended purpose.
If the intended scope is outside of the issues raised in the threatened actions it may not be possible
to claim privilege in that document. Input from Peter Stanley may be required on this point

A visit to P&BA (Product and Branch Accounting) has been arranged for early May 2012 to better
understand the accounting process.

It is intended that this process should be completed before the parliamentary summer recess (ie.
47 July 2012).

It is proposed that further updates on progress will be provided on a fortnightly basis.

Prepared by Legal Services
20 April 2012

POL00057623
POL00057623
