POL00110838
POL00110838

Agent Accounting Team
Debt Recovery Process

Name: Dawn Phillips

E-mail address!

1 AAT Debt Recovery Process
Contents Table

POL00110838

POL00110838

Number Title Page
Glossary 2

1 Purpose 3

2 Agent Accounting Debt Recovery Overview 3

3 Debt Recovery Process 3

4 Voluntary Payment 4

5 Forced Payment 4

6 Revised DFR 5

7 Disputes 5

8 Concurrence 6

9 Persistent Offenders 6

10 Debt Analysis 6

11 Process Map 6

Glossary

Word/term Definition

AAT Agents Accounting Team

Branch The Post Office branch operated by the Postmaster

Branch When Branch Trading is completed, Horizon calculates the expected

Discrepancy (BD) cash position, using the transactions completed through Horizon. The
branch then counts the actual cash in the branch and declares this. A
branch discrepancy is where there is a difference between these two
values, either a cash shortage or surplus.

Branch Trading The act of the monthly balancing of the branch accounts. The
Postmaster is required to reconcile the cash and stock in his branch
against what the Horizon system is displaying there should exist in real
terms.

DFR Deduction from fees/ remuneration

FSC Finance Service Centre

NBSC Network Business Support Centre

Non-transactional I Refers to debt incurred outside of branch transactions. Incurred due to

Debt/Invoice debt I unpaid invoices for example: Franchise Insurance Waivers (once a year);
Lease of electronic scales (once every quarter); Property projects (e.g.
refurbishment work).

POL Post Office Limited

Settle Centrally In Horizon Postmasters can choose the option to “Accept and Settle
Centrally” which signifies acceptance of a loss or gain within a branch
unless the dispute process is instigated. “Settle Centrally’ does not
prohibit further investigation which might offset all or part of the loss/
gain accepted earlier, but this is the branch’s responsibility to initiate.

Transaction Transaction Corrections are sent to the branches via their Horizon

Correction (TC/TX) I system when a discrepancy has occurred in their accounting or where a
branch is considered liable for payment processing failures such as
negligent acceptance of counterfeit currency. A discrepancy may not
have arisen in branch but a loss has been identified at some point which

2 AAT Debt Recovery Process
POL00110838
POL00110838

is attributable to the specific branch. These are sent out by teams within
Finance Service Centre who deal with various clients/products.

CA Contract Advisor

Dunning Dunning is the process of methodically communicating with customers
to ensure the collection of accounts receivable

1, PURPOSE

The purpose of this document is to provide a clear and concise description of the POL Agent
Accounting Team Debt Recovery Process in relation to Operators currently in post.

2. AGENT ACCOUNTING DEBT RECOVERY OVERVIEW

AAT recover any amount settled centrally by a branch and/or invoice debt following the
defined monthly process.

3. DEBT RECOVERY PROCESS

Week 1 - Every Monday, following a group branch trading, a Dunning Run 1 is performed by
AAT

A letter is produced and sent to branch, along with a statement of their account, giving
them 7 days to pay
Dunning Letter
1.pdf

Week 2 - Every Tuesday, a Dunning Run 2 is performed by AAT, this will pick up any
branches that have not cleared their debt from the Dunning Run 1 sent the previous week.

A letter is produced and sent to branch, along with a statement of their account, giving
them 7 days to pay
Dunning Letter
2pdf

Week 3 — SAP Collections management produces a worklist on the Wednesday after the
Dunning 2, and picks up any branches that have not cleared their debt from Dunning Run 2,
from this worklist, the branches are called a minimum of 2 times (debt up to £1k) up to a
maximum of 4 times (debt over £1k)

3 AAT Debt Recovery Process
POL00110838
POL00110838

4. VOLUNTARY PAYMENT

Payment can be made by the Operator at any stage in the debt recovery process
Payment methods:

Card

Cheque

BACS

DFR — one off payment

DFR — instalments

If the debt is more than 25% of the Operators remuneration, they have the option to pay in
instalments via DFR, however only one plan will be allowed in any 12 month period —
approval levels below

Up to 12 months — Admin
Up to 12 months & lump sum - Admin
12 to 24 months — Team Leader & Senior Manager

24 to 36 months — Senior Debt Manager — Postmaster will be required to submit a request
with an explanation of the debt & required repayments

36 + months — Senior Debt Recovery Manager & Head of Agency Contracts Deployment -
Postmaster will be required to submit a request with an explanation of the debt & required
repayments

In the case of a pluralist or multiple operator, the aggregated pay for all branches will be
taken into account

If DFR is agreed a letter is sent to the Postmaster detailing the deductions

DFR Voluntary DFR Voluntary
Singlet.docx Instalment.docx

5. FORCED PAYMENT

If after following the Debt Recovery Process no payment has been received. POL will force
DFR.

Forced DFR will follow the same rules as agreed DFR with regards to the amount POL are
able to deduct and the authorisation levels.

If DFR is forced a letter is sent to the Postmaster detailing the deductions

4 AAT Debt Recovery Process
POL00110838

POL00110838

DFR Forced DFR Forced
Single.dox Instalment.docx

6. REVISED DFR

In the event that additional debt is added to an account that already has a DFR instalment
plan in place, the length of the plan will not be extended.

The amount deducted can be increased up to the 25% maximum, if the maximum is already
reached, then the debt must be made good in a single payment (not DFR), or agree to more
than the 25%.

Exceptional cases will be agreed between FSC and Contracts Team

7. DISPUTES

At any point in the Debt Recovery Process an Operator can dispute the debt, POL will use
the following guidelines

BD — known error — e.g. if the branch have completed a BT with a loss, but discover they
have miscounted cash/stock etc., and expect to show a surplus at their next BT, POL will
block the debt from further recovery, until after their next BT.

If the branch are waiting for a TC and have called NBSC to raise an issue, POL will block the
debt whilst the investigation is ongoing

BD - unknown error — if the branch have completed a BT and declared a loss, but they are
unaware of the reason, POL will not block the debt. The branch will be advised to call NBSC
for assistance, and advised that the debt remains due for payment

TX —- If the branch have settled a TC centrally, which they wish to dispute, the branch must
provide evidence and forward to the appropriate team/TC issuer. POL will block the debt
whilst the evidence is investigated

INVOICE — if the branch wish to dispute an invoice, they will be asked to evidence the
dispute by email, this will be forwarded on to the invoice issuer for clarification. The debt
will be blocked whilst the investigation is ongoing

If a dispute is found to be valid, then the debt will remain blocked until the compensating
amount is applied to the Operators account via a credit invoice.

If the dispute is found to be invalid, the Operator will be informed, the debt will be
unblocked, and the debt recovery process will continue from the point where it ceased.

5 AAT Debt Recovery Process
POL00110838

POL00110838

8. CONCURRENCE

If an operator refuses to pay a debt after all investigations have been completed and found
proper to stand, then the debt will be referred to the Contract Advisor for resolution.

The report will only be sent to the CA’s that have a branch on the report.
In the case of invoice debt a copy of the original invoice must be supplied.

This is currently in the form of a weekly spreadsheet emailed to the Contract advisors, this
process is currently under review for improvement.

9. PERSISTENT OFFENDERS

A trigger of the branch requesting more than one DFR instalment plan in a year will cause
the branch to be referred to the Fraud Analysis team for investigation.

10. DEBT ANALYSIS

On a weekly basis AAT will check the balance of debt against the remuneration at each
branch.

Any branch with a debt that would take longer than 12 months to repay at the 25%
threshold for DFR, will be highlighted to Fraud Analysis and the Contract Advisor team

Any debt that the Postmaster agrees to pay within 12 month but at an increase to the 25%
monthly deduction, will also be flagged to Fraud Analysis and the Contract Advisor team.

11. PROCESS MAP

ay

Debt recovery
process

6 AAT Debt Recovery Process
