POLO0016001
POL00016001

Royal Mail Group
]

This document explains your legal rights. lara!) I
It is important that you read and understand it. ~

Date Shown: 2S Jog fro . Time: W3 )* Hours

Because you are suspected of having committed a criminal offence which may result in a criminal
prosecution I must inform you that:

You do not have to say anything, but it may harm your defence if you do not mention when
questioned something which you later rely on i i iu do say may be given in evidence.

Do you understand? 7 cecemeieinnniniominimsnuarel
(Reply to be written by person being interviewed)

I must also inform you that:

1. You are not under arrest. (1)

2. You are free to leave if you wish. (If the interview is being conducted anywhere other than Royal
Mail premises consent must also be obtained from the interviewee and person entitled to grant
entry to premises, to carry out the interview there). 1)

3. If you do remain you have the right to legal representation and advice including the right to speak
with a Solicitor in private, either in person, on the telephone, or in writing. (The Solicitor will give
you advice regarding Legal Aid). (2 I can provide you with assistance in contacting a solicitor if you
wish. The interview can be delayed while legal advice is obtained.

4. You are entitled to read the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 Codes of Practice if you wish.
The Codes set out your legal rights and the rules governing the conduct of this interview.

Have you read 1 - 4 above? _ NES _ _
(Reply to be written by person being interviewed)
Do you understand 1 - 4 above? MES -
(Reply to be written by person being interviewed) GR 0 “1
I wish to speak with a Solicitor as soon as it is practical. (3) Signed: egeneomennee a _ ’
or
I do not want to speak with a Solicitor at this time. Signed: _

If you do not wish to have legal advice please give reason why:

If you do not want to speak with a Solicitor at this time, you can change your mind at anytime during
the interview. (3)

Do you understand? _
(Reply to be written by person being interviewed)

Signed: Date: 28-4 -\gTime: \\-30 Hrs

Print Name:

(1) To be deleted if the interviewee has been arrested
(2)This sentence to be deleted when the interview is conducted at a police station.
(3) If a solicitor is requested at any stage the interview must be immediately suspended.

GS001 Side A Version 11 Oct 09
POLO0016001
POL00016001

cel ol
Reminder of Legal Rights on Continuation of Interview

Fal
Time and Date: 2al4 (to 2 (282%

Time and Date:

Time and Date:

I confirm that I have been remindectthat+7émam under caution (4) /re-cautioned (4) and reminded of my legal
d that I am not under arrest and am free to leave if I wish.

26. dated: 28.0410 .

Dated:

Signed: ...

Signed: .... Dated: ..

I wish to.sneak with. acSolicitar.as soon as practical. (5)

I still do not want to speak to a Solicitor at this time at this time.

Signed: sw Timed: .. Dated:

Signed: . Timed: .... .. Dated: ....

Signed: ...

.. Dated:

If you do not wish to speak with a solicitor please give reason why:

!f you do not want to speak to a Solicitor at this time, you can change your mind at any time during the
interview. (5)

Signed: ..........

Signed: .......

Signed:

(4) Delete as appropriate, When there is a break in questioning under caution and there is any doubt that the person being questioned is aware that.
he remains under caution, the caution shall be given again in full when the interview resumes.
(5) Ifa solicitor is requested at any stage the interview must be immediately suspended.

65001 Side 8 Version 11 Oct 09
