POL00045345
POL00045345

Y

Post Office Ltd Employees Rights
to a Friend at an Interview or
Search

POST

“OFFICE,

INTERVIEWEE:

1. Post Office Ltd has agreed with the Unions that Post Office Ltd or SPSO staff when interviewed by
an Investigator may have a friend present at the interview or search. Any friend invited to attend a
Post Office Ltd interview, or search, must be at least 18 years of age and not already involved in the
inquiry. He or she must be a Post Office Ltd employee, who may be the local union representative
or other official of the recognised union for the grade.

2. The right to a friend is additional to your tight to seek legal advice.*

3. If there is a search of your home address, you have the tight to ask for an employee friend, other
friend, neighbour or other person to act as a witness.*

I have read and understood 1-3 above ............

Do you require a friend? ....

Ifyou require. a friesid. You should weite.thair name here: .

sox GRO

name CY. St ewwee

FRIEND:

You have been called by
interview and/or search.

... to. act as a friend during this

Your role as a friend is to witness what happens during the interview and search if so requested and

Permitted to attend but you may not take part in the interview proceedings nor touch anything during any
search.

During the interview you may take notes which must be treated as “Confidential”. If the interviewee so
requests, at a later stage, you may let him/her have a copy of these notes for use in any subsequent official

appeal about the procedures followed during the interview. If the Person being interviewed so wishes, your
statement may be communicated to his/her Union as “Confidential’.

No other communication about the interview or search, except in connection with Court proceedings, is
allowed without the permission of Post Office Limited.

'have read and understood the above and am willing to act as a friend.

SIGNATURE

NAME

GRADE AND OFFICE

TIME AND DATE

“Delete when this form is used for witness interviews

cso03 Version 8.0 08/04
