POL00070457

POL00070457
Stephen Dilley
From: Stephen Dilley
Sent: 25 November 2005 17:21
To: ‘mandy.talbot
Ce: Tom Beezer ~
Subject: RE: Draft witness statement of John Jones (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Thanks Mandy. I have made the suggested changes and emailed it to John for his comment and have copied you
in. I will keep you updated.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

7 GR i [mailto: mandy. talbot
Sent: 25 November 2005 17701
To: Stephen Dilley

Subject: Re: Draft witness statement of John Jones (Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton)

Thanks for site of the draft statement.
I only have a few points to make.

I know that in the application to set aside judgement and in this statement we ask for an extension of time for
service of the defence and reply to counterclaim to the 15/11/05 but as I was still discussing drafts with your
colleagues until well after 5 PM that evening valid service would not have occurred until the morning of the
16/11/05.

In paragraph 7 we need to get John if possible to confirm the dates on which the errors occurred and when they
were reported as these are usually two separate dates. to use an old fashion example under the paper based
system if an error was made and too little money was charged for a driving license 1/1/05 the problem would not
be notified to POL by DVLA for months leading to the date 1/3/05 appearing on the print out of erors. Part of
Castleton's case appears to be that after the temporary postmaster was appointed he was not liable for any errors
which were notified after that date. That is incorrect because he would still be liable if the error occurred prior to
23/3/ even if it was not notified until afterwards.

In paragraph 15 I do not know that John could give a complete explanation of what happens from transaction to
the end of the process. Perhaps Tony R Utting or Keith Baines could suggest the identity of somebody who could
help you on this point even if it does mean another statement.

Regards
Mandy
Litigation Team Leader

Company Secretary's Office
Legal Services

Royal Mail, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ

Mobile:

“Stephen Dilley”

POL00070457
POL00070457

>, “Julian I

Summerhayes"™ o
<Julian.Summerhayes:____ a)
25/11/2005 12:12 Subject: Draft witness statement of John Jones (Post Office Limited -v-
Lee
Castleton)

Dear Mandy,
I refer to my emails of 24 November. I

I attach a draft witness statement and Exhibit that I propose to send to John Jones. I have put some comments
in bold italics to discuss with him. Do you have any comments in it before I email it to John?

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.
Kind regards.
Stephen Dilley

Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

(0), 870 120 0000

www.bondpearce.com

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number OC311430.

Registered Office: Bristol Bridge House, 138-141 Redcliff Street, Bristol,

BS1 6B).

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

>>>> DOC_1092912.DOC attachment was removed from this email <<<<

>>>> Ecopy Scan.pdf attachment was removed from this email <<<<

JOSIE ISSIR OSI EI RIOR OKI AIOE IS ISCO KIOKODIEI SESS IRIS AIO AGS ISI ACI OR AGK ASK CA ACA
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named

recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JESS EE OOS SEI ICSE OS IGE TO IEICE IEIORI ABER AGRI RIA EIR AARAAER AAA AKA

