POL00295092
POL00295092

Royal Mail Strictly Confidential
ARC(XX)XX

Royal Mail Holdings plc Audit and Risk Committee

UPDATE ON POST OFFICE LIMITED HORIZON CONTROLS AND

RELATIONSHIP WITH FUJITSU

Purpose of paper

1.

This paper sets out the controls that operate around the Post Office
Limited (POL) Horizon system, the relationship with Fujitsu and why the
Post Office is able to rely on these controls in the light of:

a. IT control issues identified at last year’s audit; and

b. possible challenges against the integrity of the Horizon platform.

Background

2.

3.

IT controls and SAS70 assurance

a. There were a number of IT control issues identified during the 2010-
11 year end Ernst & Young (EY) audit. These were largely centred
on Fujitsu and a number of recommendations were included in the
management letter following the audit. Unlike other RMG IT suppliers,
Fujitsu does not have a SAS70 or equivalent report on its controls
and the consequence of this is that EY needs to do full testing of all
systems which are integral to the financial results.

Horizon challenges

a. Post Office Ltd has, over the years, had to dismiss and prosecute a
number of subpostmasters and Crown staff, following financial losses
in branches. A small number of these have then made counter
claims that they were not guilty of the charges made but that Horizon
was faulty.

Historic relationship with Fujitsu

4.

Fujitsu Services provides a fully managed service to support the Horizon
Online system. This includes: help desk, support for the hardware
installed in branch, support for the branch network, hosting the
application and support and development for the Horizon Online
application. Horizon Online is the application, which supports branch
operations. It combines point of sale, mails, banking and front office of
government functions. Post Office also has Supply Chain, Finance and
Accounting and MI hosted in the Fujitsu Data Centres.

The initial Horizon 1994 contract was let as a Private Finance Initiative
with the then DSS Benefits Agency. The first pilot branches went live in
1996 and full roll out was completed in 1999. The DWP withdrew from
the contract, and there were a number of significant changes made to
the contract and service, such as implementing Network Banking in
2004/5.

In 2006 the contract was renegotiated again to significantly reduce the
cost of the service. This required migration from the original Horizon to
Horizon Online, which was functionality equivalent, but with new
systems architecture. This took £50m pa from costs and provided a
strategic platform for the future. Horizon Online was implemented in
2010.
POL00295092
POL00295092

Royal Mail Strictly Confidential
ARC(XX)XX

7. The original Horizon contract cost £150m pa, over the duration of the
relationship with Fujitsu this has been reduced to an operational cost
with Fujitsu of £55m pa which includes significantly increased scope.
The contract has a provision for periodic independent benchmarking of
the contract and charges. Such an exercise is in progress, with Gartner
providing independent benchmark measures against a number of
comparable organisations. This covers Applications Support Services,
Branch Network Service, Service Desk and Data Centre. So far only the
Data Centre exercise is complete. The finding of this is that the cost to
Post Office of this service is 9.3% below market average.

Horizon system — process and controls

8. Assurance about the accounting control environment may be taken in
terms of the system, processes, training and support. This framework
enables individual post offices to record and supervise their transactions
and balances locally. It also enables oversight and intervention from
central finance processing teams.

9. The accounting data flows and controls at each stage are summarised in
the diagram and table below.

Transaction
Corrections

- - __ PoLsaP I ESFS Group
Horizon _ystem G/L System

Customer eo.

Lo
\ Transaction: iles to I
integrator tients I

Key control points. ——__»

Access to Customer Control routines I Central finance I Intervention
Horizon transactions in branch controls processes
User creation Card driven Trial balances Data matching Cash supply
Secure IDs Barcodes Cash counts Reconciliations I Helpline calls
Passwords System pricing Batch cut offs Range checks Trainers
Physical access I Screen prompts I Period ends Trend analysis Surprise audit
Tagged txns Sequentials refs Investigations
Read only file Suspension

Royal Mail Strictly Confidential
ARC(XX)XX

I Receipting I I I Appeals

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

At the branch level, the key controls centre on:

a. System access and audit trails of user activity

b. Automation to minimise manual entries when recording transactions
c. Training given to staff and help available from guides and helplines
d. Cash balancing routines, end of day routines and supervisory checks
e. Double entry system aligning cash and stock with payment flows

At the central oversight level the key controls include:

a. Branch cashflow targetry and variances against reported levels
b. Range checks and trends in client creditors, cash and stock

c. Reconciliation and matching of client data against Horizon data

Horizon, and its users, are supported by robustly planned training
material, helpline contact centres, operational instruction manuals,
induction training and critically the ability to “call for help” if a branch is
unsure about its situation. Post Office has a demonstrable record of
supportive interventions to help branches who have positively appealed
for help upon identifying an issue with how they recorded transactions or
with the existence of the expected amounts of cash.

Horizon is a double entry based accounting system which is supported
by training and helplines to enable colleagues in branches to maintain
complete, accurate and timely accounting records. There are well
communicated processes for recording transactions directly in Horizon
and for updating it with summaries of transactions performed in other
customer facing technology in branches such as ATMs. Branches are
able to run trial balances at any time and are required to do daily
routines which enable them to detect keying errors locally and which
enable central accounting support teams to detect issues and intervene.

Central teams in Finance and in Supply Chain monitor levels, trends and
variances of sensitive balances such as cash and cheques and can
initiative intervention ranging from advice and training through to audit,
security visits and staff suspensions.

The nature of the online business and clients’ requirements for daily
transaction reports mean that there are multiple data streams originating
from post office branches. These also are monitored by central teams
and provide batch and variance controls to prevent and detect issues in
branch. Transaction corrections are sent to branches where a keying
error arises which the branch cannot correct themselves. These can
also have the effect of “invoicing” branches when there are cash
shortages which are not considered fraudulent.

There is also a constant feedback loop, such that issues identified by
front line users and back office support teams can be fed into updated
training and helpline support.

POL00295092
POL00295092
17.

18.

Royal Mail Strictly Confidential

ARC(XX)XX

The Horizon system is a secure application with demonstrable integrity.
In the old Horizon system this was achieved by:

a. keeping copies of all transactions in multiple locations, both in the
branch and the data centre.

b. Every transaction has a unique sequential number and a ‘checksum’
value, which protects against any missing transactions, data
corruption or tampering.

c. Double entry accounting is applied to all financial transactions,
recording sales against methods of payment.

d. The integrity of transaction accounting is ensured by checking that all
file updates have completed successfully before a message that the
transaction is complete is presented to the counter clerk. If any
update fails, an error message is issued to the counter clerk and
logged, and all of the transaction is backed out.

e. An audit trail of all transactions is kept for seven years in a tamper
proof database.

f. Accontrol log of records written and deleted from the audit trail is
maintained.

Horizon Online uses the same techniques, other than that no business

data is stored in the branch and it is all stored in the Data Centre.

As a result of the process and controls in place, POL is fully confident in
the Horizon computer system operating in its branches. This accounting
system, and the processes around it, enable our branches to maintain
accurate and reliable accounts.

IT audit of Horizon system

19.

20.

Horizon is audited annually by EY as part of the financial year end audit
of Royal Mail Group and POL. The audit work identified weaknesses
relating to the IT control environment but, after additional control testing,
was able to place reliance on the systems controls. There were ten key
findings raised in the 2010-11 Ernst and Young Audit of the new Horizon
Online, four high, three medium, and three low priorities, which Fujitsu
and Post Office have addressed.

Post Office requested that a separate audit by Royal Mail Group internal
audit validate that Fujitsu has satisfactorily resolved all of the issues
identified by EY. A report will be issued from the RMG audit by 5th

POL00295092
POL00295092
21.

22.

23.

POL00295092
POL00295092

Royal Mail Strictly Confidential
ARC(XX)XX

December 2011. Pre-release indications are that there are no significant
issues / findings.

Next year's EY audit will commence towards the end of January 2012,
although a number of preliminary meetings have already been held to
plan and scope the audit. The target date for the delivery of the final
audit report is end March 2012.

Fujitsu Services have committed to covering the cost to implement a
SAS70 approach for Post Office for 2012-13 with EY carrying out this
work so we expect a reduction in audit costs for 2012-13. The activities
completed during the 2011-12 audit will provide the foundations for a
SAS70. EY has ratified the approach we have taken for this year’s audit
and the planning is underway for the 2012-13 audits. A proposal is to be
presented to the Post Office Ltd Board in December for agreement to
this approach.

It should also be possible to extend the scope of the SAS70 to cover the
other audits that are carried out (i.e. PCI, VocaLink, IS0270001 etc)
similarly reducing the effort and cost required to support these audits.

Former sub-postmasters — challenges to Horizon

24.

25.

26.

27.

Post Office Ltd has, over the years, had to dismiss and prosecute a
number of sub-postmasters and Crown staff, following financial losses in
branches. A small number of these have then made counter claims that
they were not guilty of the charges made but that Horizon was faulty.

Various lobby groups have been set up by former sub-postmasters and
these have at times received national media coverage and in some
cases been taken up by local MPs. Most recently, the BBC has
proposed a news article about this area.

The allegations to which POL is responding follow on from cases where
thousands of pounds were missing at audit. POL remains satisfied that
this money was missing due to theft in the branch. Due to the controls
set out above, POL does not believe the account balances against
which the audits were conducted were corrupt.

There are 4 broad strands of challenge. They are being dealt with as

follows:

a. Prosecutions by POL where the defence claim Horizon is flawed —
these have consistently been won on the facts of the Horizon
transaction logs. Defendants have pleaded guilty or been found
guilty. Judges have spoken supportively of Horizon.

b. Threatened class action by former sub-postmasters including
individuals who have pleaded guilty or been found guilty — but a year
on, only 4 have been received — of those, one is now time barred and
two are rebutted as previously found guilty. POL will vigorously
defend the final one if it proceeds.

c. Freedom of Information Act requests, written parliamentary questions
and Flag Cases — POL has responded consistently and positively,
including some meetings with MPs. Nevertheless, certain former sub-
postmasters find new routes for the same allegations.
POL00295092
POL00295092

Royal Mail Strictly Confidential
ARC(XX)XX

d. Media (Private Eye, The Grocer and regional TV) — whilst robust and
successful in court, POL has to date adopted a firm but low key
response to the media. Where detailed responses have been made,
the media have lifted soundbites whilst giving lengthy interviews to
those making the allegations. Media interest reflects “the popular
underdog versus the public sector IT system”.

Summary

28. The Audit and Risk Committee is asked to:
a. Note the contents of this paper.

Chris Day
December 2011
