POL00047152
POL00047152
;
J

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL

POLTD/0910/0167
Theft & False Accounting
Name: Mrs Alison HENDERSON
Rank: Postmaster Identification Code: 1
Office: Worstead Branch Code 226 1367
Age: (GRO! Date of Birth:
Service: 13 years Date Service Commenced:
Personnel Printout: At Appendix: C
Nat Ins No:

Home Address:

Contract for Services 10/02/2010

Suspended:

To be prosecuted by: Royal Mail Group (including Post Office Ltd)
Designated Prosecution Mr lain Murphy, National Investigation Manager
Authority:

Discipline Manager: Mr Alan Lusher, Contracts Manager

Corporate Security Criminal Law Team

The circumstances surrounding the interview of Mrs Henderson are briefly as follows; on
Tuesday 10" February 2010 an audit of the Branch took place conducted by Mr Keith
Kinrade, Lead Auditor. When he counted the cash on hand this did not compare with the
Horizon expected cash on hand figure. The final shortage in the account was shown as
£11,957.78

A copy of Mr Kinrade’s audit report is at Appendix C:

Situated in the village of Worstead, approximately 13 miles northwest of Norwich, Worstead
Sub Post Office® branch is located in the private address of Mrs Alison Henderson, the
Postmaster. The Branch has limited opening times;

08:30hrs to 17:00hrs Mondays and Tuesdays;

08:30hrs to 12:00hrs on Wednesdays and Thursdays;

Closed Friday and Saturdays.

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
POL00047152
POL00047152

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL. Z

In order to progress the matter I telephoned Mrs Henderson and invited her to attend a tape-
recorded interview. I explained what that meant and her legal rights and Post Office®
procedures. I suggested she speak to her representative from the National Federation of Sub
Postmasters (NFSP). I posted a letter to her the same day reiterating the fact that she could
have a Solicitor present and / or a Federation Representative and confirming the date, time

and location of the interview. A-copyof thetetteris-at Appendix

I received fromm Mr Kinrade copies of the last 12 months of Branch Trading statements he had
removed from the branch. I interrogated the Horizon system using the Credence application
to download December 2009 and January 2010 Transaction Logs and Non Sales Events.
Also, in order to show in simple detail the Cash on Hand figures for the BTs I entered the
amount on to an Excel Schedule. A copy of this schedule is at Appendix * GB.

I spoke Mr Alan Lusher, Contracts Manager, on a number of occasions as he was dealing with
the discipline case. On 24" February 2010 I received an email from him informing me that
Mrs Henderson had tendered her resignation which had been accepted.

In the company of Mr Paul Whitaker, Fraud Investigator, Post Office Ltd on Thursday 11"
March 2010 we attended Norwich Mail Centre where in the Counter Training Room at a
tape-recorded interview took place with Mrs Henderson. She declined the presence of a
Solicitor but attended with Mr Keith Nicholls from the NFSP. The interview commenced at
11:08hrs.

Forms GS001 and GS003 were completed accordingly and are now at Appendix Bo and‘
respectively

At the beginning of the interview when asked if she could tell us anything about the audit
shortage at her branch Mrs Henderson said she could not. She went on to say that it was a
shock when the audit found a loss and she had no idea why there would be a shortage.
(08:55)

Mrs Henderson explained that her branch was small and was located in her private property
and there was no retail aspect to the business. The branch opened for a limited period each
week.

Mrs Henderson was then shown Branch Trading Statements from April 2009 to the one
completed by the Auditor on 10" February 2010. She agreed she completed the BTs and also
confirmed her user ID was AHEOO1 and that no one else had worked in the branch or used
her ID.

She stated that although the Post Office® branch is accessed through her house no one had
access to the safe as it was always locked. She was asked if anyone could have stolen the
money, a family member possibly. She responded by saying “would you implement your
family?" I believe she meant ‘implicate’. She did then answer saying she was happy that no
one had stolen any cash from the branch. (14:20)

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
POL00047152
POL00047152

5

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL

Mrs Henderson was asked how she went about producing BTs and did she physically count
the cash. She said she did. I showed her the BT dated 6" January 2010 and she confirmed
that she. had completed it.

She was then showed her the Excel schedule I had completed showing the summarised Cash
in Hand figures taken from the BTs. The figures were read to her and it was suggested that
the figures were on average just below £20,000 and that at the audit the cash figure was
£8,670. Add to that the shortage of nearly £12,000 this gives a total of just over £20k

It was then put to her that if the account was correct when she completed the BT on 6"
January the loss of £12k had occurred in the 4 week period up to the Audit. At this point in
the interview Mrs Henderson said a couple of times that she was tired of being asked the
same question 3 or 4 times. It was explained to her we were trying find out what had
happened at the branch and that we wanted to be sure she understood the questions and
that we understood her answers.

I then showed her an extract form the Events log showing the entry for 6" January 2010. It
showed entries that were figures almost identical to those of the audit loss and final cash in
hand figures. A copy of this table is at Appendix ‘2.’

It was suggested that this showed that she knew about the loss when she was producing the
BT for 6” January. She just answered by saying she sometimes had problems but then
looked for them. (24:35 - 28:39)

It was put to her that she had lost £12k in 4 weeks if she was to be believed that the BT
statement completed on the 6" January was correct. As she in essence opens for business 3
days a week (2 x full days and 2 x half days) she lost about £1,000 a day.

lt was suggested that the money was stolen before January's BT and had been taken either
in small amounts or one large amount. Mrs Henderson appeared to reach a point in the
interview where she was not going to give any reasonable answers and at one point
questioned why Post Office Ltd had not intervened sooner if they thought that their money
was a risk

Mrs Henderson denied stealing any Post Office Ltd cash (41:10)

The tape buzzer was heard and at this point Mrs Henderson said that she didn’t want to ‘do
this anymore’.

The tape was stopped and sealed at 11:51hrs with tape seal 071654.

too

A tape summary has been produced and is at pages & ~.. of these papers.

Mr Whitaker and I left Mrs Henderson and Mr Nicholls to chat for 10 minutes. When we

returned Mrs Henderson said she would be willing to continue with the interview if we had
anything new to put to her. The decision was taken to conclude the interview as we would

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
POL00047152
POL00047152

w

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL

only be going over previously covered ground and did not want to appear oppressive by
asking the same questions.

A notebook entry was made of the interview details.
Mrs Henderson was asked for Bank Disclose and form GSO45 was completed accordingly.
Twelve months of statements have been requested from her bank the Alliance & Leicester.

She was asked if she would agree to a search of her home. She had a think and seemed a
little apprehensive. She declined and then said her husband would go mad, although he was
probably at work. As it seemed to be her way she then thought about her answer and did not
want to appear unhelpful agreed we could search her property. We declined saying that we
would only need financial documentation

Antecedents and NPAO1 Forms were completed and are at Appendix...’

Mrs Henderson denied stealing any cash belonging to the Post Office Ltd and also denied
falsifying any Branch Trading Statement.

Mrs Henderson said she wanted to repay the money and was actively looking for another job
after which she would get loan. She then asked if we thought she would be prosecuted as
that would affect either getting or keeping a job. I received a telephone call from her the next
day asking if she could speak to someone from Post Office Ltd as she wanted to know if she
paid the money back would this stop any future proceedings against her. I explained it did not
work like that

From her manner during our meeting and during our telephone conversation I felt she knew
exactly what had happened to the £12k and that she was responsible for the theft and
subsequent covering up of the loss. Whether she was pressured in to committing these
offences by another party is something that may come to light in the future. She seemed
resigned to the fact that she would be prosecuted.

Mrs Henderson lives with her husband, her children are grown up

The loss to Post Office Ltd stands at £11,957.78

A request has been made to the Alliance & Leicester for copies of her bank statements.

There were no failings found at this time.

I would suggest that Mrs Henderson is charged with both Theft and False Accounting. She
offered no reason why the account was short and stuck to a story that all was well 4 weeks
before the audit. The Horizon log shows a loss was identified at that BT. It would be a huge

coincidence if the initial loss shown was genuine and that she found the error and the
account was corrected. From the Horizon data the largest transaction she had from

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
POL00047152
POL00047152

v
POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL

December to February was £400. So any thought this loss had occurred from a mistake is
very remote.

These papers are submitted for the position to be seen and noted. After which could they be
forwarded to the Corporate Criminal Law Team for their advice and possible charges

Christopher G Knight
Fraud Investigator
Post Office Ltd

18" March 2010

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, LEGAL
