POL00130311
POL00130311

From: Steve Allchorn{._

Sent: Wed 19/06/2013 7:

To: Parsons, Andrew;

Cc: Gaisford, Rosie}_.

Subject: FW: SR005 meeting

Attachment: Notes from second sight post office meeting regarding SROOS 12 June 2013.doc
Andrew

Attached are the notes from the conference call with Second Sight (Ron Warmington) last week which summarise the
additional questions raised.

You will note that there are initial notes sketched against the questions — these do not represent a formal response
however they reflect the discussion that took place on the conference call.

Ron Warmington was particularly keen to polarise some further investigation into Mr Rudkin’s stated visit to Bracknell
and whether we could ‘nail’ (his term) what took place on that day. There was also a request for further clarity on
what was actually going on in the basement area of Bracknell at the time in question. This has led to the rather
detailed draft spot review response that I sent to you yesterday, however I do believe Second Sight need this detail to
cement their own understanding as well as set a counter to the allegation.

The element that is absent from the current draft is a response to a challenge raised a statement in the Operations
Manual regarding back-office Finance ability to access live data. I should have a response on this sometime today and

will forward on when I have it. It will contain just a few sentances.

Thanks for your on-going assistance in this Andrew.

Steve

From: Simon Baker
Sent: 12 June 2013 19:19
To: Steve Allchorn
Subject: SR005 meeting

Steve
You were probably taking better notes than me. Can you check that I have covered off everything we agreed.
Thanks Simon

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance

Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

postoffice.co.uk’

@postofficenews

POL00130311
POL00130311

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
